So download those, read through them, refer to them often. I mean there's an issue where in marriage you're you're wrestling with these distresses. And again, I think some of you married people would say, Amen. And he is saying that in the midst of that, there can be these conflicts, these difficulties, these issues that are compounded, and you just need to be aware of them And again, for those who have been called to singleness or who are just single and wanting to serve the Lord, these things are an advantage to you that you are not married. What are some of the d some of the things that you just get caught up in? The issue here is that as a married couple, you have a responsibility to one another. Yeah, it is interesting because uh you know, when you get married you got two very independent, distinct individuals with different personalities, different characteristics, and that comes together I'm getting on this plane, and if I crash, they're not gonna find my body. But again, let me just reiterate that when you get married, it's not as if those temptations go away. And then we've even had conversations with people who have been married for a long time about these various issues. She just needs to come along with me or he just needs to do it the way that I'm doing it. Yeah. But hopefully you've not lost sight of the fact that now that I'm married and uh have a family, that's a priority. Yeah, I appreciate the comments and uh really appreciate what you said, uh, Greg, uh about singleness because it is a challenging thing, and it's a challenging thing in society today Well I tell you that has come in handy with Sharon and our two girls. uh one of the ministry leaders uh just talk about this issue and again it'll be a tremendous blessing to you as you continue to study it Yeah. Yeah. So I can get a signal there. This man happens to be married as well. Sorry. They're either femaleness or their maleness and do it to the glory of God. Uh today I have decided to uh s kind of end with the most important section in the notebook. And that's on singleness. of biblical manhood and womanhood. And you will have many opportunities to be able to speak with people about this issue of how God has designed us. Father, we thank you so much for this class. And to see the redemption of Christ in how you have brought to light those things that you began in the beginning So we're going to talk about this issue of singleness, and I want to start off by uh looking at a biblical perspective of singleness. And to declare your praises throughout the earth. There is one particular chapter that we go to very often, and it says a lot about singleness, and that's 1 Corinthians 7. The distresses of life are made more difficult when a person is married. Now again, Paul is saying this because he's unmarried and he is saying this is a good thing, but it's good because w of one of the pressures but they are less in the sense of being connected with the responsibility of another person. Paul goes on to say in 1 Corinthians 7. So this is an advantage to being single. It's interesting. There's a priority that is given to their life, a priority of the family of the the spouse. But it just frees you up so that again you can make decisions without having to consider uh the impact of others in the family. Once again, the preoccupation is not on the marri the marriage itself, um, but you can make decisions I mean Paul is saying to the church at Corinth, for those of you who are unmarried, take advantage of this. In fact, I've been telling the um spiritual life guys on Tuesday nights that we're going through the issues of spiritual leadership in the family. as a believer in Christ. Once again, marriage is a beautiful thing. First Corinthians seven thirty nine through forty. And then Paul adds by saying, and I think a little bit um facetiously, but I think that I also have the Spirit of God. as if to say, hey, I'm single. Now concerning the things about which you wrote, it is good for a man not to touch a woman, uh, but because of sexual immoralities. And likewise also a wife to her husband. And likewise also the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. However, each man has his own gift from God, one this way and another that. Don't look as a married person at singleness as a negative. Uh first Corinthians again, chapter seven, verses eight and nine. Here, if there's a if there is a s a state at which you find yourself lacking that self-control, um then again let them marry Which can be a blessing if or when the time comes to marry. Yes. Yeah. So Eric's not here so she can't whisper in my ears. As a sin person, of course you can focus on what God has in store for you in his ministry. So I'm there but it's without Eric. It was a good time. We were doing international missions and I had to go over to Central Asia. And I was on this uh Russian aeroflot flight and I thought this plane looked like it was ready to kind of take a dive. But again, this is an opportunity for really the Lord to be blessed and and honored through your life. and lacks control, self-control. But if they do not have self control, let them marry. Well, verse twelve again, thus incurring condemnation, because they have set aside their previous pledge. uh well this lack of self control. Because you're served one another and then serve one another. As believers we have to remember that our lives are not about serving ourselves. That's the first thing that comes to my mind. ease off on those transitions to someone's levels because that feels like a harder thing to give up. he was never home. I feel like now I'm ruined. Boy I tell you, when you're married, there is something of a tremendous blessing in that that has a draw. That would be a horrible thing. But how does he speak to the ones that are newly married? You know, have your very active way. and to be able to just come clean and to say, I'm saying this to you because I love you. of what ministry is, what the church is like, what um what work is like, etc. I've been so busy with the ministry and pursuing the certification. Too much time spending with my wife. Then th that's the first priority. with the same doctrine of you is it's extremely hard. Yeah. when we're single. And then the wife has to know together as a married couple, they knew this is what God had for their family. sick lady in bed five, you know, just like if someone's dying, it's all they've always gotta go, it's always gotta come. Seems like it's more difficult uh because people are being encouraged not to marry. And last of all, the woman died. And there was no longer any sea. Come here. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain and showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, having the glory of God. So for those who are single, please, you're in good company. So again, like a marriage, church, there's an order to the way we are to operate in the church. Single men should learn to avoid becoming too brutish due to not being responsible for the care and welfare of a wife and children. In other words, men clean up your houses a bit. College training can be a good thing for young women, particularly a broad grounding in scripture and liberal arts, which will serve you well as a discipler of your children. So I encourage you to go to our Growing Disciples, the Biblical Manhood and Womanhood group on Hopebook. So please don't underestimate the the significance of this study. Well, before we jump in to the issue of singleness, let's go ahead and take a moment and pray, and we'll commit this time, this hour to the Lord. uh that you have made us. And so, Father, as we continue to proclaim the gospel to others, help us to do that in the confidence and conviction, Father, that you have created us male and female to give you glory. uh superior, inferiority or uh sh issues like that, we have a tendency to think that singleness is something that is single to feel like in some way you're missing out. kind of a secondary issue. that you want to make note of in the notes, but this is huge. from the pressures of this world's present distress. I think then that it is good because of the present distress, that it is good for a man to remain as he is. that you have two people and then with children, again, it seems like those distresses get magnified. And how do we know this? Are you bound to a wife? that is lifted is that you don't have to bear this burden with somebody that you are married to or that you are connected with. again, perceiving life, serving the Lord, and then having to once again compromise and work through those issues that might be compounded by a marital relationship. And so don't look at them as don't look at his as though Paul is saying, Don't get married. Um and if you're a virgin if a virgin marries, she's not sinned. with this passing world so that heavenly matters um so that heavenly matters become secondary. And so there is a sense in which that being single allows you to be freed up from the system of this passing world. that really are part of what it means to have um a m a person that you're married to or sta or um a family. And so I I think just well let me ask you, what would be some of the things that would be so different between a married um a married couple or a family and a single person in terms of this passing world? Now again, a single person can have a house, but how easy it is to sell the house and to move and and to relocate um So scheduling and just imagine that schedules, you don't have the freedom to just go travel, go do even just every night, what are we gonna do And those who cry as those who did not cry, those who rejoice as those as though they did not rejoice, and those who buy as those as though they did not possess. and those who use the world as those who did not make full use of it. The advantage to being single is that you are not so captivated to this passing world. But you don't have the pressures as a family or a married married couple would have. It puts you at an advantage for being able to not have to make a decision related to a whole family. Marriage does not prevent a couple from being devoted to the Lord. or your own benefit, not to put a restraint on you, but to promote pri uh propriety and undistracted devotion to the Lord. When a pr when two people come together in marriage, it is such a tremendous blessing, but it is a responsibility. the it's on the husbands to lead and shepherd their family. and support and be the biggest cheerleader and supporter of her husband and again nurture the children. It's just that it's a preoccupation, and it may prevent you from doing certain things that as a single person you may want to do in serving the Lord. to devote their daughters to the Lord in their singleness, promising to keep them unmarried. Uh but in First Corinthians seven thirty-six through thirty-eight, Paul says, But if any man thinks that he is acting unbecomingly toward his virgin daughter, if she is past her youth And if it must be so, let him do what he wishes. ha but has authority over his own will and has decided this in his own heart to keep his own daughter, uh his own virgin daughter He will do well. She is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. give her virgin daughter will do better. And what a great opportunity if that woman wanted to just serve the Lord in some capacity either in the church or again in her society at that time. Um, Paul is saying that she would be happier if she remains as she is. Each man is to have his own wife and each woman is to have her own husband. Thinking about the it marriage that way, thinking about how much is required uh in terms of the marriage relationship Again, Paul is saying there's an advantage to being single, and really um think about that significantly in your own life. that you have had from the Lord. And how you look at your status, either married or single, that is a gift from God. Paul makes it very clear here in 1 Corinthians 7 that this is an advantage to you, whether you're married or unmarried. No, don't think of it that way. And the earlier verses in chapter seven obviously are dealing with the temptations of sexual sin. I think back to courting my own wife, we spent a lot of time courting. Like your sister stuck in the middle of a lake. That put a lot of uh steps. Trying to keep the peace, you know, and not spending time with one parent versus another. Yeah. sometimes with sparks. um to administrate a missions conference in Kyrgyzstan. No signal. And he's put it in us to have those kinds of relationships physically. physically. And each woman is to have her own husband. The issue here is once again that because of this, God has designed us this way, that it is better to marry than to stay single. as they go around from house to house and not merely idle but also gossips and busybodies taking uh talking about things not proper to mention If the if if marriage, children, and the keeping of a home is so important to you, then rather than go and disrupt another home and you still have a desire to marry, then get married. That that's so important. I'm gonna get married if I can use that person to gratify my desires. How do we help them with this transition? And the fact that you're one flesh, um, means that you're you no longer belong to you you belong to the other person you have two people who have pretty much established their own patterns in life. Um, but that's a great question. I don't know, that's a big issue, the dishwasher. that if it's causing conflict in the marriage, absolutely it needs to be discussed. You need to take very seriously Paul's admonition that if you're going to serve the Lord and the church as a leader, if you can't manage your own household What does Paul say? It is absolutely the first priority. Yeah, I would probably counsel them to back off from some of this so that they can focus in on their own marriage. I honestly I feel like there's a host of reasons. We spent like what Kebek was mentioning about not having your spouse with you. been widowed at a younger age, uh, to be missing that relationship, to be missing that um that mutual Like I'm done with that is all I can do. Let me also say related to that, because that is such an important question, a really frank conversation has to take place. And I'll give you an example of why it's so important. But I'm saying this to you because you are impacting another person, giving them an understanding I can't tell you how many times we've been asked that question. But that was it. we committed to each other and we also were very clear on the fact that we knew this is what God had for our family. Yeah, I appreciate that. uh from the Sadducees and you know the question, you've heard it before. um should marry his wife and raise up a seed for his brother. And so once that resurrection takes place and the marriage supper of the Lamb comes together and the wedding takes place in heaven spiritually Let us rejoice and be glad and give glory to him. Without the presence of sin, it is going to be one of the most glorious moments in all of eternal future. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. And it was given to her to clothe herself in fine linen, bright and clean, for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints Then he said to me, Write, Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And uh this is just one of those things that we need to really grab a hold uh grab a hold of and digest. are going to come down out of the city in heaven to a new, newly recreated earth. uh where we are going to reign for all eternity with God there with us. He will dwell among them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will be among them, and he will then wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there will no longer be any death. There will no longer be any mourning or crying or pain. to be in the presence of God forever and to never leave him ever again. of what our state will be when we are brought down out of heaven as a part of this city. It is still proper for single men and single women to fulfill distinct masculine and feminine roles. are called to certain ministries, women are called to certain ministries, we complement each other and again we bring once again this um real order to the church because of it. should learn to avoid becoming too masculine, even when providing for themselves. For she will depend on your ability to support her. Oftentimes guys will take a job just because of the ability for them to travel and to be dis you know, to do things the way that they want them done. And number three, um, young women, don't pursue a career that would impinge on your ability to give 100% of your role someday as a wife and mother. Uh in fact, prepare yourself for those roles. are critical. Alright, we've gone over, so let me close in prayer. Number four, understand and develop your spiritual gifts. Number five, keep yourself pure from sexual sin, even in your thoughts. but many opportunities of talking with individuals about what it means to be created in the image and likeness of God. understanding what the issues are and we need to be studying them. uh God in a very uh overt way. Just because we're ending the class today doesn't mean we can't answer questions related to this topic, so please don't ever hesitate to come and ask me or one of the elders or Um the Bible doesn't really talk about this issue, but it does. Does the Bible affirm that? not God's original design. confirms it, God uses it, and he uses it to his glory. You are a representative of God in the world. Singles, you could say, I have no command of the Lord, but to give an opinion as one who by the mercy of the Lord is trustworthy. uh an advantage for being single that the pressures are less in this present world. And uh if we go to number two, singleness frees up a person from certain troubles in life. Demands, difficulties, adjustments. yet such will have trouble in this life. are unequally yoked or if they come together and have a conflict about a direction or issue in life, it can really affect an individual and how they are He is just accentuating the fact that there are people in this world that are single, that have the joy of serving the Lord. And again, Paul is saying all of this in the context of being freed up to really serve the Lord. Um Paul, let me say this at the very beginning as well. that you need to understand that when you get married, these issues become compounded, conflicts happen, difficulties take place. demands on your life uh start to take a different shape. Opposite that um with regards to singleness, you don't have those kinds of adjustments to be made. without again having a family to consider for that. Oh, we never have that problem. The time has been shortened, so that from now on those who have wives should be as those who have had none. Number four, singleness frees up a person from the preoccupation occupations of marriage. So, um that's again one of the advantages of be of not being uh becoming attached to the system of this world alone, and that's an advantage, Paul says. One who is unmarried is concerned about the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord. And his interests have been divided. that she may be holy both in body and spirit. That is a focus that God has given you as a stewardship. Give yourself wholeheartedly to the Lord. you can give yourself wholeheartedly to the Lord. So, once again, it's this is a an advantage to being single. to her father. to break that vow and allow their daughters to marry, and especially if the daughter wants to be married. Because uh in the Roman world they were not looked upon as important and oftentimes they were married out of um a decision being made for them rather than them making the decision. You can break your vow, let her marry. Abandonment by an unbelieving spouse, and then also persistent sexual sin. So that if a married couple, if the spouse dies and the person is a is a Christian, they are free to marry, to to remarry But they must do it only in the Lord. Um, once again, it's it's not that uh marriage is bad, it's just that you're freed up from these pressures, these preoccupations, these again demands that are on your life if you're single And uh so Paul is saying, in my opinion here, which happens to be inspired scripture now for us, So don't minimize the advantage that you have as a single person. of self-control. Rejoice in what God has given you at this at this time. Um just again be thankful for where God has placed you and and how He's using you even now. Um but let me say this, being married doesn't free you up from the temptations of that either. and again working on in terms of self-control. bring that to the relationship and that can be a blessing to both of you, um, husband and wife. I'm going to go through some more things here, but just thinking practically, what are some of the other advantages for being single? Julia and I both come from divorced families, divorced parents. But the way he showed was where he put it into a marriage. My family was uh like his baby. But um I'd say maybe 11 years ago, twelve years ago, I had an opportunity to go to India, and so I went there for about 17 days on a missionary trip. And but by the time I got back I heard that many ladies were coming over to see her, to spend time with her, 'cause she didn't realize how much she missed me. Yeah, that is so good. And being in Central Asia at the time when the wall came down, um, communication was very spotty. you know, fly and go and visit and do a lot of things that I wouldn't have been able to do had Sharon come with me, but um but I her she was on my mind every single moment that we were there. So it was it was a good thing, but it was difficult for me. One other thing I remember, um we took precautions, you know. Well again, it can be such a blessing uh to be single and I just want to affirm that with all of you here here who are single. whether or not you should be single and you're finding it difficult uh to be single. had regarding marriage, singleness, um temptations, etcetera. but in the context of of marriage. Okay? So once again, this is this is probably one of those areas where if a if a single person came to me and said, you know, this is really difficult for me, then I would say rethink your gift of singleness Um, you perhaps need to go and find a wife. When a person is a younger widow or widower, and they still have the desire to marry. Don't sin in this. You need to get married and again look at that as your ministry in the Lord. as Paul is writing to Timothy there in Ephesus, but once again this is a a major issue that if you are if you are a widow or a widower But again, the issue is that this lack of self-control needs to be brought under the Lordship of Christ. taken this lack of self-control and given the enemy, given Satan an opportunity. Satisfaction means there's a partnership there and you still are selfless. yourself. If I'm not stating this correctly, but the longer you're single, the more you get into a routine. opportunities that he's done. I look at my marriage as my primary ministry. has been to make the make the marriage the home the priority. The family is the top priority in a marriage relationship. I can put up a facade about that, but again, if it's not going well at home, it it is not going well in ministry. dinner at the medical school while he was studying for board exams and she thought daddy lived there. a responsibility that you have before the Lord. Both of you need to quit your jobs and get something that brings you together. He came home and his wife had put all of his books, all of his ministry material on the bed and said, This is what you're married to. turned out that the wife who was a Spanish speaker she was she was um just fluent in Spanish she got set up with an international flight so she flew from the East Coast um over to some of the European countries The husband, because of the way he had gone through his job, he got set up on the West Coast. waiting to happen. So important. I was just thinking, you know, w with Paul's saying if if you want to get married then get married. And that can become a real issue. you know, not being like minded in a sense. I mean, I was constantly with other wives whose husbands were mothers. learning that this is a season of life that we have to go through in order to uh you know again progress in the job that we've got or the ministry that we have. Matthew 22, 29 and 30. the magnitude of what it means to now be married to Christ and what a beautiful thing that that's going to be. All believers will be united with Christ in the eternal state. Here's what's coming down. um freed from the penalty of sin. Um this will be the state of every believer uh who is again born again in Christ as a stone of crystal clear jasper. You alluded it just to this earlier. again in such a such a uh freeing capacity and and and I want to be careful about using that word free because So very important issue that singleness can be a blessing to her to the father, to the family, etc. Um and once again, if a person were to die, in the scriptures, let me say this. um legitimate reasons for divorce or for what I would say remarriage and that is death. Number seven, singleness and marriage is a gift from the Lord. Don't look at the other's status as something of greener pastures, okay? But Paul says, but if they do not have self-control, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn with passion. And to have that relationship of intimacy with your spouse is a beautiful expression of having to deal with some of these issues related to the sexual drive. to court a person, okay? Verse 14, Therefore I want younger widows to get married, bear children, keep house, and give the enemy no opportunity for reviling. As believers we need to remember that it's not about us. Yeah, it's a new mission field. Um love. But good comments, good questions. That at the end of the I think it was four years that he was there, he had devoted so much time away from his spouse that when he graduated And if anything gets in the way of that being the first priority in your life, then So but great comments. At one of the meetings he said, uh, Brian, how's how's it going with your wife? Leaning on the Holy Spirit to to give you that strength. One of the reasons for marriage, as I told you in the very beginning, is that is it is a reflection of Christ's relationship to his church, his people. Um there is no longer a n a necessary need for marriage. The sound of many waters and like the sound of many peals of thunder saying, Hallelujah, for the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. And once again, all believers will be united to Christ. First Timothy chapter five verses one and two. Number two, young men, establish yourself economically, education, job, disciplines, etc. And then be accountable to others outside of your family, small group, older mentors, etc. you are making decisions together. And that can be a good thing that can be a s a strain as well. uh in Corinth. to to deal with that you can avoid a thing that I it will rely on present and I couldn't get a hold of Sher. Now let's get into when is it better to marry than to remain single? physical intimacy with a person of the opposite sex. five, eleven through fifteen, but refuse to put younger widows on the list. And it's interesting here that Paul says in verse 15, for some have already turned aside after Satan. Yeah, carefully, patiently and firmly. to my marriage. No no no, perfectly fine. that you do have a mission field which is your family, your your spouse. it could end up in a devastating um consequence for you. when you mentioned the pie the lady that put the books that he had studied on the bed and was like you're hearing to this now. It's just it's critical, critical important that communication take place and and uh again seeing this from the priority of what Christ has put on our life. Um, yeah, heaven ultimately, but um it the eternal state is what takes place after the millennial kingdom. Um Jesus presents this vision to John and John writes down, then I heard something like a voice of a great crowd and like a s This time will be the culmination, the fruition of all of human history. in our culture today. fulfill our roles as men and women and exhibit our masculine and feminine traits. Advice for singles who anticipate marriage someday. Men and women come together in marriage, but the it begs the question, what about those who have the gift of singleness, or what about those who are just single throughout their life? I think it's very fascinating because in every marriage relationship there is difficulty, there is trouble, there is um conflict that takes place Number eight, singleness is good. This probably has already been said, but not worrying about the other person's whereabouts or just overall their you know, mental health or physical health or whatever. We I used his phone. get that temptation under control. Yeah. you need to again compromise in ways you've never compromised before. You know, okay, you've got two single peop people with a hand and every kind of at first. joy of being married, why you should go back to that. a couple that we knew for a long time who uh ended up getting jobs as flight attendants and we thought, oh boy, that's gonna be interesting because they each have to fly somewhere And so, you know, I think the principle of being content in all things, you know, that that's we can't do that of ourselves, you know. you are right under God in their heart. Now we laugh at this question, but this was a real issue for the Sadducees. So very clear in the eternal state there will be no marriage between individuals But because of sin it does in this world, but as a believer in Christ, it should never be broken. so that you may devote yourself to prayer and come together again so that Satan will not tempt you because of your lack of Yeah. Doing a deal with the not only the she shit with the style. Thus incurring condemnation. He doesn't really guess what I tell this. Um P and Hope E and Hope can be an example for them. was basically so engaged in ministry and in the studies that he was doing there at the seminary And that had a profound impact on my own life because it was almost like have somebody coming to me and having that frank conversation Do you remember John chapter 14 when Jesus said, I have to go away because I'm preparing a place in my father's house? Revelation twenty-one nine. on a spouse would want in you. Now again, I I'm of the conviction that uh we are social beings and God has created us in such a way that um I believe the common um pattern that is given in the world is that Number six, singleness frees up a person from the permanency of marriage. Because of the permanency of marriage, Paul's sanctif Paul's sanctified opinion sought to free those up who had the gift of singleness from any obligation to marry Um but the reason I say that, I I I periodically I would have um meetings with my supervisor. Alright, examples of singleness, I want to pick up the pace here, but examples of singleness in the Bible. I don't know we were going for Christmas alien, but we don't eat really different. I had another thought regarding regarding the question about ministry, um, but I lost it, so um And again, Revelation 21, 1 and 2, then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth passed away. John says, and I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men. Honor women by extending them courtesies. Exercise modesty. But let's look let's look first of all at the advantages of being single. That was an idol word. I tell you, this is going to be one wedding you do not want to miss. Christians must be fully devoted to the Lord, married or unmarried. You're you're making a total sacrifice for another person. Treat single men as brothers. And that is one reason why the church is so important. Somebody over Bill, was it you or Well can I just say also I know that um and it this is this is based on statistics that they say the number one um area for divorce is always finances. Anything any other reasons that you can think of of when it is better to marry than to remain single? And especially if the marriage is going to be the proclamation of the gospel to the world, you need to keep it as a priority. I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. Even though they are not bound by marriage, the marriage roles, here are some things that you need to keep in mind. That is reserved for the marriage bond. That's what Paul is encouraging and really commanding the church there in Corinth. And after I got off the meeting, I'm driving along in my day, and it dawned on me, I know why he just asked me that. As she is. Yeah. So First Corinthians seven verses one and two just reminds us, Paul says, that concerning the things which you uh you wrote, and this was definitely an issue that the Corinthian church You know, we want to get married and we're not finding the right person. I mean there's just things of this world that demand our time, our energy, our focus, and again, being single frees you up from some of those. Yeah. They will not be married to one another in their glorified bodies. And that's generally speaking, that is an issue um that people need to grapple with as they're preparing to get married. She really missed me. It is absolutely essential that you focus in on your family. So you know, in that sense there it would be freeing not to have that. Yes. And sure enough, it did. And again, I I can only imagine what the pressures may have been there in in uh Corinth during this first century with regards to um unmarried girls So like let's say someone goes on five mission trips here, you know, or they're serving in many many things in the church. And when he was home he was a zombie. I used to be able to do it all and be by myself with the kids and I was okay and now when he goes to New York I make one of the kids sleep with me 'cause I don't I can't sleep by myself anymore. Because Paul says in 1 Corinthians 7, 25-27, he says, now concerning virgins This is a very interesting uh section in 1 Corinthians 7, but in Corinth some Christian fathers were being pressured So then both he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not Verse 6. Other blessings. That brings back a memory for me because there was one year when we were working with the navigators, um I do have an opinion here. And Father, we are so grateful. If you're not in agreement. And I tell you, we need to bring them back as believers in Christ. Think of your responsibility that you have as a married couple. Yeah. And after that you find out maybe you start dating someone and they have different doctrinal views Um so we're going to talk about that today. If you are single, that is a gift from the Lord. And uh yeah, so there can be uh an advantage to being single that you don't have to deal with those sparks. Yeah. Yes, Sharon. How in the world can you manage the church? And I don't know. No matter how much preparation I I did, it wasn't working. But good question. Do you seek to be released? What does that mean? If things aren't going well with my wife, they're not going to go well in the other aspects of ministry. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. There's a whole section on modesty in this in the notes, and I would again commend that to you to read and study. Um and certainly don't think of that since I've left this lesson to the very end. They're very into church, ministry, all these other things that are very good for singles, and now it's like, well how do you weigh those because you just can't ignore your family And parody is a huge part of that. Finally. And let me just say with a one hundred percent conviction, absolutely, God Yeah. I appreciate it so much. You know, well if we don't agree on these certain doctrines, what else are we going to not see I die and how is that going to impact the the marriage and how we minister in the church and We thank you for the opportunities that we have as believers in Christ to again represent you in the world, to proclaim you, and to do that created in the image and likeness of God. It is absolutely a gift from the Lord. So I'm sending my wife a message, I love you, I missed you. Um, you know, we've had conversations with um premarital couples, we've had conversations with just married couples Uh I think it's it's a challenging issue, especially for those who just have this mindset of, well, I've always done it this way, I've always gone this way this direction, I've served the Lord this way Then I saw one of the seven angels who had uh who have the seven bulls full of the seven last plagues came and spoke to me and saying Yeah. Ephesians 5. Alright, um let's move on to marriage and the eternal state. Well, let me just tell you, each individual person in here has been created in the image of God, and so you bear that likeness to the world whether you are married or not Or to seek an it to seek um a spouse. They have become once again gossip, busybodies. So all right. Father, thank you for this time and we thank you for this class and bless everyone here and again strengthen them in their ability to exercise their 28, he says, But if you marry, you have not sinned, and if a virgin marries, she has not sinned. A wife is bound as long as her husband lives. But I say this as a concession, not as a command. She she appreciated me. That is a time when you need to think very seriously about the issue of marriage. Well guess what? Just to let you know, it's been interesting over this last semester. Father, we thank you again for this hour. And turn on the phone, we're in some city in India, I can call Erica. No. But Jesus answered and said to them, You are mistaken, not understanding the scriptures nor the power of God. This is representative of all the people of God, all believers who are in their glorified state at the time of the eternal state And so he says um in verse So there can be a danger in a single person having a using mentality on one set Yeah. She couldn't get a hold of me at all. Um, and it is so good. If there is a lack of self-control, if there is, if this temptation is overwhelming to you, then rethink your singleness. Again, 1 Timothy 5. Be active in ministry. And it's not that he's not saying that to married couples, he's just saying that you do have a responsibility, a preoccupation with your marriage. The wife does not have the authority over her own body, but the husband does One last thing. Yes. So we were able to talk through Zoom and whatever it was called back then. Again, it's the same issue in Corinth that if there's an issue with sexual immorality or lack of self-control, you do not want to sin. They must not be unequally yoked. Uh it's really an issue of um God has designed us, male and female But Paul says, but because of sexual immoralities, because of these temptations that are out there, each man is to have his own wife The woman who is unmarried and the virgin is concerned about the things of the Lord And it's interesting that Paul says here that I want you to be free from concern because we do, as married couples, we have that concern. So anyway, it just it it clicked. Yeah. It's important. And again, in the Lord, singleness is good. But you said you don't have to take the time to develop that relationship with your question. Aside from a person's individual walk with Christ and relationship with Christ personally, spiritually Yeah. And so so it becomes a real challenge if you want to get married, just even finding and meeting the right person Again, those are stewardships given to us by from God, and they are stewardships that we are responsible for. Yes, it is compounded. Yeah. Yep, exactly. And then the the church needs other Not just the reasons in the birth, but Yeah. These are practical things to think about as a single person. Again, the issue here is that the advantage of being devoted to the Lord is such a such a significant issue You always do things your play. The day is coming when we will be freed from the presence of sin altogether. Um male and female roles among singles. You are proclaiming him in your singleness, and that is a glorious thing. But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no compulsion I think it's Rita Gillary. So another uh well no marriage in the eternal state. Then pursue them. Likewise, singleness frees up a person from becoming attached to the system of this passing world. And often maybe your outlook on the decision to ultimately made is different. Or not stuck, but detected in the middle of the lake. Sharon's not gonna know where I am. We I was with APT of the cell phone, I paid extra money I wish we would have said more. Um make them inviting. Don't pursue a career that would make it difficult to support a family or would undermine your ability to be an effective husband or father. So uh this is something that we need to stand firm on. You are not missing out on anything. He says in 1 Corinthians 7, 32 through 35, but I want you to be free from concern But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he she may please her husband. Yeah. I knew of a person, uh I didn't know this person at all, but I knew a person in seminary who was married who uh It is not an inferior status in the world in the context of the Christian faith. Yeah. I won't say anymore. Yeah. And so it's kind of a lifelong study, but please give yourself to it. Oh yeah. So they will have an example to follow. Husbands, love your wives. But I say to the unmarried and to the widow that it is good for them if they remain as I am Now, again, do it in the most gracious, loving way. Now when there were now there were seven brothers with us, and the first married and died, and having no seed he left his wife to his brother. Women should gracefully accept the protection, leadership, and courtesies provided for them by men, including single men. Amen? Um in fact when she started with our homeschooling, um started teaching some of these things, it was amazing how how much they came into play. Single. Yeah. Rather than focus on the qualities you want in a spouse, focus on the qualities of a spouse We thank you in in Christ's name. Grateful for the opportunities that we have to be able to study topics like this, to learn and to grow as believers in Christ Paul is not looking down on marriage in this chapter. It simply adds more distractions and concerns. Here he says it is good for a man not to touch a woman. There's just a lot of good material in there, and I want to commend that to you and encourage you to not stop studying this topic You've you've not gone against God's will for your life to get married. Yeah. It was a little bit. Both are a gift from the Lord. Yeah. And finding that contempt, you know, that's really just That just really accentuates the perfection So we need to talk about it. For example, this could include persecution, calamity, hardship, etc. Are you released from a wife? These can be compounded when a person is married Brian. And and so it creates a real problem, you know, so finding someone is hard. Why? There will be no longer the need for any marriage And again, um you need to make adjustments because you're you it's not just one person now, it's two people. It is on the wife to, again, help And I was gone a month. Where you have to realize as a single person, when you get into marriage, it's not just about your That's the point where I'm passing off some of the older boys to him Flee immorality and avoid situations that are likely to present temptations. So all right, number, well, uh 1 Corinthians 7, 29 through 31. You need to make that a priority. The husband must fulfill his duty to his wife And so that put a lot of restrictions and difficulties in managing the time, coordinating with family. That is good that is a good thing for the marriage itself. Don't don't think that things have ended for you, that you're no longer capable of getting married. No. And now we've been out of residency for a year, over a year now. Well, you compliment each other, so definitely. Teacher Moses said, if a man dies having no children, his brother as next of kin I pray your blessing on the discussion. You may look at that time as, again, developing your character, developing your experiences so that when you get married, you can just So we ended up having four sets, you know, with our parents and in-laws. Yeah. And while I was there I was flying to the different locations of where our missionaries were located So in a marriage, like the other passage says, I don't have to worry about my body. Okay, let's talk about that. Yeah. Yeah, there'll be seasons in our life where there'll be these extremes that take place, but Um any other comments on this? Yeah, no, and I was thinking about Brian as well. The first things have passed away. These are things to avoid practically Don't neglect that opportunity that you have And uh oftentimes we kind of uh almost in a sense the way the world treats And so I don't want you, if you're sit sitting here today But again, don't look at marriage as a negative as a single person That is very, very good. Not necessarily asking that, but just This is some of the most exciting stuff for um believers and and especially for me. It is going to stay with you throughout your Christian life. He does not sin. But um you know, as a I'm hearing all the different thoughts. Let them marry. Yeah. I'm serving the Lord, you know, what if you're telling me not to do this versus just let's put the dishwasher in the way. Yeah. There there was a saying that older women would say you can never compare with And this is when the marriage has come to its culmination, its fruition. Um there's a lot more information in the notes. I was thinking of even just like your resources you're not spending on your family or wife. So we drive by and she go, Oh, there's daddy's house and then we went from that to residency which was ten times worse. It takes so much time that he's thinking maybe it's taking It is so good. Verse 28. Oh, I I wish that my wife or my children wouldn't have to go through these kinds of difficulties in the world In fact he says here, if you married, you haven't sinned When you're single you're making all the decisions yourself. It's a gift from the Lord. So like how do you help uh from a married person's perspective, how do you help single people like adjust to marriage once they've got You have a responsibility towards your wife That's really good. So Paul says this is one of the advantages of being single, that it frees you up from the pressures of this world's present distress. And it it just really you know, every time the holidays came around there was always that you know, whose turn is it and And so if a couple gets married and they've been actively involved in ministry to a very extreme extent Having a support group, having people with you to really walk through these seasons of life It would be great for her to once again look at this singleness as an opportunity to serve the Lord. She doesn't have those pressures and those, again, preoccupations. 'Cause that's huge. This is the most glorious time for us as believers to come before to come before God and to be dressed perfectly. Revelation 21, ten and eleven Um and again, especially if you have a proper understanding related to marriage. Number nine, from a practical standpoint, singleness can be a fruitful time of developing one's character and experiences I I wanted to, but I had to go over there as part of my job There's a host of reasons why uh someone who has been married before who has that For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. And I am trying to spare you Um, Paul reaffirms here number one, that in your singleness it is good not to have physical contact Is that right? Pray that God would develop you and a future spouse He has for you into the image of Christ. But likewise, as a single person, don't say, oh man, I'm glad I'm not married There's gotta be other blessings. So that was just striking me that Um so for the last few years I've been pursuing a certification in notebook council, which I happen to get on tribe. Even though you know in their heart Some of you single people have animals. Number five, in the case of a daughter who has past her youth, singleness can be a blessing to her father. The family is the priority And I would say, Yeah, things go with it. So let's not neglect the body of Christ to help us in these areas. For the form of this world is passing away. God has designed marriage to be for a lifetime. Yeah, that's huge. Um, but if you're questioning And we see this very clearly in Matthew chapter 22. And again, this is where I draw our attention to 1 Corinthians 7. Um again, it doesn't eliminate them, it just They're about serving others, every aspect of our lives. But being single can minimize those troubles significantly And so Paul is saying to the to the men, be very careful about making that vow, especially if your daughters want to get married. And I just remember we had to have some frank conversations with people about, you know, you now have a responsibility toward your spouse. I'm going to upload these to the files and you've got them in the notes, but they'll be provided for you. Any other thoughts Yeah. Yeah. So every other ministry takes a back seat. I wish that we would have come to them and said, this is wrong And uh but once again it's one of those things where learning contentment is huge That's a very important qualification there because once again the idea is that a believer must not be unequally yoked. Stop depriving one another, except by agreement for a time. Don't look at this as, oh, one's you know better than the other. So I mean that was distracted time. But here's one thing that I have emphasized with, again, the spiritual leadership guys, is that That was the first ten years of our marriage was spent in medical training. I want you to understand how significant this is. Because you have blind spots. And we need to be practical in the way that we um Again, you are created in the image and likeness of God. Can I have an Amen from those of you who are married? And it is something that In singleness, you don't have that responsibility. And I remember I was sitting in a plane in Uzbekistan Um it is huge because once again and and forgive uh um It's just it's so critical Yeah. Wow. You're getting to my question is we have we have friends who've been single for semi plus years out of college I've had so many opportunities, not just because of teaching this class And so as we look at the biblical perspective on singleness They're known they're n they're not minimized How? Thank you. In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife of the seven will she be? Amen. Do you seek a wife However, mature Christians who are single can avoid becoming too preoccupied I love being there. And you need to address this issue. Um what did Jesus say? The Christian who is single is free from the earthly concerns of marriage and therefore potentially better able to serve the Lord. Paul says in verse 40, but in my opinion, she is happier if she remains what? Yeah. So it's a little difficult if you're doing something by yourself with your hands. Uh you need to have very frank conversations. And so every one of us will be individual, we will be glorified, we will s we will see and comprehend But the one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife Um but this is an issue that every person needs to be uh confessing and Yeah. This is an important question. We are going to be fully glorified. This world is fading away. Let her marry. But when you're married, if there's anything that God calls you to do, hopefully it will be with your wife as well. Who is this? And so I think to have that frank conversation And it was a stressful time. They have been destructors of homes and they have And the whole idea is that you need to look at your spouse as a stewardship, as a responsibility that God has given you. And it was a good reminder of my focus , before seeking a wife This is related, uh, but uh the troubles could be conflicts And You have a responsibility to shepherd them, lead them, to raise your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord For when they feel sensual desires in disregard of Christ, they want to get married. Single the advantage of singleness is you don't have that distraction. And that was huge distraction uh for me Alright, so This is an opportunity for you to be undistracted in your service to the Lord. And so use it to the advantage that you have as a believer in Christ. Um another reason Paul says in 1 Timothy Sarah? So that challenges you guys to be perfect. That's a huge priority. First Corinthians seven one through seven Like I appeared from it. Do you think there's any vertebrae for transitioning out of the industry? Yeah. Any other questions? Uh single women Okay? And so once again this is a this is a And this is something that again Don't, if you're married and having difficulties, oh man, I wish I was single. Yeah. I mean there's just seasons of life that you're going to go through uh that will demand more of your time And again, especially living in a world that seems to be going against And we ask that you would bless your word. I mean, it could be a basic of meal planning. Singleness eliminates those marital concerns. And so Yeah. They have already given into the temptation, they've given in to this uh lack of Yeah. As Christ loved the church. Men We need to be It's very true. God's design is for marriage. So this is a very serious issue for us as believers in Christ. And oftentimes when you then become married, there's conflict, there's sparks that fly because Like do you think there's any guidance on how to sell them to And look at how it's described. Paul says fathers are free Very clearly, Daniel, these are obvious ones, John the Baptist, the Apostle Paul, and Jesus Christ. We have a dog and that boy I tell you that's difficult for getting away and travel. And at the same time they also learn to be idle And uh you just don't want to go there. But that's not always that easy. And he said, These are true words of God Basically, as a believer in Christ, we have the joy of being freed from the power of sin. Number three, men should protect all women, including single women. It's not that they're any less with a single person. Again, when a person marries But if her husband has fallen asleep, has died Um, going back to your question of other reasons why you should get married instead of stay single if you've been widowed And he It's not for that purpose. It's a good thing. Now practically So the person I was with who happens to be the Bible teacher of one of our kids These are, again, things that you want to take into account. I think there's another one, but I can't think of it right offhand. But Because here's the thing. It's a new mission field. I mean Going along the lines of Treat single women as sisters in Christ So that's one of the main advantages. Do you guys know what I'm talking about when I say eternal state? They're single. Lead in respectful ways when appropriate. But as a single person you don't have those preoccupations It is. The issue is self-control And now we're in a church full of military families where husbands have been devoid for a year or more or Number one, they are bound by church roles for men and women. Again, if you're married, that is a gift That is a huge issue. There's a number of different slides that I've uploaded, but also Alan's notes are there And I said, you need to understand that the family is the number one priority for you However, for the sake of being devoted to the Lord, a daughter's singleness can be a tremendous blessing. So don't look at it Again, this was an issue. You may not see where time is taking you away. Um when new heavens and the new earth are created. And that is what John is give being given a revelation about And so once again, it is important. We got together with them and we said, this is a disaster Um So But the issue is is And it's on Here Paul is addressing the issue of death. Yeah. And it's not that once again you're marrying just to kind of um And let me also say this that That frees up a person to be able to remarry It is good. Yeah. Um yeah. Yeah, but So in those hard moments where it feels like And if if a married couple Verse 7. Yeah, it it I think In the middle of nowhere. You know, the wife doesn't, the husband doesn't Yeah. So I just want to encourage you that please don't think of this as We'll make young wife And we've already discussed it a little bit, but when a single person has a strong desire for sexual intimacy So It should never be looked at as a negative or it should be looked at despairingly. And I thought, here I am in the middle of nowhere Oh man. Don't go to a person and say, Hey, I'm having struggles in this area. It's just in the train of what we've gone through. Serving the Lord in Togo. How's it going with my wife? Because it is it and again, when you're married, it's compounded by the fact Um Yeah. Um that you are no longer y you're giving up Um I'm sure there was more going on than just He is not saying things negatively about it per se Um it was good, but it was distracted. Any others? Oh my word. It is a part of the intimacy that is shared between male and female. It is a new mission. Made ready as a bride adorned for her husband. And then also to understand how that relates to the Christian life. Um but yeah yeah that's a good one. Can they And especially if a person is has Verse 30 Yet I wish that all men were even as I myself am. And again, marriage will no longer be a concern for us. Um, and I think there is a thought that So I mean what is what is it about singleness that can be such a tremendous blessing? Yeah. And again, ministry can get in the way of that Rely on the protection and guidance of their fathers. And then notice what he says in verse 26. It's just one less stress. I can You're not so captivated by the things of this world. But again, you do have a responsibility before the Lord. She's getting all these messages from That's the way we're cre we were created. Um let me back up for a minute. A question came before Jesus It was great because I was free to We had a couple in our um We have to depend on the Holy Spirit to be content We thank you in Christ's name. Yeah. And so the counsel which we've received Yeah. When we was in medical school, Addie and I used to go have Be careful about that. Yeah. Yeah. First of all, we're not to be unequally yoked, correct? It could. As a single person That's not the issue. Yeah. And I don't ever want to go back to that because And so singles are bound to those church roles Again, be proactive in your singleness. And I love being a stay at home mom and if ev something ever happened to him Finding a believer is even harder, finding someone And that's the focus. Now this I say to you say for your benefit Yes. And now they're married to the first So number one, singleness frees the person up. There are at least three Yeah. Yeah. It is not just Her brilliance was like precious stone These are huge. Okay? Get married If it's impacting You know you no longer need me. Again It's just that once again some of those pressures are not there. Um but looking at Revelation 19, 6 through 9 Yeah. But you could Paul says, but I say this, brothers Sarah. It is a permanent institution. Yeah That is a priority Yeah. Um 1 Corinthians 7, 8 and 9, once again. Consider that, especially if you anticipate getting married someday. Uh this is kind of where we're ending. You can go and serve the Lord. It could. Yeah. Amen. It doesn't eliminate them Yeah. Yeah. And then if you have children, it's the family as well. What's gonna happen? Worrying about the other person. Avoid the potential pitfalls of single living. So the finances is always very critical, very That's how we were designed. They seem to be going the way of the dodo. I need to get married. Where So also the second, the third, down to the seventh. I was thinking of having a house. Yeah. So Any others? Um Um But when you're married So believers will not marry. And let me just say this. And that's a good thing. Yes So when I got back it was All right. There's a there's a couple of other things Yeah And she left him. For they all married her. It should never be broken. And uh That's not the way the We've been So