It only gets worse, right? Maybe you're wanting them to suffer for what they've done to you. Whether it's children's ministry, music ministry, you know, growing uh equipping class ministries. It certainly doesn't glorify God. So again, David had done nothing wrong, but in his own heart, Saul cultivated bitterness over his jealousy of David. But his wife and his children are gonna go and this is debtor's prison, so they're gonna work and the the uh debt owner is gonna be given money uh that's made from their work and it's not gonna be anywhere near But the consequences of our sin were hanging over us. So it's not that that's wrong and sinful. And Paul is saying, no, no, no, don't do those things. Right? And of course we see the example there in Genesis fifty of Joseph who had this mindset that even though his brothers had grievously sinned against him, and he knew uh but just turning a a away from him and maybe blaming him, uh suspicion toward others, looking at others with an eye of uh assuming that they're, you know So we need to meditate on that. But that's part of circumstances. Again, put yourself in the context of how God has treated you as a sinner. If you think of anything, feel free to raise your hand at some point. All right, let's pray. a slightly bubbling uh uh dynamic in our own heart that is not overt, it's not something that's overwhelming us at all times, but it's just there. And forgiveness is a way that we open the door and let them out. kinda entrap them in a in a room in our heart and we think of them only in the context of that jail cell. It doesn't matter how long they've been there, they're, you know, they we always see them through the lens of their sin against us You know, there's that sense of distrust of other people that can build up in our life. uh is in that same position of potentially hurting me, which in some senses is true, but there's a heightened sense of that. You want them to have some amount of consequences for their sin. Would you say that's the same thing or like synonymous or different with um being convicted uh they're not experiencing the consequences of their sin. So just in your own heart and life, you're, you know, you almost can't discern and pinpoint this is due to this other person's sin that I'm harboring in bitterness. But we don't actually wash our hearts clean of that and overcome that sin. But but that there's uh uh not a a collective battling against it, and so it because of the fact that we do sin against each other, right? Uh and again that thing kinda that dynamic kind of grows in the church and that just makes everything um uh undesirable, unpleasant, ultimately unproductive. to the degree where that thought has entered your mind. uh irritability, uh all of those. And so what do we do? But since he did not have the means to repay, the Lord commanded him to be sold, along with his wife and children and all that he had, and repayment to be made Right. And every time that you do that in an overt way, which we have all done really millions of times, we have earned for ourselves the infinite payment of you know the the the identification of the the person uh giving the money, loaning the money, uh the lender I guess is the word, uh the person uh receiving the money, the the debtor uh paper milling like we do today, that w that tablet was something that could be reused if needed in the future. the police were knocking on the door to remove us from our home for which we haven't paid. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you were formerly walked uh in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience You don't think they've treated you the way that you deserve? As you were growing up, the things that you were exposed to, the ways in which you went along with the crowd, and you didn't run away from temptations The ways in which you sinned against your parents, you snuck things, maybe your parents don't even know those things, but you still remember them. As a parent, you know the ways in which you've sinned against your children and the ways you've sinned against your spouse. Uh when the Lord saved you, you were so young and you've just always believed in Christ. Or Ezekiel 18, the person who sins shall die. Because we have the Holy Spirit as a gift of God to empower us to live a righteous life, even though our minds are open to the Scripture, even though our hearts are So again, we ourselves are in desperate need of forgiveness. uh and your will. I'm going to respond differently to somebody's sin against me than if I just think in very personal terms. What do you do with that energy that's riling up within you? uh you you are to love our enemies, right? We get up on the bench, uh we you know uh whether we do this um in in our minds or not, which we don't typically, but And so we make the final judgment of guilty. So we can't be the ultimate judge. is he remembered that God is the judge, not him. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. Right, we can assert consequences, we can give the cold shoulder, we can say words that are mean, we can try and make them feel our pain, we can You know, if you have authority over someone, you can exact various kinds of consequences, you know, if you're a parent or a boss or something like that. And so as we are dealing with the sins of others, we need to humble ourselves and recognize I am just as capable, given the right circumstances Again, this idea that we have to uh battle bitterness by rather than putting ourselves above another person Thinking, how could they do this? And over, even if you've already promised forgiveness to them, but it just keeps coming back to your mind. And so, how much more can we think about these things and allow bitter thoughts to die away? So that Hope Bible Church would be a place where the gospel is lived out and that when people come they see I think that's just as good as any. in our hearts. Clearly, bitterness is a sin. And then Hebrews 12, 15, see to it that no one comes short of the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springing up causes trouble, and many be defiled by it. primarily through the lens of their sin in every sense. uh of their sin against us. And here's different ways that it can look in our life. uh engaging in the normal activities of life, but then they do something that reminds you of their previous sin and all of a sudden you blow up in anger. going on in your heart even below the surface. to to be um uh harmed in in in s whatever way. in response to sin. doing well, being blessed, having opportunities that uh there's something in you that's like, uh, they're you know, I know that that they've sinned against me and I and it it's almost hurtful that And so that's why we have to be very careful to um discern whether somebody's sin is is actually real or if we've we've just invented it in our own heart. And if if those sins of omission and commission are kind of taken inside the soul for the person who's been sinned against, But in the heart, you haven't actually cleansed your own heart from that sin so that there's still uh that hurt, that pain, the the stench of that sin is still there. Right? And uh he preached uh really a message of condemnation. And that can grow into bitterness, that will then reap all of the consequences that we've talked about. Um I always have a hard time finding Jonah. And he was angry. I just don't want him to be that kind of a God to this person. He said, they have ascribed to David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed thousands. You know, we'll lose our power, we'll lose our position. uh when we identify bitterness in our own life. So the slave fell to the ground and prostrated himself before him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will repay you everything. And the Lord of that slave felt compassion and released him and forgave him the debt. There's this slave he owes twenty or or uh what is it uh yeah ten thousand talents. the amount, the payment terms, and then the consequences for what would happen if they don't pay the debt back. uh because of our sin and hardness of heart. Not because our sin wasn't all that big of a deal, but simply because of his love for us, everything that you and I have done Among them we too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest so that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Again, not because of you, not because you deserved his forgiveness, not because you deserved his grace, but simply because he loved you. You know the things that you've done that uh are violations of God's law. Not at all, for we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. Just think about your life before Christ. It's only the grace of God and his forgiveness that has freed us from the consequences of these sins. uh uh inclined to obey the Lord. Right alongside the other person. We need God's mercy. This person doesn't deserve mercy, and so we hold them in judgment in our heart and our mind. Jesus says, judge not, or you too will be judged. as an opportunity for me to represent Christ's likeness to others and g share the hope that's within me. Obviously it's it's it's natural, it's it's um I'll say it's right to feel hurt, right, when somebody sins toward us. And we think in our mind, okay, here's what I think would be the right consequence, whatever that might be for the individual. And so we're kind of waiting to see, all right, Lord, when is that lightning bolt kind of gonna strike? Recognize, okay, what they did was wrong, that was a sin. uh their hatred, he knew their jealousy, uh as you know he was tied up in the well before they sold him. And so we need to let God do his work, and remember that's not our job. practices lawlessness in his lawlessness. in a haughty spirit before stumbling. I'm just as capable of committing that sin as that other person. Take heed that he does not fall. And if the other person is a believer, then not only are you in need of grace, but you're both recipients of grace. And if if they have come to the point where they have uh sought forgiveness for their sin and there's been uh what appears to be genuine repentance, then Uh their sin has been relationally for forgiven by God. And so there's a heart attitude that is seeking to be rightly oriented to the Lord, as opposed to I can still thinking I can still That when we are sinned against, we not only extend forgiveness verbally, but we cleanse our hearts from any bitter thought by meditating on gospel truths. uh in our interactions with one another and they sense in the air just this love uh for God and for each other. And so it's something that we really need to battle against. But in your heart, you might not have said it or thought it uh explicitly, but in your heart there's still some sense of you want them to suffer. that for us what seems to be clean is actually not clean. They need to suffer a little bit. Uh and maybe an a more overt way of vindictiveness would be, they did this to me, so I want to repay them, you know, evil for evil. uh doing something wrong and that maybe they have something against you uh that goes along with assuming the worst about others. then everything that we're doing, even if we're being productive in the sense that we're getting worship services done, we're having Bible studies, you know, kill children are being taken care of, you know, all things are actually getting done But everything is rubbing, everything is friction, everything is unpleasant, and your interactions with one another in the body of Christ are are hard and like I just didn't that wasn't very Uh if if there's a growing bitterness that's kind of spreading in the in the church, and because again because it's a root, it does grow, it does spread, it rubs off on people. Where we don't say what we should say, where we don't do what we ought to do. promoting unity and love and and all the rest. Now, we we see some examples of bitterness uh in scripture, not necessarily of the kind that we're talking about, uh, but Jonah 4 uh tells us that when Jonah you know finally went to Nineveh, when God forced him to to go So again, Jonah preaches this message of condemnation. And that might sound extreme for you. God and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, and relenting from disaster. And Jonah is angry about it because what does he want? to the songs that the people sang about David and the victories that he had won. And Saul was very angry, and this saying, that is, that Saul has struck his thousands, but David is ten thousands, this saying displeased him. If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. For this reason, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his slaves. then ten thousand talents is two hundred thousand years of day laborers' wages. So this guy owes this massive amount of money uh and uh the consequences are that not only is he going to go to the to jail the rest of his life what uh he would otherwise get if the debt was repaid, but it's way of just uh it's a way of of getting something and more than anything, it's punishing the man who had the debt. he could have to uh repay that debt. And because we are sinners, we have chosen to sin. God's wrath uh in hell for our sin. Forgiven. having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us which was hostile to us. They weren't just out there as a theoretical possibility. The Lord Jesus Christ, His Son, who on the cross canceled that death. To sin against God. has been wiped away. Every lustful thought, every hateful thought, every covetous thought, every jealous thought, every word that you and I have said that's been unkind, that's been harsh, that's been destructive, that's been um tearing down every name that we've called somebody. By grace you have been saved and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. We followed the lust of our flesh. And the reality is, as we see that comparison between Matthew 18 and the man who owed a great debt and the slave who owed the small debt. We have sinned against God. in his love has forgiven me of all of my sin. And if that's true, if God has forgiven me of all of those things, how much more should I forgive and not think about the ways in which this other person has sinned against me? So we can go even more specific here with some scriptures that talk about our sin, Romans 3. Not even one. How we use our lips, how we use our feet running to violence, how there's no fear of God before our eyes. We still say things we shouldn't say. doesn't make them a worse sinner than you. Because your sin against God has been infinitely greater than their sin against you. Every single morning, you and I need a fresh flow of the mercies, of the kindnesses of God. Mercy triumphs over judgment. So when we are angry, when we uh feel that passion inside of us uh of of hurt and and whatnot and our our will and our affections. If I now bring God into this picture and I understand that actually suffering sometimes comes from the hand of God, So does that at all answer kind of what you're getting at? and seeking to uh working toward their repentance. But by saying don't sin in your anger, he says, when you when you feel that that pressure, that uh energy within you By our actions, we show what we're doing is we're we're putting ourselves in the place of the judge. And so what we have to do is go way back instead of putting ourselves in the judgment seat and remember God is the judge. And uh hopefully by this point, you know, there's been repentance, but maybe not. Bring consequences into the heart. They might be not measuring up to your expectations. And who are we to continue to hold on to their sin and hold it against them? This is not an exhaustive list, but these are just six different things that we can think about in our hearts as we're tempted to be bitter. So when somebody sins against you in a way that you keep thinking about their sin, you know, you're laying in your bed at night and their sin comes to mind and you're kind of replaying it over Alright, any final I have just a couple minutes. You know, be faithful in ministry, have a close walk with the Lord while I'm mistreating this other person. lifted off when we meditate on the gospel and the glory of the love of Christ and how He has given His life for ours and even more when we think about Lord, help us to be a people who are loving, who are unifying, who are extending grace and mercy to one another, who overlook sin and are quick to forgive. That part of recognizing that and changing is Lord forgive me for not being faithful to love my wife or my husband or my friend or you know whatever it might be. And uh it is so easy for this root of bitterness to grow in our lives and for us even to be um un unaware of that and and to not think that it's there. If anger is a flash in the pan, strong but temporary, bitterness is the simmering pot. And it it can take uh just various circumstances to cause it to ramp up into overt anger where it can manifest itself in different ways. Once they've left, we've shut that door on the cell, as it were, and there's still some scent of their sin. And in in in that sense, we can let them out of that jail cell in our mind. Yeah. real or perceived or imagined. As a result of everything going on in my life, I feel depressed. That if we don't truly deal with the sin in our heart that somebody else has committed against us, we we don't just let them out of that jail cell. um commit acts of of unkindness and we're harsh, uh we're uh un uh insensitive toward one another. And that is bitterness on display, right? after four days and uh the people of course are believing in Jesus and uh even though Jesus had done nothing wrong uh the uh Pharisees say really to one another of our debt against God. Had all of our sin and all of our consequences that were due to us were nailed to the cross, he says. No, we want to be like the tax collector who remembers our need for mercy. It's like when you pour two things into a beaker and something happens, that's your emotions. I want to expand my vision and let the thoughts about who God is and what He's done for me be part of how I respond to this person. So we feel it physiologically, our blood pressure goes up. One of the ways that we tend to respond when we're sent against is we put ourselves in the judge seat, in the seat of the judge Romans 14, same thing. And so we have just another passage there in Romans 12. um needs to be the first thing uh that that we do. in knowing how to overcome uh that potential danger and uh live in the freedom and the power of forgiveness. For the sake of Christ we pray. Jim Wilson has written, bitterness is what we feel when someone sins against us. In other words, sin is, or rather, bitterness is what we feel when we think someone is getting in the way of my happiness. So bitterness is clearly a sin. because of the way they've violated us, but rather as a you know fellow human being, whatever the relationship might be, family member, spouse, uh fellow member of the church, friend, all of that that are impacted by the bitterness in our own heart without realizing that it's actually bitterness that's influencing us. things in their hearts and they are collected together in what we could call a church, how would that affect the life of a church of people in in a local body, how would that affect the life of the church? you know, uh ministry ministry, women's ministries, small groups, you know, we have all these things happening, outreach ministries. Pleasant. and certainly in all of your relationships in the church so that you don't find yourself cultivating this poison of bitterness in your own heart. And how they turned from their evil ways, it says God relented of the disaster that he said he would do to them, and he did not do it. And again, this can happen in our own hearts, where we say, I know God is gracious, I know God is full of steadfast love, that God is a forgiving God. He knew that God had forgiven the people, but he was angry that God was a forgiving God. Toward David, even though David had done nothing wrong. In the cross. so that you can think rightly and really feel rightly about how you should think and feel about the other person who has sinned against you. every way in which we've used our body to do actions that are against the holiness of God, all of that, everything that you and I have done But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. And how can we hold their sins against them if we have been forgiven such great sin? to bring all people together under sin. And so this helps us, as we think about those who've sinned against us, this helps us put ourselves not over them, but right alongside them at the foot of the cross. But recognize the mercy that you desperately need and grant that mercy to others. That should be our heart mindset. gut reaction, they're the uh chemical reaction, if you will, of our soul. How should I be thinking? That they're a sinner who have sinned against me. say, well, I have to not only be the judge, but I also have to be the executioner. James 4, 12. He is the one who is in the place to deal with their sin, and only he can do that perfectly. This is to say, recognize your own weaknesses, your own propensities. Well, choose one or two or three of these things to direct your mind to. All right, well let me pray and uh we'll be done. I think part of that is as if you recognize you're not loving your wife as you ought, you're not living with her in in an understanding way, and of course this can apply in different ways to different relationships, so it's not just for husbands battling bitterness today, that you would help us to examine our own hearts. uh explosive anger at any time where you know you can have a normal relationship with people and just you know be That you do this in your own homes if you're married between you and your spouse, that you do this uh with uh your own children, that you battle bitterness even against your own children, whether they're young or older And just harbored there and that's allowed to fester in the soul. You know, it's been said that bitterness is like drinking poison and hoping the other person dies. And enjoy a harmonious relationship, that might be a sign that we have bitterness in our heart So he had this awful consequence that was going to come to him. Every moment of every day of our lives. Totally removed. Indeed, never cease. Again, that's based on what do we think, what do we believe. we i it's um we we perceive a situation of of a wrong or an injustice and we respond to it with this emotion called anger. Any other thoughts about how much time do we have? We don't usually, we don't always know if when they sinned against us, how do they feel about their sin? Again, there's uh Romans 3, uh uh 1 John 3, 4. confess our sins before the Lord. What you are doing, Lord Jesus, now in heaven, that you are interceding for us. To have the symptoms flow out of our life. Bitterness is kind of tricky because we can say that we forgive somebody. That's a very real possibility. The Pharisees likewise grew bitter over Jesus. and be thankful for them, bless them, pray for God's blessing in their life, speak kindly to them But God, out of his love for us, not because of anything we've done, out of the enormity of his love, he has forgiven us. Everything was taken out of the way, it says. Th these are just things we need to think about. There is no way that the sin that somebody else has committed against us can even begin to compare to the ways in which The emphasis of the firstborn obviously is thinking about the love of God. And because of our sin, we deserve death. I didn't sin in the way this person did. Well, um anger is a, if I can give you a technical definition, it's a whole person response to a perceived wrong or injustice. Don't respond in a way that's equally sinful to the sin that they've committed against you. Um we've got three more here. As easy as this for us to assume their motives, we don't actually know their motives unless they tell us what their motives were. Keeping watch on yourself lest you to be tempted. Think about your need of His grace. these various ways in which bitterness bears fruit in our life. There is no sin that you can commit against God, that you have committed or will commit against God, which He does not forgive. God himself is not thinking about my sin. Yes, they've sinned against us in very painful ways, even in the worst of ways. Said as he was some distance away from the Pharisee, he was unwilling even to lift up his eyes toward heaven. Yeah. Now obviously Jesus does call us to judge, but uh that that does not mean that we're the ultimate judge. In our own heart and mind, it's as if we put that person in a jail cell in our mind. That's typically what happens when we feel hurt, when we grieve over somebody else's sin. Jealousy toward others, uh just being again jealous about how others might be doing well, the way others might be being blessed, uh in in all kinds of circumstances of life, uh depression and self-pity. Uh there's multiple intertwining thoughts that we'll talk about here, but that ten thousand talents worth of debt is just a a picture Colossians 2, 13 and 14 says, When you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions. He made us alive and he forgave us of all of our sin. This is the the reality of the sinful nature. even murder you or try to murder you because if you're murdered you're now in heaven. So, for example, you see in 1 Peter chapter 2 and 3 where Peter talks about unjust suffering. If we're honest, when somebody sins against us, what we assume is they're actually giddy about their sin, like, oh, they enjoyed that. Yeah, it's along the same lines. Being short with them, not showing common courtesy, treating them as if they don't deserve your respect. So Jonah preaches the message. Naomi, of course, she was bitter about the difficult circumstances that she experienced. So the first one is meditate on the enormity of God's love displayed at the cross. Any let me just pause there because then we'll just kind of shift to a different uh line of thinking, but any thoughts or comments? Father, thank you for this morning. Completely releases him from the debt and the consequences of that debt. That will help us battle bitterness. That's the heart attitude that we need to cultivate because that's where all of us are. As long as we live in this body, that we are not in need of God's mercy. And he expands the vision of how should we think about unjust suffering to include how has Christ suffered and what are God's purposes in suffering. We feel it in our body physically, our heart rate goes up, our face might turn red in certain situations, you know, veins pop out. Again, we can sometimes think, well, I would never do that, but we are all capable of any sin. I truly believe that if we force ourselves to think those thoughts, that those bitter ideas and thoughts will not grow. But just respecting the other person, just not showing them the kindness that we might treat with uh an anybody else. Now think about how you know if if somebody or if a group of people I want to say if if a group of people are are experiencing these kinds of His bitterness goes on even further, but we'll leave that there. He has sent his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, so that you and I can be forgiven of all of our sin. But ultimately, you know, he was sold, and so he lived with that memory for decades, and yet in the end, he tells us how did he avoid falling into bitterness? And then finally, meditate on your own fallibility. Because just like when you apply bleach to something that's uh festering and it just kills it, uh that's what that's what these thoughts do to bitter thoughts. Well so yeah that's a really important point. So all of what's in your heart, your your thoughts, your affections, your your will, engage with circumstances and The main portion of the class is looking at the six practical and, dare I say, even guaranteed ways of defeating bitterness How do we battle bitterness? acted toward you the way that you think they should act towards you and you're tempted to be bitter about that, you need to think about how you have sinned against God and yet what he has done for you out of the enormity of his love. God is obviously a far more effective judge than you and I can be. Um mouse might be a more general sense of that. Galatians chapter 6, when Paul says to uh that if somebody sins, if somebody is caught in sin, you who are spiritual restore such a one. Uh so think just think about that, that that uh almost imperceptive, uh it's not there all the time, but when you see this other person So here Paul pictures our sin against God as a debt that's been written on a tablet, which is what they would do in ancient times, and very much like today, this tablet would include We just need to think about that. That's going to be m where we spend most of our time. Malice doesn't have to be in response to sin, uh, but uh the way we're talking about it, it's basically the same thing. That was a hard conversation. So though we were dead in our sin and we lived happily in our sin, we were enslaved, we Lamentations 3, 22 to 23. Why are they being blessed by the Lord? So we have sinned in ways beyond our comprehension. There isn't a day that you and I wake up that we don't need God's mercy. I can't believe they did this. And he prayed to the Lord and said, O Lord, is this not what I said when I was yet in my country? Every careless thought, uh every every thought that's been contrary to uh righteousness and holiness and purity and love. And so if God can forgive us out of His love, then we can forgive others. There is only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and destroy. Maybe it grows some mold and it festers over time. There's still some lingering aroma. It doesn't build up the saints. It's just that we need to take that sorrow, take that sadness, take that hurt, even anger, and put it through the filter of what does God's word have to say about these things. Who are you to judge the servant of another? This describes your life before Christ. His compassions never fail. And if that is, again, we're not going to hold other people at a distance saying, well, I'm not a sinner like that, right? And so as to respond in a way that's honoring to the Lord. God alone can bring conviction into the soul and bring that sorrow that is so needed for repentance to take place. It's it's it's it's what we feel inside is that simmering, kinda low level um Again, solely by the love of God. We indulged in the desires of the flesh and of the mind because of the great love with which He loved us. Only the Lord, who does know the heart, is the judge. And uh we all know what happens when there uh is an uh when there's something causing an aroma in a room. Oh yeah, for sure. Right alongside that, we can meditate on the our ultimate need for God's mercy, again, because of our sin. As you are engaging your circumstances based on what you believe, what you think, what you value, what you prioritize, what you desire. And so in Saul's case, it was a false sin. You might not be able to relate to that thought. Just sit sitting in your chair in the living room or lay on your bed. So again, every time somebody sins against you, whose law are they violating? But that is not an uncommon thought. We still make false assumptions. And so that's why this is so important is I I want to think not just about this very narrow situation and how it impacts me on a very personal level in this moment. Thank you for your grace that has brought us here to fellowship together, to sit under the teaching of your word, to worship you. Ephesians 4. I mean maybe there's a way to slice and dice those two, but it's it's basically the same line. So just think about your life. We want to honor Christ. I would never do anything like that. Amen. Think about God's role versus your role. And the sad thing is that we continue to sin as believers, right? What bitterness does is it tends to put us in a position higher than, more deserving of God's forgiveness. It just seems like this person isn't very uh humble or you know uh kind or or gentle There it is. That you and I, by virtue of the fact that we're born into this world as sinners That's a warning that if if we are not merciful toward others, if we think that Any final comments, questions? So here we are, page 61, talking about battling bitterness It's a violation of biblical principles. Impatience with others. Why are they having these opportunities? Be careful that you yourself don't fall into that temptation to be prideful. When Peter says there in 1 Peter 3:7, to husband, live with your wives in an understanding way, lest your prayers be hindered. Father, thank you for uh this morning just to reflect on these truths. It takes him three days to go through the city. The first several here have more to do with remembering how God has treated you in your sin. That's what he says there in verse 9. This will go a little bit faster, I think. I have self-pity. Again, because we all sin against each other, we will sin against each other. And you know, in in to go with the term of of debtors, it's like the the phone was ringing uh with the debt collectors, the they were knocking on the door to uh In fact, this passage, 1 Samuel chapter 18, verses 8 and 9, is Saul's response So that now that tablet had no more record of our debt. Don't sin in your anger. And so uh through confrontation um We can judge in that sense, but we can't judge in the ultimate sense because we uh don't know their heart. Yeah, we can well notice uh well I don't know if you have the hook notes in front of you, but uh it's the the definition, if you will, is when that sin is So help us to discern that if that is something we struggle with. It doesn't encourage the heart, promote unity and love and all of that. All that is wiped away. You know, obviously the situation would d determine what's actually appropriate in that moment Certainly they've been judicially forgiven by God at the cross. Where he has seen these sinners repent and the Lord relent from his uh condemnation, the disaster that he has promised. How do we battle bitterness? They haven't uh spoken to you the way that they should speak to you. There is none righteous, not even one. Less deserving of forgiveness, less deserving of grace should they repent. The people repent. So those are various uh uh demonstrations of the fruit of bitterness that we walk through. You know, w when you're bitter towards somebody else because of their sin against you and you He's totally wiped it away. And so by meditating on our uh on our desperate need for God's forgiveness, meditating on our own sin, we can see ourselves as side by side at the foot of the cross alongside the other person. So where do our emotions come from? So I want to be humble and not prideful. They were actually weighing on us. The son will not bear the punishment for the father's iniquity, nor will the father bear the punishment for the son's iniquity. 31 says, Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. How could they get away and not have any consequences? So we want to just guard our own heart that where we see ourselves not being able to look at another person He remembered that God will one day judge, and it was not his place to do it. I don't think we use this illustration. The Lord's loving kindnesses, or maybe mercies, depending on the translation. And you can lash out, you can attack, you can you know repay evil for evil. There's still something there. But maybe you were saved older. We want to do what is right, right? And instead of sending him to prison and instead of giving him the opportunity to repay the debt, what does he do? Really, along the same lines, meditate on your desperate need for God's forgiveness. Romans 6. I'm a sinner who has sinned against God. It's something that also obviously is a response of the soul. Uh but the point is we are not the judge. They might not be treating you the way you want to be treated, but it's ultimately God's law that they're violating, and therefore Uh disrespect toward the other person, you know, just an unwillingness to show kindness. You think about the opportunity you have to love this person who has sinned against you. To his own master he stands or falls, and he will stand, for God is able to make him stand. Never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him, if he is thirsty, give him a drink. Oh, there's Galatians 6 there as well. Alright. It wasn't the gospel. And so he pled and begged, and uh there's no way he could actually repay, right? What then are we, that is Jews, better than they, Gentiles? I don't know when the Lord saved you. We still make wrong judgments. We say things we shouldn't say. They are new every morning. And we think, okay, now it's up to me also to determine what is the right consequence for this person's sin. We need to see ourselves as side by side, fellow sinners at the foot of the cross in need of grace. Not necessarily, not exclusively the person that has sinned against us, but just in general impatience. Where now we can think of them and interact with them, not as a prisoner of our heart And so even though we might not be harboring overt anger, we know we're not thinking of them There might be a malice toward the other person where when you think of them, you're wanting them to experience pain in some way Why are why are they having success? We have failed to love the Lord our God with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. So be careful. Maybe you've reconciled in the sense that they've repented, they've asked for forgiveness, you've forgiven them. I'm glad he's that kind of a God for me, but I don't want him to be that kind of a God for this person. You know, it was coming at us. That this was true of you. He wants the Ninevites to experience the judgment of God. And so the only way to change that, the only way to to change that that chemical reaction, what the outcome is, is to is to direct our thoughts. We might be able to inflict external pain into somebody's life. Of okay, I don't have to be the one to repay them, but somebody's got to. Almost said the wrong title. 23, for the wages of sin is death. The first one, these are pretty much all pertaining to the gospel in some way, but the first one is to meditate on the enormity of God's love displayed God forgives them. Well, there's six principles, six really thoughts that we want to meditate on. This is more emphasizing the reality of your sin. This person is in the defendant's seat, and we're holding court against this person. So we should be crying out, Lord, be merciful to me. We might we might recognize, okay, I'm not the executioner, but we still have that mindset of there's certain consequences that are appropriate for this person's sin. This kind of goes along with our need for forgiveness, but in a in a slightly different way. But uh there's also that passive malice that's like, I don't want them to succeed. Though I can remember it, God has cast it as far as the east is from the west, right? Our emotions come from they're they're kind of the the uh uh So if you're hard engaging with circumstances produces emotions. Meditate on your role and God's role. Any particular questions from the previous eight weeks so far? There was nothing that David had done, and yet definitely Saul was bitter and and angry. It can manifest itself in all these kinds of ways. And it can be a thought that any of us cultivate in our heart if we're not battling against bitterness. You know the hard attitudes that you've had, you know, whether you think about childhood Instead, uh think rightly. This is John 11, where Jesus has resurrected Lazarus from the dead. The decrees of what was due to us were set against us. We need to meditate on the dual nature of the offender's sin. And so uh we can just be impatient with others and think, well if this person hurt me, then anybody And we can interact in different ways And God did that out of love for us, not because of anything we deserved. Rebellion against the Lord. There was no way for us to repay that debt. Keeping watch on yourself lest you too be tempted. The last verse in chapter 3, verse 10 says, When God saw that the city repented, We're in desperate need for it. We are all sinners. Look at Matthew 18 there, you have it printed before you verses 23 to 27. For as old as you are, every second of every day you have failed to love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. It's like when Paul says in Romans chapter 2, that we were storing up wrath for ourselves on the day of wrath. We want to be faithful to our spouse. Not much. It's it goes against that heart of forgiveness. It was it was the message of condemnation, you know, thirty days and this the Lord will destroy this this uh city I was saved at fourteen. So we can't put ourselves in his shoes. All of us have been sinned against, some in very grievous ways. And so I just want to plead with all of us that we work really hard to battle against bitterness in our own hearts Just think about all the sins that you've committed against God. You have both been forgiven They're in a jail cell in our mind. Yeah, all of these things are true. And what more can he have but the kingdom? As you see there in the notes, the opening paragraph, one of the most attendant sins in conflict is bitterness. And even if there's a statement of, hey, I'm sorry, I did that, you know, you forgive me. Maybe you've uh you've not been hurt Uh you know, the way you treated your siblings if you had any. The whole point of this passage in Romans 3 is That there was no um in fact I even cut it short there because it goes all the way down to verse 18 talking about So I think repentance before the Lord, uh in you know, whatever way that whatever shape that takes You are our advocate The point is that Jonah knew the character of God. But at the same time, there is nothing that anybody can do against you, and I really mean that. And so we need to see ourselves as fellow sinners in need of grace. But just as you are a sinner, one of the ways you can sin is pride. But bitterness is like And then you know there's offense that's taken, and and maybe rightly so, there's hurt that's caused. When he had begun to settle them, one who owed him ten thousand talents was brought to him. We don't know their heart, we don't know how they feel about it, we don't know if they're convicted about it He was hearing them talk and he was hearing them connive and he he even heard them talk about killing him It's the emotional side of things. We haven't we haven't completely washed our hearts clean of the hurt, of of the anger It was nailed to the cross. When he thinks about me, he doesn't think about those things. So what he says here applies to you and me apart from Christ There is none who understands. Right, Romans 3. And kind of unbeknownst to ourselves, uh we can get so used to ascent We see it again in Ephesians 2. Don't hold on to bitterness. Everyone who practices sin also Right Think about how God has forgiven you. Have you seen this true in your life? Verse 1 of chapter 4. And he says that not only did we have this sin debt that we owed to God Even, it emphasizes, when we were dead in our transgressions. Maybe you were very young. We all know that. And uh I think that the primary thoughts that we should be thinking about are what we've been talking about already I know it wasn't last week. Bitterness is a root, as it said there in Hebrews 12. That's that's malice. God says, okay. Uh when you throw together our circumstances, whatever comes is coming in, or it maybe it's just information, you know, you learn something, but Where we And all of that is still covered by the blood of Christ. Great is your faithfulness. And if God has forgiven them, That so irritability goes along with that, uh just being quick to anger It says And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it. Uh any second now we were about to be taken away. That it as if that tablet, that Uh the angry but do not spin. Just let those things be thoughts that occupy your mind. What page is this? You know, we we know those things. And so that's why this is so important. Um If these things are being harbored in the heart Uh that is the equivalent if if a denarius is one day laborer's uh daily wage But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. And if we don't see that, that's when we can grow in bitterness. All of that would be written on a tablet. And praise God that He has granted us that forgiveness in Christ. Now again, we might not We sin against each other by acts of commission, meaning we do things to each other that are against God's will, that are against But who are you to judge your neighbor? There's never a time in this life And so how has God treated me in my sin? And so that's that's what we see here in So y when you see them being blessed, when you see them have opportunities that are good, you're like, man, that God's law, not your law. I think vindictive is more explicitly You know, not really thinking about what God would call you to do. We uh That's exactly true. These things were true of us and Uh maybe you're saved in your twenties, your thirties, your forties, your fifties We want to be loving to our children. The tax collector in Luke 18 They haven't That just because we put our faith in Christ, just because 23, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Um But respond in a way that is honoring to the Lord. If there's uh kind of a underlying bitterness, and obviously that's not to say that every person in the church is bitter Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. We don't necessarily know in every case what else is going on It's always there, and it can boil over at any time. Saul, Claudius, you brought this up. Okay. In other words, uh we can't let this guy keep doing what is good and performing miracles, otherwise Maybe you can't even remember. How do you not sin? Similar principle there in 1 Corinthians 10:12. This that is why I made haste to flee to Tarshish, for I knew that you are a gracious That's a picture of how God has forgiven us. For in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. It's more of a passive malice. And so ultimately, of course, as has been said multiple times, that destroys the church. James 2. So Lord, I pray that you would help us to be a people who are not bitter. You know, one thing that I would add is, you know, in a church like ours where there's a lot of activity, there's a lot of ministries going on. There is none who seeks for God. They can ask us for our forgiveness, we can grant forgiveness. There is nothing that you can do, there is no distance you can run, which He has not We have therefore deserved the consequences of sin in ways that we cannot begin to imagine. But even the worst things, even that With the measure you use, it will be measured to you. But God alone can How do you battle that? These are all just different ways We can look at some of these actions, we can There's a lot of different ways we could talk about bitterness. Maybe you've heard it before though, where when someone sins against us, think about this word picture So acts of commission, acts of omission. In the notes. And the word canceled means wiped out, erased. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly. That's a sign of bitterness. There's no way for us to work and doing up good things to overcome that debt. And you know what they are. Uh it's it's weighty because uh we acknowledge the fact that we're sinners and yet that that weight is No record of the decrees, the consequences that were set against us. We can think back to our sins and just think, wow, God Their sin is more against God than it is against you. But more than that, help us to grow. Most of you know the rest of that parable. And so that you would be glorified in all of these things, we pray. 13, for judgment will be merciless to the one who has shown no mercy. And so when we find ourselves getting upset, angry You think rightly in a way that's pleasing to the Lord. He was beating his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, the sinner. We want to be unified with the body of Christ. Briefly I would answer that is it's always best to Don't hold on to those perceived wrongs, legitimate or not. Because He is rich in mercy. I am a sinner. Alright, let me move on. He thinks about me through the righteousness of Christ. And so it's something that we really have to fight against. 15, and it will grow fruit, or you could say it grows mold. You know the obvious ones at least Uh you know, as a So high coat is And because they didn't have Yeah, Claudius. The righteousness of the righteous will be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked will be upon himself. Therefore, how can I treat this person in their sin? You know, typically we think of malice as a I want them to, you know, I We have failed to love our neighbor as ourselves. If you don't clean it, what does it do? This is page uh 61, bottom of 61. But what God did out of his love is he sent Well, of course, God was gracious to me It's whether that sin is real or imagined. We all sin against each other in various ways, small ways and big ways There is no no amount of time that All have turned aside. When maybe they feel awful about it That's the Pharisees' position. Saul was bitter Like, why isn't this person be uh experiencing the consequences for their sin? Alright, very good. Because when we've been hurt And that's because there's been this simmering We don't just forgive them But the question is what do you then do with that emotion There is nothing that anybody can do against you. But just And I kinda get irritated when they're doing well. Um couldn't that be like a false sense of bitterness too, like when Saul was upset with David? Remember that from last week. He made us alive. Yes, I forgive you You know, jealousy, suspicion. Forget the rest of it for now, and just focus on this part. Right? Therefore, let him who thinks he stands He says, do it in a spirit of gentleness. Maybe that's one one way to slice it. Is that helpful? Together they have become useless. Even though all of that is true for us as believers, we still said Proverbs 16, 18, pride goes before destruction. Lord, I pray that uh as we talk about You Well He forgives him And we have done those things You have failed to love your neighbor as yourself. Okay. Uh and yet uh In Christ's name. In fact, they'll be wiped away. Yeah There is none who does good. Alex. Amen.