Uh someone behaving in a way that uh produces conflict, uh say in a marriage or in a a friendship. Yeah, I was just thinking about that. You know, not that they're like a magic bullet that's going to cause someone to always fall on their knees in repentance. and through accountability of of other mature brothers um kind of uh got over that that hurdle uh that area of sin. Assuming it's a true believer that does have the spirit in them, very rarely will they not receive it when you start with two million. And it's it's uh I know in my life it's it's so much it helps me to know that you have I was just going with that. W what other details or information would you be interested to know about their relationship with the situation, Daniel? I think leading to Jan's comment about what final language means. That's uh I think I'm just holding Yeah, that wasn't helpful. You know you probably want to go ahead and and say it. uh answering different questions related to that. We've gone over these a few times now. If that's the context, they can cause significant problems in the workplace, if that's where the conflict is. And and yet we want that now. And to see our own thinking and our own perspective as the right perspective. Then you need to do that first so that they will know that you're not just out to attack them and and out to get them and that you just see them as the problem. Glorify God, get the log out of your eye. If you see anyone caught in a trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. Uh that we need to live reconciled lives. uh acting out forgiveness. We're promising not to dwell on the incident, so we're dealing with our own thoughts, and we're engaged in that spiritual battle in our own mind as we think about that individual who has sinned against us. uh in various ways of uh of what they've done, uh trying to get back at them. a pattern. You know, in the case of a marriage, it might be a fundamental difference in understanding roles that might create repeated instances of conflict um reconcile over by just assuming the the impact of it ourselves. uh be used uh to help them see that you love them, that you care for them, that your concern is is for their good. uh because the the Lord is concerned about this and you know and go on from there. and hurtful, when do we bring professional help into the reconciliation process? They stop, but there's actually uh an enslavement to that pattern of sin. uh to work through this. Yeah. opening yourself up to someone else. It's it's like yeah you know. corner. Why are they called that way? uh what we call in biblical counseling data gather gather data so what are details if as you read this situation what are details more than message and all these various things that we never brought up before. did have a uh a less of an open relationship and perhaps we need to go ahead and bring that out so that we can understand how we cooperated with can cooperate with one another throughout the last if Richard hadn't been addressing it with his son, maybe he didn't view it as that big of a deal, whether because he also participates in that kind of language or if it's just you know different standards. Or is this something that's problematic just between the two of them, or do either one or both of them have issues, relationship issues with other believers in the church? You're tweaking just the two of them and with their son there or was there were there other people around because if there's other people around then that increases the embarrassment or the you know, just the I mean clearly when you call someone you're a controlly selfish no at all. And that was a situation covered where you're getting involved kind of thing. But I don't did Jim listen to to how Richard felt about that? anger at each one of them and they just start going back and forth. You know, was it a casual conversation or you know, yeah, you you just need to know more about was that appropriate for him to do or not. about the context of the person that you used 'cause maybe just I mean it kind of applies, but it's rather obtuse way to correct someone both arrows wanting to sort of speed the junk all over the gym um to make him just control it and cut it out. involving the child okay so you know the truth is the truth you know so if it's misbehaving and we're talking about church and so if there's any problem between between Mm there must be some underlying problem. uh the other person maybe where they need a separate feet before they launch into this thinking more about the other person and their needs and Just decide I will apologize and say no, I didn't see it like that. Yep, absolutely. that when someone um me they've also seen the scope um if they're a believer in use that that sin is going to be Yeah, unless we forgive each other, Christ said he will not forgive us. and Jim would really benefit from having several more discussions and encounters just to talk about um kind of what had been had Yeah. You know, ignoring text messages. Make sure there's no I don't know, some kind of ground rule or some kind of you know assumption or s just remove any assumption that hey this if if I do this, you know, just let me or remind me or I I'll be happy to take your advice or something like some kind of a baseline or ground rules of communication. uh publicly put his his confession and uh letter of repentance. all the different ministries um and to what extent it could end up hurting the church or even splitting the church in some ways. there's a number of unbelievers on there. miss it in your life trying to bring it up in a humble way. Uh but it's a book exclusively containing testimony of adults whose parents divorced when they were kids. approaching someone trying it's it's kind of impossible. That's not something that I've seen out here in the world. ultimately glorifying God because you see that that wouldn't be impossible by just human interaction. And he died so that we would reconcile ourselves to one another. uh to apply these principles not only in our own hearts and relationships but as we interact with fellow believers who might be in conflict that we can come alongside and and minister to that. As you know, our last class for the quarter. Glorify God. uh relationships and makes us in some cases not want to come to church uh if we're in conflict with someone in the church. and to minister to others. Get the log out of your own eye. Put up a mirror, look at yourself. It's so easy because of the the nature of of sin, the the curse of sin that we still battle with, for us to see what is wrong in the other person, for us to see their wrong thinking, their wrong behaviors, their wrong perspective Uh it's only the um it's only the uh the loving thing to do, uh to acknowledge to someone that they need help and uh to uh bring the kind of compassionate care uh that they need. Or when we think about the promise to not talk to others about their sin, that we're not going to be gossiping and bringing others into the circle of awareness who aren't part of the solution. uh that this is now the third year we've taught this class, so I don't know the number, but maybe over seventy, eighty uh of Uh hope uh Bible church members and and regular uh guests, visitors have attended this class. and kind of make it so big in your mind that I actually can't deal with the individual situation itself because this is such a bigger issue. that I I I don't even know how to parse out this individual situation. Acknowledge that situation for what it is, reconcile, seek forgiveness for whatever sins have been committed in that situation, grant forgiveness, but then Now, it's okay to bring up somebody's past sin for the purpose of helping them see perhaps a pattern in their own heart that they haven't noticed before. uh y you've acknowledged you know your your sin, uh we've uh reconciled, we've forgiven each other. You know, you always do this and you never do that. Um right, 'cause they don't have a biblical understanding of forgiveness in Christ and and whatnot. pattern of sin that does need to be addressed. Now can we talk about something that I've observed and I haven't brought this to your attention before. what you might be doing, the way you're impacting other people, you know, whatever it might be. Hopefully with that kind of a demeanor, somebody would be much more willing to listen than if you just said, hey, you know, keep doing this. But she was a wonderful guy. hearing what you're saying. Uh would would you be willing to come with me to talk to someone else, you know, either pastor, mature believer, you know, somebody else, uh, so that they can help us, you know, work through this. between because a lot of times we we may know we're caught but we just don't know how to get out. you are you either have walked this path or is walking this path. Uh if once you get a certified as a biblical counselor, if you have interest, you can there's some specializations of add additional making him look foolish in front of his wife by correcting his theology, and not assisting him when he requested help moving the church piano. Jim also took this opportunity to read Ephesians 6, 1 through 4, and emphasized Richard's responsibility to discipline and instruct his son. Richard provided examples from years ago and included the following offenses, ignoring text messages, shooting down all his ideas for joint family vacations. Richard and Jim are also approaching members of the church and speaking ill of the other party. carpet or letting it stew in your own heart. Um but uh yeah, how how did it start what were the dynamics? Yeah. more general than than just for la just pertaining to their particular relationship with each other. uh and disagreeing with the the need for it and so even if jim said it you know in the best way possible maybe jim would have responded or was jim actually harsh and unkind in Uh but that's those are some helpful things to to consider. in what he said to Richard's son. uh tense uh feeling of of the situation. Scripture and that's where the the pride comes in and by what scripture says you know and that scene is where Um and emphasize that you need to be a better father because you don't discipline the instruction of kids in which they've been offended. So they both feel offended in different ways. Do you feel like it's that thing is only against me and I have the right to decide what that person deserves um in response to their offense? work by Christ and God is forgiven that person. root bitterness in the picture for a long time. those around them, especially children or wives, they could be stumbling blocks too many. Yeah, I I couldn't quite hear the responses so I I hope I'm not repeating anything, but um scripture does warn about bitterness and it seems as if uh I mean it's very rare, but there are things they're really encouraging to look back and think about um the impact that has our lives on the But there's actually a lifelong impact, not only for us, for those around us, a long-term impact on the church in terms of strengthening or weakening. being the records like a third party recording today we feel kind of just go yourself well I didn't get anywhere so why what's the point? Uh conflict is an annoyance. Uh and in some ways that's right because um you know when you think about a well-oiled machine where there's And certainly that is what we will experience in eternity when we are sinless and we're interacting with all of those who are sinless and there is going to be no friction and no conflict. Hey, this is an opportunity. Prompted perhaps or responded in a way that's exacerbated the conflict. to come to them as a fellow sinner saved by grace if they're a if they're a believer as well and uh to have that uh gentle kind demeanor because of the fact that you've reflected on your own falliness and sinfulness But that you recognize your own contribution and that will help them in in their own heart. who who is uh actively engaged, uh trapped in sin, and uh confront them in a loving way And so we should be willing to confront others. that in our relationships with each other, uh in our homes, uh with our kids, uh even in our workplaces, that the people of Hope Bible Church will increasingly be known as those who Uh Ross, you didn't? to look at individual situations and deal with those according to their particular details. When that situation has been settled, then go back and consider, okay, now we need to talk more because what I'm seeing is that this is just not an isolated incident I'm seeing a pattern. uh and grow uh to overcome that that dynamic. Yeah, it's been said that true and full reconciliation can only happen among believers. Yeah, I've I've noticed a tendency that in this kind of situation, here's how you tend to respond, or you know, whatever it might be. you're aware of? And there was one friend that I worked with who was a sweet gal, but very, very sheltered, didn't know cultural things. So just kind of that, you know, again, humble, uh here's what I've observed. I was a bad friend because when I would go to my youth group friends, I would make fun of her. there's always this justification why I do what I do to the point where you don't even think the person is So I wasn't dealing with mine, so I wasn't dealing with his. the the humility, even if you have not won that path, the humility and the compassion that you show someone is a very powerful Their friendship, although not perfect, has always been great. In short, Richard charged Jim with being a controlling selfish know-it-all. And uh whatnot. So let's just say that you're a friend of Jim and Richard or maybe of one of their wives, and they're one of the ones that uh has uh you're one of the ones that they have spoken to to tell Hopefully you get the sense there. Has has been slandering Jim on Facebook. them about the situation. that you would want to know more about to better understand their relationship or the situation. And so at that point it was a mutual friendship, but he always referred to himself as my spiritual father in a joking way. That Richard may have. So it's important to them. in front of his wife and and family possibly. Instead of starting with how he himself had often failed as a father, now God had helped him to grow, he seemed to preach at Richard. Richard being uh you know being open and uh giving the opportunity for you to for the two of them to even address it and know um what their faults are um and to spread that um be a Facebook go through the church um the brain that when the one opinion fell in doesn't rejected or maybe it wasn't but now um forgiveness June or whatever might be And it could take like three or four days for him to respond. you know, every area of your life. this and you know whatever um they may they may use about their own and their family spiritual growth simply because of this instance. Reconciliation between adults. What are the ways in which that would affect themselves and everyone around them? situation like this where so many people have been involved, I think it has a positive effect where other people don't feel as uncomfortable about hey, I'm seeing on that same line thinking back to times when people have come up and publicly repented, um even like before community and things like that, where they've come before the entire church. all the dynamics involved of sharing custody and uh you know uh getting what they want out of the divorce and and things like that, what if they had put that kind of effort into trying to strengthen and restore their marriage Let things pass, you can't swoop swoop things under the rug. You know, disrespect, um, uh ill treatment, that kind of thing. uh in a workplace and a similar type of thing uh where there's expectations or um uh question. I do think it's possible for either a believer and unbeliever or two unbelievers to to a degree to reconcile and to say, hey man, I was wrong about that. It's not hindered our relationship, but the more that time passes, the more I'm concerned even for you, because you may not be aware of was trying to be funny, I guess you could say. And uh it was wonderful. Um because this is serious, this is destructive, uh, and uh we we want to make sure that we don't At church. several days, months, years, whatever. Well, was it harsh? parents that's another issue can address you know later. Well those two comes to mind when we might tell you what's woman we want to get our way in. give Jim the opportunity because sometimes Jim might not look at it, might not see the and not for see with the way that Richard saw it. I'm kind of saying that my response then is not to hold them accountable for it to decide what what their pleasures should be for it important. um consequences if Jim and Richard persist in their current path and don't reconcile. Through out loud. if these if the situation isn't dealt with, um, there's the potential for one or both of them to become bitter. Okay, so we could probably keep going. and a long-term impact. Yeah, so yeah, bides maybe a blessing and watching believers reconcile they're different. No uh friction that's producing heat that produces explosions. recognize that you too are a sinner. It's an indicator, oh, something's wrong. Because there's going to be multiple examples and they're going to be like, what, you've never brought this to my attention before? But you know maybe it'd be helpful if I gave you a couple examples just so you can know exactly what I'm talking about. uh you know, famous sports players and and there's this a lot in the culture that she was oblivious to because her parents had sheltered her so much. And they said that, you know, you've been saying this, that, and the other about me. Like I understand there's maybe dynamics that make it easier for you to respond in this way or to sin in this way or whatever it might be. difficult dynamics around uh around this. um kind of delay the the healing process. And um and so you know basically as soon as possible, as soon as as soon as it's recognized, uh that that should be pursued. some just not knowledge but some life experience with this you know in in a sense. What is that? uh basically took place in one conversation. saying things that are not true. Mrs. I just want to encourage you to let the peace of Christ, you know, that we're to be preser seeking to preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. Are you a son of the evil one? Or are you a peacemaker? And because you're not a party in the situation, you have limited information. Uh and then we ended up going to seminary together because he was a couple years ahead of me uh in college, but then we went to seminary at the same time and we lived a few doors down from each other our with our with our families then Getting the log out of your eye. Um what is that in comparison to? You need to do better with your son and being that in front of the sun definitely seems unadvisable. Yeah. Uh between the two men. Yeah. Don't just run away from conflicts. where there's a response to someone's actions that's that's been sinful. assumptions about the work that somebody's supposed to be doing or the skills that they're supposed to be have uh that they're supposed to have that could cause repeated uh conflicts. And she does exactly what I just said. even confront them about that and and say, brother, sister, uh that's not a that's not an ex But um can I just appeal to you that, you know, as as I look at God's word, that there's just there is no excuse. You have the spirit dwelling inside of you and you have the ability to respond differently. training you can have uh and this is uh one of the case study questions from the exam to get the reconciliation specialization. You know, again, uh there might be a subjective element to that where Richard was sensitive because of what's already boiling in his heart How you communicate this to one another? Slander as well, Richard. So what are biblical thoughts and attitudes Jim and Richard need to cultivate as they think about the ways in which they've been offended? How are they going to move from their I've been offended feeling to taking steps forward in uh moving toward each other in reconciliation? So for which had to hold everything in for about four years or so, I think that it should have been disposed with another question and do they and the impact that that had. So glorify God, get the log out of your eye, gently restore, and what's the final G. Uh there can be what appears to be a pattern of behavior that breeds conflict. Careful with grabbing water. And so can we talk about what might be kind of lying below the surface of of these repeated things? how to confront that you come to them with that humble um gentle demeanor to say So when we talked about uh Mike talked about the the portrait of a peacemaker, those attributes, those characteristics, um In my life. But as soon as she said that with her gentle uh uh demeanor, um the Lord struck struck me and we had just a great conversation and reconciled and honestly after that our friendship even increased and move forward in life in relationship when the person doesn't want to reconcile. Just something to add real quick to what you said. Let me encourage you. So he's not been overlooking, he's been ignoring and stewing over. Anyway. one or two or more truths of the gospel that uh you would want to help Jim or Richard. Yeah, there's other things. Instead of me having things to say, I hope you have questions, and if you don't have questions, then I have questions. Again, as we've said so many times, we all know that feeling of uh dislike, to say the least, of conflict. It is. Um the because when when we see patterns or repeated instances of that up to this point you've been overlooking, but now that it's clear that there seems to be a pattern, how do you now bring it up? We'll just redo this. in the beginning because to me reading this it seems that uh Richard happens Yeah, and and could have some some issues with being judgmental. you wouldn't like you said wouldn't have embarrassed him from his family or something. Church of members of the church because the public declaration to uh show their reconciliation In addition to that. Or maybe maybe they kinda talk about they maybe communication, kinda recognize the communication style and just kind of make it more clear from you know Even scenarios of how one might think about a type of a scenario Okay, so I have a question. And that's not a violation of the fourth promise of forgiveness, or the third promise of forgiveness, of that I won't bring this sin up again uh to you to use it against you. and see if they're willing to do that. Okay. And then just as another reminder from Matthew 5. whose child you are to glorify God. Good, yeah. Um if it was a mild case, maybe Jim had a tendency to be maybe the leg legalistic so that could be one of uh of the law. Yeah, talking about the vacation thing of Jim supposedly uh shooting down Richard's ideas or not helping with the church piano. We could even help them understand the uh interest position or issue position interest model of negotiating if they're planning future vacations to decide where to go. one or both of them end up leaving the church, uh that may very well just obtain them from going to any church. And then of course again, if there's anything that you need to confess, if there's anything that you need to acknowledge in terms of your own contribution to the conflict. Uh and I I I wasn't trying to be malicious. Um as as we mentioned last week, say, you know what? Richard responded that he has had more than enough of Jim and went on to list numerous ways Jim has wronged him So there's some that I think you could say pretty clearly from what's written, and then maybe some that you might imagine might be underneath that would be need to be explored to confirm. Yeah. If slash wherein conflict occurs again, that's not the way to handle it. Jan, what would be the flip side of what you were saying? Well, we're out of time. Go and be reconciled. It can be tempting to exclusively look at it from the perspective of the pattern. Did I tell the story of when I was in high school and a girl that I uh that that confronted me? But that was one of the things is asking if they'd be willing to seek help with someone else who can help uh in the conversation. actually had a very similar situation um where I wasn't holding somebody accountable because because some other stuff that they have been offering in their hearts layer on or this incident just creating confrontation and it had so much impact to everybody, but now we're all reconciled from how to Or that we're not going to bring up this sin uh to them to use it against them, uh that we're not gonna just be uh reminding them and tearing them down I'm assuming from the answer you gave that you are talking about somebody who is in the body of question Yeah. Instant Messenger? And even pride in uh when Jim reads Ephesians 6 to him, like why what do you tell me that? I didn't believe the correction was necessary. Well see even with that, that's the kind of thing that you need to know more about. So the this is no small thing. So I'm hoping that we all have answers to each other's questions. So, with all of that, are there any as you've reviewed your notes? So you deal with the isolated incident, make sure sin is confessed, sin is forgiven, and then go back and say, let's talk about the pattern and how we can understand why this keeps happening I worked, I had I had a youth group, I had really good friends in the youth group, and then I worked at a Christian conference center and had a good group of friends there. Well, um if you have the the relationship and and the open door to You know, I was kind of wondering how to address him. Just to remember that Colossians 3. I know it's seems obvious, but it's always good to point out the obvious. And if nobody if either I don't have answers to your questions or you don't have answers to my questions, this is going to be a really short class today. Again, the purpose would not be for the purpose of demeaning them, attacking them, ridiculing them. He and I we have just similar tendencies to the same sin. Oh, okay. Given Mrs. Language that's more disagreed on even among believers. So if you need to go back and readdress, then it'd be good to seek counsel for that Yeah. Glorify God, get a log out of your eye, gently restore, and go and be reconciled. What are biblical thoughts and attitudes Jim and Richard need to cultivate as they think about the ways To me it's the relationship with God is broken. Or maybe on the What's Guide Richard realizes, you know, that really wasn't the right language to use it. So with that let me pray and we'll be done Um actually the question is similar to that uh what we had talked about before. Is it is that something that you notice uh about yourself? Right, right. Okay, anything else that you would be interested to know more about to better understand the dynamics of this situation? It seems like maybe they define that differently. And again he might feel like he hasn't failed. They need to be willing to see things from each other's perspective. Yep. Or I'll just say that that goes beyond someone being able to say, yeah, you're right, I repent, that's wrong. I think I think that I can with the unbeliever I I've had in the experience because that's just the power of humility and and hope So that all happened in one conversation. So you just have an open door because they've broached the subject with you. Yeah. I was stricken to the heart, and immediately I was like, oh my gosh, what have I been doing? When you start with humility, so what I had to do was tell him and confess to him, hey this this is a time, a situation. We shouldn't uh be more concerned about our own comfort. I'm seeing a a repeated occurrence of either this type of behavior or whatever it might be. We had a lot of fun and we're we're good friends. Richard believed the correction was harsh, but Jim insisted it was merely a biblical rebuke I want to do whatever I can to help you work in this situation. Because God is a peacemaker and his children imitate him in that occupation. So that would show like a pattern of uh behavior that would be What else? Yeah, that's right. Again, pride. Yeah, maybe it's not a true biblical friendship. Mm-hmm. And to expand on the last question, how do we approach a repeated behavior that is clearly an addiction of any kind and certainly very destructive? Pastor Bay? So this, in case you're curious, this case study comes from the ACBC Exam for Reconciliation Specialization. And so if I was rich, I would be like a hell colors. And that that's that's true, that's good. All right, last question uh for today. I mean, i if in your own life you could probably imagine legitimate reasons for all of those things. The key and core principle of conflict is that it is an opportunity for us to glorify God. Um I don't remember if we if this came out in the class, which I know you did last week was your first Sunday, but um Um and so it may be he didn't view it as necessary to rebuke his funders. So focus on Richard for the moment. Yeah, so whether or not the original sin was public, they've made it public with their slander and and even online so confessing to the church and repenting before the church would be Good. Impact the church in significant ways. Matthew 7, 1 through 5, Jesus says, you know, don't judge, or you two will be judged. I might see a hand there and calling. Yep. Gabe? You can feel free to cheat if you have your notes in front of you. That's the people on the side, yeah. Jim and Richard have been friends since college. And there's no right or wrong answers here. That's a great question. So they've they each feel offended. So um the the way in which we bring our concerns to someone can really Richard And what we don't know what we know what involvement the wives have in this. Um I'm wondering if that's like if there was any kind of hierarchical relationship initially or if it was always very lateral Mm-hmm. Who else needs to be involved in the reconciliation process? Yeah. And uh and so when we don't have that, it just it's painful. Hey Pastor Gabe. So you bring what you say um the offense to the person. Uh so whether it's drugs, alcohol, uh, sexual sin, uh there's all kinds of uh of ways in which one might be enslaved Um so one of the things you certainly want to remind them of is listen, Jim, Richard. That the four promises of forgiveness are being obeyed and um and fulfilled in the sense that we're So the question is, how do you handle a situation where you're trying to lovingly and gently confront, but a person is just constantly justifying themselves, making excuses. What did he say? What are potential? That's what he's going to carry forward into his life and maybe his kids might be a little snowball. When we think about a conflict like this, whether it's somebody in the church, a spouse, co-worker, we naturally and rightly so think about the immediate consequences or blessings of paths we might choose. So you may know what I'm feeling or thinking. You have an opportunity here. Yeah. What's G number three? We most appropriately bring up patterns of sin that we've seen that we may have previously It just seems to me that this seemed to kind of have unraveled right there, but it did seem to bring up And I think in this situation both Richard and Joe decided what what the other deserved that just deserved to for everyone else to know It's not a b they're not believers, uh the author's not a believer. Is there any way in which you have contributed to this conflict? And wherever something is wrong, there's an opportunity to glorify God. Okay. Um what are uh kind of moving on to category of um gently restore I I've been uh reading, I just started reading the other day a book. You know, that's not how we would bring up someone's repeated patterns of sin. So we can a learning opportunity because if there's Richard's son doesn't see some type of a So it's not just the church, he's also hingering the witness. So it encourages others to follow the same path. But we just need to get that in our minds and remind ourselves of that reality, that whenever there's a a painful experience That's right. And I didn't realize, I didn't have the maturity to realize how much of a problem that was. Anything else uh on that uh elements of the gospel? And so as you approach the person that needs to be confronted, that you need to have a humble heart. How do we bring up something that we have previously in ourselves covered over and not had to So that we can again write it down. It's been interesting to see a pattern of multiple of them saying, why couldn't they just make the effort? Come on. We need to live in a way that is not just saying that we're forgiving someone, but behaving in a way that is And it's always this I noticed this. That's the conversation. Yeah, so it's somewhat related to the question that Daniel asked about how do you confront someone when you've been overlooking. Yeah. I think the the other party is the primary sinful party. I'm thinking, what in the world? So similar to uh confessing before the church because Jim or Richard's been slandering Jim on Facebook, that would be an appropriate place for him to But let's switch now. Uh it's it feels like an intrusion. Yeah. That's right. Alright, so I want to just do a couple review things just to kind of get us in the frame of mind. How do you deal with with that? And therefore you are going to live in malice and anger and bitterness and wrath? Yeah, but yeah, we don't know the whole context of what kind of house they wish that was. Strengthening of the local church. Don't attack in conflicts, but seek to respond to them in a way that honors the Lord and builds up the church. Are you a son of God? Yep, absolutely. Gossiping and slander, yeah, more specifically. People are always at a head and so you kind of shy away from approaching a topic and or even the person who's trying You you gotta deal with things. Yeah. I was you know take the log out first. Uh they've been avoiding each other, so on. Um another question might be, did Jim admonish Richard in public or in private? Is that in comparison to it himself? Even though they call themselves friends and they call themselves Christians. For themselves individually road. Hey Robert. So thinking about that category of things, what are actual or potential logs Slander. Uh no, I think I think you were seeing the chat for the for Zoom. So I sent it out uh was it yesterday? Yeah. Uh what was the tone of his voice? It can feel awkward, but if you see it done well you say, well that ended well, but let me try that The confrontation of Richard's son, Jim reading Ephesians 6 to Richard, Richard responding with, I've had more than enough of this, and telling him all the things he's done wrong. Definitely going on about it seems like pride. Yeah, that that wasn't a food. Because you don't want his family to be deceived. This is an opportunity to glorify God. Hi, Ida. The pastor has requested your help because you took Pastor Gabe's reconciliation class. You know, you're you're being judgmental. Good. Reconciling conflict situations and broken relationships is not a small matter. I know this is tough, this difficult situation, but you you have an opportunity here to to put on display whose True overlooking is actually forgiving and not allowing it to grow uh in uh in intensity. Yeah. While you were on vacation? Mm-hmm. I have some difficulty hearing uh what you said, but I think one of the um elements of the gospel that could be presented to those people is Hey, White, good morning. Any questions whatsoever? This is just working through this. Yeah. So thank you for going through this class. Last week for those of you who aren't here we talked about how do you So would you be willing to see a counselor to Um what's your name? 15, as we think about reconciliation, let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. Okay, what about Jim? Negatively, bad witness, positive side, what would be a positive outcome? No, you're fine. Yeah, Tony. It is it's easier when I know that Yeah, good. Anything else? Gently restore. So any particular questions on anything we've talked about, implications? You know, Jim feels like he's been attacked by Richard. Yeah. What uh what are some This is a hypothetical future uh thinking. It has been two months since the heated exchange, and both families have been avoiding each other during Sunday morning worship. And another reason for that, by the way, is because there may be a potential of reminding them of the blessings of their friendship in the past. Yeah. Just a reminder of that forgiveness. Because again if you just deal with this one instance, you're not really getting all the way back to the roots and restoring the relationship Recently, however, things have become quite difficult. 9, this is an opportunity for each of these individuals to put on display whose son they are. Well how did their friendship start? Remember, it's been a couple months. Hi. And um assuming that you really did um correct Richard's theology So th that's possible. How about uh in what way did Jim actually respond to Richard's son? Sounds like razor um calls resentment. If you go to scripture, you still can't lose the humility and passion, compassion for one another What what happened there? Yeah, maybe maybe Jim comes to realize that he actually did speak harshly to his son and needs to seek his forgiveness. So those are all just principles that we've talked through throughout this class. What are ways in which Richard, what are logs Richard has in response to the whole situation? Uh it's still sin. Hi. Well, first things first, whenever you think about ministering to someone Um bringing them all out on the table at one point saying you did this and this and this and this is probably not very often. What are the potential blessings if they fully repent and reconcile and But now that we at least perceive that there may be Yeah, so when there is something like that, um uh a a pattern of sin that is not Remember Matthew 5. Um and possibly we don't know, but it It depends somewhat on how long this reconciliation process has been, but it might be that there's It's a well-oiled machine that runs smoothly according to its design, it runs continually. I mean there's kind of universally understood foul language and then there's Maybe Richard has his own colorful language at times too, he doesn't recognize that. But right now when he's talking about your child I want to begin. There needs to be uh good confrontation and there needs to be forgiveness. Uh that's when, you know, as soon as that's kind of recognized, I think it's very appropriate to say, hey, I think we need to bring in some outside help You said the correction was harsh. And you have an open door to talk to them and encourage them and help them through this difficulty. So that that could be uh an issue to confront What are actual or potential logs that Richard may have? Uh or has anybody ever mentioned this to you? Um take a look at the in the chat out for my question. So Jim didn't seem uh Mark says Jim didn't seem to approach his conversation with Richard with humility. You got one particular situation, but that's not by itself. I can see we're not really making progress in this. You know, if uh uh I ha I have a friend who in college he was my RA Um for that quote. They would certainly have some insight, I'm sure. Anyway, so uh just a reminder of the four Gs, right? Again, in a way that reflects the humility and gentleness and love of Christ. Uh but we're we're going to live out forgiveness. Any other questions? Okay. Um I well, I I I think it's a it would be an excellent testimony to their families, particularly Gently restore. But they just make all the difference in how someone receives confrontation. How about um that's covered up. So I was I was just thinking um I'd like to know more about how Richard and Jim uh relate to other people in the church. I understand now. Is there any way in which you have uh Or even if if even if you're completely innocent Um I'm not attacking you, but uh is this something that you see? Well, uh let's start talking about the case study. Jessica. And as someone who's also been forgiven by As they, Lord willing, uh, repent and forgive, what steps do they need to take to show the fruits of repentance? Um how the maybe appropriately involves someone's part of the solution, but not Okay. And that just emphasizes the again the importance that uh you can't just What about when there is a situation where Well, that's a great question. Is that true? Okay, well there's probably more that that uh you know we would find out if we were uh engaged Kind of thing. She's like, hey, uh I was talking to so-and-so, one of our mutual friends. So when I finally did um you know repent and It it gives me a connection with you that I may not have with anyone else. So yeah, there's what's what's going on there. Um You know, w what was the context? And so we are more focused on the other person. So um we we shouldn't shy away, we shouldn't say, oh, that's you know that's their problem, not my problem. Yeah. Danny's not. 9, blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. But G number one, what does it stand for? Uh it it causes problems in our I'm sure you all spent hours and hours this week reviewing the notes I was drinking. They've been speaking ill uh of each other to others in the church. What are actual or potential logs that Jim may have? Or I mean there's a fine line of that if he says something totally unbiblical They are so focused on this person hurt me and this is how I feel, they're spreading Yeah. Now I need to work with my son and I responded poorly, but what Jim said was really was correct and what's what No, that's a that's a great question. She was a good friend, maybe I should say Like he doesn't see that his son should have been corrected let alone by someone else If he had a problem with his theology, he should have probably addressed him by himself that way. Some from years ago has a lot of meaning. So I just thought of another question that I didn't write down, but I think it'd be a good one to to think. Um but um the the full uh depth and richness of reconciliation really can only happen between two If they very much seem like a closed uh door that where they don't want to listen to that and they're just persistent in their justification. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, that's how that's a hard discussion You didn't mean it like that You had so much time. So where there's particular sins. I think it was yesterday. They are now in their early 30s and attend the same church together with their families. Cost of their sins. Depending on the relationship and the church and whether they're involved Uh we should say, no, it matters. The exam questions are focused more on uh formal mediation, so we're not we're gonna we're not gonna use those those exact questions, but I think I just see reconciliation done well, especially in And I would you know mock her and and oh can you believe you know she doesn't know who this is and you know that that kind of stuff So you can go back to listen to last week's lesson to to hear about that. Because that's what should be guiding us, the peace of Christ that He has accomplished at the cross. So perhaps there's some some bitterness, resentment, and j and judgmentalism there. And then in the same conversation told Richard Maybe we'll finally get the church piano moved. The Spirit can use that to to convict them and make it easier for them to acknowledge their contribution. To make matters worse, Richard has been slandering Jim on Facebook during the past two months I'm just I'm gonna bring up the chat here in case I we missed Richard certainly feels like he's been attacked by Jim. But what I would say is we would do well Very good. I have an opportunity to glorify God, to grow in Christlikeness. What might be some specific steps that you would encourage them to consider taking Um I'm not at a point where I can recommend it, so I'm just telling you what I what I've read so far. And so it just feels like it's a bother. And we'll we'll even I guess the case study today uh identifies some of that Well, uh I I think that it is uh you know, as we talked about with the uh confrontation. And can I just want to appeal to you to repent before the Lord. Um I mean that was a pretty good pretty good summary of uh many things. Yep. And you can basically state the the concern succinctly. Um And what I found in more than one experience uh I just kinda wanna know how they became friends, what the nature of their friendship was And the point is that it is right for us to go to another person that we see My hope is that more and more we will be a place where we deal with conflicts in a way that honors the Lord. Um I'm glad that was raised today. Um and to see that, wow, this is really a difficult But I'm just concerned because it's starting to become Oh I thought you drank the edge. Um Robert says uh it would be uh perhaps useful to get some insight from their wives regarding the relationship. And one of the last things we tend to think about is It sounds like there's some kind of feelings and things that have not been approved in the past. Yeah. Yeah, they could be stumbling blocks. Uh maybe that's not so maybe somebody is looking at the The second G, what does that stand for? And that comes out of Galatians chapter 6, brethren. Have I ever told that story in this class? And I tell you what, the spirit convicted me like almost never time. Jim said nothing and walked away in complete shock at Richard's immaturity. The first thing you need to do is gain information. Good. Were they out of were they at a cabin in the woods and they're just chatting it up and Jim's like, you know, Richard, that's actually not consistent Um so with the situation like for Danny the same, um Like we could we both struggle in the same area of sin. So with that in your mind Good. And those of you online, please feel free to uh to interact and engage today. So if you didn't hear it online, uh the question was how do you bring up a pattern of sin So then it feels like a bigger deal just because they defined Uh it can make us not want to uh be with family, go to family gatherings if So my hope is that as a local body of Christ It all began when Jim corrected Richard's son for using, quote, foul language. And the relationship with God. And uh and say, is that something that Um remember that scripture says about it's not about us And so the way you've responded, even though there's Uh but I'll I'll read through it here and then you can read along on the screen. Whether he sees Jim as someone who has It didn't seem like Richard Yeah. And I hope other people understand when it takes me a few days to respond. But yeah, but um constant justification. So it it kind of brings brings a connection And maybe related to that, have a conversation about Like did this exchange happen Uh he was in complete shock at record and jury Yeah. How can you say to your brother, let me take the speck out of your eye when you have a log in your own eye? And because you're a professing believer, Very good. What maybe heart issues, heart attitudes, uh ways of thinking about the relationship dynamics. I just um I just So Jim, Rickard, or Richard. Uh I remember when I was in California I'd uh text my pastor But it's been interesting to and again it's just it's like 70 people. I've I've you know overlooked it. We would just say, you know, I know we've dealt with this situation or these situations What are potential Totally up to that moment, I was totally oblivious to my sin. So you know what does that mean Yeah. Deal with those particular situations as if it's an isolated situation But um given that there is a wide range But overlooking sin is not the same as sweeping it under the And what Jesus says is, uh-uh-uh. Um How about the foul language? Okay. But they'd be throwing away an opportunity. So God cares about their sanctification, and so I should care about their sanctification. The sun is now pending that out between the maybe didn't know All all of those elements are critically important. Um and they may just kind of be like, oh I got Yeah Um is that zoom that I see? What's wrong with you? Yeah. And and that can just that's like a cancer that can affect And I really do pray that the Lord would help us and we need his help Like how that flows out their relationship then. Mm-hmm. Oh, oh, okay. Or did he just prostrate his That's that's a good point. Yeah. Uh Well thank you both This actually came up in a in a counseling session this week. But I just feel Okay? I know that. And then So when I was in high school, I I was thinking of your earlier comment about being a bad witness to unbelievers on on Facebook. There was some overlap among those friends, but not complete It sounded like Richard is just like laughing Yeah, I'm still encouraged sometimes. That's what we would like life to be like There's actually a pattern of repeated situations of someone's So one day I get a phone call from this gal, Emily is her name. Yeah. Yeah, or or the kids if they're old enough I'm sorry, I shouldn't have done that. But That's that's Uh Richard. Um It's not been that problematic for me Um express concern and How do you Thank you. Anything else? Um They they put so much effort into Mike. Richard says, man, that was harsh. Depending on Tony real quick um about Let's name a few So Yeah. I didn't have the chat up Any other things you can think of? But a recognition of okay, I guess we His own contribution I mean Christ died to reconcile us to God. So Um So I I think Okay Yeah, no worry about it. So how how do you So Good What kinds of things do they need to be thinking about Yeah. Um Yeah. So all all of that So That thing was Uh Yeah.