Good to see you all this morning. Let me go ahead and begin with a word of prayer. Father, thank you for your grace that is new to us today. Apart from you, we could do nothing. Apart from you, we couldn't even exist. And yet you give us life and breath and all things. Lord, as we talk about this subject of reconciliation and this morning, how to keep you at the center of our thoughts and our motives, our desires. Lord help us to grow in this area. This is not just something we need. uh in order to respond to conflict well. This is something we need for all of life. And so we uh just desire to grow, to be more like Jesus Christ. uh in this way, who himself uh lived for your glory. Uh and Lord, as we even prepare our hearts for the worship service, would this time together Just put us in a frame of mind that would increase our worship and praise and thanksgiving and receptivity to your word. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right. Good morning to week three. Um we're gonna talked this morning about keeping God at the center. So page 17. If you don't have a notebook yet, which it looks like everybody pretty much does, but if you don't have a notebook, they're still available. You can see Amy uh she's closing the door at the back of the uh the room there, she'd be glad to to get one to you. Uh a couple uh things to note also. If you miss a particular Sunday, I would really encourage you, in fact I would urge you to listen to the recording before the following Sunday. Because every week in this class really builds up week after week. There's no superfluous lessons. Uh and each one builds upon the other and is it's progressive and in some ways it's chronological, especially once we get to the process of reconciliation. Um but uh I would just really encourage you to not let any session go uh missed. I don't know what the word to use. So keep up with the class if you can. They're posted early on in the week and that's really, really important. And also there was a question last week that reminded me that it would probably be helpful to make a comment about the kinds of conflicts we're talking about. There are indeed situations where we need to think about other principles in addition to what's here. What we're talking about throughout this class uh in in many ways applies to every conflict no matter what the situation is. That the truths, the principles are universal. I mean they're they're they're from scripture, they're universal. There's things that we can apply in any given situation, especially what we'll be talking about today. But everything else is well. At the same time, there are situations that go beyond reconciliation issues that we need to consider other principles and just to put a uh uh specific name to it, if if there is an abusive situation where one party has basically made it their goal to oppress, to control, to coerce, to mistreat uh another party uh where they have no desire to live, uh uh mutually edifying, encouraging, loving uh r uh way Then while there are things to apply from this principle in our own hearts of how we ought to view that situation, how we ought to keep God at the center. uh as we'll talk about today. At the same time there's other principles to consider. For example, Proverbs t uh okay I don't remember the reference somewhere in Proverbs uh it says uh the prudent sees danger and hides himself Meaning, there are times when it's appropriate to flee danger. Also, there are passages like church discipline, Matthew 18, which we won't talk at all about in this class in terms of the outworking of that. But there are times when someone is persisting in their sin and it's right for us to seek help from others in the church to address that situation and call that person to repentance. And should they not ultimately repent, it's up to the leaders, the elders of the church, to work through that process. and bring that person to either a place of repentance or to a recognition that they are not acting as a believer. um and to be put out of the church. There's other principles like submission to governing authorities where if someone is committing a crime where they are uh violating the the laws of men. It's right and appropriate for us to use the governing authorities for the sake of protection Uh and so we don't want to assume that because we're talking about conflict situations where one person sins against another, that uh none of those things apply. And only these things apply. No, no, no You have to consider in each case what are all the biblical principles that need to come to bear on that particular situation. And so the majority of kinds of cases or situations that we're talking about in this class are the normal conflicts we engage in or that we experience uh in marriage, in family, in the church, where you have two parties who uh fundamentally want to live together in unity and harmony and love and want to uh honor the Lord, uh hopefully, right? That that's that's the desire, that's the predominant kind of situation. We'll talk about even at the end of the class, the last session, what do you do if reconciliation doesn't take place? If the other person doesn't want to reconcile, they don't want to repent. We'll talk about that kind of situation and how we should think and and live in light of that. But by and large, again, what we're the kinds of conflicts we're talking about are where uh both parties are to one degree or another, desiring to to live in in unity and harmony with one another. I hope that's that's a helpful uh caveat there. Alright, I want to introduce to you, before we get into the notes, a principle or a concept called the four G's. The class, I mentioned this the first week. This class is based on Robert Jones' book Pursuing Peace. But his book is kind of a new version or a re restating of a lot of the principles found in the book The Peacemaker. which is written by Ken Sandy who will be here October uh April 5th for a c a a conference. He'll be preaching here April 6th, Sunday morning And he'll actually be in this class that morning. Now don't get too excited. He's not gonna be teaching. You can be praying for me. Because I'm teaching his material with him sitting right in front of me or wherever he's gonna sit. But I I I I kinda offered for him to teach that morning 'cause it's it'll be principles that he wrote in his book. And he's like, No, I'll just sit and hear you teach and I'm like Okay. So that'll be the most well prepared lesson I've ever done. Anyway, um So the peacemaker. In the peacemaker, uh Ken Sandy, which you know, as if you're exposed to his teacher before or or soon to be, you'll see he's kind of a system systematizer, just the way he thinks. He systematizes and and brings things together in helpful ways. And so uh one of the ways that he's brought together the principles we're talking about throughout this class is encapsulating them all in what he calls the four G's. The four G's. And this is basically an outline for how we ought to think about conflict. So the first G, see if I have enough space here. The first G is glorify God. And that's what this lesson is about today, that our primary focus, w our aim in responding to conflict and thinking about conflict. is how can I glorify God? That's my primary aim in conflict as well as in every aspect of life. Again, that's today's lesson. The second G Is get the log out of your eye. Out of your eye That comes from Matthew 7, where Jesus says, you know, if you see the log that's in your brother's eye, but don't see the speck in your brother's eye, you're a hypocrite if you only focus on the log in your brother's eye. And so he says, first, sorry, I I reversed the the sizes of wood. If you see the speck in your brother's eye and don't see the log in your own eye, you're a hypocrite. He says, first take the log out of your own eye And then you'll see clearly to take the spec out of your brother's eye. So before we confront others, we need to examine our own hearts and see how we have contributed to the conflict or how we ourselves are side by side at the foot of the cross in light of our own weaknesses and sins. So get the log out of your own eye. The third G is gently restore And so that's where we talk about confrontation, how to approach someone with the aim of restoring the relationship, restoring them to a right relationship with God and with us And that language comes out of Galatians 6. 1, which says, if anyone's caught in a trespass, you who are spiritual will restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. So that's the third G. And then the fourth G Is go and be reconciled. And the idea here is when you are in conflict, we should be striving for Reconciliation. Jesus says, I think this is in Mark, forgetting the exact reference right now. He says, if you're standing at the altar And you know your brother has something against you, leave your gift there at the altar. Go and be reconciled to your brother, then come and offer your gift. There's a priority of living a reconciled life uh as far as it depend depends on us. And so that's where we talk about forgiveness and how do we think about forgiveness and How do we uh make our efforts aimed at pursuing and living a reconciled life? So I give these to you just as a brief outline of of the class at large And I'm going to be reminding uh you of these along with Christopher as well. Uh so uh meaning both of us will be reminding you uh of these things because as one of my seminary professors says, repetition is the key to learning. The key to learning is what? There you go. So um so we're gonna be going over those uh time and time again just to get them into our minds when we think about conflict. Those are helpful to get in our thinking. And so we'll dive into the details of those. Alright, now let's focus on glorifying God then. for this morning. Now who remembers, and I know you have cheat sheets, who remembers the uh opportunities that conflicts create, as Pastor Christopher taught last week. What are the opportunities that conflicts create? To trust God? Learn more about his character. To learn more about his character? Yeah, uh to grow in our relationship with him. Sanctification? Uh-huh. Yep. Yeah, yep. Along the same lines there to grow our relationship with God, to be sanctified. Anything else? Yeah, to learn how to apply it in our life. So th the three main principles, we've encapsulated most of them, are to glorify God, to Grow in Christ. So those two for sure have been mentioned a couple different ways. And then the third one is to serve others. Alright? Do you remember that from last time? To glorify God, to grow in Christ, and to serve others. That's a pretty big deal to think about conflicts as opportunities it really reshapes our thinking about them. That when we find ourselves having sinned against somebody or having been on the receiving end or both We need to think. Oh, this is an opportunity. It's an opportunity for me to glorify God, to grow in Christ, and to serve others. Well, uh we might be familiar with that language of glorifying God, but uh it's something that often kind of escapes us in terms of what are the practical realities of that? What is that specifically and and uh practically mean to glorify God. So that's what we want to talk about today. Take your Bible and turn to 2 Corinthians 5 if you have a Bible. You have the two main passages we'll look at in terms of the specific verses, but I want to look at them in context. So let's start with a second one that's listed in your notes, 2 Corinthians 5. And what I want to remind you of as we start is that glorifying God is the highest and greatest purpose of our life. 2 Corinthians 5. Uh I'm going to read starting in verse 1 down to verse 10. He's talking about our physical bodies here If the tent that is our earthly home is destroyed, we have a building from God, a house not made with hands eternal in the heavens. So referring there to our glorified bodies. For in this tent we groan, longing to put on our heavenly dwelling, if indeed by putting it on we may not be found naked. For while we are still in this tent, we groan, being burdened, not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life. He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee. So, we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body, we are away from the Lord, for we walk by faith and not by faith. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord. So, whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please Him For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. So what Paul is saying here is he is reminding us of this reality that we are not uh beings who will cease to exist the moment that we die. Everybody knows we die. Nobody disagrees that we die. Uh we all know that this body dies and it returns to the dust. And Paul is reminding us that is not the end. That's not the end. In fact, uh this life as we experience it uh is temporary and it's far more temporary than what is to come. Now we often refer to what is to come as the afterlife I I think that's kind of interesting because that life is actually the greater reality. So it's like this life is the before life. That life is the eternal life, right? The everlasting life. He uses the illustration here of uh you know a tent, uh temporary tent versus a building, a permanent dwelling place. And essentially what we could bring this all down to in verse 9 is why, why in the world would we live with a focus on the temporary You know, getting the most out of the temporary, living to please ourselves in this temporary life when we have an everlasting life awaiting us. And as verse 10 tells us, how we live in this life, what we have done in the body, will have a great impact on eternity. Right? It doesn't determine where we go. We're not saved by our works. We're not gonna enter heaven because we've lived a good life and done a certain amount of things, and we're gonna we're not gonna go to hell because we've been sufficiently evil. Our destiny is determined, of course, by Christ, but our experience of heaven will be determined, will be influenced by how we live today. So the judgment seat of Christ w when he comes is going to he's gonna g give out rewards to his people on the basis of how they lived their life. here and now on this earth. And so Paul's argument is saying if we are understanding this reality, that this life is temporary, again, why would we live to please ourselves when we could please God and ex and know that we'll uh experience the benef uh benefit of that for all eternity. It's really foolish if you think about it to focus on the things of this life and make those the priority when heaven awaits us. And so the conclusion is So whether we're in this body or whether we're at home with the Lord, our aim should be to please Him. That's just another way of saying glorifying God, pleasing Him. That that eternal perspective should shape everything about life. When we don't get our way about all kinds of things, you know, job, relationships. finances, obedient kids, you know, um when we don't get our way in life, small things, big things. One of the things that would shape that shapes our response is how are we considering this in light of eternity? If we're not thinking about eternity at all, this thing, even if it's really little, is going to look really big, right? But if we're thinking about eternity, then this thing, even if it's really big It's gonna look really, really little. I mean you can just ask yourself the question in any particular conflict you have, let's say this last week, and ask yourself when you're standing in the presence of God Side by side with this person you're in conflict with, how much will you care about that conflict? Well let that perspective shape how you respond, emotionally, verbally, with your actions. Having an eternal perspective dramatically changes how we think about our conflicts and it motivates us to say it's not going to matter so I'm going to choose to please God in this situation rather than myself because that is the greater important matter Now turn over to 1 Corinthians 10 verse 31. Here Paul talks about glorifying God in the context of actual conflict. And you know, it's a familiar conflict among the early believers where some believed it was Uh sinful to eat meat sacrificed to idols, uh and drink um that which was sacrificed Others uh believe that in Christ they were free, and so they had no problem with eating meat sacrificed to idols and and drinking. And Paul is trying to encourage this church to consider uh the the principles that should guide their decisions. And he ultimately uh comes down well not ultimate maybe pen ultimately, kind of second to last. uh refers to their conscience. Uh he says in verse twenty eight, but if someone says to you, This has been offered in sacrifice, then do not eat it for the sake of the one who informed you. And for the sake of conscience. I do not mean your own conscience, but his, for why should my liberty be determined by somebody else's conscience? In other words, the conscience that we have and the conscience that other people have that other people have in our relationship, we're wanting to protect the conscience. We're not wanting to violate our or the other person's conscience. And so that should be one of the things that guides our decision when there's competing ideas, competing uh preferences or or values. But he goes even Deeper, or you could say higher, I guess, in verse 31, when he says, So then, whether you eat or you drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. So, yes, you should be guided by your conscience and the other person's conscience. You want to protect the conscience of one another. But even more than that, you want to be guided by the glory of God You want to do that which would most represent God's truth, God's priorities, God's values, God's will. Representing him as as best as you can. That's what should guide your decision of whether you eat, in this case, meat sacrificed to idols. or not. So these two passages, 2 Corinthians 5, 1 Corinthians 10, elevate this issue, this question of what glorifies God. And whatever it is, that's how we should be living. Uh many of you are familiar with the uh Westminster Catechism or at least the very first question of the Westminster Catechism. I think that's the only question I'm personally familiar with, at least have memorized And that is, what is the chief end of man? And what's the answer? To glorify God and enjoy him forever, right? That that's what God made us for. He made us in his image to reflect what he's like. He made us to to be like him on a relational level, on a moral level, uh on a uh creative level, you know, in the sense of uh using, you know, in our case not creating half nothing, but using the resources that he's created to to put things together and and and invention and create beauty and and and music and and all the rest, uh reflecting the creative character of God. He made us in his image to to show what he is like uh to represent him, to be his ambassadors. He he gave us the um instruction to rule over the world, to be his viceroy, if you will, uh to be his governors. so that uh we would represent him in the way in which we manage and rule over the creation. And that is again to point back to him. Not not to point to ourselves, but to point back to him what kind of a ruler he is, what kind of a uh a God that he is and how he cares for his his creation. So all that God has done in creating us and in the mandates he has given us are for the purpose of us reflecting his goodness, his truth, and his beauty. And therefore everything that we do should be aimed at that direction. There's a big problem with that. What's the problem? What's that? We don't do it. We're we're sinful, right? Because of the fall, now that image of God in us is marred. It's not completely destroyed, but it's marred, it's distorted. And so we fail to glorify God. Right? Romans says, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But in redemption, what God is doing when he saves us is he takes out our heart of stone, right? He gives us a heart of flesh, places his spirit within us. Why? So that he can conform us again into his image. So he is transforming us to be again more like him. And that's in this life, that's a progressive lifelong endeavor where we ought to be more and more growing in the grace and knowledge of Christ, where we are being conformed to the image of Christ. And then when we see him face to face, what? We will be like him. We will be completed in our in our sanctification, we'll experience glorification in that all vestiges of sin will be removed, and the fullness of the image of God to the degree that God intended for us as His creatures. The fullness of his image will be restored in us. And we'll dwell with him forever in that glorious state and reality. And so when he saves us, he saves us for the purpose of reflecting him. He saves us for the purpose of pointing to him, of showing others what God is like. And that's why we were made. And now that's why we are saved when we've put our trust in him. It's for the purpose of glorifying God. And so whatever you do, those of you who go to a work or you do work from home Uh whatever you do in your work, uh that work is to be done for the glory of God. And in that sense, it's sacred work. Uh it doesn't matter how significant it is, how important you think it is How complicated it is, how simple it is, everything that we do, every use of our mind, every use of our hands is to be done for the glory of God. And so every relationship that we have, you know, ideally, God's purpose is that our relationships would bring glory to God. That's the design of marriage in Ephesians 5, that the husband would reflect Christ, the wife would reflect the church. And that together they would show the world the truth of the gospel. Parents are to reflect the character of God to their kids And so just in every relationship are we are to glorify God in everything that we do. So how much more In conflict, when the reality of conflict is that the image of God is not being reflected in some way, and we'll Mention that again later in the notes. But the purpose is, okay, we need to work hard at restoring and displaying the image of God for the sake of glorifying God. Oh, I can go back here. So glorifying God is our overall purpose in life. It should determine everything about how we think, how we speak. in how we live. Any other comments or questions on this point of glorifying God? So at a base level, what we should be thinking when we experience a conflict, no matter how small, is What can I do that would be most glorifying to God in this moment? That's the fundamental question that conflict should produce in us. How can I glorify God in this situation Yes. We lead not only our understanding knowledge human or leaves. Yes, exactly. Yeah, that's definitely one way. And we'll talk throughout the rest of this class about what does it look like to glorify God But yeah, uh trusting in him, leaning on him, you know, because sometimes it's like I don't know what is the right way to glorify God in this situation. And so sometimes we just have to say, Lord, help me. Uh give me wisdom uh in this situation Alright, so let's talk a little bit more about what what does it specifically mean to glorify God? There are two ways that we glorify God, vertically and horizontally. So I like to think of it, maybe you've heard me say this before, I like to think of it like holding up a mirror. Vertically, it's like holding up a mirror straight up to the sky where the sun is shining down on you And by holding up the mirror, what are you doing? You're you're shining, you're reflecting the rays right back up to the sun. And in this way, glorifying God means that we are um praising God, we are affirming God, we are uh declaring his praises, right? So we do this in in song, we do this in prayer. We do this when we speak and we uh express affirmation and praise, adoration to God. We're saying, yes, you are the true God, the one God. Uh yes I worship you, you are worthy of my I praise you're worthy of my life. We're we're directing things back to God as an expression of worship. The other thing that the other way that we glorify God is horizontally, and here we turn the mirror more at a forty-five degree angle Before it's God shining his glory down on us and we're we're reflecting it back to him in praise and worship. Now when we turn the mirror at a forty-five degree angle, his Light is shining down on us. His glory, his character is shining down on us, and through our life we are now reflecting that to others Hopefully not blinding them. But we're reflecting through our life what God is like. So when people see us, when they see our actions, when they hear our words uh when they uh experience life with us. The act of glorifying God means that they're seeing in us what God is like. Jesus said in Matthew 5, I think it's verse 17, let your light shine before others, right? So that they may see your good deeds and do what? Glorify God in heaven. So glorifying God means, yes, to praise and worship, but also to live in such a way that God's character and what God says is true. And what God values, what God prioritizes, is reflected out to others. In order for that to happen, what do you have to do? You have to embrace it for yourself. Right, you have to believe, first and foremost, that God's way of dealing with sin and conflict is actually the best way. That's a hurdle in and of itself. Because there are times where we want to say, I know what God's way says, but I really would prefer to go my way right now. I really want to give this person a peace in my mind. I don't know that God's way is actually the most effective way Because if if this person had to hear, if this person heard what I had to say, they would fall on their knees and repent. Right? We deceive ourselves into thinking thoughts like that. But God called me to do what That's not gonna do anything. Right? Sometimes we have those thoughts. God calls me to love my enemy. They're not gonna receive that love. God calls me to pray for those who persecute me. What's that gonna do? Right? Sometimes in our sinfulness we question the effectiveness or the the importance and the value of God's ways. And because of our sinful hearts, we we sometimes want to express ourselves in a way that we think will be more effective And so we have to become committed in our own hearts to say, no, no, no, God's ways really are the best way. What God says is true, what God uh God's character as he has revealed it, which he has called me to emulate, is actually the best response to have in this situation. Again, we might say, I've been patient enough with this person. They've received more than their fair share of my patients and now I need to let them have it. And God's not like that. God doesn't treat us that way. Uh so we need to consider uh and and be committed to the fact that uh we are to embrace the character, the values and priorities that God has given us which are So glorifying God. That's what we're uh talking about. That's what we must do. Our response to conflict must be an act of worship and praise to Him, affirming, yes, God, you really are worth imitating. And it must be an act of faithful representation of what God is like to others. Now as it says there in the notes, worshiping God or glorifying God is easy when our desires align with His and that of others. It's when our desires are in conflict that we have the opportunity to demonstrate who really is on the throne of our life. When another person, when you're in conflict with somebody and they come to you in confession and they recognize their wrong and they affirm that to you, they seek your forgiveness, it's really easy. in some cases to uh forgive them. Because you're thinking, yeah, they figured it out. You know, that they're confessing their own sin. I'm glad that they recognize how wrong they are and how right I am. Right. Um but it's when w we've contributed our own sin and God says, No, you have to die to yourself. You have to confess your own sin. You have to take a lot of out of your own eye And we're like, uh I don't want to admit the wrong that I've done. I don't want to admit that that I've contributed to this conflict. Where wherever there's uh a wall or a a hurdle be uh Between what what God wants and what we want, whenever that's in conflict, that's when we have the opportunity to show not only the Lord And not only the person we're in conflict with, but even, think about this, even heavenly beings, angels and demons, we have a the opportunity to show who's really on the throne of our life. Who really are we living for? Who really is worthy of worship in those situations? And so we must be committed to glorifying God. Now, let's talk about Principles for pleasing God. First of all, we must make pleasing God our single, all-consuming life goal. We've already mentioned this, but Mark 12, 30 is where we have the great commandment articulated, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. So loving God is just another way of saying glorify God. You must live for Him, you must pursue everything that reflects His glory, and you must do that with the entirety of your being. There's no part of your life that should be left outside of the effort of glorifying. I remember many years ago um a pastor were of a church where Rich and I were attending um early 2000s. And uh he was preaching, I think it was Romans 12 that talks about um uh your sacrificial service of worship, I think it was that passage, and he talked about how easy it is for us to compartmentalize our life and say, well I'm gonna And he did this with uh props, but he took out his wallet, I'm gonna give my money to God. He took out his keys, I'm gonna give my possessions to God. I'm gonna take out these parts of my life and I'm gonna give those things to God But there's something about us that we withhold. And then just to illustrate the purpose and it was effective, I guess, and I still remember it. Uh and so that's what he was using as the altar. He he laid down on that table. He said, No, what God wants us to do is to lay our whole life down as an ac as a sacrifice of worship to him. So that we we don't reserve anything back. We don't hold anything back from glorifying God. All of ourselves, our our mind, our heart, our body is given over to the worship of God. That should be our aim. Now we would all admit that we're sinners and we don't do that perfectly, right? And that's why God is so gracious and merciful and patient and kind in our weaknesses. But that should be our aim still. And whenever we fail, you know, we seek God's forgiveness and the forgiveness of others. But again, this needs to be our aim. It needs to be our all-consuming life goal, that we glorify God. We must seek in the context of a conflict, we must seek to please God and not ourselves or others. Galatians 1 10 says, For I am now am I now seeking the favor of men or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a bondservant or a slave of Christ So Galatians, the context is Paul is writing to this church that is embracing the idea that you have to be circumcised in order to be uh a fully realized Christian, if you will, and so he's admonishing them that no, they're they're actually undermining the truth of the gospel by bringing works into it And he's saying to them, uh, I am committed to pleasing God by speaking this to you, because if I was more committed to pleasing you, if I wanted above all things to preserve this relationship that I have with you, Galatian church I wouldn't say these things that would offend you. But instead, because I want to please God above all things, I need to say these things. I need to rebuke you. I need to warn you. And there are times in a conflict where what we really want to do, and this is, you know, some of us have this tendency more than others, is we want to do whatever it takes to please the person. What do you want me to do? What do you want me to say right now? I just want this to go away. What's the quickest path to appeasing you in this conflict? And so what I want to remind us of is our primary all-consuming goal must be to please God above all things, not to please the other person. Third, there, we must seek to please God according to his word. According to his word. Psalm 119, how can a young man keep his way pure? By keeping it according to your word. Your word I've treasured in my heart that I may not sin against you. Now this is tricky because there's two things we need to say about this. Number one, uh we need to make sure that the word and what God has revealed to be true and right and and wise is what's guiding us in our approach to conflict. We don't want to say, well, I heard a word from the Lord And this is what he's telling me to tell you, you know, completely apart from Scripture, and say, well, I am glorifying God because I'm following what He told me to do apart from Scripture. No The word has to be what actually shapes our thinking and shapes how we respond to conflict On the other hand, sometimes we can say we're abiding by the word, but we're actually twisting it for our own purposes. You know, we we can say Uh well, you know, the um the wounds of a friend are more faithful than the kisses of an enemy. And on that basis, you know, we can speak harshly and unkindly. and even with uh in a hurtful way to somebody and justify how we're speaking by saying, well, it's a wound of a friend, so I'm I'm still okay. Or we can just respond in a way that in some way we we reflect what we think is a faithful application of Scripture, but it's neglecting other principles I mean the prime example that I that I'm coming back to is harshness, uh rudeness, meanness. Uh or well let me flip flip that to the other side, say, well scripture says The love covers a multitude of sins. So I'm going to apply scripture and I'm going to not confront this situation. I'm just going to let it go. When it might be a situation where that's actually not the right Principle to apply. We'll talk about later on when we talk about confrontation. When do you discern whether or not uh sin needs to be confronted? Um but we might say, well I'm following scripture by doing this when in fact Other principles would say, no, no, no, that's not the right approach you you should take. It's one of the challenges with uh conflict and many other things in life is it's not just uh The scripture is not a rule book that you just look up the paragraph section, paragraph, sentence to know what you do in every situation. It's full of the riches of the wisdom of God. And we need to know the heart of God as it's presented to us from Genesis to Revelation and consider how do we bring these truths, these realities, these principles and then apply them in the particular circumstances of life. That's what wisdom is. It's it's the the application of truth to life. And so uh by saying that we need to please God according to his word We need to, yes, affirm that we want to be guided by his word, but also be faithful to the fullness of what his word says. Let me just pause there. Any particular comments or questions so far? All right. I need to speed up here. We must seek to glorify God by depending on God's power. Oh my goodness. We all know how hard it can be to respond in a moment of intense passion. um heart or gut even is just tied in a knot and we're instinctually responding in a sinful way. We need God's power, we need God's strength. Right? Ephesians 6, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might and put on the full armor of God, so that you may be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. I mean the devil would want nothing more than for each of us to destroy our relationships Through sinful responses in a moment of conflict. And so we need to depend on God's power to respond in a way that's glorifying to Him. I'm just going to keep moving forward here. Jesus alone has fulfilled this God-glorifying goal perfectly. Right? Twice in Jesus' life, the Father speaks from heaven and says, This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. Listen to him. That happened at his baptism, that happened at the Transfiguration in Matthew 17. And so we can know for certain that Jesus pleased the Father perfectly, right? He was sinless And that means that we can look to his example of how did he respond in conflict? What was the character that he exhibited? Right? And so that's that's critical for us to to reflect on and and consider. We'll do that uh again throughout this class as we consider how Jesus responded to conflict. He didn't. He just looked through in the wall and just How's that working for you? Yeah. Well th there were times that he spoke. There were times that he confronted were he rebu Right. That's right. or you couldn't tell that he's mad or he was just consumed of what you were saying. Yeah. Well there as we'll talk about um will we talk about this The temple is one uh situation Um you know when the Pharisees were uh condemning him for healing on the Sabbath, uh th there's a couple times where it it expresses that Jesus looked at them with I'm forgetting the exact word that's used, but effectively with anger, but that that was righteous indignation which led him to do righteous things like heal. Uh he didn't blow up in anger. Uh he spoke truth. Uh he spoke it in love, but he was direct. Oh yes. Yeah. Yeah, it wasn't gambling as much as um extortion, really. Uh people selling animals and and uh he wasn't happy about that's right. That's right. Yeah. So we g we can look at Christ. Obviously there were many times where he exhibited extraordinary grace and kindness, uh forgiveness even as he hung on the cross. Um So we we can look to Christ's example. Yeah, so much I want to say about that, but we're going to move on here. Implications for pleasing God. Failure to please God, either our failure or the other persons or both, is the ultimate cause of all relational conflict. I mean ultimately One of us, if we're in conflict, one of us is not glorifying God. Now again, we have the example of Christ where he always pleased God. So in his case, it was always the others, like the Pharisees, the religious leaders, who were not pleasing God. But for us, most often we're part of that uh process where we're not pleasing God uh as well as the other person. Um And you know the passages here focus on the uh inherent sinful nature, particularly of unbelievers, but even as believers we still have the sin nature in us. We are no longer, as it says in Titus 3. 3, hateful and hating one another. That's descriptive, that's definitional of an unbeliever in a true sense. But uh that's no longer true by definition of believers. And yet we still have those those tendencies. We have those tendencies to displease God. And so again, that means that in a moment of conflict we have to consider Where have I displeased God in the situation that has landed me here? Maybe you're you won't be sure. Maybe you'll think I This was a situation where I I honestly did not do anything where I displeased God and it was, you know, the other person's uh situation, but many times uh we will be able to articulate and identify one way in which we we didn't please God. The goal of pleasing God keeps our focus on God and not on the conflict issues or the other person. You have those those passages there. I just want to highlight a different one for you to consider. You can write in 1 Peter 2, 23. Let me just read it for you real quick. Again, thinking about reflecting the the image of Christ, imitating him. Starting in verse 21, it says, For to this you were called that is experiencing injustice. Because Christ suffered Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example that you might follow in his steps. There you go. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but he continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. There's a lot we could say about that, but for the moment just recognize that when he was on the receiving end of sin from others, what was his mind on? Lord, I I'm I'm trusting you, Father. I'm trusting you and trusting that you know what's going on and that you will do what's just, that you will exercise justice in your way and in your time. So rather than being focused on the hurt he was experiencing at the hands of others, his focus was on trusting the Father. And that should be our focus as well. In Christ, this goal of glorifying God is always doable, regardless of how the other person Right. You can always glorify God. You'll never find yourself in a situation where your only option is to sin. That's what we see there in first in 1 Corinthians 10 13. No temptation, no trial has overtaken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, and he will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you're able, but with the temptation will provide the way of escape also so that you will be able to endure it. You'll never find yourself in a situation where your only option is to sin. Now you may not always see the way out. You may not always know, do I say something, do I not say something, do I walk away? Do I what do I do in this situation? It's not always clear. But what he's effectively saying there is if we are taking to ourselves the reality that the Holy Spirit is in us to empower us to obedience, that the Word of God has been given us to us to give us wisdom for life and we have the people of God around us to encourage us and direct us and and counsel us. With all of those resources, we will be able to respond to every situation in a in a way that's pleasing to God. That's what's possible. The chains of sin have been broken. We're no longer enslaved to sin We don't have to yell at our kids or at our spouse or at our co-workers. We don't have to continue that pattern of Giving the cold shoulder and just ignoring. Whatever our tendencies are, we don't have to give in to those things. We have the power by the Holy Spirit to glorify God In every situation. And so when we fail, and we will, the problem is not that God has not given us enough to enable us to honor Him. The the problem is that in that moment we have given ourselves over to our fleshly desires and tensions. So we need to take responsibility for that. And some would it be okay to then keep quiet or walk away? Is that So was that your question, Mary? Sorrow. Okay, well let me answer that one. Um I mean you're not solving the problem. Right. There there are situations where it's appropriate to say in fact Rachel and I were telling this to a couple yesterday that we're doing premarital with. There's some times where it's appropriate to say, I know this is something we need to work through, but I'm just I'm not in a frame of mind to do this right now. Can we can we take this up again tonight or you know set a time to deal with it later? And the the kinds of situations are innumerable where there might be a nuance to that, but we don't always have to deal with the issue start to finish in that particular moment Sometimes we we do have to walk away, but it's usually not best to just walk away and not say anything Right, because then the other person has no idea what's going on in our heart and mind. Uh it can be helpful to say something of I just I need a few minutes to to calm my own self down or you know whatever situation might be. This goal of pleasing God, glorifying God will help us prioritize our efforts. Again, Matthew 5 there, if you're presenting your offering at the altar, And there remember that your brother has something against you. Leave your gift there before the altar and go. First, be reconciled to your brother, and then come and present your offering. Now, clearly there's a context there. This is spoken, Jesus said this in a time where people would go to the temple to make a sacrifice, to give an offering. And in that context, he's saying, okay, there's there's this line, you're in line to give your offering, and you remember, oh, my brother, sister has something against me. Okay, I'm gonna you know ask the person behind me, hold my place in line here. I'm gonna go deal with the situation and then come back. Now obviously our lives are very different. I don't think this is a valid verse to say for example, that you should not take communion if you're not in perfect harmony with everybody in your life. Sometimes I've heard that interpreted that way that, you know, don't take the Lord's Supper if if there's sin in your life, uh any sin whatsoever, uh or there's conflict. Uh I think what this is communicating to us in principle is we need to make pursuing reconciliation a high priority. We don't want to live perpetually where We've failed to make sufficient effort at pursuing reconciliation, and so we're effectively harboring bitterness anger in our heart toward others, and that's just residing there in our hearts unresolved. We don't want to s live in a state of unresolved conflict. Now we can't always resolve it ourselves, right? Uh Paul will say in Romans twelve, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with all men. But uh to the degree that we're able, we should prioritize pursuing a reconciliation. And so as it says there uh our efforts, our timing, our risk Right? The glory of God is worth whatever we can do to pursue reconciliation. In some cases, it's something that we need to pursue immediately Like drop everything you're doing, deal with that situation as fast as you can. Some situations that's not necessarily the best approach. But at the same time, even when it's wise to wait a little bit and maybe let your own soul calm down to alleviate some of that internal pressure. The idea is not to wait forever, but get right in your own heart, but then come quickly and address that situation. You know, how much risk you take. Uh it's easy for us sometimes to say, well, I don't know how that person will respond, or even worse, we might say, I don't think they'll respond well. In fact, I'm pretty convinced that they're not going to respond well to my efforts at reconciliation. Well, I would tell you the glory of God is worth taking the risk. You don't ultimately know how they will respond because you don't always know what the Lord is or is not doing in their life. Maybe since you know that conflicting situation happened, the Lord is working on them Maybe not, but maybe so. And so you want to take the risk, do what's right before the Lord for the sake of his glory and And pursue reconciliation. And if you do that, God might well bless your efforts by bringing about reconciliation Now it says there Proverbs 16, 7, when a man's ways are pleasing to the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. Now this is a proverb. This is a A principle, this is a rule of thumb. This is not a universal truth. This is definitely not a promise you can stake your life on. There are times when your ways are pleasing to the Lord, you put whatever efforts uh God would have you to put forward and the other person doesn't want it and they don't want to be reconciled and there's nothing you can do about it. But as a principle, again in the normal situations Normal relationships we have where there's a mutual desire to live in harmony, when we please the Lord, we will usually find that there is reconciliation that takes place. And that's especially true if both parties are seeking to please God. In that case, we can say that reconciliation is guaranteed. If both parties are aiming to please God and they're committed to pleasing God. You know, it may be difficult, it may take time, but God will bring about reconciliation. The example you have there from 2 Timothy is uh how Paul had uh broke uh ministry partnership with Barnabas over their disagreement about Mark, who was uh Barnabas's cousin or r uh r relative. And uh Barnabas wanted to take Mark with him and Paul on their missionary journey, and Paul said no. Mark had um uh he had uh left us in the last one, he abandoned us, he's not trustworthy, he's not faithful, I don't want to take him anymore. And so because they had a sharp disagreement, as it says in Acts fifteen They parted ways, kind of created two missionary teams instead of one. But over the years, and we don't know any of the details, over the years, uh Somehow Paul came to trust and rely on Mark for ministry. And so he comes to the place where he says, he is useful to me for service. So somehow God worked in both parties over time and brought them to a place of reconciliation. And that can happen in our lives as well. But even if that doesn't happen, if the other party does not please God, we ourselves can experience God's comfort and blessing. Isaiah 26, the steadfast of mind you will keep in perfect peace. Because he trusts in you. So trust in the Lord forever. For in God the Lord we have an everlasting rock. No matter what happens, no matter How broken that relationship remains, no matter what the other person does, if our trust and our focus is on the Lord, we can experience His peace that surpasses understanding. And so we must continue our efforts to please God even if the other party doesn't or if the relationship gets worse. You know, sometimes Uh in marriage counseling I'll have one spouse uh making effort, or you know, both spouses let's say, but one spouse doesn't perceive the other spouse to be making sufficient effort at uh growing in the relationship and they'll say something like, well if they're not gonna do this, what's the point in me doing this? Right? And if I tell them the point in you doing this is that your aim should be to glorify God. You should not be motivated by whether or not your spouse does it. You yourself need to be motivated to glorify God, and you should do it no matter what you perceive your spouse to be doing or not doing. On 1 Corinthians 11 there, Paul says, when you come together as a church, I hear that divisions exist among you, and in part I believe it Because of how messed up they were. For there must also be factions among you so that those who are approved may become evident among you. So if if you don't perceive that the other person is seeking to glorify God, well then you need to keep glorifying God, otherwise you will effectively prove that neither of you are seeking to glorify God. You you want to show that your heart is committed to glorifying God no matter what happens And then finally when you're when the goal is of pleasing God it uh governs us, the other person's sins and failures become opportunities, not obstacles, to please God more and more and to grow as a Christian. And this is where we really see the example of Christ shine through for us to follow. We already mentioned chapter two, it's the second one there. As you can see, there's a quote from chapter 1, chapter 2, chapter 3, chapter 4, because 1 Peter is written to believers who were suffering, and he keeps Pointing them to the truths that strengthen and empower believers in the face of persecution and suffering. And even if you're not being persecuted for your faith, you can still apply those truths in your own heart and remember God's work. in you in the face of conflict that isn't getting resolved. But God's purpose for you, no matter what, is to glorify Him, to grow in Christ, and to serve others. And by the way, when you think about serving others, I I can't I listened to the recording from last week, but I I can't remember if uh Pastor Christopher said this. Uh but there's two components to that. There's serving the person you're in conflict with either serving them with a loving, gentle uh confrontation rebuke, uh showing them you know what Christ is like exhibiting Grace and kindness and love to them. There's also a way that we can serve others who are observing the conflict, whether that's children, relatives, friends, other people in the church. Your example in how you respond to conflict by glorifying God serves a lot of people beyond what we are aware of. And so we want to maintain a faithful witness for Christ. All right, I'm one minute over, at least according to that clock. I'm four minutes over according to my watch. If you have any questions, uh feel free to come up, but uh let me let me pray Father, thank you for this material, Lord. We confess, every one of us here, that none of us pleases you perfectly. It would be our desire to glorify you Uh Lord, we we wish that we could do that perfectly. And we long for the day when all the vestiges of sin will be removed from us and all the sinful desires and Motivations will be taken away and we'll be overwhelmed by your glory when we see it, that uh all the evil and wickedness in our heart will just melt away Until that day, Lord, help us to grow. Help us to be more and more like you, to see you in your glorious character to grow in our understanding of who you are and what you've done so that that would shape our thinking and it would be reflected in our speaking and in our actions. Lord help us even this very day to glorify you this week. And as we move forward in this life, as long as you give us breath, help us to glorify you in all things. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.