So for today, uh once I pray, we're gonna do some review and then we're going to try to apply some of the things that we have learned this quarter with some case studies. Now I know we have some visitors with us, so Um you'll just have to hang in there and uh um benefit from the contribution of others. But we want to think very practically about a couple Well we'll see if we get to both of them, but uh at least one or two uh conflict situations and how do we apply the principles that we've been talking about for the last 12 weeks. uh in those situations. And hopefully that'll be helpful to solidify and and get you to think about uh your own life in conflicts so that you can uh glorify God in those things So let me pray. Father, thank you for this morning. Thank you for your grace that has brought us here together to fellowship together, to sit under the teaching of your word, to sing. Praises to you. Lord, we we come and we desire that you would work among us. that you would even transform our minds and our hearts so that we would be conformed to the image of Christ as a result of what happens this morning. And so as we talk about these principles today Give us wisdom and insight. Help us to think biblically and even to use as an example uh as an example of how we can come alongside others and apply these things to our own life. In Christ's name I pray. Amen. Okay, so review. Let's first uh work through the four G's. G number one is glorify God. G number two. Get the log out of your own eye. G number three. Ooh, it's a lot harder, isn't it? Uh what's that? Gently restore. Gently restore. And G number four. That would be right. Go and be reconciled. So those provide just a high level outline of how are we to think about conflict Glorify God is the highest priority. That should be our mindset that when we are in conflict or we're seeking to minister to somebody else who is uh struggling with the conflict, what should be at the forefront of our mind is thinking about how can God be glorified in this situation. How can I glorify God with how I respond and how I think about this situation? And then the second G is I want to Take ownership for my contribution to this conflict. I I want to ask myself how have I contributed? What is the log in my own eye? How how how can I take that out before I address the speck in my brother's eye. And that's what gently restore is, is how can I minister to the other person, uh biblically, lovingly, graciously, confront them Uh and then with go and be reconciled, how can we now live in a reconciled relationship? How can we grow in exemplifying the gospel of Christ now that we have reconciled? So again, that's the high-level overview. And so if we go back to the first G, glorify God, it's not simply about that one idea of glorifying God. Th there's a couple different components to that, if you remember. Every conflict is an opportunity to know Trust and glorify God. Rather than being an intrusion into our life, which is how it always feels, rather than being something unpleasant, distasteful, something we want to get rid of. or avoid at all costs. We should think about conflicts as an opportunity to steward. And we want to steward that opportunity so that we would grow in our knowledge of God To know his character, to know his purposes, and to trust him, to trust that he is at work in this situation. Uh that uh what is happening right now in this conflict in my life is not Something that took God by surprise, but rather it's part of his plan for me to grow in Christ and to glorify him. So know God, trust God, and then obviously glorify God. And we glorify God when we affirm to Him His greatness. We praise Him, we acknowledge who he is, and then we exemplify his character to others. So we not only uh acknowledge his grace in our lives, but we demonstrate his grace for others. We not only thank him for his patience with us in our sin, but we demonstrate patience toward others. And in all the attributes of God that he has made us to be in his image, we exemplify those things. That's how we glorify God in the midst of And then again we we take the log out of our own eye and we consider what are the the the ways in which we have contributed. And remember we talked about the heart of conflict. Why do we do what we do? Anybody remember that? Why do we do what we do? Because we want what we want. Because we want what we want. So the way to begin to take a log out of our own eyes to think about, okay, in this conflict, what am I wanting? Uh what has my uh what have my words, my attitudes, my actions, what have they uh uh demonstrated that I want. What desires inside of me have given rise to the way I've responded in this conflict So it's not merely what uh how have I contributed from the external perspective of how have I spoken in ways that have exacerbated the conflict or uh done actions that have made the conflict worse. But what are the things in my own heart that have driven my words and my actions How have my attitudes contributed to this? And so by examining our own heart, then we can find those ways in which we've contributed. We can repent of that before the Lord. We can acknowledge those things to the other person. uh and uh in that way get the log out of our own eye. And when we do that, when when we take that first step of acknowledging our contribution that often makes it easier for the other person to acknowledge their contribution. And sometimes we experience the blessing that our example of humbling ourselves and And confessing our sin makes uh makes them want to confess their sin and very quickly the conflict gets resolved. But if they don't confess their sin right away, then it's our opportunity to gently, lovingly come to them and help them to see that speck that's in their eye. and um encourage them toward repentance and confront them with what we see. Always being humble to acknowledge that we we only see what we see, we don't see what's in their heart and so we want to be patient and gracious um even in that process. We've talked about forgiveness. Do we rem remember the four promises of forgiveness? Promise number one? I won't dwell on this matter. I'm not going to think about this and regurgitate and rehash and replay the situation in my mind over. and over again with promise number two. You can use it in your notes. I won't bring it up to you. I won't bring it up to you to use it against you. I'm not going to take this situation like a sledgehammer and beat you over the head every time I see you or whenever I feel like it, uh, so that you know the pain that you've caused me. So I'm not gonna bring this up to you to use it against you Now remember, we might need to bring it up to the individual for the purpose of helping them see maybe if they're continuing in certain patterns of sin. or to you know to receive help in the situation, but we're not gonna bring it up to them for the purpose of attacking or or uh using it against them. What's promise number three I won't talk about it with others. I won't talk about it with others. And again, that's for the purpose of gossip, uh slander, or just telling other people. uh you know venting getting it off our chest. Maybe we need to talk to somebody to get wisdom about the situation and help them or ask them to help us navigate the situation But we're not going to just blab to our family or friends or a small group just for the sake of it. uh in that sense, um demean uh uh or harm the other the other person's reputation among others So I'm not going to talk to myself about it. I'm not going to talk to others, to you about it, to use it against you, and I'm not going to talk to others about it. What's the fourth promise? I'm not going to let this situation stand between us and hinder our relationship. And again, there's of course various kinds of exceptions to that, but in the normal sins that we commit against one another, especially in the context of a marriage relationship or family. Uh the the vast majority of sins we commit, we can Forgive and not let those sins hinder our relationship. And so uh we're we're not gonna again hold this against them and treat them differently, give them the cold shoulder, all of that kind of stuff. Uh there's of course times where we do need to address uh the situation in a in a more significant way. Maybe trust needs to be earned back and so that alters the dynamics of the relationship. while we're earning or or we're giving them the opportunity to earn that trust back. Maybe in some extreme situations there is division and separation. But but by and large in the m uh conflicts that you and I typically experience on a day-in, day out, weekly basis, uh we can promise not to dwell on it, not to talk to them about it, to use it against them, not to talk to others. And then not to let this sin stand between us and hinder our relationship. And when we struggle with forgiveness, what should we do? Pray what? What kinds of things should we be praying or thinking about? How do we battle bitterness, as the chapter called it? Is this an answer in the notes or not? Yeah, yeah, I'm just walk I'm just walking through the notes. What are some things we can do when we are struggling to keep those promises in our minds? Remember how we Yeah, we can remember how God has forgiven us, that we have sinned against God infinitely more than anybody has sinned against me. And so if God has forgiven me of all of that sin, surely I can forgive this individual. So remembering God's forgiveness of me is one way that we can battle bitterness. What's another thing we can do? Pray for grace. Pray for grace? Uh for to to uh for what? Uh get more specific. God is the one that's gonna work it out. I think that Psalm 139 at the very end is try me, search my heart. So maybe the person that you're reconciling with is not really on the same age is used still, but we have the responsibility and God has given us us that opportunity to apply all of his wisdom So for us to accomplish that, we need this great spot, dude. Very good. So we need to remember that we are insufficient. and powerless on our own, but by the help of the Holy Spirit who of course already dwells in us uh we can exemplify the character of Christ. What else? What else can we do to battle bitterness when we struggle to forgive? Yeah. We we can uh be proactive in treat the other person as Jesus taught us to treat our enemies. Uh whether or not they would call themselves our enemy or we would actually think of them as our enemy, when we're struggling with bitterness, we can Pray for those who who persecute us. We can love those who are our enemies. We can do good to those who have done evil to us. We overcome the evil in our hearts, and we overcome the evil they've done to us by proactively doing good, blessing, providing needs, being kind and encouraging. uh doing various things that show uh that we are committed to their good. So praying for God's blessing on them as well. Okay, um let me stop there in terms of the review. So 4Gs, glorify God, go uh get the log out of your own eye Go and uh gently restored. I don't want to get into that fourth one real bad, don't I? Uh go and be reconciled. Um I really hope and pray that as you and I live uh this life uh and we encounter conflict, which we all do, that these things will become increasingly ingrained in our hearts and minds. And I would encourage you If you have the notes, to put them in a place after this class is over at home where you can find them and access them So that the next time you have a conflict, whether that's later this afternoon or sometime this week or soon after, that And you're thinking, Man, what do I do about this situation? What am I how how do I uh uh navigate this? That you pull those out and you refresh your memory He said, Lord, help me be faithful to glorify you, to take the log out of my own eye, and all the rest. These are things that we need to live by because this is what it means to walk the redeemed life to exemplify the gospel of Jesus Christ. If God has treated us in these ways, who we who were his enemies, we who were sinners And he has brought us into his family. How much more should we treat those who have sinned against us in just tiny ways compared to our sin against God? Uh how how much more should we treat them the way that God has treated us? This is how we live together in unity in the body of Christ. We can't do that otherwise. The only alternative is for conflict to just blow us apart and for sin to reign among us. that would bring uh bring great repo reproach to the name of Christ uh when that happens. So so we want to exemplify Christ in the gospel. Okay, before I dive into the case study, any particular questions that has come up in your mind that you wanted to ask or or talk about before we move on? Yeah, Jess? So when you forgive someone, if you are biblically forgiving that person, are you able to, for the entire rest of your life, be fully forgiven and you no longer have um struggle with that? Or as life goes on and your memory is triggered at those pains, you start to struggle again. Right? Did you not really forgive? Or do you need to work and forgive you as well? That might be something I am struggling. Yeah, yeah. Well okay that's a great question. Uh that's a great question. And so I I just say let's think about the the what forgiveness is. What it's making those promises. Forgiveness is not saying I have hit the delete button in my heart and therefore I will never think about this again so that not someday when it comes in your mind you're like, oh I must have never for forgiven because I I'm still thinking about it. No, the promises of forgiveness is saying I'm committed that when these things come into my mind, this is how I'm going to deal with those thoughts And so I'm going to wrestle and I'm going to fight and I'm going to dwell on the things that are true and right and noble justice. And I'm going to pray for them. And when I'm just wrestling in my heart, I'm going to try and set my mind according to these truths. Uh but yeah, many times we will have those thoughts come back into our mind and we will struggle and we'll find ourselves dwelling on it and growing in bitterness. Uh but We have to reaffirm our promise, even if it's just to ourselves and before the Lord, no, Lord, help me to think rightly about this person. Uh I you know y maybe you granted them repentance and I forgave them, Lord. Thank you for the reconciliation that we experienced, even though I'm still feeling some of the the pain of that. Another dynamic that I'll mention, and this comes from Milton Vincent along with many other things that we've talked about, but sometimes As time passes, what comes into our mind are new facets of their sin that we hadn't really thought about before, or new consequences, or different elements of the situation that we hadn't actually talked with them about. And so even though the the situation at large is coming to us again, it's it's coming at us in a different way from a different perspective. Because of maybe different consequences that we hadn't anticipated or hadn't experienced before. And so uh when that happens, that that's a fresh opportunity to apply the gospel truth to that facet, to that aspect uh of our sin. Or to that uh situation the other person's sin. And whether that means having another conversation with them because you realize that there was something we didn't talk about before, uh, or just in your own heart processing. that. So I'll use the illustration that uh that Milman Vincent uses, uh, but you can make up all kinds of things like this. Um let's say you have somebody over for your house uh to your house for dinner And uh when they come uh to your house, uh actually I think this is one that I made up uh modifying the one he gave. Anyway, uh let's say they come to your house and they accidentally run into your garage door and destroy your door. And uh they leave that night and you don't know it. And they leave that night and uh I don't know how you would not know that they run into your garage door, but let's for the sake of argument. Let's say that happened. And uh next morning you're running late to work, you have a big important meeting. And you go out to the garage and you realize, what in the world just happened? My garage door is all mashed in. There's no way it's gonna go up or down. You miss your meeting, you know, there's consequences with work So then you confront the person. Oh, uh yeah, they reluctantly admit. Alright, you work through that and they confess their uh what they did and it's and obviously an accident is not inherently a sin, but maybe the way they dealt with that accident could be a sin, right? That they didn't tell you And just the way anyway, so you work through all of that, you you forgive them, they repent, you forgive them all of that. Six months down the line, you know, you had whatever consequences you had. That's one facet of the consequences of their sin You had to pay a lot of money, and let's say that part of your forgiveness was choosing not to ask them to pay for that repair. You chose to spend your How much does the garage door cost? I don't know, five thousand. I can't remember the last time we replaced ours. It was way more than I wanted it to be. Uh I think it was close to seven thousand. Um We got a gold lun no it's just like the cheapest of the cheap, please. Anyway, um So you've spent all this money and now you're wanting to go on vacation. Uh this vacation that you've been thinking about, planning about, and you look at the bank account, you realize we can't go because we had spent all of this money to repair the garage door And in your heart you're starting to think, uh if they wouldn't have done this or if they would have paid me back for that, you know, then we could then we could actually go on this vacation. And so now there's a new facet of that situation that's rising up in your heart that you hadn't thought about before. Well you have two options. You can either cultivate that bitterness and grow in anger, or you can say, I have forgiven them of that. I chose in that moment, they they repented. I chose not to ask them to absorb that. I I chose to absorb the consequences of their uh actions. And so rather than getting angry, I'm going to apply the gospel to that situation again. And I'm going to choose to think rightly about them and not grow in bitterness. So that's a new facet of the consequences of sin, of a situation that's already been forgiven, that you now you have to work through in your own heart and mind and forgive again. So I know that's not exactly what you were asking, but um I think that can be helpful to think about sometimes. Did I answer your question, original? Okay. Any other questions, Claudius? So basically what you're saying is like forgiveness can manifest itself in different ways, not just like oh I forgave myself like that, like just absorbing the debt like how Jesus did Yeah, yeah. Forgiveness is dying to uh the the desire for the consequences to be measured out against that person. Um sometimes there are natural consequences, but many times we are absorbing the pain and the consequences of their sin. Okay. Yes sir. As an old man who's walked with the Lord and been been through many of these things in my life, some uh fertilizer or nutrition for those uh truths for me that has been monumental is the sovereign goodness and superiority and wisdom of Christ. And the garage door incidents, God could have stopped that, but he didn't He didn't not stop it because he missed it or he was negligent. He said, I'm going to use this for Gary's good. That's right. That's right. Yeah, just knowing that again everything That happens is part of God's sovereign plan and so it's an opportunity for us to steward uh for his glory. That's a great recipe. Yeah, yeah. Mike? Yeah, can you talk a little bit about maybe the perspective from God that he chooses not to hold things against us that otherwise we think that he forgets them? But does God really forget Uh-huh. Yeah, so you know when we th uh walked through the promises of forgiveness, we talked about how those promises are not, you know, pulled out of the air Those promises are based on how God has forgiven us. And when God chooses to forgive us, he says, I have cast their sin as far as the east is from the west. I will remember their sins no more. And when he God says that, of course he does not mean that he somehow has a delete button that he ha uh can use in his mind. No, he can't forget He knows our sin, but he chooses not to treat us in light of our sins. And so as you and I live each day and we continue to sin The Lord is actively daily choosing not to treat us in light of our sin. Every moment of our life from birth to death. God is saying I'm not gonna treat them in in light of their sin. And so we can never say the circumstances of our life that God is punishing me for my sin because God's has God has punished Christ on the cross for our sin. It has all been paid for. Jesus said it is finished. There's no more condemnation for us. There are times when God allows the natural consequences of our sin to come upon us. Uh if you drunk uh i if you uh drive while being drunk and you get into an accident, well there's gonna be all kinds of natural consequences that flow from that. necessarily rescue you from that, but uh there are still m uh many ways and again the many kinds of sins that we commit that God doesn't treat us in in light of our sin. He doesn't hold against us. In fact, he extends extraordinary grace and patience and mercy and blessings to us in our life. I have an interesting question. So it says like God says I'll remember that sin. It says God will So he says that I will member your sins no more. So does that mean gist and believe forgets about it? But God's all knowing. I wonder how does that work Well yeah, that's what I was just saying, is that uh he's choosing not to actively think about our sin and to when he sees you to see you in light of your sin. Instead of as believers in Christ, because we are in Christ and we are clothed with the righteousness of Christ, when God s sees you, because He has forgiven you, He sees you as clothed in the righteousness of Christ. He doesn't see your sin, he seems the righteousness of Christ uh on you. Thank you. Yeah. Alright. Let me move on to uh the case study. I think we're probably going to get to one, which is fine. And so I'm going to read through this case study. It's, I think, three different slides, so you have to uh kind of keep track of the details. And then we're just going to walk through some questions. So as as you listen to the case study, let me give you the questions up front. What are some questions that you would ask this any of these individuals to understand the situation better. So think about this as if uh put uh Jeff, Maggie, or Patricia is somebody that you know. And they're telling you this situation from their perspective, but they're not going to tell you everything, right? The case study is limited and and all the details it provides. So I want you to be thinking about what do I need to know to have a better understanding of the bigger picture? Now there's all kinds of things one could know that are not necessarily relevant But there might be some things that will help you understand the situation better. So just think about that as we read it. The second question is, what are some questions that you might ask to draw out their heart? And then we'll talk about what are some possible heart issues that are uh at work in their lives. Now we can't read their hearts and they're not here to tell us what's in their heart, but uh just seeing the situation, hearing their words. that that we have, what are some things that might be going on in their heart? And then the last question, if we have time, will be, what are some initial words of counsel and wisdom that you might give to any of the parties in this situation. Okay? So that's that's what we're w work through. So Jeff and Maggie have been married for ten years. Although things have been have always been icy between Jeff and his mother-in-law, Patricia. The last few months have been particularly difficult. After Patricia's husband died, she sold her house and moved in with Jeff and Maggie. What was meant to be a temporary setup has now gone on for ten months. Jeff says that Patricia belittles him, is passive aggressive, and continually comes between he and Maggie's marriage. Jeff complains that his mother-in-law will often whisper demeaning comments to Maggie. Does he do anything to help you around here? I warned you not to marry such a lazy little toast. When Jess defends himself, Maggie sides with her mother. I know it's not realistic. These confrontations usually end with Jeff quietly sulking out of the room Things got bad last week when Patricia drafted a daily chore list of Patricia's mother-in-law. She drafted a daily chore list for Jeff to accomplish To make matters worse, his five year old and seven year old children have begun referring to him as ladies. Wow. Okay. A name Jeff has heard Patricia whisper under her breath. After Maggie has hinted at the idea of a permanent stay Jeff gave his wife a week to get Patricia out of the house. Alright, this is This is not a real situation, but I'll say it's true to life. I mean this none of these details are surprising in any way. Alright. So just think about that situation. What are some questions and and maybe just focus in on one of the parties that you want to think about? Put yourself in one of their shoes or as a friend to one of them, what are some questions you might ask to understand the situation better? I would ask Maggie why she's siding with the mother and where that's coming from 'cause it seems like there's some underlying issues in her actual feelings towards Jeff and asked for how she actually feels about Jeff towards you know the contribution. Okay, yeah, so there's uh that can take a couple different routes, but basically as you said, um uh why is Maggie taking the mom's side? What is Maggie's perspective on her husband uh even before Patricia Mukad. I think I would start with Patricia and ask her how she's feeling after her husband's death and if she's grieving Maybe she needs um, you know, some counseling or like a green share class or something like that. Okay. And you know, it'd be awkward to move in and like be with your kids, I think after something like that. Okay, good. So trying to understand Patricia's uh frame of mind, her where heart is at, having lost her husband, that's a really big uh area, Jessica. Um I think that Patricia is using the long-term relationship Maggie, her daughter, to claw apart of marriage. And I think there is no place where a mother-in-law can step in between and undermined her I don't think that's excusable in any way. I've seen this this happen in life where mother-in-law tore parts of her daughter's marriage. And so Patricia, it sounds like this is not a new thing. Patricia probably has been uh controlling for a long time because Maggie now feels conflicted that she has to side with her mother instead of same thing to her husband. She's obeying her mom instead of her husband. Yep. Okay, so we're we're jumping ahead a little bit with with that. We still want to Ask questions to understand the situation better. But I mean I totally agree with with where you're going with that. Starting to get to the heart issues there. Um but let's try and stick with just to understand the situation better first I I would also ask Miss Patricia, I would just kind of go with how would you feel if kind of try to do a scenario where I take her out of it And think, how would you feel if someone you were in the house and they were calling you pitiful Patricia? And how would you feel with that? Would that make you hurt And more than likely she's gonna go, Yeah, I couldn't stand that. Well you dare talk about me like that. And it's like that's pretty fair and I'm totally with you. And I think it's a place where if you're at someone's house You can have contentment, something like that, just to make her see. Maybe I'm not saying Jeff is perfect or anything, but just maybe have some contentment in your heart and see where that lack of discont that discontentment is coming from. Okay We're all three people. I don't know if you said it or not. Are they all believed? Yeah, we're just gonna assume that. Yeah, sure. Okay. Okay. All right. So their relationship. We're just assuming it's relationship with God. Okay. Very good. That would be a good foundation because that would determine how I come about. If they're unbelievers, then I need to present the gospel to people I need to tell them what Jesus did for them at the cross. But if they're believers, then if they're acting like this, this is not Christmas. There needs to be proof. You know, uh Matthew 3. 8 says there's uh proof of true repentance. So how is this being fruit. Right. Like may the words in my mouth be glorifying God. How how is all this being glorifying to God? Littling someone talking badly about them destroying a marriage that God brought together. It's not it's not Christ's so I would want to come from God's word and what it says. Yeah. But only if they're right, so we want to ask You know, assuming that they're believers, we want to ask about their walk with the Lord, not only to discern are they a believer or not, but to discern if assuming they are a believer, what's their maturity level? What's their understanding of the gospel? How is it uh impacting the way they think about life? Um is this just a a blind spot for each of them in a particular way or is this more pervasive in them not thinking biblically uh about it? the second, third, fourth, twenty-fifth question that you'd ask them would be um like reading God's word Really understanding what it says and most importantly, once you understand it all that you apply what you like. Yeah Yeah, so working through even more specifically how do they live out their Christian. Mm-hmm of how they're living their life for Christ This is not sure. Yeah, very good. Karen, uh you wanna go did you have some. And you know, like why did they for them two to talk See why they let it go so long. And did they not have a plan for non-belief? That's a great question to understand the situation better. Well what what was the original plan? Was there an agreement Uh have they been talking about this along the way? Have they not? Yeah. Did it say why Patricia is all her house? Uh no. I mean I would want to know I mean yeah, I kinda wanna go back to that first slide. Like how long ago did she pass away? When did she sell passwords or something? Kind of going back to her heart when he died. Was it a quick desperation kind of thing? Is that something they've been planning? I just think that's that's a great question that would help understand the situation, Scott. I think one of the surface areas to ask each of them their roles. So with Patricia, what was the role that her husband played in the house? With Jeff, what roles have he and Maggie have decided upon and is he fulfilling those roles? And then Maggie, you know, what what roles is she supposed to play? And is there marriage, the roles that they each play in their marriage match what Patricia and her husband did? Probably not. So you know there's a different mindset, general mindset potentially there. But comparing that to and what does the Bible say about relationships between hunters and wife, between parents and children, both for Patricia for Maggie And then for Jeff and Nike to their children. So that like are the children supposed to be respectful to dad? Are should they should Nike be respectful for Patricia. Everybody be what does the Bible say about the world? Is what each couple did when they were married Very good. I just had a sit down with Patricia and Maggie and actually holds on what he's feeling in Yeah. I would probably ask Patricia this response in that she also looks to her husband. Like is this something she is saying sort of She controlled her husband. She undermined him and now is she choosing to change that role from now well he's not under controlled. I I I know there's a lot of focus on Patricia and the wife, but Jeff has a role within the home. And the sulking out, the getting this ultimatum of a week, there's an aspect of leadership within the home of loving your wife of dying to self and sometimes um I think someone touched a little bit earlier of what is there something behind what they're saying Is he not fulfilling something? But even then, what is he doing to help engage in dealing with um conflict resolution within the home? Because he's obviously not doing that. So I know a lot is being put on the others But he he is the responsibility of the of the leader within the whole thing. So you look at a situation like this and it's easy to point fingers at who might be the antagonist, I think that's the right word. But as Fracial is saying, uh each party has their own contribution, right? And so we want to be careful, especially if it's a if one of your friends is one of them, to not be quick to, oh it's the other person. We don't know. Exactly what the expectations are on Jeff. We don't know exactly what Jeff has done. Is he being faithful and their expectations are unreasonable? Is he being unfaithful? You know, we don't we don't know any of that. So just asking questions of each of them To see what are the roles, what are the expectations, what's actually happening uh in all of those things. Okay, now w I think I hope you're um seeing because the questions are just uh rolling more and more, there's a lot of different things to ask. And This is what's really hard when we're a party in a conflict is uh we don't take the time to step back and try and look objectively at our situation and our contribution. So we want to be mindful of examining ourselves, thinking objectively as we can about a situation. And then of course if we if we have the opportunity to minister to somebody else asking questions to make sure we understand the dynamics before we jump in with counsel. Okay, now with a lot more we could ask, let's think more specifically about what are questions we could ask, specific questions that would draw out the heart of any of these individuals. Just tr to try and understand what's going on in their heart. I'm wondering if Jeff feels out of control, he's trying to just get control back. And I was also wondering about Maggie if she's trying to use the the mob to get control or whether she's more focusing on uh be compassionate towards the mom because she's gonna be like homeless otherwise. Okay. Those are good questions for you to be thinking about. What might be some questions w one could ask to Try and pursue answers there. Uh Mike? Patricia, has Jeff done anything to offend you? Okay. Yeah, Patricia's a mother-in-law. Has has Jeff done anything to offend you? Okay. Rachel, you were I guess I was thinking more on a a basic question, like, you know, how does this make you feel or what what are you trying to accomplish What is it that you're desiring? I guess kind of more. Okay, good. So as we're kind of draw at the heart, we're wanting to get to the desires and Uh goals. Uh see let's go to Lindsay actually. Um I was just gonna say what are their I would I would want to ask them what their expectations are of each Okay. Hold it if they're not married with fair blue. Well Jeff and Maggie are married, but um yeah. Yeah, expectations, good Uh Lessie Josh? So like to me it seems like kind of the source of the conflict is this perception that Jeff is like And so I would kind of want to tease that from everybody to ask Patricia if if she does view Jeff of Slazy. Like maybe she didn't mean to come off that way. Or maybe ask why she might feel that way because it could be that he's just not doing things her husband did and she feels like he's doing it wrong because that's not how they they were and it's different than home. Or it could be that Jeff is lazy. And then the same thing, you know, ask Jeff like, you know, why is is there anything that you're doing that you think that might make her feel that way that you could You know, those those sorts sorts of questions. And then I have a whole ton of thoughts about the dynamics of the the conflict resolution. I mean it's it makes me think of you know, Matthew eighteen, while that was, you know, about addressing sin in the church body, like I feel like it's very applicable here in the body of the family. where you know they should be having these conversations privately addressing things and not escalating it so the children aren't getting tagging along. Because it could be that the root of it is Jeff isn't pulling his weight, but the if the the goal is restoration, it's a lot harder to get there when everybody is tech. Mm-hmm. Okay. And see I wanna make sure we include anybody Jessica. Oh it looks like nobody is in a sense And this whole scenario. And at the heart of each person, each of them wasn't playing the role that God had set to them. Jeff should have led his family well and served his family Well, there was no room for anybody to accuse him of being a lady for that. Maggie should have submitted to her husband so that when her mom came in if her mom still played this person, that she would have if my husband is in charge of our home, we're going to respect seems to undermine his role in my family. Mm-hmm. And then Patricia, if she was a good mother in law, coming into an icy marriage, she would have been like, Let me watch these kids for you So y'all can go on a date. I obviously have lots of questions asked. We don't know what's going on. So it looks like each and every single one of them wasn't living out their role to Yeah, okay. Jan? I that's what I was gonna say. It looks like it ultimately comes down to a lack of respect for where I am and where the other two people are in relation to me. Um I also um am would want to know more about um just in Maggie's marriage that he would certainly leave if his mother law isn't like why would that be an option? That gets at the reason there their relationship Mm-hmm. That you would choose to do that rather than really. Yeah. Okay, good. Thanks. I think that needs to be a sit down with like both Jeff and Maggie because it seems like there's a new fruit issue in their marriage and their relationship. So it shouldn't really matter what necessarily Patricia is saying and doing because it should have been stopped before it kind of happened in there. Um and I would want to know from Jeff Does he have a fear of why he can't confront biblically? Like why he can't stand up for himself, why I mean he's be he's passive and so I feel like maybe there's some fear that he has that isn't resolved or he doesn't have his confidence in Christ to be able to confront like we could give him this joke. You know, I mean it's like he he needs the confidence to know how to confront in a way that He's not attacking sort of but standing up for himself as well. I feel like he doesn't know how to do that, so he just lets himself be a doormat. Okay. All right. All right. So he's called Lazy Jeff. So if I'm talking to Jeff one on one, I want to ask you, so how do you feel when you hear your mother-in-law or your kids now saying that to you to get how he's feeling, how he's um how he's reacting and stuff. And then maybe take him to what's the second um Peter one or first Peter two. I can't remember I think back to this. Um where uh Jesus did not respond. He was Yeah, for a two. So uh but they understand how he's feeling what's triggering him to respond this way I think that would be what I would ask. How do you feel? So just as a general comment, because I've heard the word feel a number of times, and it's not a necessarily a bad word But when we are thinking about the heart and what's going on in the heart, uh certainly our feelings, our emotions are uh that's uh produced by our heart. Uh they come out of our heart, but they come out of our heart, they They um get created in our heart on the basis of what we believe, what we think, what we desire, what we value. uh what we're committed to, things like that. And so uh it can be helpful to discern feelings and how are you experiencing this But that then is a pointer back to what is giving rise to those feelings. So when we draw at the heart, we want to ask what are they thinking and believing about this? So remember the quote What comes into our minds when we think about God is the most important thing about us. We can ask questions like, what are you thinking that God has allowed this for? What do you think God is up to in this situation? What are your values when it comes to family? They've been married 10 years, they have a couple kids. You know, asking each of the parties. Patricia as well. Uh what are your priorities in the home? Uh what do you think needs to be done and what's worth um fighting over, if you will, what's not worth fighting over? There's all kinds of questions that um we want to Uh get to the the c cognitive, the effective and the volitional side of the heart, the thinking, the beliefs, the values, the the priorities. uh and the c the um will, the commitments, and draw those things out to see how somebody is thinking, processing, and then how that's producing the emotions that that somebody has. All right, uh with uh just about 10-15 minutes left, what are some initial words of counsel uh you would give? Let's let's make make this a little bit more uh uh cohesive. Let's start with Jeff. He's the head of the home, he's the man of the house, he's the spiritual leader. What are some initial words of counsel that you and ladies forget the fact that he's a man, just assume you're a man. Uh uh what are some words of counsel that we could offer to Jeff? I would want to give him hope. Give him hope that the merit you know, this isn't something that can't be fixed. You know, having some positive it's where things can change Yeah, absolutely. Want to give hope, encouragement, the power of Christ is able to work in the situation. Stand up to them or for them? To them. To them. Okay. Brian? Alright, so um just as a general verse that I would take you to, if it is all possible as much as depends on you, J live peaceably with all men. And so to take off from there how that shows coming from you, assuming that nothing changes, how will you respond with peace We've all met two ladies, your wife and your mother-in-law in the same house. If they're he if he's a believer, it that that speaks to his conscience, you know, his Holy Spirit And it will speak to him and how he needs a response to whatever's being said. Okay. aim to live peaceably. Yeah. I I would just go like talking with Jeff and we can all relate that sin is not only destructive, but it becomes very confusing. And so this whole situation is just a lot of confusion from Patricia, Maggie, Jeff, not understanding roles and so on. And just specifically talking to Jeff saying, it's a lot of confusion, but the only way that we can really be grounded, and I needed this so much in my life, it's It's just simply the word of God. And that's what can give us clarity and all this confusion. Sin is never going to be simple, it's always going to be confusing and create dynamics like this. So it'd be just focusing on what your role is lovingly water your wife with the word of things of that nature and keeping it more simple so that you don't have to go into this whole cloud of confusion which the situation has become with children involved, mother-in-law Just trying to keep it simple. Okay. Alright. Look to the word. Morgan. Um I definitely like what uh what said about hope. I think one of the biggest issues in is Jeff considering like leaving his wife. That's one of the major issues. So starting with that and talking to him about like was he leaving concerning the merit of unity and pointing into what it actually is all about and made a covenant with your wife. And so this is not even an option. And then from that Um now how does that how does that unity how is it supposed to play out? Um you as the head of the household your first priorities to your wife Now you go and talk to your wife and align on what the roles are supposed to look like, how this relationship, this miracle relationship is supposed to look like. And then from there on the um proper uh order of things concerning Patricia's role in their life and how the children respond to her I think. Okay. All right. Brandon, were you going to say something? Basically the same thing that the first the most immediate thing is consider what does the scripture say about You just leaving. Is that really what you should be doing? They need to attend uh visit all Womanhood and Sit down with Pastor Mike and work through that. Lindsay, is that a hand? Well it is I know it is a hand. I can see anyway. I would say I would get to uh the human five is pretty clear on what the roles of the husband I just are closed over so I think we'd be able to walk them. Each it could either be together individually on how to have um uh a what their roles should look like this. Yeah. Good. Alright, let me let me just pause, take a step back Thinking about, so there's a big hint here, thinking about the four G's, what are none of these parties thinking about? Certainly not Jeff alongside the others. Glorifying God. I just want to press that and say in terms of initial words of counsel, because we've had a lot of really good thoughts of counsel down the line and practical steps that need to be taken. things that need to be reframed in the mind. That those are all kind of down the line from glorifying God. So helping Jeff to remember, hey brother, uh if you're truly a believer, and I think you are, as much as you might be acting like a oaf. Remember that this is an opportunity for you to to glorify God and to grow in Christ Uh because if you're if you just work on those other things, then all kinds of objections come up with what about me and what about my perspective and what about what I want? None of that matters. What matters is that you're seeking to glorify God in this situation. Alright. Unpause. Uh Rachel? Yeah. looking at what is the character of God, like maybe going through character traits of God, what does it need to fear the Lord. Really looking at um Forgetting the price. So getting back to those basics of understanding of who God is so that that even allowing that and then the word of God to convict so that you can Takes a lot because really you you're only able to deal with yourself in this situation. So let let's shift. Um It used five minutes each here for Maggie and Patricia. What are some initial words of counsel for Maggie? Ooh. Well, thinking about the glorified God, um, like one of the first things a wife is supposed to do is respect her husband. And it doesn't sound like she is respecting her husband. She's preferring her mother over her husband. So they should definitely talk. Yeah, okay. I would go uh ask Patricia or uh the mom to go with Jeff to the kids and say that um uh that their marriage is important and like for Jeff to say I won't let you kids talk disrespectfully to your to your mother and then for the mother to say I won't let you uh talk disrespectfully to your father. And I think that would be a good way to start uh rebuilding unity in the marriage. Okay. Because they I think it would be easier to agree on that than focusing on the mother-in-law before and that's that That's really good. What might be a step to take for Maggie specifically, and maybe Patricia as well, but for Maggie, uh before she tells her kids to respect their dad What might she need to do in conversation with her kids, Amy? Yeah. Sh she's modeled for them disrespect for her husband. So she needs to ask their forgiveness for how she has been a bad example. Okay, it's let's we're gonna move forward in a way that's honoring to the Lord here. I think I would go back to the first marriage and look at Genesis and kind of define And hopefully try to get open to what like it needs to be a servant leader, like a servant helper, and so she can really help in that way. Okay, good. So help her think about her role as a certain helper, Jenna. I think we would apologize to your husband and some of your children for the lack of respect to to your husband. So probably talk to Maggie about, okay, so you chose your mom. What brought you to choose your mother who is not your physical authority Over your husband. Kind of combing in on now it's time to to respect your mom's character And hopefully in return Jeff will write to you. Okay, yeah. Helping her align her allegiances biblically. Claudius? Yeah, I got kind of two things. I guess like yeah, like like Jeff was saying, like she I think she has like some No well no, she has favoritism issues that she needs to work out because she's prioritizing her mother over her husband, over her head. And this is the I think Like it's not related to Jeff or Maggie or Patricia's kids. Like I think maybe Patricia Patricia or parents to talk to those kids to help to realize that their words have beauty because they're because kids They don't know what they're saying, they don't know anything yet. So I think it's it would be a good time to skew with them, telling them how life and death's in the proper tongue and how they can't be talking to anyone any type of way. like that. Yeah. There's a good uh shepherding opportunity for the kids there. Uh maybe I guess you're getting down to glorifying God as playing the Bible to talk about the difference between honoring your mother and And submitting to your husband. Yeah, there you go. Both of those things are important for both men, but which one is your priority here? Yeah. Which one? It acted like it's your parody fish in. Yeah. What does honoring look like? Alva? I'll I'll hold some like toxic chat special Like ask him for forgive me, but also talk to them. She may be coming from a place of frustration Maybe just this thing. You know, but instead of talking to him about it, she's going to her mom in frustration. So I would counsel her to hide I couldn't have to tell him like, you know, hey, I need you to take the trash out. You know, things like that because so that way instead of going to her mom and and being bitter off, she would work with him and maybe he'd say okay. Yeah. Yeah. So helping her learn how to address her concerns with her husband. There's just an aspect that came to my mind that hadn't been brought up in the aspect of grief after a death and even an aspect of the daughter. We haven't talked about the fact that there could be there and with that can come sometimes fear of things and anxiety of like well what because we don't know the relationship of the dad and the mom and what if she's fearing that their relationship is going to go with certain And then what perhaps anyway, there's so many different questions you could go. So again, just coming back to where is your relationship with the Lord? Are were you trusting the Lord in the situation? Talking about issues of gossip, but um Okay. Uh Patricia, let's move on to Patricia. What are some initial words of counsel that we can give to Patricia? Jessica. But the way she acted does not seem to be someone who is a morning I don't know. And she in no way, shape, or form during the scenario is at all living at Lou. So I'd probably start with if you do, where are you at? Mm-hmm. Sure. Yeah. And that could be a good thing. that we're not aware of and so you have to be gentle, right, with the brook and we do and if she is sinning. Yeah. With with the Christian being the eldest uh Christian. Uh she should have some maturity with the others and uh we can appeal to glorifying God as an enemy against God. We don't just rest against flesh and blood, but principalities and powers and so on. So the enemy wants to destroy your marriage or relationships and that's happening here. And so we align with our king as kingdom citizens by obeying his commands that are blessed. And so the commands that come out. have been mentioned previously. There comes a time when a man grows and leaves his mother and father. So there's some weaving and cleaving issues here. But ultimately uh we we have the grace through Christ have the Holy Spirit and through power to behave ways that we don't feel like we as you draw the gospel again Uh here's a picture that needs rescuing. The gospel can do that by allying with his ways. Christians should grab that and repent. That's all everybody needs to be faithful. And try and by God's grace and power. Scripture. One of the pastors of the Kingdom Mind as you were saying that is Titus II and the the opportunity that Patricia has as an older woman to teach her daughter, a younger woman, uh how to love her husband and her children. And whatnot. So Erica. I um you know starting with glorifying the Lord, but you know, our responsibility is to love God and love others. interesting. And how is she demonstrating that is encouraging her and maybe knowing for others that like if you love your daughter, you're going to encourage her marriage and her you know, her family to be intact, you know. Um and even in her grief, you know, she can still demonstrate that Love towards towards this is her family. And if she wants to be with them and live in harmony with them, then how is her demonstrating that she loves the Lord and loves her family Yeah, good. Josh? I was gonna say efficient sport comes to mind but no unwholesome speech or only what's used for building up because it may be that she's identified some sensible dynamics and I'm not saying how we do it. Would it be wrong just to tell her it's not working? And like, yeah, she's gotta go. I mean she's got one. Why wouldn't she want like ask her why wouldn't she wanna be with people her age, let her family But that's a conversation to have you five of things and that's a conversation to have, you know. Uh part of understanding the dynamics of the situation. Maybe there is a reason why why she had to move in. Uh we don't know yet. So Uh that would certainly be something to to consider. Well I could ask for that first. Let's see. Uh Mark in the back. Tricia's husband was Maggie's dad. Yes. So it could also be talked to about setting example, knowing that they're both Yeah, Rachel was mentioning that too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's possible that Maggie's dad, Patricia's husband was uh an incredibly godly, hardworking, uh exemplary man and Jeff may not measure up to that and they're grieving and struggling with seeing that disparity. Uh not to excuse any sin of course, but that's a possibility. There's all kinds of possibilities that we're not told here, but Okay, we're we're out of time. Uh this is just obviously uh I know we haven't brought this family together, there's no hunger cases yet. Um but this is just an exercise to think through the different aspects of a situation And I know all of you are sinners just like I am, and all of you have your own conflicts just like I do. And it's just helpful for us to think through the different components. uh of these things. And so again, thank you for uh taking this class and I would encourage you to keep those notes handy. If you don't have a set of notes, uh Amy, do we have any left leftovers? Okay, you can talk to Amy. Um uh I can send you the electronic file or Amy can. Okay, if you have access to the Hope Book class, it's under the files. If you don't have access to Hope Book, uh either Amy or myself can can get you the electronic notes. Uh we wanna we wanna grow as a local body of Christ in addressing conflict in a biblical way. Is this easy? No. If you had the opportunity to help Jeff or Maggie or Patricia or all of them, would that be an easy thing for you to do? No, it is incredibly difficult because of the deceitfulness of sin, the hardness of heart, and all of these things. And so Uh this is not easy work and it's we all know it's hard and it hurts to die to ourself. Uh and so uh this is something that we can only do if we're committed to what? Glorifying God. Um and so let's do that together. Father, we thank you for this time this morning. Uh we uh acknowledge how easy it is to look at a situation like this and be able to pinpoint all of the issues that we see and draw out potential heart issues that that are going on and uh and yet Lord it can be so easy to be blind to our own sin and our own heart Lord, help us to be humble people, to confess our own sin, and be quick to forgive and gentle in our confrontation. Lord, help us to grow in unity as a body of Christ so that we would grow up into Christ and bring glory to you. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.