Okay, we're live. We're on the air. Don't have this big red light up here to tell everybody, but we are. Alright, now this is the last of the covenants lessons, and as I told you before, Carrie uh was not able to be here this morning and he asked And I would like to uh start the pass start by reading what I think is the basic scriptural passage for the new covenant, and that's in Jeremiah chapter thirty-one, verses thirty one through forty. And John's Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant which they broke, although I was a husband to them, declares the Lord. But this is the covenant. covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them and on their heart, I will write it. And I will be their God and they shall be my people. They will not teach again each man his neighbor and each man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, but they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, declares the Lord. For I will preview their interest. Iniquity and their sin I will remember no more. Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for light by day, and the fixed order of the moon and the stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name. If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the Lord, then the offspring of Israel also will cease. From being a nation before me forever. Thus says the Lord, if the heavens above can be measured and the foundations of the earth searched out below, then I will also cast off all the offspring of Israel. that they have done, declares the Lord. Behold, days are coming, declares the Lord, and this city will be rebuilt for the Lord from the tower of Hananel to the corner gate. The measuring line will go out. out further straight ahead to the hill of Gareeb, then it will turn to Goa, and the whole valley of the dead bodies and of the ashes, and all the fields as far as the brook Kidron, to the corner of the of the course gate toward the east shall be holy to the Lord. It will not be plucked up or overthrown anymore forever. Thank you, John. This is probably one of the greatest promises in the Bible. Right many great promises but this is probably one of them. The fact of the the promise of the fact that this new covenant is coming, in fact it's it's it's already working right now and it's a covenant that will not end. Uh in fact uh the notes that uh brother Kerry covered covered with you last week he probably used the term everlasting and irrevocable. And that's pretty good that's a pretty good way to say the what the situation is with the New Covenant. The new covenant The Davidic and the Abrahamic all were declared everlasting based on the promises of a sovereign Lord. The Mosaic Covenant depended on the ability of the people to uphold their part of the contract. And they didn't do it. We know that. In Dexodus twenty four, seven. And he says, Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people, and they said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do, and we will be obedient. Sound sound familiar? But they didn't. In the new covenant, the Lord says that if the fixed order of day and day and night and he read this to us just a minute ago, and the moon and the stars passes away, then the offspring of Israel will cease. So uh when you think about what the the um the Palestinian people, the Arab Arab Palestinians say they're gonna drive Israel into the sea and they they're gonna put in they're gonna wipe out all the Israel all the Israelites. The the Germans tried to do that in the Second World War. And what does what does the Lord say? He says it ain't gonna happen. The when if the fixed order of day and night and the moon and the stars passes away, then the offspring of Israel will cease. So believe it or not, Hit Hitler didn't want to be successful even though he may have thought he may have thought he did. Another key element in uh the new covenant is transformation. What do we mean by transformation? What happens when you're transformed? The Lord gives you a new army. Right, something old becomes something new, right? You get a new heart heart. In fact, that's in Jeremiah twenty four, seven, the Lord promises this. He says, I will give them a heart to know me, for I am the Lord, and they will be my people, and I will be their God, for they will return to me with their whole heart. Have they done that yet? Anybody here who who here has been to Israel? Yeah. Have they have they have the Jews returned to God with their whole heart? No, no, you can certainly see that, can't you? Israel, the nation of Israel is probably one of the worldliest countries in the world right now. Uh it's really it but the God says that they will return to me with their whole heart. So that's a promise that we have. The question was asked, was the old covenant s was the old covenant saint regenerated or not when the new covenant saint is? And Homer Kent, I don't know whether whether Kerry read this to you last week or not. Homer Kent, who was a uh one of uh I don't know too much about him. I just know that he was a well-known Bible professor. He says this does not mean that no Jew under the Mosaic Covenant had a transformed heart. What's being stated is that the new covenant itself will provide this for every participant, and that's the difference. Such was not the case with the Mosaic. Mosaic Covenant, even though it was obviously possible to know God and have a transformed heart during Old Testament times, the Old Covenant itself did not provide this. Many Jews lived under the provision of the Mosaic Covenant and still died in unbelief. The new covenant, however, However, guarantees regenerations to its to its beneficiaries. And another important part of uh the new new covenant is forgiveness. It says which as John read to us in this morning, the Lord will tell you means the heart and mind of those who are of the new covenant. The covenant also will be God's provision for sin. Um why do we need this why do we need a provision for sin, first of all? Why do we need You can't have fellowship with God, is that exactly. Did man ever have fellowship with God? For a little bit. Yeah, just just for a little bit. In fact the need for The need for uh I would say the need for uh an establishment of relationship with God goes all the way back to the book of Genesis in the Old Testament. You cannot get rid of, you cannot avoid an Old Testament study because the founder very foundation the very foundation of our Christian faith goes all the way back to the book of Genesis. So it's very, very important that we that we study it. In fact John Hamm, who's the leader of the creation ministry says that the reason the problem with the word world today is they don't know the Old Testament, they don't believe in the Old Testament, so they don't have any foundation to begin with. But that is that is our foundation. Our foundation begins back there. The Lord will change the heart and mind of those who are of the new covenant. The covenant Also will be God's provisions for sin. Isaiah 53, verses 4 through 6. Surely our griefs he himself bore, and our sorrows he carried. Yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken. Smitten of God and afflicted, but he was pierced for our pierced through for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities, the chastening for our well being fell upon him, and by his scourging we were. healed. All of us, like sheep, have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. But the Lord has caused the iniquity of all us of us all to fall on him. Who's the him? Right, the Lord Jesus. The the Jews have a terrible, a very difficult time with this particular passage right here because they believe that the suffering servant is the nation of Israel. They've lost they do not have the they don't have the focus on the real true nation. of the suffering servant. And when you question them about it, they don't know why, but they believe that it's just talking about the nation Israel. Now, what's the sign of the covenant, the new covenant? Well let's go back to the case. Back a little bit. What's the sign of the Abrahamic covenant? Circumcision. What's the sign of the of the Noaic covenant? Rainbow. No, no. I said that's right, Noaic Covenant, right, right. Mosaic covenant. No. No. It's in Exodus, I believe it's chapter thirty two, thirty one, thirty two, somewhere around there. It's sp spelled out in more places than one. The Sabbath is the sign of the Soviet the sign of the covenant between God and the nation Israel. The sign of the new covenant is the cup. The Lord Jesus said so himself in Luke chapter twenty two, verse twenty, uh when he said, And in the same way he took the cup after they had eaten, saying, This cup which is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. So the sign of the new covenant is is the cup. That's why it's important that we do from time to time observe the Lord's supper, because we are remembering he says to do it in remembrance of him. We are remembering The relationship that we have to God, with God, through the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, the new covenant formula is, I will be your God, and you will be my people. We just read this. This relationship is also expressed in the Mosaic and the Davidic covenants, but with the no with the Mosaic Covenant it didn't work out. the Mosaic Covenant. In Deuteronomy chapter 29, verses 10 through 13, it reads, You stand today, all of you, before the Lord your God, your chiefs, your tribes, your elders and your officers. even all the men of Israel. Your little ones, your wives, and the aliens who is within your camps, from the one who chops your wood to the one who draws your water, that you may enter into covenant with the Lord your God, and into his and into his oath, which throws The Lord your God is making with you today, in order that he may be established in order that he may establish you today as his people, and that he may be your God. Just as he spoke to you and as he swore to our fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. So this is nothing new. They had already been told because of what the the promises that God had made to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob that that uh that the Lord was establishing his covenant. and he would be a blessing to his people. Now what happened to Israel? Israel disobeyed, right? And for Israel has gone through periods of disobedience in their in their time. They went through cycles. If you read about it in the book of Judges, you'll see it. Uh though let's say we'll start with them being in the in a in a good state and they sinned. So when they sinned, God punished them and he and they became captive or enslaved, okay? They were enslaved. They turned to God in supplication and said, Lord, it's we we have sinned, we need to get out of this. So the Lord turns around and it redeems him. And he did this many, many times throughout throughout their history. But only in this new covenant promise has he made the promise that this redemption is going. to be permanent. So that's the that is the beauty of the new covenant. So uh let's compare what we just read in Deuteronomy with Ezekiel chapter thirty six, verses twenty through through twenty two through twenty eight. If you f if you've have uh printed the notes off or if you have the notes from the from the uh uh from the group file on the on the on the hope book you'll you'll have this. Therefore say to the house of Israel, thus says the Lord God It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act, but for my holy name, which you have profaned against among the nations where you went. I will vindicate the holiness of my great name. name which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned in their midst. Then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God. When I prove myself then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God. When I prove myself holy among you in their sight. For I will take you from the nations, gather you from all the lands, and bring you into your own land. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. From all your filthiness and from all your idols. Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and you will be careful to observe my ordinances. You will live in the land that I give to your for forefathers, so excuse me, so you will be my people and I will be your God. Now This is a promise to the land of Israel to the nation of Israel. What's he promising them here? He's promising them that he's going to restore them to their land. Okay. Now, what happened in nineteen forty seven? You remember? I just I just watched a movie yesterday. I I didn't know I was gonna be teaching in this class, but I just watched a movie I'll get to you in a minute, Kathy. I just watched a movie yesterday and it was the movie called think of remember I can't remember the name of it, but it was Kirk Bert uh Kirk Cameron. Uh huh. Kurt Cameron. No. No, no, it was Bert it was Bert Lancaster and John Wayne and Jules Brenner. It was it was in all of them. I'll I'll think of the name of it a little while. But anyway, it was about two hours long and it was about uh about what about this incident we're talking about. So Kathy, what was your answer? I think it's when the um Jewish people came back to the state well came back to Israel and became a state. In nineteen forty seven uh Um I'll think of his name in a minute. Not Chaim Wiseman, he was the president. Uh the guy who was the fi the first Prime Minister of Israel, Ben Gurion, David Ben Gurion, stood in the hall in a building in this in the city of Tel Aviv and declared that Israel was now a state. And Is the nation of Israel was the nation of Israel as we know it today was born and and I think it was July fifteenth, I'm not sure of the date, nineteen forty seven. And oh Cast a Giant Shadow is the name of the movie. Cast a Giant Shadow. It's about it's a little over two hours long. It's an old movie. And it's not exactly biblically correct, but it certainly is historically correct. And it's a it's uh based upon the the lives of of people who actually existed. Don't believe everything in it, but it was a good it was I'd enjoyed a pretty good movie. So the promise of the restoration of Israel in the land. Now I'm my my question is, is this the restoration that that that script talking about. I don't know. I'll be honest with you. Because there's uh there does not seem to be any indication in the scripture that they're going to be called back to the land twice. So is this the beginning of it? I think it might be the beginning of it. it. Not not the final, but the beginning of it. And what what happened? Uh through in in the nineteen in late nineteen thirties and all through the nineteen forties up to nineteen forty four and nineteen forty five, Hitler tried to wipe out the Jews, okay? So they determined that in order to prevent this from happening again that there had to be a land where the Jews could go and be s and wouldn't have to w and would uh would have their own land. So that's when they s the Jews began their migration back to Palestine. Now there were still there were already Jews in the land. It was not it was wasn't that there were no Jews there, but they began this massive migration back into the land. Now, Satan does not want this to happen. Because what happens when the when the Jews are restored in their land, what happens? Satan's gone, you know. In fact the Bible tells us he's going to be cast into the the eternal pit and be and gonna roast forever. But uh so he's doing I think think Satan is doing everything in it's been doing everything in his power to prevent this from happening. Uh in fo in the in the nineteen forties he tried to wipe out he tried to use h hit Hitler to wipe out the Jews. Uh since then he've been trying to use their the the nations surrounding Israel to w to wipe out the Jews. In fact, uh I believe it was Arafat that said he was going to drive them all into the sea and that they would and and somebody was saying that we're going to kill all we're going to wipe out all the Jews. So So the we have we do have God's promise that this is not going to happen. Now, the Mosaic Covenant was dependent or conditional on on the people keeping the statutes and keeping the laws. But the new covenant It dependent on what? God's sovereign will and action. God will take them from captivity and bring them in the land. God will clean them from all filthiness and idols. God will give them a new hustle. God will put his spirit inside of them and cause them to walk in his statutes. They will be his people, and he will be their God. Now I'm not telling you to nation of Israel that we See it today is the culmination of this, but it could easily be the beginning of it. Okay, if Israel is rebellious after all of God's provisions and manifestations of himself, why is he so concerned with Israel? Ezekiel 26, verses 22 and 23 give you the answer to this. We're not going to turn to it and read it, but I'm going to tell you where it says it is not for their sakes that he acts, but for his sake. holy names sake. They were God's people, His ambassadors, and they profaned the Lord's name by their actions. God is going to take them from the nations, make them clean, cause them to obey his commandments and ordinances, in order to be the same order to prove his holiness and righteousness. See really no needs no proof. We know he's holy and he's righteous, at least we should if we're believers. But this will this he's too going to do it in order to prove it, to make it to demonstrate it to the world. Now, why did God choose Israel? They were the least of all. Pardon? They were the least of all. Why did He choose them? I mean I think you I think you've answered the question right there yourself. We don't know. God chose to do so and God being sovereign can do what he wants to. But he chose Israel. Deuteronomy chapter seven, verses six to eight that defines God's relationship with Israel. He says, For you are a holy people to the Lord your God. Now what does the word holy mean? Separate. Separate. Set apart. Okay. It does not necessarily mean perfect spiritually, but it means you're set apart. So God set Israel apart For you were a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his own possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. The Lord did not set his love on you, nor choose you because you were were more in number than any of the peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples. In fact, how many were there when he chose them? We don't really know. One. Actually one, exactly. Abraham. Yeah. Yeah. When they went to E Egypt there were sixty some of them, uh maybe it was seventy-two I think was the correct number, when they went into Egypt. When they came out of Israel e Egypt there were millions of them. But when they chose them there were few. But because the Lord loved you and kept his oath which he swore to your father. for forefathers, the Lord brought you out by a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, King of Egypt. And this is Deuteronomy chapter six, chapter seven, verses six through eight. So if From our logical brain thinking, didn't make any didn't make any sense why God chose Israel. They were not a powerful country, they were not they were not uh uh a a huge number of people. God chose them because he because he He's God, to be honest with you. Basic that's why he chose him because he's God and he can do what he wants to. It says so in his words. But that's exactly right. It that's exactly right. What right do I have to say that I'm chosen by God? I don't have any right. I'm only chosen by God if I'm chosen by God and I believe I am, because He chose me. He's in the He He is a sovereign God and He chose me. He chose each of us who are believers in Him. him. And no one in fact the Bible tells us no one will call on the name of the Lord except the Holy Spirit draws them. So we just need to be thankful that He has chosen us and He has called us. Moses warned Israel that they would have brought out the peoples and idols of the land they were about to take possession of, and they ultimately sinned as the other nations they sinned like the other nations and worse. In fact, why did Abraham go into go into uh exile in the first place? Remember God sent Abraham to Egypt? Why did he send them to Egypt? The Canaanites were not yet. Right, the Canaanites were not wet yet. It was not time yet. They they were n they their evil had not run its course. basically is what it is. They had not done all the evil that they could. Now, when God sent the Israel back in there, what did he tell them to do? He told them to wipe them out, right? They didn't do it. As a result, as a result, they sent years and years and years. years of s of of uh servitude to the various groups within the countr within within the land, because they did not do what God told them to in the first place. W had they done so, what would have happened? We don't know. We just know that They didn't. Now, without the new covenant promise of a new heart and a new spirit and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, no one can fulfill the law. We know that. We know that in fact Paul teaches us that also. Now, the New Testament Reaffirms God's faithfulness to Israel after the rejection of the Messiah. Paul in the book of Romans writes about it considerably. Many places that he writes about it. In Romans 3, 1 through 4, he asks if if some did not believe what God God nullify if some did not believe, will God nullify his promise, brothers Paul say, May it never be. It ain't gonna happen. Excuse my pardon my eloquent English there. It just ain't gonna happen. That's my that's that's my that's my country upbringing there. In Romans 11:1, Paul asks, God has not rejected his people, has he? No, he has not. May and never be. Same same expression again. In Romans 11, 25 through 29, God's word reveals a Mystery of his plan for the Israels, Israelites and the Gentiles. It says, For I do not want you, brethren, to be uninformed of this mystery, so that you will not be wise in your own estimation. That a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the The fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved, just as it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion, he will remove ungodliness from Jacob. This is my covenant with them when I take away their sins. Two quotes I just gave to you are from Psalm 14:7 and Isaiah 5920. Going back to Romans, from the standpoint of the gospel, they are enemies for your sake, but from the standpoint of God's choice, they are beloved for the sake of your own. of the fathers, for the gifts and the calling are irrevocable. Romans eleven, that's verse twenty, the end of verse twenty-nine. For the gifts and callings of God are irrevocable. So the Lord The Lord's covenant with Israel is irrevocable. Now, it's not all born to Israel. They're blessings for the Gentiles. The first covenant with Abram, before he became Abraham, what did God say to him? Bless those who bless you, and the ones who cur and the one who curses you I will curse, and you, all the families of the earth, will be blessed. So through Abraham's seed, the world is the all the world will be blessed. Abraham and his descendants, the nation Israel, were the people chosen to be God's ministers of his word and the blessing to the nations. God's word promises that when the new covenant is fulfilled with Israel in a future kingdom kingdom, the Gentiles also will be blessed. And Isaiah 56, 1 through 8 describes this provision for the Gentiles. And I'd like for us to turn here. Isaiah 56. Verses one to eight. And I read I use I'm old fashioned, I use a New King James, so it's not going to read exactly like your Nasby does, but I think you'll get the sense of it anyway. Thus says the Lord. Keep justice and do righteousness, for my salvation is about to come. And my righteousness to be revealed. Blessed is the man who does this, and the Son of Man who lays hold on it, who keeps from defiling the Sabbath, and keeps his hand. From doing any evil. Do not let the son of the foreigner who has joined himself to the Lord's feet, saying, The Lord has upperly sep utterly separated me from his people, nor let the eunuch say, Here I am a dry tree. For thus says the Lord to the eunuch. I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off. Also the sons of the foreigner who join themselves to the Lord to serve him, and to love the name of the Lord, to be his servants, everyone who keeps them defiling the Sabbath and holds fast my covenant, and the even them I will bring to my holy mountain. And make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar. For my house shall be called a house of prayer for all nations. Others will be able to do that. besides those who are gathered to him. That's one of the best I think that's one of the best promises for me as a Gentile in all of Scripture right there. That I have the that I personally have the uh capability and the promise that I will be be partaker of God's God's future blessing to the Israel is to the Israelite nation because of the new covenant. That to me is one of the best uh scriptures in all of the Bible to show that God is not exclusively God of the Israelites, but is also God of the nations or God of the Jews, uh the Gentiles as well. Now, uh in his notes, uh Terry has written out the word Messiah, the Messiah is the covenant. The Messiah is the covenant. I would say Messiah is the fulfillment of the covenant. So yes, he is the covenant. In Isaiah forty two six and forty nine eight. This Servant of the Lord was appointed and given as a covenant. In Isaiah forty two, six and seven we read, I am the Lord, I have called you in righteousness. I will also also hold you by the hand and watch over you, and I will point you as a covenant of the point you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the nations, to open blind eyes, to bring out prisoners from the dang from the dungeon and those who dwell in darkness from the prison. Now I want I want I meant to do this earlier. I want to point out something. In in our English language Bibles, uh we see the word Lord written more ways than one. We see it written with a capital L and small letters, and then we see in it with a large capital L and small capital O R D. Okay. That's very Very important. Because when you see the words the Lord with it with ORD and small capitals, that means that we're talking specifically about the God of the Covenant. And when Moses when when Moses asked God for his name, he said I am who I am, tell them that I am has sent you. And all this is, is this is an expression of the covenant name of God. And we probably could just as well say, For I am he who is. I have called you So when you see the word the Lord written like that, sometimes you'll see if some there is a Bible version that actually that actually translates that as Jehovah. Uh we usually hear it referred to I think probably there's a probably a a couple of reasons for that. But it's very important for us to know the difference because the other word, capital L small O R D, uh is an authoritative position, but it's not necessarily a righteous position. But this word, the Lord, written like this, is, and it's very important, we see it like that, to realize that that's that is the name of the covenant God. He's giving us He's He's using His invoking his name when He's when He says this. Now Jesus the Messiah as that servant Isaiah was referring to back in chapter fifty three, we read that. The phrases of a covenant to the people and a light to the nations is disputed as to whether people refer to people in general or Israel in particular. Isaiah 49, 6 indicates Jews and Gentiles. It reads, It's too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to pursue restore the preserved ones of Israel, I will also make you a light of the nations, so that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. In this earth it is very in this verse it is very clear that the servant is to restore Israel and also be a light to the nations. So uh in fact if you go on a tour with Doug Brookman if I hear him talk, he'll tell you that the reason Israel exists is to be a light to the nations. Because they are the ones They are the ones who are the bearers of the message. They are the ones who brought f uh physically brought forth the Messiah and they are the ones who who the Messiah is going to return to and they aga once again will be a light to the nations. P. J. Young, whoever he is, I don't know who he is, this is a note from from Terry, in his commentary on Isaiah writes, To say that the servant is a covenant is to say that all the blessings of the covenant are embodied in, have their root and origin in, and are dispen dispensed by Him. At the same time He is Himself at the center of all these blessings, and to receive them is to receive Him, for without Him, meaning Jesus, There can be no blessings. Such language could not apply to Israel, but only to one who may truly be designated as a covenant. Jesus Christ is the covenant. Those who are particular uh uh Partakers in the covenant are in him and he in them. Who can quote John 15, 61? You all know it. I am the way, the truth, and the light. Okay? No one comes into the Father except through me. Okay. What's that saying? Is it not? The new covenant. The Messiah servant who was given to Israel must be in the Davidic line. We know that from prophecy all the way back as far as far back is the Jude the book of Genesis and when Jacob blessed his children he said that the Scepter was gonna come from Judah and the Scepter is the sign of ruling authority gonna come from Judah. In two Samuel seven, we're not gonna turn to it, but in two Samuel seven if you go back and read that, uh Jacob after David after he's told that no, you're not gonna be able to build you're not gonna be built Building a temple for me, but he says, I'm gonna make you the promise. You're always gonna be there's always going to be uh heir from you to sit on the throne, there's always gonna be a throne for you to sit on, there's always gonna be a land for you to rule. So uh it may be temporary. have uh have been uh cut off, but it is God's promise that the there will be a Davidic king in the nation of Israel. And and he and he is and he is coming. Of course we know from the genealogies we see in this in the scripture that uh the Lord Jesus himself while his father is God his mother is from the Davidic line so he has he has the blood of David in his in his father physical blood. So we know that he is um a son of David. In fact my favor my my friend my favorite teacher Doug Bookman says that if there had been a king of Israel in in his day it would have been Joseph, who's David's father accidentally It's not quite true because there had been a place a curse placed on Jehemiah that no no descendant of his would sit on the throne of Israel. So there not being any of Zav of Jac of Joseph's blood in Jerusalem. Jesus that still remains true, but because of Mary's Mary's di re relationship back to David through his son Nathan, uh who Zechaniah was not one of the sons of Nathan, still has the blood of David, but not in but not the blood of the king who was said, Hey, no descendant of yours is going to sit on the throne. So God God knows what he's doing. And he wrote his book he wrote his book to so that we can know what he's doing as well. The Messiah servant who was given to Israel must be in the Davidic line. There's no question about that, no argument with that whatsoever. He must be a descendant of David. That's that is the promise. Just as the high priest has to be a descendant of Aaron And even later on he has to be a descendant through Zadok. I mean, uh that's just uh the way it was set up. Uh so the Messiah has to come through the the lineage of David. Now, uh Is uh Jesus a priest? Yes, he is, but not a priest of the Aaronic line. Okay? But he's a priest set up. The Bible says he's a priest after the order of Melchizedek. And you know Melchizedek we read way back in in in Genesis back in the time of Abraham, and by the way the word Melchizedek or Melchizedek as you want to give it the fancy pronunciation pronunciation like I do means righteous king. And he was known as the King of Salem, the Prince of Salem. There is no record outside the Bible of anyone existing named Melchizedek. Melchizedek. So uh this I I'm one of those who believed that this was this was I I would call it a theophany or a Christophany. I mean a lot of people to disagree with a lot of learned people to disagree with that. That's my own personal opinion. But re regardless, there is a priesthood, uh Jesus will be a priesthood after the order of Melchizedek, meaning without beginning and without end. In fact in Hebrews it tells us that. So Pastor Tom always said that the opposite. He said that a lot of people think Mathilda Jack was with the Albany, but he from his research he didn't believe that. I'm just throwing that out there. Yeah, yeah, I said I I like I said there would be Well I'm not I uh I just it's just something that w it make it makes sense to me. Uh it does not make sense to others and I'm not gonna I'm not gonna stand here and say my way is right and theirs is wrong. And they would not say the same. But uh there's certainly something special about Melchizedek. And uh I I just just always believed that it was and then no other reference of them anywhere except in scripture. That's that's That's my reason for thinking. That it might have been a Christoph, you know, the open but I but I don't know. But then I heard Pastor Tom. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. And that's why I said what I did. Because I knew that there were a lot of people who didn't say that. Didn't believe that. Okay. Uh let's let's look now in Luke twenty. Uh Luke 2, by the way. Um when the when the when Jesus was born, there was a guy named Simeon who showed up at his dedication in the temple. And when he when he held the baby in his arms, he said, Now Lord, let my s let your servant depart in peace. And this is what he said, For my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light of revelation to the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. Jesus is the light of the world and the light of life. That's from John 8. 12. All who come to salvation must share. And the light of life. There is no other way of salvation. The contrast between the light to the nations and your people Israel seems to emphasize the participation of the Gentiles into the salvation of the covenant. Only Israel would partake of all the covenant blessings prophesied in the Old Testament. But non-Israelites, non-Jews can participate in the uh in the salvation through the Lord Jesus Christ. Now Any any I'd like to open the floor for your comments about anything that we've talked about this morning. Uh we can talk a little bit about Israel and the Gentiles in the Millennial Kingdom if you want to. And see uh I think Uh he left you hanging last week with something about uh the uh priestly covenant, was that right? Do you recall? 'Cause he gave me some notes. Oh he had some notes printed about it. Uh well what what was the covenant? Uh he said something about that he had left you hanging with some in some information about the priestly covenant last week and maybe about the future temple. He mentioned it but Okay. Yeah. Maybe I maybe I'm confused. I'm I'm often confused. A month or two or three. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I have those too. But he he also put something in here called in in in the notes for this morning. He has a thing called an addendum to the priestly covenant. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And he talks about the difference in the temple between the Old Testament temple and the temple described in Ezekiel. And that's one of the things that he talked about in here. Uh I would I would I would I would r I would suggest that you go and get the notes from the hope book and read those if if you're interested in those. There are some differences. Uh there are some questions as to who the prince is as talked about. the in the book of Ezekiel. Uh I'm not prepared to give you to give you even my opinion on the answer to that one right now because I haven't studied it that much. Uh but there is some question as to who the Prince is. If you recall as it talks about the Eastern Gates and wall in Jerusalem and ent eastern gates under the temple and they're sealed up. Nobody can come in and go out because it's reserved for the prince. Who's the prince? We don't uh we don't really have an answer to that question. Uh so but it's is easy Ezekiel does talk about these eastern gates and the fact that they're being blocked up. And if you go to Jerusalem and you stand on the Mount of Olives and look at the temple, you can see the bricked up gates. They're at they're literally bricked up, so you can't get in and out right now. Into the Temple Mount, uh not to the Temple. temple itself but into the temple mount. Of course the temple doesn't exist anymore, but the temple mount's still there. Yeah. Do you remember those gates? Yeah. Stran is it's it's strange, isn't it? In fact the stand on the if if you stand on the Mount of Olives, uh if you stand on the Mount of Olives, first of all, you're gonna get pestered by about forty hawkers trying to sell you something. But that's that's all right. Because you can see you can see the Temple Mount. You get a very, very good view of the Temple Mount and you look in, you see the El Oxa Mosque and the Dome of the Rock The they say some say that the dome of the rock stands over the point where Isaiah where where Abraham sacrificed Isaac. Maybe true, maybe not true, we don't know for sure. But we do know that that's the actual that's the actual mount where the temple was located. Is that the site of the Holy of Holies? I'm not sure. I'm not sh I don't I mean where the where it was in the temple, I think that I think it was at the other end. But anyway, uh That's the third holiest site to Muslims right now. So it's hard to get in there in the first place. In fact they now have the Dome the uh the uh Mosque of Omar is what it's called. They now have it closed off. When I first went to Israel back in nineteen ninety two we could go inside. And there is a rock that's uh comes up through the through the book through the that that that mosque is sitting on top on top of a of the dome of a rock there. So uh but there's Some question as to whether or not that's actually the the site the the original site then so but it doesn't really matter. When God's ready for it to happen, it's gonna happen anyway. So but is the there is a difference between the two temples, the old temple Temple in the New Temple that you can find the answer to that in that uh tail end to call it in the priestly covenants if you're interested in that. Now, what about Israel in the millennium? What what What does millennium mean, first of all? Thousand year rain. Thousand year reign. Okay. Now there there are some good committed Christians who call themselves all millennialists. They don't believe in a thousand year reign. Um I personally do. I think it's I think it's pretty clear and taught in scripture, but you'll have to make up your own opinion based on that. But there certainly are some things that are going to happen. And uh one of the things that I believe is going to happen and Israel is going to be restored. I think the Bible teaches that. And And if you look in Matthew uh Matthew 24, 25, 26, the Olivet Discourse, that is very, very difficult for our understanding from our point of view, but I think if we don't try to read too much into it and just take it for what it says, I think we won't be too bothered by it. I'm I've got I've got a simple mind. I've told you that I've told you that before. I've got a simple mind and sometimes we try to overthink things. Uh and uh But we need we need to be careful to not put our thinking in into what the Bible actually says. And uh the Bible does talk about the a time when there will be a a reigning kingdom on the earth. Revelation is is full of it. So there's certainly something that's going to happen. Let's look at Isaiah 43 for a minute. In 43 verses 5 through 7. This is talk about the regathering. or the end gathering of Israel back into the land and I th I personally believe that's what started back in uh what s uh blossomed back it was uh was already taking place where we already blossomed back in nineteen forty beginning in nineteen forty seven. Oh actually the actually began a little before that, but when when they formed Israel as a state in nineteen forty seven, I think that I think that's what this talk that I think it's I think it's I personally think it's the last time when Israel is going to be re But again that's me, okay. But anyway, I see forty three, five through seven says, Do not fear, for I am with you. I will bring your offspring from the east and gather you from the west. I will say to the north, Give them up, and to the south, do not fear So all all are coming back according to the scripture. This hope, which is a dominant theme throughout the prophetic scripture, will be re li realized in the millennium at Christ's second advent. And also uh let's see, Romans eleven and so All Israel will be saved, just as it is written, the deliverer will come from Zion. He will remove ungodliness from Jacob. This is my covenant with him when I take away their sins. Romans eleven, twenty-six and twenty-seven. Certainly all Israel has not been saved up to this point in time, you go there, you know that, you can see it. The the deliverer will come from Sion and that is the Christ and thus this is his second coming. But there's other notes in there that you probably need to go to a r and read to st to look at uh this if you want to about the Gentiles in the millennial and about the what's going what will take place in the future. Uh but uh I just want you to to f understand that the new that we now, I think, are living in the New Covenant age. And uh so but I th I don't think I don't I can't find any any any way around that. We I think we are now in the new covenant age and I think this is the last covenant. because oh what can happen after that, you know. Any any further any last comments? I have enjoyed being up here. Uh uh I hope you've enjoyed the study of the Covenants. I think Terry has done it tremendous job and uh Kerry has done a tremendous job in putting this together. And uh Kerry, if you happen to listen to this lesson when it's over with, thank you for letting me come up here this morning and thank you for putting this course together. Okay, let's pray together