Good morning, good to see you all. Uh just uh let's let me start in a word of prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for this day. It's an exciting day. We are rejoicing for so many different reasons, and we are just so grateful to be alive and in Christ, to know that we are sins are our sins are forgiven um uh to know that uh Christ has paid it all. And even as we talked this morning about the heart of conflict, this is an opportunity for us to examine ourselves and perhaps you will by the work of your spirit bring conviction into our hearts. I pray that even then we would still remember that Christ has paid it all. And that rather than Wallowing in shame or guilt, we can uh acknowledge our sin, we can confess it, we can repent of it, and we can grow in Christ by the power of your spirit And so would you work in us and cause us to grow closer to reflect the image of Christ? We pray. Amen. All right, just want to do a quick review uh over and over as we have opportunity throughout the rest of this class about the four Gs. I don't know if you remember the four G's that uh we talked about last week briefly. Do you anybody remember the first G of the four G's? Glorify God. Anybody else? You can just repeat what he said. Glorify God, right? Say it with me. Glorify God. The second G, anybody other than Brian? Get the log eye. Get the log out of your eye. Say that with me. Get the log out of your eye. I want you to be practicing verbalizing this. The third G, anybody? Definitely Gently restore. Say it with me. Gently restore. And then the final G? Go and be reconciled. Go and be reconciled. Say it with me. Go and be reconciled. So glorify God, get the log out of your eye, gently restore, and go and be reconciled. If you don't have those written down, uh write it down. Uh Uh you I I want to encourage you to think about it, to verbalize it, to write it out, just every which way to kind of get that sinking in. We'll just do that repeatedly throughout the rest of this class. So today, just to give you a quick preview, we'll talk about what's the source of conflicts, and we'll see that that is the heart. We'll talk about why do I want what I want? Why does my heart crave the things that it craves? And that'll give us an understanding of what the heart is, how we were made to worship from the heart And we'll consider two helpful questions as a summary of evaluating our own heart in the midst of conflict. And then mention the solution. So that's the overall outline that we'll cover today. Now, if you have a Bible, turn to a Galatian sorry um James four. James four. You have it written in the notes but it's good to to see it in your own copy of scripture so that you can come back to it, be familiar with it. While you're turning there, let me just read the opening paragraphs that are in the notes here. Up until now we've been setting the groundwork for how to think about conflict as a Christian. Everything we've talked about so far is fundamentally different than how unbelievers would approach a conflict because our focus is on the Lord. And as we move forward, that will only continue to be the case Because our understanding of conflict rises out of a biblical anthropology, not a secular evolutionary humanism. Biblical anthropology simply means our understanding of the view of man from scripture, the nature of man. So when we think about the nature, the source, and the remedies for conflict, we fundamentally think differently than the secular world. We have profoundly different views of humanity and relationships and justice and fairness, and thus our understanding of where conflicts come from and how to go about resolving them will be equally incompatible. with the world. You know, you can uh go to a an anger management class that the world offers. I've worked with people who they've been court ordered to take anger management classes, you know, through some secular um uh source. And um the the world has its ways of talking about How do you think about anger? What drives anger? How do you respond to anger? But ultimately it falls short. It fails because it does not rise out of a true understanding of humanity. And so what we're going to talk about today is huge. It is a radically different view of understanding conflicts than you can find anywhere else. And it's wonderful that the Lord has given us here in His Word a very specific question and a very specific answer. Look at James 4 here, starting in verse 1. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Can't get more specific than that. Where does this come from? Why why are you fighting? He answers. Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You lust and do not have, so you commit murder You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly, so that you may spend it on your pleasures. Okay, so very specific question. What's the source of conflicts? Answer is not is it not your pleasures that wage war? in your members. And that that phrase that we swore in your members could be taken either kind of an internal struggle, an internal battle Uh or it could be taken as more uh among the church, the members of the body of Christ. Uh there uh because it's a word picture there it's hard to know which one is he referring to and And the reality is both are ultimately true. In fact, Paul Tripp in his book War of Words, which is a book on communication, which is really helpful, uh, he talks about this vertical war and a horizontal war. I don't remember if I mentioned this last time, but uh when we're having a horizontal war, when we're in conflict with somebody else, that's because there's a more fundamental war going on in our own heart where we are at war with God, where uh in in a in a certain way we are displeased with what God is allowing into our life, and so rather than submitting to His perfect will uh which includes the uh the sins of others toward us or undesirable circumstances, instead of submitting to that, we will uh respond sinfully against that. And so um there's that internal battle, that war between the flesh and the spirit, as Paul talks about in Galatians five, and then there's, as a result, a a horizontal conflict with us and others. Now as you see there, uh the pleasures, uh the word pleasures in James 4 translates the word hedone, from which we get the word hedonism. And the word hedonism is simply uh philosophy of uh pleasure is the highest good. And so uh a hedonist is one who lives for pleasure. And if you're familiar with John Piper's ministry, you know he has his concept of Christian hedonism that uh what ought to drive us is uh the pursuit of our greatest pleasure which is found in God alone. But that's the basic concept of of uh pleasure is that it's something that should bring us delight and enjoyment. And in scripture this particular word always has a bad connotation. And and just for what it's worth, I'm gonna uh I'm not gonna reference every passage that you have in your notes because Usually when we do uh the full hour and fifteen minute class, we don't have time uh to finish the notes So now that we have less than that time, I'm going to try and uh skip some things to make us go faster. But anyway, uh you see there in Luke 8. 14. The seed which fell among the thorns, these are the ones who have heard, and as they go on their way, they are choked with worries and riches and pleasures. of this life. Time and time again you see this word pleasures in scripture and it's always negative in its connotation. It's the pursuit of earthly, worldly, fleshly pleasure. And then the word last Which is there in, I think that's verse 2, you lust, or maybe you have the ESV, you desire. That translates to the word epithumia, which is a strong compelling desire. And that is used positively and negatively in Scripture, just depending on the context. So a positive context would be 1 Timothy 3. 1. It is a trustworthy statement. If any man aspires to the office of overseer, it is a fine work he desires to do. We say desires, but that's referring to a strong, compelling desire. This sense of I can't do anything but this I want this so badly that uh I I crave it. Now, again, you can think of that in a that sounds negative to think of of that in the context of of eldership. Uh but here it's used in a in a positive sense, that there's a strong compelling desire. And if you um have any sense of the work of an elder, what's involved, you have to have a strong compelling desire. Otherwise there's all kinds of things that will uh keep you away or or cause you to quit in the process. But it's a good compelling desire. Or you see Luke 22 there where Jesus says, I've earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. So as Jesus anticipated the cross, as he anticipated that night when he would have his last meal with the disciples, He was er uh strongly, he was compelled as he moved forward toward that event, longing for that moment to spend with them But then you see the negative context there, Matthew five twenty-eight, but I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her in his heart. So again, epithemia, lust, desire, it simply means a strong, compelling desire. It's a desire that drives you. It's a desire that shapes your words and your actions and your attitudes. You know, we we might have a mild desire, like, oh, you know, it'd be great to have, you know, to go out to eat tonight. But then you think, uh You know, I should probably save on the budget, so I'm not gonna do that. So that that's a mild desire, nothing wrong with that, but there's other desires that are greater than that When we're talking about this word, we're talking about something that drives you, that nothing else can get in the way of. And so the answer to why Or or rather what are the source what is the source of quarrels and conflicts? Why or do we have conflict is simply because I want what I want. It simply just comes down to that You want something and you're not getting it. Someone is standing in the way of that, and so now there's a conflict. Now sparks are flying. You want it bad enough that you're willing to jam up against whatever it is that's keeping you from it, and that's causing the friction in the sparks to fly. Whenever you're in a conflict, you just need to ask yourself, what am I wanting right now? What am I desiring so much that my gut is all in a knot because I can't get it. Because this person has a different desire that's uh preventing me from getting what I want. What am I wanting? Sometimes that that desire is an object, you know. I want to buy that one thing, but you know, maybe the finances aren't there or my spouse says no or my parents say no or whatever it is but we want that one thing we want that new shiny toy the car object phone you know whatever it is and something is saying no and so we feel that that urge in us of of conflict. Uh maybe it's some experience. We we want to enjoy some experience, uh vacation or you know something that we want to do. We wanna we want to get that new job. Whatever it might be, and something is getting in the way of that. And so we feel that pang of of heartache and conflict. Uh maybe we want uh our spouse or an employee or our employer to uh to listen to us, uh to honor our opinion, to respect our perspective. Uh they're just not taking into account what we have to say, and so that causes a conflict because they're not listening to our perspective. It can be so many different things, but we ultimately we're wanting something. We have a compelling desire that is moving us against or bumping us against a competing desire on the part of the other person. or maybe the circumstances. And so we fight and quarrel. And if there's not a person on the other end of that, if it's just a circumstantial uh limitation Then we fight and quarrel with God and we throw a temper tantrum before the Lord. But it's something that we want, it's something that we desire, it's something that we crave. Now if you just think of it at that level, if we were to just stop there, I think an unbeliever could come up with that pretty easily. It's pretty obvious if if two people have competing ideas and that's why they're in conflict, well it's because they each want what they want And that's why they're in conflict. So that in and of itself is not earth-shattering, it's not profound. Uh it's pretty obvious to figure out why why each party is so upset The question that we have to ask, though, is why do I want what I want? Why do I want what I want? Why do I have the desires that I have? Where do my desires come from? Why am I wanting this so badly? Why can't I just keep this at a mild level where I don't get upset and angry when I can't have it. Why is it that this desire in me is is pulling me uh toward conflict all the time. And that's where we get into the biblical anthropology. Where do our wants, where do our our desires come from. Now if you've been uh around here for a while you may have uh seen or or bit been under this particular lesson uh in various contexts. So I'm gonna run through it relatively quickly, but uh definitely hit the key points here. But we need to understand what God reveals uh about human nature in order to get to the answer to this question of why do we want what we want And so we start here with the reality that the Bible reveals we are dichotomous beings, which means we are made of an immaterial part and an immaterial part. There's the alternative view that is very common that we are trichotomous, that we are body, soul, and spirit. But we would understand that the Bible would say that we are dichotomous, that we are body and soul, and that the words spirit, soul and heart and mind, so four words there, spirit, soul, body, and mind. Sorry, not body. Spirit, soul, heart, and mind are all synonyms in Scripture. That they're they're all referring to the same immaterial part of us. So here's here's some passages that would convey that. First of all, Genesis 2. 7 at the very beginning, when God makes ma uh man, when he makes Adam, he forms him from the dust of the ground That's the material part. And he breathes into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being. And that word, living being, is the word that is elsewhere translated soul. So he says, I've made the body of a man and I've infused in him a soul. As of the very beginning, body and soul Matthew ten twenty eight, going to the New Testament, Jesus says, Do not fear those who can kill the body, but are unable to kill the soul, but rather fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell So he's using these two parts, this material part the body, this immaterial part of us, the soul, to convey the idea that mankind can only kill part of you. He can only kill your body. He can't kill your soul But God can kill all of you. He can kill both your body and your soul. And maybe the kill is not the right word there, but uh destroy as Jesus uses it. Or think about James 2. 26, for just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead. So here we have a different word, spirit. But again he's using he's referring to the material part and the immaterial part. He just uses a different word. Instead of soul, he says spirit Or think about Proverbs fourteen thirty, a tranquil heart is life to the body, but passion is rottenness to the bones. So he's referring to the the whole person, and he refers to the immaterial part as the heart, and again the material part as the body and the bones. And then Romans 7. 23, but I see, Paul says, a different law in the members of my body, waging war against the law of my mind, and making me a prisoner of the law of sin which is in my members. So again, referring to his whole self, he speaks materially of uh of his body and immaterially of his mind. So all of these together, and this is just a sampling of passages, we see the immaterial part of us is referred to interchangeably throughout the scripture as soul, spirit, mind, and heart. Just time and time again, you see all of those used interchangeably through uh parallelism, uh just in different ways. It's always referring the scripture refers to the immaterial part of us. Using one of those four terms, or the material part of us using the word body or some similar word like bones and whatnot. Now When Scripture uses all of those words or some of those words together, which is why some would say, ah, though there's different parts here. More than just two. We see Deuteronomy 6. 5, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might. Or Mark 12, sam similar uh passage but also has the word mind in there. Some would say, see those are different parts of us. The heart is different than the soul, which is different than the mind. Or You know, Hebrews 4. 12 refers to the soul and the spirit. So it looks like these are being used in in different uh to refer to different parts of us. Well Uh you have to look at the passages, think of them carefully and say, what is this trying to communicate? So you have Deuteronomy 6. 5, Mark 12, 30, which is not trying to divide the individual into different parts, but rather to say You have to love the Lord your God with all of who you are. And so he just piles on term after term after term to communicate, love the Lord your God with all your beings. Uh otherwise, if that wasn't the case, we'd have to look at Mark twelve thirty and say, okay, well, are we quadratomous? I don't know if that's how you would take it. Quasi I don't know how you would say it. Are there four parts of us? You know, heart, soul, mind, but spirit's not there, so are there uh what's the word for five in Quin yeah. Quint I don't know. Who knows? And nobody actually proposes that because there's an intuitiveness to the reality that When listing those different parts, again, it's it's just a piling on of terms to communicate all of who we are. Or if you think about Hebrews 4. 12, Uh when he says the division of soul and spirit, that the word of God is able to pierce as far as the division of soul and spirit, but uh both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. What he's actually saying is that the Word of God is able to do the impossible. The Word of God is able to do what we cannot do And so he's creating these scenarios that uh we ourselves would be unable to distinguish and to separate, like thoughts and intentions. Now obviously joints and marrow is, you know, medically speaking, there's a way to divide. You can pull marrow out of bones and separate that from joints and whatnot, but uh the the concept, the word picture is uh as a sword the scripture is able to uh just cut right down the middle and distinguish things that for us are indistinguishable. So he's not actually trying to make two different parts and separate them for our understanding. You see Isaiah 26. 9 there, which through parallelism treats soul and spirit the same. He says, At night my soul longs for you. Indeed, my spirit within me seeks you diligently. And the reason that particular verse is helpful is because some say that when you think about the trichotomist view that we are body, soul, and spirit that The the soul is uh w if you if well if you want help with your body, if there's something wrong with your body you go to the medical doctor for that. And if you have something wrong with your soul, you go to your pastor or your priest or your clergy to deal with your soul. See I always get confused between soul and spirit. But if you have I think it's spirit is is you go to your religious leader. But if you have a problem with your soul you go to your psychiatrist. Psychology suke is the Greek word for soul, so I think that's what it is. So if you have a problem with your body, you go to your medical doctor. If you have a problem with your spirit, you go to your pastor. If you have a problem with your soul, you go to your psychologist. And so uh the spirit, some say, is what we use to interact with God. Well here Isaiah says that both the soul and the spirit are engaged with God. So he doesn't make the same distinction that some today would make. Again, Job gives you both terms spirit and soul as interchangeable words. Now what's interesting is that when you consider these terms in scripture, soul, spirit, mind, and heart, if you just did a simple word search in the Bible, if you just type in the word soul through some Bible app or something The word soul comes up around 200 times, give or take, a few, uh in the Bible. If you do a word search for mind, That comes up a couple hundred times, give or take a few. If you do a search for Spirit and you have to filter out all the references to the Holy Spirit uh then you come up with a couple hundred times uh give or take. If you do a word search for the word heart, it comes up over a thousand times. So exponentially the The most common word to refer to the immaterial part of us is the heart. I don't know why that's the case. That's just what the Spirit chose to use. And you might even be familiar with the fact that in the Old Testament, the word that we translate heart, which is lev or levav, that it actually more refers to the gut. to the viscera, but we translate it heart because of our cultural uh perspective. Uh but the the idea is the same. The heart, the immaterial part of us is the preferred term that the Spirit uses to refer to that. Now, that's where we have to get into what is a biblical view of the heart. Again, we're just talking about how God made us. The heart is the control center of life. You are who you are in your heart. It's what drives you. You might be familiar with Proverbs 4. 23, watch over your heart with all diligence, for from it flow the springs of life. Your heart is the source of everything that comes out of you. And if you go on reading, which we typically don't, but if you go on reading that very passage He then refers to some of the things that come out of our heart. He says, put away from you a deceitful mouth, so there's your speech, and put speech far uh devious speech far from you. So out of your heart flows your speech. Then let your eyes look directly ahead and let your gaze be fixed straight in front of you. In other words, don't be w wandering around with your with your looks. Don't be don't have a wandering eye. Be focused. Watch the path of your feet, and all your ways will be established. Do not turn to the right or So your mouth, uh your eyes, your feet, all of these things flow out of the heart. and impact the heart, eh? So the heart is what drives us there. Now specifically the scripture says that it's out of the overflow of the heart that the mouth speaks Right, we're familiar with that language in Matthew fifteen, eighteen. The things that proceed out of the mouth come from the heart, and that's what defiles the person. We see that from multiple passages. So the heart speaks. You know, we've all had that experience of Saying something, and as soon as you hear yourself saying it, you think, I shouldn't be saying this, and the words just escape your mouth And you immediately want to say, I didn't mean that, I didn't mean that. Well the reality is, according to Scripture, no no no, that's that's rising out of your heart. That you did in fact mean that maybe what's true is you didn't mean for that to come out, right? You wanted those to stay inside, those words to stay inside, but uh If we say something and we're and we're meaning it, uh it rises out of our heart. Now obviously we can lie, we can say things that we don't actually mean, and that's reflecting a devious heart, a deceitful heart. But when we say something kind of instinctually, when we just blurt something out, uh, that's because it's coming out of our heart. Pastor, a quick question. Well so would murder be then from the heart? Right, right, yeah, and that's what Jesus teaches in Matthew five when he says, you know, emotion is not anger at the moment, it's really coming true from the heart Yeah, well all of that as far as the emotions and the anger, all of that is is involved in the heart. Jesus says whoever is angry with his brother has already murdered him in his heart. So uh yeah, murder would be an example, you know, uh one of the points here is that the heart acts. So when a person uh acts out murder, it's because of what's going on in the heart So the heart speaks. Secondly, the heart plans. You know, we would typically think of this as the mind, which it is, but the scripture says it's the heart also that plans. Proverbs 6. 18, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that run rapidly to evil, those are among the things that are an abomination to the Lord. So the heart plans, we do thinking with our heart Uh that's a later point here, but the heart desires. So we've already talked about that a little bit, but delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart, which is not saying that God will give you whatever you want, but rather He will place in you the right desires that are pleasing to Him. Which makes sense because if you're delighting yourself in the Lord, if your focus is only on glorifying God Then that means that your own desires will reflect the desires that God has. And so delighting yourself in the Lord is a way to cultivate godly desires. And that takes place in the heart. Again, the heart thinks Uh Deuteronomy fifteen nine, beware that there be no base thought in your heart. You see other passages there. And again, this is not to deny that uh organically we our brains are active in the thought process, but from an immaterial perspective, you know, we can ask, well, why do our brains think what they think? Well the secular humanist would say, well, because you're just a collection of of chemicals and molecules and electricity and you know there's no there's no rhyme or reason to why you think what you think. Uh but w the scripture would say actually there's an immaterial part of us that is driving our brains and why we think what we think. The heart emotes, so we experience emotions in the heart. Leviticus 19, 17, you shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart. You can see those other passages there refer to happiness, sorrow, joy, all taking place in the heart. The heart acts, as we've said, you know, Deuteronomy 30, return to the Lord your God and obey him with all your heart and soul. Proverbs seven refers to, you know, don't turn aside to her ways, don't strain into her paths in your heart. It you know, before someone goes to a prostitute physically, they've gone there in their heart, they've made that decision, and that's led to their actions. That's what what he's referring to there in Proverbs 7 Or Psalm 141, Do not incline my heart to any evil thing, to practice deeds of wickedness. Anything that we do rises out of the heart. And then finally here, the heart worships. Psalm 119, with all my heart I have sought you. Or Deuteronomy 11, in a simple way, people worship idols, they serve other gods from the heart. Or we see that again in Jeremiah 13 or Isaiah 29 from their passage, they honor me with their lips, but they remove their heart Far from me. So the heart does all of these things. Anything that that you do, anything that you think, anything that you say, wherever you're looking, what you're meditating on. Excuse me. All of that rises out of the heart from the immaterial part of you. It's not your body that's compelling you to do these things. It's not your brain that's forcing you to think these thoughts or or say these words, it all is in your heart. Uh there's familiar illustration many of you have seen, but you know if I were to shake this water bottle and come on, there you go. Water came out and spilled on the floor. Twice. So twice, okay. So here's the question. Why did water come out and spill on the floor? If you haven't seen this before, or if you have seen this before, don't answer. If you haven't seen this before, why did water come out and spill on the floor? Because someone forgot to put the top on. Okay, somebody forgot to put the top on. Yes but no. Because I shook it. Yes but no. You were uncontrolled? It Yes but no. Because there's water in the cup, right? If this was empty, nothing would come out. If there was coffee in here, that would be weird, but it would come out. And so the point is the reason water came out is because water was in the bottle. If there was something else in there, that's what would come out. So if you want to ask yourself why do why do I say the things that I say, it's not because of what the other person did. It's not because of the circumstances around you, it's because of what's in you. Now let's be honest, I had to shake it for the water to come out. Right? There are circumstances that make it easy for what's inside to come out. There are things that people do and say that make it easy for us to Um stay and do things, that that's in our heart. So there's not a denial of that. We're not we're not rejecting that obvious principle, but it's possible that you could be in the very same circumstances and you respond in a radically different way. Right? And just to connect this with uh scripture 1 Peter 2 21, Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example to follow in his steps. When he was reviled, he didn't revile in return. When he suffered, he didn't utter threats. One of the reasons that was that the Roman soldiers came to the conclusion at the death of Christ that he was indeed the Son of God is because they said That they knew no one acts like this man acts when they're being crucified. No one hangs on a cross and says, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. No one goes through the experience of flogging and being punched and having their beards spit out and having a crown of thorns on their head and all of what he experienced. Nobody does that without lashing out, without perhaps cursing God Pilate was amazed that Jesus would not respond to him. Don't you know, he said, that I have the power to save you or to put you to death? And Jesus didn't try to defend himself. Nobody does that, but Jesus did that. And so if Jesus did that, 1 Peter 2 says, he did that, obviously primarily for our ultimate salvation, so he could go to the cross, pay for our sin. And redeem us, but along with that, he was providing an example for us. So this is the great hope and encouragement to each one of us that if we have the power of the Holy Spirit in us, who is the same Spirit who was empowering Christ. We can find ourselves in a disagreement in difficult circumstances with um facing an antagonistic person, whether it's a spouse or a co-worker or neighbor. And we ourselves can respond in a way that is honoring the Lord, as opposed to how we might typically respond with sinful speech, cold shoulder Whatever it might be. What comes out of us comes out of us because that's what's in us. Nobody, we can never say they make me like this Right? I've heard that many times. Uh I remember very clearly a wife saying to me, I'm friendly, you know, I'm I'm I'm very patient with all my friends, all my coworkers You know, they they know me as a very patient person. It's just him that makes me angry. Right? We we do experience that, right? It's it's um a common experience that we can have a lot of relationships where we are able to keep control of ourselves. We're we're we're able to keep the filter in place, but then when we're around someone that uh we we're not afraid to let it out we will let it out but we instead of taking responsibility for that we'll say it's it's them. They're the ones that do it to me. Uh this would be a great place. I need to I need to take note of this. I have this uh far side comic, you know, it's one little square. I've been it's been sitting on my desk for actually years now and I've never known kind I don't want to lose it, but I don't know where to put it. But it's this uh this couple, these two robots Not Elon Musk style robots, but uh you know very square, uh with lots of buttons, and then there's a therapist, and the therapist says, so what I'm gathering is you two are very adept at pushing each other's buttons. And again, that's that's the assumption that I I only respond the way I do because of what my spouse or what other people do. And what the Word of God would say is no, you respond the way you do because of what's in your heart. So you are, or rather who you are, is who you are in your heart. Right? You can deceive yourself. You can say to yourself, I am a very patient person, very kind, very loving. You know, you you can have a perception about yourself that uh where where you turn a blind eye even to your own weaknesses and failures. Uh you can of course deceive others. You can present yourself publicly in a particular way when You're radically different at home or in other contexts. But obviously we cannot deceive God because He knows our heart. Psalm 44, 21 He knows the secrets of the heart. So because the heart is the core of our being and the wellspring of life, we will never truly address a problem until we address the heart. And God has given us sufficient and necessary truth in His Word to do just that. Now it's possible to learn techniques. uh that help maintain control of your emotions and yourself. You can learn breathing techniques. You can learn to say to somebody who constantly antagonizes you Uh, you know what, I uh I need to take a moment, let me let me sip away from this and calm down and then we'll continue our conversation. There's all kinds of techniques that you can learn and they're they're not bad. I'm not saying anything bad about that. What I do want to say is if that's all you do, you're going to continue to find yourself in that situation where you have to employ those techniques And you're going to continually find yourself uh failing to utilize those techniques. And so what you we want to do is not just change externally, but we want to change internally. We want to address the heart. Now, we've already noted the variety of functions that uh of the heart, and so while most functions, you can't, there's no order of importance, those are just all things that the heart is doing. There is one function that is the primary function. It's the very reason for which we are made, and that is to worship. We are made to worship immunity. Romans eleven thirty six, for from him and through him and to him are all things, to him be glory forever, amen. You and I are made fundamentally at rock bottom to glorify God, to worship God That's why we exist. That's why we're designed to be able to think and to speak and to act. All of those functions of the heart serve or are designed to serve the ultimate purpose of worshiping God. That's the ultimate and primary function of the heart. But because of the fall, false worship is what we do. False worship is what we do. Romans 121, for even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks, but they became fool uh feudile in their speculations, that's their thinking. Their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image in the form of corruptible man and of birds and of four footed animals and crawling creatures. we might say, you know, iPhones and Teslas and nice homes and nice clothes and you know money and whatever else we want to throw in there of how we exchange the glory of God for lesser things, things that are created So let's think about this concept of false worship. What is really idolatry What is a God? A God is anything to which you attribute the power to control the world, to control your circumstances, to meet your needs, to protect you, to provide for you, to give you children, bring happiness, satisfy your desires. rescue you from enemies, define your identity, give meaning and significance in life, give give you the will to live, and on and on and on. A God is something that you ascribe the power to control that which you yourself know you can't control. And because There's so many of these things, and so many of them are are beyond our capacity in our sinful condition. If we don't know any better, we would think, well, there's no one God that can do all those things So maybe there's multiple gods, right? There's the rain god and the fertility god and the you know harvest god and all all of these different gods that we need to worship. That's why there's so many polytheistic religions Because they recognize the different things that they need that they can't provide for themselves, so they identify a God to which they look for those things. But we do this in our in our own heart, whether it's A polytheistic religion or a pantheistic religion or a monotheistic religion or atheistic religion. We recognize there's things beyond our control, and so we will worship something or someone that we think will have the ability to meet our needs. So we worship a false gods when we look to any object or person or situation to achieve for us what only God can do. Jeremiah 2. 13, for my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me the fountain of living waters. to hew for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that can hold no water. Yeah, I wish we could spend the rest of our time just right here. Uh what that verse uh the context of that verse is the Lord uh excoriating the nation of Israel. uh with the reality that nobody does what Israel did, uh, in the sense that nobody exchanges false gods for other false or even the true God. When you think about all the nations that uh Israel conquered, because of how uh in that ancient time uh gods were territorial and national. You know, the Israelites had their god, the Canaanites had their god, but within the Canaanites you had the Amorites and the Gergeshites and the Hivites and all of the ites They all had their own gods. And in fact, when Senekarib came against Jerusalem and was you know threatening the people, he said, Look at all of these gods that I've conquered of the nations. What makes you think that Yahweh is going to be able to deliver you from my hand? So every nation had its own God, and yet even though their gods would be defeated, even then the people would still not abandon their God They wouldn't say, well, what's the point of worshiping our God if he's weaker than that God? Well go worship the stronger God. No, people didn't do that. They were wholly devoted to their own false gods. And yet Israel, who worshipped alone, the the one true and living God, who had power over all gods and had, of course, conquered the land, you know demonstrating his power over Egypt first of all, over creation as they wandered in the wilderness, and then over all the gods of the Canaanites, what did they do? They kept going after all these other gods that that the Lord God had already defeated. That just shows the the wickedness, the depravity of the human heart apart from the grace of God working in them And again, we have a tendency to do this very same thing. Even as believers, we experience the the life-giving work of God in our hearts where He regenerates us. empowers us, and yet we can so easily turn to things that we think will bring us happiness and pleasure and joy and solve our problems, make everything good in life. Isaiah forty four there is a a picturesque way to represent this reality, the foolishness of it Those who fashion a graven idol or graven image are all of them futile. They're empty. Their precious thoughts are of no profit. Sorry, they're precious things are of no profit. He makes he takes wood so so he's using this illustration of a guy who goes out into the woods, cuts a tree down, and then says he takes wood and warms himself. He also makes fire to make bread He also makes a god and worships it. He makes it a graven image and falls down before it. Half of it he burns in the fire, but the rest of it he makes into a god, his graven image. He falls down before it and worships. He also prays to it and says, Deliver me for you are my God You know, i if we were to somehow get stuck in this room and well it's not really winter anymore, but it was freezing outside and we needed heat and there was no electricity, we'd say, Hey This podium, uh, that looks like wood, let's burn that and let's keep ourselves warm. And if somebody were to say, wait, wait, wait, wait, don't burn all of it. Let's make part of it a God. And let's pray to that God and bow down to that God So hopefully we would all rise up and say, Are you crazy? That's insane. But that's what the people of Israel did. They said, Yeah, that sounds like a great idea. Let's bow down to that piece of wood. That's the folly and the foolishness of idolatry in all of its forms. God was to be their source of sustenance and strength and satisfaction to for the Israelites. But they turned away from him and looked to all other uh things to bring them life and strength and joy, and again we do the same things. There are all kinds of things that We want because we think those things will bring us happiness and satisfaction and peace and meaning in life. And we're willing to die on those hills We will murder someone in our heart because they are getting in the way of what we really want. And what do we really want? Whatever it is, it is stupid. It's silly. It's foolish. It's meaningless If you get it tomorrow you won't care about it anyway, but we're willing to murder someone in our heart over it. And of course we know in this world people are willing to murder people with their hands over those Crazy things. We take what God has given us to worship Him, to serve Him, to please Him, and we twist and distort it into worshiping and serving other things in order to please or so. So this is the frustration of the heart. Instead of worshiping God, we commit idolatry. So Paul Tripp says here, helpful Quote, the i an idol of the heart is anything that rules me other than God. As worshipping beings, human beings always Something will determine what what you say. Something will determine how you act. Is it going to be the God of the Scripture, the one true and living God who is the fountain of living waters, or is it going to be whatever it is that's the object of your desire, that you're going to either use your words and your actions to try to tear down the opposition so that you can get what you finally want Or is it going to be something that because you can't have it, you're going to respond in a way to show your displeasure at not being able to achieve your desire? Just a word there from Joshua twenty-four, you know, that famous line. If it is, uh well, you know, me and my house we will serve the Lord, he says there it's it's in bold. If it is disagreeable in your sight to serve the Lord, then choose yourselves today whom you will serve. And so his his point as we read in the context is, okay, you don't want if if you don't want to serve the Lord, if it's evil in your sight to serve the Lord, then alright. Have fun. No, he doesn't say that. He says if you're not going to serve the Lord, then pick who are you going to serve? Because he fundamentally understood that we will all worship someone or something. And so he gives them the options, whether the gods of your fathers Whom they serve beyond the river, or the gods of the Amorites in the land you are living, as for me and my house we will serve the Lord. So in other words, you and I will worship someone or something. Who is it? So that brings us then to the questions we can ask in order to determine if something has become an idol in our life. How do I know if I'm worshiping something? How do I know if there's an idol in my heart. Well, do I want something that God doesn't want for me? Instead of di uh desiring what God wants, am I setting God aside here and wanting something that God doesn't want for me? Control, pleasure, wealth, possessions, in a sense of uh that's an ultimate desire. Do I want something that God wants, but I want it so much I become ungodly to obtain it? Or when a I don't obtain it. Right? We could ask, does God want you to be healthy? Well in a general sense, yes. He wants us to be good stewards of our bodies. He wants us to be able to use our bodies in a way that are uh that are effective in his service and so that means that we need to take care of our bodies and not harm them and and destroy them But at the same time, uh do I pursue that in a way that elevates health over God's other priorities? For example Uh do I work out three hours a day and neglect my family because I'm so keen? Sorry. Because I'm so um because I'm so committed to having you know a certain type of body, that beach body or whatever it is. Um or if I get a diagnosis that means that I'm gonna live you know in a difficult uh health, life for a long time, maybe even uh you know that it will lead to my death. Do I now respond sinfully because I can't be the healthy person I want to be Maybe health has become an idol. You can just think through all of these things here and you can identify them clearly as good things. Things that that You know, if you were to say, God, you know, should I pursue this? Is this something that you would want from me? He would say that's an honorable desire, that's a godly desire, there's nothing r inherently wrong with that. But we can respond to it or we can pursue it in a way that is displeasing to him? Am I controlled by expectations such that when my expectations are not realized, I become ungodly in thought, word, and action? You know expectations of your spouse and your children. You know of course as parents we do expect our kids to obey. That's the right thing to expect But do we become ungodly when they fail to meet our expectations? Do I have a perceived right that when I'm denied that right I become ungodly in thought, word, and action? Do I have an ungodly m oops? Do I have an ungodly uh mindset that leads to ungodly thoughts, words, and actions? Uh these are all different questions we can ask to diagnose our own heart and the things that might be driving us. But ultimately you can just narrow them down to the two helpful questions. What am I wanting that I'm not getting? And what am I or what am I getting that I'm not wanting? Those two questions really apply and can be asked of any situation where you find yourself angry or in conflict with somebody What am I wanting that I'm not getting, or what am I getting that I'm not wanting? Whatever the answer is. And maybe we should tack on to the end of those questions, and therefore I become ungodly in response. Whatever the answer is that leads to ungodly response It has become a craving, a ruling desire, an idol in your life, and these are the things that set the stage for conflict. Again, we talked about before that you know the two people can have a disagreement and there's no conflict there, they just have a disagreement. But it's when disagreement leads to sinful responses, to sinful speech, to uh sinful emotions in terms of anger that uh is uh i turns into bitterness. Um That's when you know that something has gone to the place of both conflict and that's sinful So, if that's the ultimate source of conflict, our pleasures, our desires, our lusts Then the solution is to have the right desires. The solution is to not commit idolatry, to not worship idols, but rather to worship the one true and living God. One of my professors put it, if false worship is the s is the problem, then true worship is the solution. All our wants, desires, expectations, perceived rights, and mindsets must be submitted to Christ You know, if we need to remember in this context that you and I deserve what Hell hell. Hell. We deserve eternity under the wrath of God in the lake of fire. Just think about that for a second. That's what you and I deserve. Had not had God not poured out his grace and mercy on us, we would be either in hell already, destined for the lake of fire, or we would be on our way there, living this life lost, destitute, destroying everything around us. We deserve hell. We deserve the wrath of God. And how foolish is it for us, having been delivered from that, been freely given An abundance of blessings from the Lord, all spiritual blessings in the heavenly places, as Ephesians puts it. We've been saved by the grace of God, not of our own works, to stand before God and say, She won't let me have that car. I have a right to be treated with respect. But my kids won't obey God, don't you understand? How foolish is that? I mean if if you have kids, you know what it's like. Your kids are arguing and you're like, come on guys. This is ridiculous I mean from God's perspective, I'll come to you in a second, Lauren. From God's perspective, our conflicts are foolish and folly, and and because that's God's perspective, that should be our perspective. We should look at our desires from an eternal God-oriented perspective. And that will help us bring everything into its right context. Yeah. Isn't there an aspect of conflict where Since we are made in the image of God, we are image bearers. And so in that sense, someone could harm us or hurt us in some kind of way that requires justice. And so because of that Wouldn't that that also be a part of the context where someone has to avenge that? Now, maybe there may be a wrong way of doing it like mission. Uh-huh. You know, handle that flag pick the best best way to give that to God. So with the fact that harming us as image carriers he is another cause Yes, yes it can be for sure. Anytime in any way that somebody sins against us, there's the potential for that to be a conflict, because clearly there's a competing desire. We don't no none of us wants anybody to sin against us. Whether that's verbally, physically, emotionally, you know, all kinds of ways. We nobody wants that. So uh what we actually want is everyone to treat us the way they themselves want to be treated, right? So a a at least at that level there's a conflict of desires. And so when somebody does sin against us, well they're they're not treating us the way we want to be treated. So immediately there's a conflict, for sure. And then the question is how do we respond? How do we think about that situation? Around seventeen to twenty one, somewhere around there. We're to follow Christ's example. But the solution is to worship God. And maybe another way to put that, the solution is to be like Christ, who worships God. There in 1 Peter 2, verse 20 3, uh it says, you know, he didn't revolve in return, he didn't utter threats, but he instead he kept entrusting himself to him who judges justly. He kept entrusting himself to him who judges justly. So in a situation like what Lawrence just mentioned, when when there is an injustice where there is a legitimate wrong that that justice needs to be met, as happened with Christ. At a fundamental level, our heart mindset needs to be, God is the judge, and God will bring justice in the situation. Now there might be other things that we need to do. There might be appropriate steps we need to take in the pursuit of of human justice. So we don't want to d deny that. But again, at a heart level, our conviction must be God Himself, if nothing else happens, right, if this injustice stands for the rest of my physical life Uh uh I will trust the Lord in his purposes. So there's a heart level worship there. Alright, so just with our last couple of minutes here, I wanna let me see here I want to give you a visual of a maybe another way to think about this. So you have two triangles. Uh just consider the first one on the right. Um think of this like a volcano, if you will, where the heat here at the top is where there's the explosion, there's fireworks, there's you know, uh conflict, there's uh words that are exchanged, there's actions that uh are are taking place because uh of a a conflict that exists Well you could ask, well w why are we seeing what we're seeing? We've all seen images or or videos of a volcano exploding. Why are we seeing all of this come out of this mountain? Well, at one level it's because There's relationship skills that aren't being practiced. You know, relationship skills like communication, uh like honoring one another um exhibiting uh there's a dotted line here so character traits and relationship skills come together things like exhibiting gentleness, patience, kindness. That's not happening, so that's pushing the the lava up, if you will. But then at the at the fundamental level, it's because there's something happening in the heart, there's some craving, there's some some idol, some desire that's that's controlling and and causing that lava to to rise up and nothing is stopping it. And so it can be all kinds of things. Power, pleasure, play, people, protection, physical health, popularity, peace, possessions, prestige You know, whatever it might be in any given situation, there's there's a a heart committed to worship one of these things or something in a given situation. And because that's being violated, the heart that is actually worshipping that will then push that through and nothing stops it and ultimately it blows up. That that's the the volcano, if you will, of false worship. We see what we see, we we uh uh in terms of we see the outward actions, we hear the words that are spoken because ultimately of what's going on in the heart. Yes, relationship skills Character traits, they all play a part for sure. Again, you can learn external skills to tap down the lava and keep the heart from exploding, but ultimately the reason we see the heart explode is because of what's going on in the heart. exclusively because of what's going on here. So that's the problem. That's what we've been talking about. So the solution then is to first of all understand this dynamic, recognize what's in the heart here See that we are worshiping false things, sorry guys, I'm blocking you. But see that we are worshiping false things and say, Lord, forgive me for worshiping these things or something other than you. Lord help me now to worship you, the one true and living God. I know I don't have a label there, but this is a heart of worship of God to say, I I need to recognize who is the one true and living God. I need to uh commit my heart to the Lord. And yes I need to exhibit the character traits of Christ, right? The fruit of the Spirit. And yes there are relationship skills that will help me to live peaceably, that will reflect what how God designed relationships. To be engaged in. But when I'm worshiping the Lord and I'm exhibiting the character of Christ and manifesting a life that reflects the kindness and the goodness of Christ, then When those situations happen where my desires aren't met, we'll be able to glorify God. We'll be able to respond in a way that strengthens a relationship or resolves an issue. In a way that is honoring to the Lord and caring and loving for the other person. So if false worship is the problem, true worship is the solution So this week, as you engage in life, when you find yourself hitting a wall of conflict, just ask yourself, what am I getting that I'm not wanting? Or what am I wanting that I'm not getting? And consider do I need to, you know, set that aside, hold it with an open hand, as Alex said. Or do I need to repent? And because I've I've shown that I want it too much. Alright, let me pray. Father, thank you for this time. We cover covered a lot of ground. And uh Lord, we confess how uh we are creatures who desire things that um for us in the moment can seem so significant, important, and necessary. We view things as needs, and we're willing to fight for those things. So from your perspective, when we look at those very same things, uh we can recognize how uh they pale in comparison to the greatest desire we ought to have of to know you, to love you, to worship you. So help us. Even today uh this very week, uh to evaluate our own hearts and by the power of your spirit to turn from ungodly desires, whether they're ungodly in nature or in degree, and to worship you rightly And to respond in a way that's pleasing to you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen