Welcome to Biblical Reconciliation. I'm looking forward to teaching this class. It's been a while since I've taught any class, and especially this class. And um if you've been here for a while you may remember that um I've I had taught this class pretty much every year for the first five years I think that we were here and then it's been about a year and a half or so. So It feels like uh it's well overdue. So I'm looking forward to this as a critically important class for uh Christian living, for how can we glorify God in our lives because I think you already know that uh conflict is so prevalent, so common. Uh if you're married or if you have kids. Conflict is constant in the home. You know in the church, conflict always erupts in the church and in all our relationships. And so this is incredibly relevant and critical for us. Just a couple of announcements before we pray and get started. Amy Dossett is our class assistant, and Ron Akenbach. will be her backup. If you don't have notes, she has notebooks back there that she can hand out. If you would like one, just raise your hand and she'll I'll throw one at you. Um, or maybe bring it over to you. Um and there is a digital copy of the notes, a PDF of it. uh on the files tab of the hopebook group. So if you have access to Hope Book, which you would if you're a member, if you're not a member of the church, I I I I believe you have the ability to get access to it. You can talk to Amy about that. Um and uh you can have access to the the notes that are there. And it's just one file for the whole class. And you can if you want to use an iPad or your phone or whatever, those those are there available to you. Most of you are familiar, but we record all of the classes that are taught, and so if you miss a class, you are very welcome to listen to the recording and I would say more than welcome you're you're encouraged to listen to whatever session you miss. If you're serving in Trinity's ministry or some other capacity, uh please uh keep up with the class because there's a a clear progression throughout the class and uh it's really helpful to stay on top of of it and and not miss any of the sessions because they're all kind of essential. There are no superfluous lessons in this class and for any other class as well. Let's see. When you come in, remember to sign in each week, and that will help us just keep track of who's there. And then if you haven't registered, for the class, then that's a way that we can add you to the not only the sign in sheet, but also to the hopebook group. So that's very helpful If you have registered, as many of you know, you're automatically added to the Hope Book group. If you have any questions about that or what I mean by that, talk to Amy. She'd be glad to help you out. Alright, I think that was at Amy, right? Okay. Alright, let me pray and we'll dive in. Father, thank you for uh this day, the day that you have made. It's a beautiful day. It's a blessing to be gathered together as your people to worship and fellowship and study your word. Thank you for this class and the material that uh is here for us to study. Uh this is um truth that is so relevant for us and uh for some of us this these are things that we need to implement right away. These will be truths that will stir our thinking about situations that are pressing on our hearts and minds. For others it will be preparation for future conflicts. But Lord, I pray that you would use this whole class to bring glory to your name as you conform us to the image of Christ and help us to imitate you in how we respond to those with whom we're in conflict. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. We're kind of uh co-teaching this class. And at the same time we're uh co-facilitating the membership class. So when he when I'm here, he's there, and when he's here, I'm there. So that's kind of the logic of that. It's more or less every other week, but it's not exactly Okay, well you have the notes, uh hopefully, and today's session is really just uh introduction. Uh it's laying the groundwork, kind of giving the big picture for what is going to come in the rest of the class. But a couple of introductory things Oh, that's the TV remote. There we go. So what we're going to cover today is a brief introduction. We're going to talk about some definitions. What is peace? What is conflict? What is reconciliation? We're going to look at the whole history of the the world through the lens of war and peace. We're going to talk about our God and how He is a God of peace. And we're going to talk about some ways in which you can have peace today, which are incredibly significant. You don't need to wait to be reconciled to those in your life. You can have peace today, and then we'll have some concluding thoughts So first of all, who is this course aimed at? Why why should why should anyone take this course? Well, this this course is aimed at those who are in a relationship of any kind, uh marriage, parenting, friendship, co-workers, community members, whatever human to human interaction relationship you might have with someone, but that other person is a sinner. If you have relationships like that This class is for you. This is also for those and I know this is also for those who are sinners. And you might be in a relationship with someone else who is is a sinner. So we are all sinners, right? Conflict is inevitable, as we'll talk about, and this is for all of us. And again, it's eminently relevant and helpful and critical for all of us to care consider carefully. How should you use this course? Well, we're going to talk about a lot of different things in this course about how to handle conflict. And one of the temptations that you might have is to think, man, I wish the other person in my life would hear this. I wish they would do this and I wish they would do that. And I just want to encourage you that uh you as you listen But you really take to heart and consider your own heart and life and words and actions and you consider how can I grow in these things? How how can I implement this biblical truth uh so that I can glorify God uh in how I respond to the conflicts that I'm in. Every week there's going to be ways for us to be convicted of our failures and ways in which we've handled conflict uh in unhelpful ways at best and sinful ways uh at worst. And so uh there's always going to be opportunity for growth uh in the things that we talk about and just really encourage you to not treat this as some intellectual exercise, uh some strategic you know, uh self-help, how to do better uh approach. But really it's how can I grow in being more like Christ in imitating God? We'll talk a little bit more about why that framework is is significant today. But uh take this in a very personal way for your personal growth in Christ. With regard to asking questions, inevitably the material that we're going to be working through is going to raise questions in your mind as you think about The situations in your life, your uh dynamics, uh relationship dynamics, the specific conflicts that that you're are that you are in or that you're aware of. And I would just encourage you that in this large group context that you be careful in how you ask questions. You know, that you don't say, My mom is uh but that uh You think about the details but ask questions more in principle. Um and uh if you have a very specific question about a very specific situation and you're not sure how can I ask this in a way that doesn't impugn my spouse who's sitting right next to me? Feel free to come up afterward and Pastor Christopher and I would love to talk to you about those specifics. And if need be, I can give you the link to set up an appointment with me for marriage counseling or whatever it might be. But uh just be mindful of that. We uh we want you to ask questions if if if you've sat under uh Classes that I've taught, you know, I'm not very good at interaction, but please raise your hand, interrupt me, and I'll I'll do my best uh to uh uh call on you and would love to interact with the questions that you have. A couple key resources that I would encourage you to consider reading for just further development in your thinking. Pursuing Peace is really the book that this material is modeled after. The flow of the class follows the chapters in the book. But he is highly dependent on Ken Sandy's book, The Peacemaker. And I think you all know by now that we have the conference coming up Relational Wisdom Conference with Ken Sandy. The Peacemaker is kind of his seminal book that he wrote, I don't know, twenty, thirty years ago or more than that, where he uh Teaches the principles of how do we address the conflicts of life in a biblical way. So the Peacemaker is kind of the core uh root text uh which Robert Jones in Pursuing Peace uh kind of reformulates in a in a different way, but still teaching the exact same things. Uh forgiveness, um uh which You can't see the smaller words, but John MacArthur's book is actually called The Freedom and Power of Forgiveness. That's a very helpful biblical look at uh the the issue of forgiveness And how can we become the forgivers that God has called us to be? And then you have Unpacking Forgiveness by Chris Braunz. And that's a more Closer to an academic study, you know, MacArthur's book is is kind of expositional. Chris Bronze's book is more a little bit more academic, not fully. But looking at forgiveness in a very systematic way, super helpful, a lot of really encouraging illustrations, examples, and the rest. It's thicker, it's more in-depth. So all of those are excellent resources that I would encourage you to consider. And there's more besides, but those are four key ones that I would mention to you. Alright, before I st uh dive into definitions, any particular questions before I we move forward? So let's start then with definitions. Let's kind of set the framework of what we're going to be talking about throughout this course. First we want to define the word peace. And the definition we'll go with is peace is a state of well-being, harmony, and love driven by unity in desires, goals, and purposes. So a state of well-being, harmony, and love driven by unite unity in desires, goals, and purposes. You might be familiar with the Hebrew word shalom, which is a greeting among those who speak Hebrew. And that means more than just hello. And it means more really than just peace. Peace be with you. There's a kind of a whole life um uh encompassing peace that's reflected in that one small word peace. And so here there's this well-being uh of your whole life that there's harmony, there's love in our relationships. But what what drives that, what gives us the opportunity to experience well-being, harmony, and love is Unity, unity in desires, goals, and purposes. Sometimes peace exists or it looks like it exists because there's ignorance ignorance of the differences that are among us. And then as soon as that difference comes to the fore and comes to a clash, then all of a sudden peace is lost and you realize, well, we weren't really at peace. We just didn't know each other very well. So what we're aiming for is not, hey, let's get to know each other as little as possible so we can stay at peace. True unity is unity in the truth. And maybe another way say that is true unity, true peace is driven by unity in desires, goals, and purposes As you see there, Paul contrasts peace in uh uh with disorder and confusion. First Corinthians, thirty-three says, God is not a God of confusion, but of peace. And and there it's in the context of uh how the spiritual gifts are being used in the church and the Corinthian believers are all fighting each other for the uh outward, the more spectacular expressions of of the gifts. And Paul says, no, no, no, recognize that there is to be unity, there's to be harmony, there's to be order in how we Function in the church, and when we function in a way that is orderly, we experience peace. Or in a very different context, David contrasts peace with anxiety. Psalm four eight In peace I will both lie down and sleep for you alone, O Lord, make me to dwell in safety I think we all know that experience of inner turmoil when we fear something, whether it's a fear of some physical danger. It could be a a medical thing or um you know fearing what might happen to a loved one who's um you know, going off to war or something like that. Uh or we're just fearful of some difficult circumstance. You know, you have to talk to your boss the next day and you're not sure that it's going to go well or you know you have to have some difficult conversation and so there's that angst in your soul. Well, David contrasts that sense of anxiety in the soul with with peace. So peace is tranquility in that sense. Jesus contrasts peace with fear in John fourteen twenty-seven when he says, Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you, not as the world gives do I give to you? Do not let your heart be troubled, nor let it be fearful. If you think about what the Disciples were facing in the moment when Jesus is saying those words. They're in the upper room. And Jesus is saying, I'm going to leave you. I'm going to go away. And the disciples have now spent about three years with Jesus, and they've enjoyed his teaching. They've enjoyed his uh performing of miracles and uh the way in which he loved them and cared for them and provided them uh provided for them. And so when he says I'm going away, all of a sudden there's fear of the future Wait a minute, what what are we going to do without you? How are we going to continue to hear the truth of God? How are we going to live without you? We've not known life apart from you for three years. How are we going to do this There's just that inner turmoil and fear. And so Jesus says, I'm going to leave you with peace. So pe peace is in contrast to fear. In another place, Paul contrasts peace with disunity. 2 Corinthians 13, 11 says, Finally, brethren, rejoice, be made complete, be comforted, be like-minded, live in peace, and the God of love and peace. will be with you. So in the context of the church relationships, he encourages them to be like-minded. Don't be at war. Don't let the differences among you bring division. But rather have the same mind. Which is what he means by be like minded, be harmonious in your thinking. Simeon contrasts peace with incompleteness. Luke two twenty nine says, Now Lord, you are releasing your bondservant to depart in peace according to your word. Simeon was there in the in the temple when Mary and Joseph brought Jesus to be circumcised and be dedicated and The Lord had told Simeon, you won't die until you see the Lord's Messiah. And so there was a sense of incompletion in his life. God's not done with me yet. And so there's something more There's this emptiness, if you will, uh in his life. And now he says, now that I have seen the Lord's Messiah, I can have peace. I have peace. my life is complete. And then Jesus contrasts peace with being unwell in terms of physical health. Mark Five thirty-four, Jesus said to her, Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace and be healed of your affliction. And we all know the lack of peace we have when we're physically ill, when we're struggling with strength or just the various maladies that that we experience on a physical level. So all of these are ways in which we can experience peace Or don't experience peace in the sense of disorder, confusion, anxiety, fear, disunity, incompleteness, unwellness, All of that in is in contrast to peace. Now having reconciled relationships doesn't necessarily create peace in all of those areas, right? Because you can You can be at at peace with other people while still having other elements of of a lack of peace in your life. But peace in its totality is a state of well-being harmony and love driven by unity in desires, goals, and purposes. And as we'll see, the the great joy that we have is the hope And the confidence that one day we will experience complete and total peace. That one day when we see Christ face to face and we enter into eternity, when we're we're freed from this body of sin and freed from the the world that is cursed by sin, all of these experiences of a lack of peace will completely be done away with forever. And so our experience of of a lack of peace now will one day come to an end. Let's talk about conflict then. Now again more specific to the purposes of this class. Conflict is a difference of opinion or purposes that frustrates someone's goals or desires, can Sandy's definition. Notice that it's not a difference of opinion and purposes, period. Because you can have a difference of opinion with somebody and not be in conflict, right? You can disagree about whether Chinese food is better than Thai food or Mexican food is better than Vietnamese food or you know, whatever. Uh there can be all kinds of disagreements, all kinds of differences in purpose, but still experience peace and and not have any particular conflict. The key there is When it frustrates somebody's goals or desires. So if if I'm desperately craving typhoon. And Rachel is desperately craving Chick-fil-A. Which thankfully we tend to have very common tastes. But let's What's that? That's right. But we express our differences to each other, man today, not Sunday, today I'm really wanting Chick-fil-A or Thai food. And for us, for each one of us That desire is like it's not just a preference, like it is, it is a goal. Like I am not sleeping tonight until I get some type. Well, then there's gonna be conflict Right? And so that's a obviously a very silly example, but uh we all understand that in uh many different situations of of life We have differences of opinion, different way of thinking, different purposes, different goals, and it rises to the level of now we're at odds with each other. I was hoping to do this today, but now I'm being forced to do this. Or I'm wanting to watch the game, but my kids are playing in front of the TV and distracting me. Or I'm trying to read, but my wife or husband is trying to talk to me You know, all kinds of situations in life where we have a desire, we have a a goal, we're we're trying to do something, and somebody is stopping us from our perspective. of achieving what we want and fulfilling our desire. That then creates the conflict. And just to put it succinctly, we'll talk about this obviously more in depth for later in the class. Whenever you have a conflict, whenever you feel that tension with a another person, the simple question you need to ask is What am I wanting? What is my desire right now? And as we'll see, what am I desiring so much that I'm willing to argue and fight and be at odds with this person We'll go into that in greater depth in future weeks, but it's always a difference of opinion or purpose that frustrates someone's goals or desires. A state of impaired thinking and relationships driven by competing goals and purposes would be another way to define it in contrast to our definition of peace. So if if peace is a state of well-being, harmony and love, driven by unity and goals, uh desires, goals, and purposes then conflict is a state of impaired thinking and relationships driven by competing goals, desires, and purposes. And so again, the the desires, goals, and purposes are are not just different, but they're competing, and so they create a situation where our thinking is impaired and now our relationship is impaired. So we see an example of this in Philippians with Yodia and Sintiki. They had a broken relationship, and we don't know the details. We don't know what what was going on between the two of them. What was the particular issue? I remember uh when we were uh studying Philippians uh on Sunday mornings and and uh uh I wondered I wonder if it's that they had a different preference for a falafel recipe or something. I mean who knows what it was. But they they had some disunity of mind, some different way of thinking. And so Paul encourages them to, quote, live in harmony, which is literally to be of one mind. Philippians 4 1 through 3 or part of that, Paul says, I urge Yodia and I urge Sentici to live in harmony in the Lord. And again, he that means to be of the same mind mind. And that doesn't mean to have the same opinion. It doesn't mean that you have to think exactly the same way. It means that you have to have the same um Priorities, no priority to glorify God above all things, priorities of dying to yourself, priority of loving one another Those are the same, but then when you have your differences, you're able to harmonize those because your priorities are the same. Or Paul and Barnabas had different perspectives on John Mark, right? John Mark had previously left them and uh he uh preferred not to continue in the mission, and so Paul's pers uh perspective of John Mark was that he was unfaithful, that he was untrustworthy. And so when Barabas suggested, hey, let's take my a cousin I think he was or r relative, Paul's like, No, I'm not taking John Mark again. I d I don't want to put ourselves in a position where we lose a ministry partner because he can't he can't take the the challenges that come our way. And Barnabas is thinking, no no no He's changed. He's grown. You know, he's not gonna he's not gonna leave us this time. But they had this conflict, this this sharp disagreement. Acts fifteen says Barnabas wanted to dig John called Mark along with them also, but Paul kept insisting that they should not take him along, who had deserted them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work. And it goes on to say that they had a sharp disagreement. I don't know what that sounded like I don't know if that was elevated volume or yelling or w whatever it was, but uh Luke, who's writing Acts, he makes it clear that this was an argument. They were at odds with each other. So much so they couldn't come to an agreement, so they parted ways. And instead of one mission team going out, they split up into two mission teams going out So they had different perspectives on Mark's trustworthiness, and so that led them to separate and minister apart from each other. They had different desires, they had different goals, they had different purposes. And that impaired their relationship. Or consider Peter, who uh was confronted by Paul for his hypocrisy. There there was a difference in desires. Peter wanted uh to uh appear to the Jews who were coming from Jerusalem to be faithful to the law. And so when the Jews from Jerusalem came, Peter separated himself from the Gentiles because he didn't want to offend the the those Jews from Jerusalem and Paul's desire was to accurately reflect the gospel to the Gentiles And of course the gospel is that Jew and Gentile have come together into one, that there's no dividing wall, so we can fellowship together in the body of Christ. That's a higher priority than than uh being kosher as a Jew. And so they had different purposes, different different desires. And so Paul confronted Peter, and it says there when Cephas came to Antioch, I, that's Paul speaking, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned for prior to the coming of certain men from James from Jerusalem He used to eat with the Gentiles, but when they came, he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision. So there's a different desire there. Peter, in a sense, is driven by fear That's what it explicitly says. He wanted to impress and please those uh those Jewish believers But that led him to miscommunicate the gospel to the Gentiles. And Paul says, no, that's wrong. So they had this conflict, which led to confrontation. We could uh spend our lifetimes just giving all kinds of examples from each of our lives, each of our relationships, out of each of our homes of what gives rise to conflict. But it will always be some competing desire, goal, or purpose that is at odds with each other. And it's something that we elevate to the point where we're willing to fight over it. All right. That's what a conflict is. Any thoughts, comments, or questions? Amy. Is there always spin involved in conflict? I always thought there was, but no, I'm not sure. No, you're not so sure. Um may maybe. Is there always sin involved? Maybe. Um so I guess I have to say no if I'm gonna say maybe. If i i if the question is always. I'll say sin is usually involved. And we'll get to when we get to the heart of conflict, you know, what's going on in our own hearts that gives rise to our our um Desires and goals and values, purposes. There's two ways in which sin is involved in conflict. It's number one in the heart with the way that we handle our desires, and the second is in the way that we respond to the conflict itself. So sin is not always involved in the sense that it is possible for conflict to exist because one's person's desires have elevated to an uh ungodly place and when confronted in a let's just say in a biblical way they respond in a sinful way So it's possible that one party is not necessarily in sin, but I think in the vast majority of cases it's often the reality that we are all contributing in some way. Uh but it's I think it it is possible to to experience to to be in a conflict and be like, I I don't know that I did anything wrong. I'm just trying to, you know, love this person. Um so yeah, it just depends I I think really by the end of this course when we get to well what do you do if the other person doesn't want to reconcile, I think there will be that'll be a situation where even if one has sinned in the in the past earlier in the conflict You can get to a place where you're no longer sinning, but the other person is still not reconciling with you. So all that to say, no, sin is not always involved. Alright. Any other questions? Comments? I wasn't trying to in my mind should I say it? I'm not trying to create a topic thanks to what you said, but I'm thinking it would be there would be Because you know I'm thinking iron sharpening iron. We're trying to uh encourage one with a understanding of God's words so we can grow together. But when this person is not grasping what you're saying, whatever it is, and we are um really uh enthusiastic trying to encourage them to understand where we're coming from. If they're not listening, then we're not yielding our right. What was it? We're not yielding. I'm not saying the rep, anyway I think it's creating conflict. So if we really want someone to come and understand what we're saying, then um I'm I'm losing well, I'm losing my trend. Well, so I understood Amy's question to mean, am I always in sin when I'm in a conflict? Is that how you mention? You're not thinking of the person I think that's one way to put it. It's one way to think about it. Because the fact that you're not yielding, you're not letting go means that you're holding on to it. Josh? I was gonna say the The biblical example that comes to mind that might contradict that is when Jesus went to the synagogue and upset the tables of people that were there. I w I would consider that the conflict. Um and obviously Jesus wasn't in sin, so but you know, there was a party in sin. So to me it's like the only time that there truly is a conflict is when both parties are in unit God. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it seems like the the the sin potentially enters after the conflict occurs. I think about your food example. Uhhuh. It's not sinful for you to really, really, really want Thai food and it's not sinful for your wife to really really want sh But where we can go from there is where sin can enter. Maybe. When we get to the heart of conflict, it may be that my desire for Thai food actually is sinful. uh at the heart level, even before I've said a word. So it both ends, I guess. Alright. Good? Um very good. Well let's talk about the process of reconciliation Oh sorry, I didn't realize I was on PowerPoint. The process of reconciliation. This comes from uh the book The Peacemaking Pastor, which is just a more uh uh detailed uh expositional uh version of the Peacemaker. Uh this is by Alfred uh Poixol. I don't know how to pronounce it. Anyway, a work of the triune God. So this is the process, a work of the triune God in union with us, the sons of God, who through the that union labor to bring about that great day of peace by rectifying wrongs and setting relationships right all under the Lordship of God. Now this is obviously big picture. This is not the process of you know what do you do step by step in your personal relationships. This is big picture what what does reconciliation look like? And notice how he starts, this is the work of the triune God. I think one of the things we need to grow in as believers in any conflict, no matter how insignificant or how small in our life, is to recognize that God is part of that moment. This is a situation where God needs to be involved. And the reason maybe that we're in a conflict is because one or both of us, and often it's both, We're not actually thinking about God in this situation. So w the first step, as we'll get to in over time, is recognizing that God should be our first thought. I should be seeking to glorify God. And God is at work in this situation. So together with us, in union with us, the uh who are the sons of God, we are laboring to bring about that great day of peace. Uh even again the small conflicts that you and I have, it's all working toward, it's all uh progressing forward toward that day of peace when all conflicts will be done away with. We are engaged with God in uh representing his greater work in the world uh through our individual lives. And we do that by setting relationships right, where we're reflecting that gospel work that God does, right? He First and foremost, through the the work of Jesus Christ, he reconciles us to himself. And then one day he will reconcile all things to himself, it says in uh Colossians 1. And so when we work on the relationships that we have, when we reconcile with one another, we're building up to that moment. We're growing in cooperation with God in his greater purposes in the world. So we see that that God has reconciled himself and individuals, 2 Corinthians 5, 18 and 19, that God has reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Your job, your commission By God, as one who has been reconciled to him, is to engage in the work of reconciliation. Now, in the in the precise context, he's really talking about gospel work Uh he's he's saying that uh we are to proclaim that gos that that ministry of reconciliation or or the reality of reconciliation to the world. We're to appeal and plead with the world to be reconciled with God. Because that's the most significant conflict that exists, right? No matter what conflict you have in your life, the greatest conflict that you and I have is with God first and foremost. And again, as we see when we'll get to the heart of conflict Before we have conflict with one another, if indeed it is our own hearts' desires that have been elevated to the place where we're willing to sin uh in order to get what we want, or sin if we don't get what we want Uh the deeper conflict is actually between between us and God. That whether we think about it or realize it or not, we're saying, God, I'm not content with what you've given me. I have desires in contrast to yours and I want uh I'm gonna fight for them. So God is reconciled to him us to himself. He's called us to live out a reconciliation, primarily, reconciling the world to himself, or proclaiming the gospel of reconciliation. He's reconciled himself and his people corporately, uniting Jews and Gentiles into the people of God. So he's called us to live as a reconciled people. That whoever is brought into the church, Jew and Gentile, people from every tribe, tongue, nation, people, language, however you want to classify it, we're all together and we are to live a reconciled life. And this is a a reality that the world of course has no concept of, right? Because not having that experience of reconciliation uh they have to divide uh according to ways that make sense. And so that's why you get racism and all kinds of uh hatred of one group to another group. But in Christ, all people who have trusted in Christ have been brought together. And therefore we can experience a unity that far surpasses anything else in the world. And we're to live that way, we're to represent that reconciled reality to the world. Ephesians 2 talks about this, for he himself is our peace, who made both groups, that is Jew and Gentile, into one. and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall. So there is nothing that should ultimately divide us as believers There's nothing that should ultimately divide us. If there is something that divides two believers that prevents them from having a loving, harmonious, unified relationship. It's sin that has not been dealt with. Now because we live in a certain cursed world, obviously there there are a variety of things that bring such destruction that requires separation. Um but when you think about the the vast majority of sins that we commit against one another, the the differences of opinion and perspective. If we're all seeking to glorify God, if we're seeking to cultivate the mind of Christ and imitate the character of Christ, we will have the ability to experience unity and harmony. You know, if there was some way to have all true believers have the same interpretation interpretation of scripture, we would not need all the different denominations, right? But different churches, different denominations exist because we have differences of opinion of what does the scripture teach? Should we baptize infants? Should we not? Uh do we have free will or is God sovereign uh over us uh in our depravity? Uh should we speak in tongues or should we not We have all these differences of opinion and perspective that bring division, which we can have even in a harmonious way, in the sense that we can affirm one another as fellow believers while saying, you know, it's probably more peaceful if we go to different churches. Because if if I'm very um bothered by your expression of worship, uh then that's just not a helpful way to live. So let's let's divide but we can still be at peace with one another. Alright, also it says here, in light of the reconciliation God has accomplished, we must work to preserve that reconciliation among men or mankind. Ephesians four, one through six, it says I implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you've been called, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. So Paul first says there, walk in a manner worthy And that's the idea of walking consistent with the salvation you have received. If God has reconciled you, then live in a reconciled way. And that means preserve the unity of the Spirit. Keep intact What God has already accomplished. Right? The prayer for unity that Jesus prayed in John 17, Lord, may they be one just as you and I are one. He accomplished that. That's done. That happened at the cross. And that happens when people come to Christ and they are brought into the the family of God as one unified body. And so our responsibility then is to walk and live consistent with what God has accomplished in us by working hard, exerting ourselves. what he means when he says being diligent, exerting ourselves to preserve the unity of the spirit and the bond of power. This should be our highest priority in life when we're at odds with others. And as we'll talk, you know, there's there's times when you do exit yourself, you make every effort, and for various reasons the other party doesn't respond. And so there is a point where you entrust that situation to the Lord's hand and you just take a step back and And trust yourself and trust them to the Lord. But until you get to that point, you exert every effort to preserve the unity of the Spirit. I don't have this in the notes, but consider the state of reconciliation. What does it look like to live in a reconciled relationships was a state of joyful uh a joyful state of thinking and relationships that have been reinforced by bonds of love, increasing personal and corporate usefulness for the glory of God. If you have lived life with someone and you've walked through trials together and you've resolved conflicts together, that relationship over time is stronger and stronger and stronger than it was at the beginning. Uh we understand that when the skin is broken it you know creates another layer and that's how scars develop so that the the body prevents that same spot from from being harmed in the same way as much as it can. Is that right, Joel? Did I get that right? Alright, the resident doctor here. Uh in the same way with relationships, when we when we break in our relationships and we restore, we reconcile And we do that time and time again, that creates a stronger relationship if we're doing it in a way that God has designed us to do. So it's an effort that we must make and a joy that we experience. And that ultimately creates opportunities to glorify God because it represents to others, to the watching world to other believers, to other family members. Wow. Look at what they've gone through. Look at how they've reconciled. How did that happen? And there's an opportunity to proclaim the truth of the gospel that has brought about that kind of unity Alright, let's move on to war and peace. I'm realizing that we're running low on time. Oh my goodness. There's so much to get through. Alright, let's let's just do this very quickly. Just to start with the the uh outline here of this section, uh the world began in peace, right? God created everything, very good, there was harmony, there was unity, there was love. Nobody was killing each other, nobody was eating each other. There was complete peace and harmony when God created all things. And you can see there all the the relationships that were at peace at the point of creation. But then, because of the sin of Adam and Eve, now all of a sudden war is what characterizes everything, every relationship, every connection. between animals, now they eat each other. Between mankind and creation itself, now we have to work hard. The creation is working against us in in pulling food out of it. Between mankind and animals, we want to eat animals, they want to kill us and eat us. Uh between Adam and Eve now, be among mankind there's conflict, and of course between mankind and God. And that's all as a result of the fall. And that's what that's the world that we live in. There is War everywhere at every level. But one day there will be a new world of peace. I'm just really going through all of this real fast because I want to get to the next section. One day there will be complete peace among animals. In the millennium, the new the Old Testament tells us, you know, the lion will lie down with the lamb, the child will play at the den of the adder, and it won't be uh bitten Uh there's going to be complete harmony among animals and between mankind and creation and animals. There's going to be harmony between people and harmony between mankind and God. And certainly that'll be infinitely true on the new earth when all people are glorified and we exist in the presence of God forever and ever. So we live in a world of war, but we long for that world of peace that will one day come. So even though our sin-cursed world is defined by conflict, the gospel is the good news That not only has God made peace possible in the future, you know, we're not only looking forward to that time of peace, but He is actually making peace possible in the world today And calling those who are reconciled to be peacemakers. So it's not going to be perfect, it's not going to be the completion of of all things, but it is possible to experience peace. And the reason we can experience peace is because God is a God of peace. God is a God of peace. There is hope that we can experience peace because our God, Creator, Savior, and Redeemer, is a peace-making peace. God. Isaiah 9:6, the Messiah is called the Prince of Peace. Romans 15:33, Paul says, May the God of peace be with you. Philippians 4. 9. Again, he calls the Lord the God of peace. 1 Thessalonians 5. 23, may the God of peace himself sanctify you. 2 Corinthians 13. 11, he is a God of love. and peace. Hebrews 13, now the God of peace. You get what kind of God He is? He is a God of peace. And so He makes peace possible in our lives today because we're made in His image. And when He saves us He restores to a greater way the image of God in us and is working to re to uh progressively restore that image in us. So we ourselves can be people of peace. We can be known as peacemakers. So there are three kinds of peace that we can experience today, that you and I can experience today. Number one, we can experience saving peace with God. We are born hostile to God, we are hating God, we're living in rebellion against God in our natural condition, but because of the work of Christ we can experience saving peace, where we are no longer at odds with God, where his wrath is no longer hanging over us, and where our mindset toward him is no longer that of hostility, but rather that of love and submission and joy. This is a peace that only God can produce and we respond to by faith and repentance. Romans 5. 1 says, Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Colossians 1, 19 to 22. For it was the Father's good pleasure for all the fullness to uh to dwell in him and through him to reconcile all things to himself, having made peace by the blood of his cross through him. So we can experience peace with God, where you no longer have to Fear God's punishment. You no longer have to wonder if the bad things that are happening in your life is because there's this angry God out there who has it out for you. That is not God's disposition. God is not angry with you as a believer If you've trusted in him and been reconciled to him, God loves you. There's nothing but mercy and grace and compassion that is left for you from God. You can have peace with God. A second kind of peace you can have is inner peace. Inner peace enjoyed with the God of peace. When we enjoy peace with God, the most significant conflict in our life is resolved And this frees us to experience internal peace, but it usually doesn't happen by accident. This is actually something that we have to pursue. That's why we read in Philippians four there, be anxious for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding or comprehension, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. So if you don't have peace in your heart and life, that's something you can strive for by the power of the Holy Spirit. According to the truth of the word of God, you can pursue the experience of internal peace and actually experience it. The peace of God can guard you, it can protect your heart and your mind from everything that would seek to turn it away. Now of course in the synchronous world in which we live we're we're not going to um have this perfectly, but it's something that God promises is available to us if we would keep pursuing it. Sometimes it feels like we Right when we grasp it, we lose it, and we have to keep pursuing it again. But we can pursue internal peace. Isaiah 26, 3, the steadfast of mind you will keep in perse in perfect peace Because he trusts in you. If our trust is in the Lord and not in anything else, if our trust is in the Lord, we can experience perfect, complete peace. So that's internal peace. We can also experience relational peace with others. Once the vertical peace with God is established and then we experience that internal peace, we can uh we're called to pursue horizontal peace in our relationship. Uh w this not only includes believers but also unbelievers in Romans twelve, which more is more of a reference to um believers and all people, he says, if possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men, with all people. And he says, so far as it depends on you, which means it doesn't always depend on you. Sometimes again others don't want to be at peace with us. But as far as it depends on us, we are called to be at peace with others. Or Hebrews twelve fourteen, pursue peace with all men. Or Titus three two, Malign no one, be peaceable, gentle, showing every consideration for all Or if you're married to an unbelieving spouse, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 7 15, yet if the unbelieving one leaves, let him leave. The brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace And clearly that's a situation where one is not wanting to be married. And so rather than pushing hard and s and um uh striving after them and trying to hold them tightly, uh Paul says So let them go and be at peace. Don't create further conflict because they don't want to live with you. So we were called to pursue peace with unbelievers and we're Yeah, we're also called to pursue peace of course with believers. Romans fourteen nineteen, so then pursue peace, uh rather pursue the things which make for peace and the building up of one another We should be striving in all of our relationships with believers to experience peace. If we're at odds with another person, somebody in the church, somebody in your small group. Uh somebody in the ministry that you serve alongside, if there's some tension, some some conflict, we should make it our effort to pursue peace with them. We already mentioned Ephesians 4, being diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. Colossians 3:15, let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts Well 1 Thessalonians 5. 13, live in peace with one another. Those are commands that assume there's going to be conflict. That assume there's going to be hurt, there's going to be sin, there's going to be differences of opinion that frustrate each other. Uh there's going to be idiosyncrasies and personality quirks and all kinds of things that make it challenging to engage with each other and experience peace. But We're called time and time again, pursue peace, live in peace, strive after peace. And so because, or or rather, peace is not just a possibility in this life, it is a calling, it's a commandment. God commands us to have peace among others. This is an essential mindset for each one of us to have. It's so easy. I've seen it so many times in this church and other churches where somebody gets offended and they just leave. They walk away. They don't want to deal with it. They don't want to have a hard conversation They just walk away. And that is so contrary to what God has called us to. We are called to pursue peace with one another. And He calls us to do that having made peace with us. I mean if you think about the most impossible relationship, like where you would think there's no way that could ever be reconciled, at least one of the parties is so obstinate, so hated hateful So undesiring to do anything that would be pleasing to God, how can these two parties ever be reconciled? That was you. That was me. before God. And so if God could reconcile us to himself, we can pursue peace with others. We can't control other people. We can't ensure that there's always reconciliation with others, but at least for our part, because God has reconciled us to Himself, we can pursue peace with one another. So we are to have an attitude of peace and take action in peacemaking. With regard to the attitude, Colossians 3. 15, let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. The word rule there means to be a judge, to be an arbiter, maybe to be an umpire. that decides what should happen next. So as you engage in relationships and you're uh especially in the church among believers and you're in conflict, you should be thinking, what would peace say, the pursuit of peace say of what I should do next. It's not so much what will make me feel better, uh, what will produce the best outcome necessarily, what will be the easiest or what will help them to know how much they've wronged me. No, what we should be thinking is how can peace and the pursuit of peace guide my actions and attitudes toward this other person. So we should have an attitude of peace and we should pursue the action of peacemaking. As those who've been brought into the The family of God, that where he's reconciled us to himself, as it says here, we are to work in the family business of peacemaking. That's God's business If he has any business at all, he is in the business of peacemaking. And so now we are in his family. So we are to do what our Heavenly Father does. And it is when we pursue peace that we can be called sons of God. Right? Jesus said, Blessed are are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. John MacArthur has said, you're never more like God than when you forgive. Well that's just a very specific way of saying you're never more like God than when you pursue peace. It's only when we pursue peace, and again, sometimes we don't experience it because others don't want to receive it, but it's only when we pursue peace that we can say, I am being like God. So that should be a high commitment for each one of us. Alright, one of my goals in in class is to be done by 10 30. I've already uh surpassed that. But um any w we have technically five minutes, another five minutes. Any particular uh questions or Yeah. And just regarding with Paul and Barnabas, Paul obviously he was always wanting us to go for peace and he was the one who wrote Philippians and everything like that With Barnabas, was he in sin when he went against or was it more of a if if anything a biblical separation Well w we don't know enough details to make a definitive um evaluation of what happened. The way Based on the very limited information that we have, I would say it appears more that Paul was in the wrong because Barnabas took uh John called Mark. And apparently he was faithful in ministry to the point where later on Paul would say at the end of his life to Timothy and 2 Timothy, Bring John Mark with me because he's useful for me. So Paul was the one who later changed his mind to realize, okay, I guess John Mark is is faithful. I didn't know that. Is that psychotic? Mm-hmm. I did not know that from the yeah. Yeah. Chapter 4. So Paul was not perfect, he was not sinless, Scythe, I think that's an example, as best as we can tell where he said it would say me like it would say Christ, though. Yeah Well you can say that to the degree to the degree to the degree that you materialized people shouldn't be yeah, Dana. They think they have they absolutely think they have God. I'm good. I got God, I'm good. They don't recognize that the peace that God doesn't have peace is now. That's right. And that is where because of course you can't get to it if this you understand the truth of that. So that's where um I definitely have to struggle when I'm Trying to use these financial language because they just get that. It's hard to say. Well, yeah, we can have these Yeah. So that's where I something I didn't say. Yeah. And that that reminds me of Matthew seven where Jesus says, Many will say to me, Lord, Lord, and he will say, I never knew you. So yeah, there's a lot of self-deception. Yeah. Uh for me. Related to the thought I'm curious. Are we going from the table of contents I can see? Um On the topic of reconciliation where we like are looking at our own art seeing um essays or Forgiving areas are even talking about um how you approach someone or even appropriate someone who's very true not even Yeah, yeah, we're gonna have a whole class session on confrontation. Okay. Yeah. And we're gonna practice. No. I I'm not being funny. Do we know if this is actually John Mark or if it's just a different mark and I'm not even being funny? Um no, that's that's fine. I I've not heard of anyone disagreeing with that conclusion. Um It's one of those things where you know there's so many people and and a lot of people had similar names, so theoretically it's possible it was somebody else, but from what I understand the universal view is that it was the same person I was always Team Paul when I came to Boris Paul. So okay. Alright, well let me pray. Father, thank you for this morning. Uh there's encouraging truths here to remember how we have been Brought near to you because of Christ. Lord, if you had not worked on our behalf, if you had not pursued us, we would be lost in our sin. But because you loved us while we were your enemies, we have peace with you. We thank you for that. Today we will celebrate that in the Lord's Supper. We will sing your praises. We will hear from your word So may this truth that we've reflected on prepare our hearts for the time of worship. Help us as we engage with one another between now in the service and even after the service to encourage one another Uh maybe there's someone at that we're at odds with that we need to pursue peace even now. That we need to uh confess our own faults and seek forgiveness and and love them so that we can be at peace today. Lord, may your spirit work in our hearts, convicting us as needed, and empowering us to glorify you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.