Well, we're in our last uh lesson here on biblical manhood and womanhood, and we've we've um we've looked at a lot of the um Um what, efforts to undermine biblical manhood and woman, particularly in terms of their roles. But um This lesson touches on a number of perversions of God's design. And in fact, um Um it really only covers ones that have at least some direct statements from scripture about. But uh these days there are all sorts of other things that that um Uh scripture doesn't specifically address, but I want to touch on those as well. So um I'll Just kind of give an overview of the things that are here. So obviously one perversion of God's design is and fairly common unfortunately is abuse of women in all sorts of ways. Um And yet we see in Ephesians five, God's design is that husbands particularly would um uh care for, nurture their wives. And he uses the example of the relationship of Christ and the church. You know, we looked at that uh earlier. And so instead of um abusing women, God had designed that men would be uh protecting and nurturing and so on. Sometimes women are abused not so much physically but verbally and uh put down and and that sort of thing and Lots of sc scriptures just to speak to all of us generally that that's you know, that's not a good way to treat other people. But 1 Peter 3 particularly says, you husbands in the same way live with your wives in an understanding way. As with someone who is weaker, since she is a woman, and show her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life, so that your prayers will not be hindered. We talked about that one already as well. Rape, you see examples in scripture, you see laws here against it in the Old Testament law. Obviously very much uh example of perversions that uh God uh detests, right? And uh Yeah, in in in the Old Testament law the the um the uh consequence was death. Right. So God took a a very strong view of that. Uh I'm on page sixty six as well. Uh Pornography abuses women, victimizes women, as well as the men and boys who consume it. Um it's just a bad thing all around And yet scripture makes it very clear that our minds and our eyes, what we look at, need to be uh pure and not corrupted by uh sins of the flesh or anything else. Okay, so those are just a few examples of abuses of women that scripture speaks to. It's also possible for the other way around for women to cause men to stumble. Sometimes it's uh the the man who's violating women against their will. Sometimes it's women who actually entice men into sin. And so um there are a number of passages here from scripture that um make it clear that uh at the very least men are and boys whoever are to avoid women like that. Don't let them uh tempt you. And then just other passages dealing with uh Uh sexual temptations and uh enticements and uh just uh um Very clear, very um you know, this is not new stuff, right? This has been around since the beginning. And there's just this perversion against God God's created order that um is not for anyone's benefit. They think they're doing something to get pleasure out of it, but what does it bring? Heartache. Right? At the very least. Usually a lot worse. Um Verbal abuse, both men and women, can of course be um uh abusing their spouses verbally. Some of the imagery in in Proverbs is you know a constant dripping, right? Okay, so on page sixty eight, um obviously Perversions against God's design for marriage. So adultery. I mean, that made it specifically into the Ten Commandments, right? um to not commit adultery. What is adultery? It's it's um the breaking of a a marriage vow to um To pursue someone who's not your spouse. But there's also this category of uh fornication, which is basically the same thing but uh among those who aren't even married. Right? So it's it's going against God's design for um marriage and that uh you know any any um sexual activity, even thoughts outside of marriage is a violation of God's design. And because it's a violation of God's design, it consumes and destroys those who do it. And yep, they do it. Well, the actual kind of the the wedding and official start of a marriage, uh um A lot of that over time has just been culturally um dictated And so there's no prescribed method in Scripture for that to happen. But the principles are that it should be before God and before and publicly before uh witnesses that these two are are now being joined together permanently in holy matrimony, right. Uh and so um I'm not sure how it developed in ancient Israel, what the origins were, but um you see evidence even dating back to the time of Abraham that uh the parents, typically the father, would uh find a spouse for his sons, particularly. There doesn't seem to be, at that stage with Abraham, there doesn't seem to be a lot of evidence of what the ceremony or process was. The bigger concern was finding the right spouse. And that that decision was up to the parents more so than than the the son. Eventually, uh Jewish culture, uh, as I understand it, um, certainly by the time of Christ had a fairly fairly common um method where where the whole in fact even Even by the time of of Jacob, um and you know his his father in law kind of tricked him a little bit, right? And But um there was a one week period of um uh celebration and uh honeymoon, whatever. Uh but it was Uh certainly by the time of Christ, my understanding is that there is a fairly standard cultural procedure that included a whole week of of celebration and And um and we know even uh in terms of um Mary and Joseph that there was a very uh specific betrothal period. You know, we would call it engagement, but for them it was that they're as good as married, even though um they're not yet officially married And so there is some period of time, I don't know if it was prescribed, but um they were spoken for. They were um identified as as uh betrothed. Um and then eventually the the the marriage with the ceremony and the whole week's worth of celebration whatever would take place. So there are various cultural things that developed over time. It's not really like there's any one right way to do it, and so on. But the principle of one man, one woman for life, committing to that before God and fellow men. Can I ask something? I always wondered this. Um so before Moses was given the Ten Commandments, I know there was fornication going on and adultery. Were people stoned before that? Or did that come into effect after I don't know that we know. I don't think we know from scripture. I don't think we see any s examples in scripture. Um I f it's clear that those kind of obviously those things are in the law. Whether that any of that occurred beforehand, I don't know. Okay, 'cause I'm thinking if it didn't happen happened before. I mean it's still mind boggling to me because e even then people were fornicating and committing adultery, even though you have this looming, you know, com you know, kind of like Like this is the law, you will be stoned. Why take that chance? Imagine that now in our society. No one it it's like nothing stops you. Well, you know, uh initially, um, whether they had a law or not, um God designed each individual with a conscience to know that there is right and wrong and that they're accountable to their creator uh some chose to suppress that conscience, uh harden that conscience, but um law established before Or like the Mosaic Covenant, right? Like for example when was Cain Nabel, like that there's like something in there about like, okay, because man's blood was shed, you know, then that person should die So it seemed like from very early on, not necessarily a stoning type thing, but there was some justice penalty. Well I was gonna say, well, what what was that penalty? Why did it change from that to stony. Well stoning just seems like a method for a death penalty. So I don't but I guess like in Cain and April I don't know do we see what how how the death penalty is supposed to be enforced I don't know. There's no I'm not aware that in Genesis four, when God tells when he basically states that um Cain has this this judgment placed against him, right? That um actually he didn't die, I guess, right? No. Yeah, like people might kill me and God's like, no, no, I'm gonna make sure no one kills you. Yeah, so it it may have been God's providence and his um Just carrying that out. But yeah, it's also clear that by the time you get to Noah Everybody was just so wicked. Yes. Pretty much everybody, right? It was just so pervasive. Um that if there had been well, theologians um Typically say that the instruction given to Noah after the flood, Genesis nine, to um Execute or to implement um capital punishment for murder That that's the first clear evidence that God has was laying down a system of justice and law um that if there had been anything like that beforehand it wasn't clear in scripture and it seems like it wasn't being carried out. Um but now with NOAA and starting from scratch, uh there would be this change that there would be civil authority to um To execute those who murder. Um and so Yeah, I mean I don't know that we have a whole lot of specifics about how things were organized uh prior to the law of Moses, but um It's clear that there were customs in various cultures and and so on, and things were um the a certain amount of of positive peer pressure to do things that were right and moral. Not that that was always the case, but people understood that it was wrong to kill people, right? And those kind of things. Um what comes out of the uh situation if they not if they're following God's law or the principles that God has made him is the repercussions that come out of it. For sure. For for example with Abraham, I mean he loved his son, uh, but uh Hagar had to go. Yeah. So like uh it's uh it was a problem with him having he you know, he was you could actually call that adultery there. Oh yeah. Yeah. And uh the problem was that he in ended up having uh two women, two wives, and that was a burden on him. Yeah. And um It it's it's partly that there are two wives, uh Hagar and and Sarah, but partly and maybe mostly, uh where his heart was in all that. Was he trusting God or trying to help God out by coming up with a solution? Um and so that was clearly a a uh a failure of faith on Abraham who was generally as you read through um Genesis, Abraham's a great example of faith, right? But it wasn't perfect. Yeah, but you know, that there there you go. Going along with with her, right? Uh he can look back at Adam and say, Yeah And he didn't hesitate, like he didn't argue with her. He was just like, Okay Right. Anyway, anyway. What's that? I think my not have been written in the Bible that the I could against you that you might have. So like maybe maybe he's sinful and his wife saying go have sex with this other woman and maybe him being like, you know, with lust and stuff they're like, okay. Right. Sure. Uh you know. I'm pretty sure that that that custom was already around. And they were just doing the worldly thing. thinking that they're doing God a favor, um, or at least maybe rationalizing it that way. God promised me a son, okay, I'll do what I need to to get a son, but not out of faith. It was more of a worldly No, he didn't actually say Sarah until after Ishmael was born. Yeah, the when it really comes down to it though, it was I'm I'm gonna Abraham's essentially saying by his actions whether he had this in his heart or not, I don't know. But he's basically saying by his actions, I'll take matters into my own hands because God seems to be delaying things. Or or d um he kind of read into what God had promised and um rather than wait on God to bring it about He had to give God a hand. Lesson to us? God doesn't need us to give him a hand. He needs us to obey him, right? But particularly when God promises something, we need to take him as word. And generally Abraham did that. He's a great example of do of of faith and obedience, and yet even with him. I mean look at him. Um he finally learned, right, by the time you get to Genesis twenty-two When God tells him to sacrifice his son, I would have pushed back on that and said, You've got to be kidding. Am I hearing you correctly? Right? But there's no evidence he complained or whatever and Hebrews tells us that Abraham believed that God was able to raise just son from the dead because God had promised that it the promise was through that son, specifically by that point. So he was learning in his in his journey of faith. Yeah. It's easy for us to sit and sit back and think of all these things, you know, but when we're in the same situation, we do exactly the same thing. We we tend to take matters into our own hands when we should be trusting God and just obeying what He has told us to do. Yeah. Pastor, I asked a question because I have a couple of friends that they're Jewish and they um they try to excuse their uh prohabiting. without getting married because of the the Old Testament that they use, particularly with with we have mentioned here with Abraham taking another wife and all that. It wasn't really a a marriage um uh official ceremony kind of thing. So that's why I was asking that in particular. How how can I witness Oh yeah, there are definitely weddings. There are definitely formal uh starts to the marriage. Um uh in fact God performed the very first one. Yeah. Yeah, and you see that with um Jacob, he's got two wives that his father-in-law gave him, but each of them has a handmaid and and and the the customs, the cultural thing was is pretty common that uh the the servant could be used to produce more children. Yeah well not for not getting married and just cohabitate they say Well they did it and why we should get married. Like I really don't know what to come with because what I say is that the law has changed and the situation No the line. Um how Jesus responded in Matthew nineteen when when um uh Um some of the Pharisees came up and said their perspective was um pe uh man because of the law a man could divorce his wife for any reason whatsoever just give her a certificate of divorce and it's it's done. And they were using the law to to come to that conclusion. And so they're asking Jesus about that and he said Moses permitted you, he didn't command it, he permitted you, because of the hardness of your hearts Uh and he did go into what the conditions were. They usually d didn't pay any attention to what the conditions were. But um but he said it's not been that way from since the beginning Right? Because God made them um male and female and um uh what God has joined together, let no man separate. Um and so the thing to do is to take them back to God's original created order. And then the question becomes, well Why why doesn't God have a stronger uh condemnation of uh polygamy and of these customs of taking a servant and like a concubine and all this. Why doesn't God say anything more um specific and strong against that. And I'm convinced the reason is those examples are there as a warning to us. Look at every single one of those circumstances and you see how they're turning out? That's a warning to you. Um God has spoken in his word that that leads to No good whatsoever. And so Jesus took them back to God's original design. That is what we should pursue. not to use those perversions of the past as an excuse for perversions today. Which which gives my friends more power, you know? 'Cause you see that happen. And that surprises me because they're Jews and and as far as I know they respect that part of the Bible, you know? But they use that as a as a well if they need to by that same logic when they could say well Abraham did anything or anyone did anything in the Bible It's the same logic. Yeah, Or Solomon had seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines. I you can tell the difference between them, I don't know. When you get seven hundred and three hundred. But just like God warned him, they turned his heart away from serving the Lord. It's there for us as a warning. Um don't do that. So anyway. Um I guess to talk to your friend, it seems like the answer is more than like like there's a lot of stuff in the Bible saying like okay like marriage is like between men and women don't defile the marriage like repeatedly over and over like a lot of things up holding this standard You know, so even just because it's one person, it's one thing, it doesn't mean like it cancels out all the other stuff. So I guess like a lot of the scripture that's in here, a lot of stuff in here is probably what you can give to your friend So what they're doing is they look at the highest order, they say, Well, Abraham, who they look highly of, who didn't And they probably prefer not to use the New Testament, which is a lot clearer. Right. Right. Right. On these issues. Right. tells Abraham uh to listen to Sarah and let Hagar and Ishmael leave. Like did he acknowledge Hagar as his wife I was he would have said keeper. Yeah, that he acknowledged his wife. He he even I think that's even kind of like an evidence that he he did not approve of that There we go. But he still is gonna have, you know, grace and mercy to Ishmael, but he didn't acknowledge her. He didn't have a proof of what I just want to say that it was not approved by God and there was a mistake of humans, you know, again, committing act that God didn't command them to hate one find Right. So that's I think that's the best way to go by and tell them. Well that's definitely good to point out. And definitely because even the the institution there is like you say with a point about God for one person that's between a man and a woman, which as a result is why we as believers enfield that a man and a man. Well that's not the only reason. In fact that's our next that's a good segue to our next section here. Homosexual conduct. Yes. What is the original design? It's Adam and Eve, not Adam and Steve. The problem one of the problems with, you know Uh homosexual conduct has been around a long, long time, long before the New Testament. Uh these laws that I've written here from uh excerpts from the Old Testament particularly show that. But one of the the I don't know if it's unfortunate or not, but these days there's a word for that, which um uh You know, homosexual or homosexuals or homosexuality, those are words that don't don't show up in the original languages of the Old Testament or the New Testament. Those words are put in there for and I've got some notes here on page sixty-eight. Um that nobody's put had those words. before, you know, in those times. But they had they described it. And so uh the word in the New Testament are sinocoites Um is derived from the word for mail and the word for bed. And so it it has the idea of males being in bed together. That's what the the Greek term uh actually means literally. Um and you see in uh Levit Leviticus, for example, on page sixty nine Usually it's a description. You shall not lie with a male as one lies with a female. It is an abomination, God says. Leviticus twenty, thirteen, if there is a man who lies with a male as those who lies with a woman, both of them have committed a detestable act. should surely be put to death. So it's described, and when you get to um the account of Sodom and Gomorrah in Genesis, it's described the the lustful behavior of men with men, even though the term um isn't there because there wasn't a term. for it. Um so sometimes you'll hear people say, well, you know, the Bible doesn't condemn homosexuality, even though there's some translations that use that term nowadays for this Greek word and the the um the the concept that we see in the Old Testament law. Romans 1, for example, it's very clear when it says Men abandoned the natural function of the woman and burned in their desire toward one another. Men with men committing indecent acts and receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error. Yeah, there are consequences of that, right? Both physical and and um uh in the heart So it's described, and it's very clear that God condemns it. And so it doesn't matter. I mean the word Trinity is not in the original Greek or the Hebrew Right? It's a it's a term that it's a new term to describe the concept, the the the the meaning, the truth that is clear in Scripture So don't get hung up on whether the word is in the original or not. The concept is very clear. Right? the context. An abomination. Yeah. Yeah. And you see what happened to Sodom and Gomorrah. In fact the before the term homosexuals either was coined or became popular Typically it those people were f were referred to as sodomites. And everybody knew exactly what that meant. Part twenty-eight when it says um God gave them over to depraved minds and uh to do things which are not proper. So I I I think I brought this up either in this class or another small group class about some of my gay friends that um even though I mean I don't witness to them but I share scripture and so forth and some of 'em come from a a a very strict Christian upbringing. My question to you is are they lost or I can I mean do they still have hope is what I'm saying because their minds have been kind of given Yes. Uh look at the bottom of page sixty-eight, First Corinthians six, nine through eleven. Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God, to not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate Nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swinters. That's a long list, right? None of those will inherit the kingdom of God, but such were some of you past tense. There's such hope in that. Yeah. God can and does at times intervene. Nowadays it's just seems so lost. Right. I'm sure looking at Saul, no one thought that he could be who he ended up being. I mean we don't know. Which is Kind of the solitarsis you mean. Yeah, yes, solitarsis, thank you. Um when we're told not to pass our pearls before splot That's a tough one because who do we really know is really the slime is wolves with the we we just don't know until God is going to call. I think if someone just wants to fight and they don't want to listen, if someone wants to if they're actually open, they're probably not in that Well, I mean there was a time when people used to try to witness to me and I was having none of it. I could have been considered that swine at one time time. So you know maybe in that moment you just kind of leave it alone. But I I don't think we should ever give up on anything. Okay, that's good. Yeah, keep praying. quick question like quick you said back in the old before like the word homosexual was like a thing, people would call them you'd say sodomites or something. I I don't like what does that mean and how does that apply to that Like what is that? What is it? No. No. Sodomite is is someone who behaved like the people of Sodom and God judged them. With hellfire and brimstone. And I guess sodomite was easier to say than Gomorrahite. Yeah, actually, um that that reminds me, and I've I've uh um sixty eight I've referred to it as homosexual conduct. They prefer to make it a noun as their identity. Homosexual. And really the identity is the behavior. It's homosexual conduct and activity, not a homosexual person, because that person wasn't created for that activity. So it was a choice into the year. Yeah. It was their choice. Okay, gotcha. Yeah, I'm at this uh from the culture I come from maybe not a uh uh culture in that for example we there's there's no descriptive name for that thing. It's just classified as abomination. And uh I I saw a uh it was a YouTube. Not acceptable. Yeah, yeah. to she was interviewing the the president of Kenya about uh you know accepting the homosexual lifestyle and he says there's no room for that. You know. There's no room for that. And she says, Well them treating being treated right. He said we treat all our people the same. And that and that's the premise that they go on. And the thing is about uh the the African nations being colonialized like they were, they don't want anybody else coming in and telling them what to do. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. They get asylum here. Yeah. Because we accept it Right. Yeah, they seek asylum here in America because their their country is is just not accepted, so they seek asylum. I put these notes together some years ago. I've done this a number of times. And back when I first did it Gender confusion wasn't really an issue. You know, as you look through Scripture Uh y you don't see any evidence that people had any confusion about who was male and who was female That is you know, homosexuality, homosexual conduct, that's something that's that's been around for a long, long time. Uh but this gender confusion is very recent. And yet you you look at God's word and it's clear that that uh he created male and female to be different as we said all along um completely equal on the things that really matter in terms of relationship with God and and um bearing the the image of God and all that. But nonetheless different, different physically for God's reasons Which, for the most part, make a lot of sense, but also different roles that he had to explain. And he has in Scripture. And so gender is something that's just very foundational to God's design. And our culture as we uh Throw that out the window and say it's whatever you want it to be. It's like morality is whatever you want it to be, right? It's confusion. It's confusion for sure. It's not only it's worse than confusion, it's I think there's a lot of deliberate um malice and deceit. A lot of it's intentional. The definition I've seen recently for gender was um the way that you carry yourself and the clothes that you wear. That was their definition of gender. And that was from one of the bulletin wards, one of the pictures that Captain Dorzlight sent me of the resource board at the um elementary school. I took a deeper dive. I think I was looking up what um national pronoun that he was. I was looking that up and that's how I came across that definition of um gender. Yeah, and you know what's really interesting is in a day and age in a place where people almost worship science This flies in the face of everything that's just very easy to see scientifically that there is there are differences between male and female. And Um medical procedures aren't going to alter that whatsoever. So what does that tell what does that tell us if people go to all these lengths to do something, to change something that can't be changed? Why are they doing that? And they're doing it knowing they've gotta know deep down that they're not changing. Well God made me this way. No, no, he didn't. Um why are they doing that? Because they're hardened, right? They're rebelling against God because If this isn't true, if I can't dictate my own sense of morality and identity, then I must be accountable to my creator. And they don't want that. It's just like believing evolution. It flies in the face of so much science and yet People are bound to believe it because what's the alternative for them? They're created by a creator to whom they're accountable. That doesn't sound like fun So I'll believe anything else. And if we say it long enough, enough people will believe it. Um in in the morning that I was in some mall kind of situation on waiting for a bus and this uh person he was to me he was gay and He just started talking about his life. It was very weird and random, but um I was like, okay, I'm just, you know, listening to everything and then you just kinda just started talking about him being gay like a lot and I think he was looking for he was looking for me to affirm it. Yeah. And it was a very interesting scenario because I never experienced that and um I was just like, well, I'm a believer, I'm a Christian. Um I I don't I think that homosexuality is it's a sin. And um Like I'm really convinced with the story 'cause it was a lot. And he just started crying. Yeah. He just he just started crying. Like first he was kinda going on and on about Like kind of how he thought like laws and everything needed to be more inclusive and this down the third and like even called his boyfriend and like his work on game from a Christian background and like uh just asking questions about things and I just kind of like I think once he saw it like oh I wasn't going to affirm it and um at the same time I wasn't like condemning him or you know behavior I just was like this is this is not um it's still a sinful life He just you just started crying and what if my regrets is I didn't stick around long enough 'cause like I was running really late for the bus fright when that happened Um and I just kind of take him a quick hug and I was like, What's the strange numbers? And uh I I texted him but he never like replied or anything, but I I didn't explain or give him a full gospel, I just gave him a part of it which was like, you know, this is a sin and you know, we're all born and conceived in sin, but it's it's sin God does not approve of it and like it's not um acceptable and it's like it's not I God's Because if you also think it's right, then my conscience is clear. And I think many of 'em are feeling there is an afterlife and I'm not gonna verbally say this, but where am I gonna go if these Christians are saying I'm going to hell or whatever, then I I need to feel okay that I will go to a better place. is that morality is determined democratically. If enough people believe it's right, it must be right, or at least it's right for you. But that's so dangerous. They could have said that last week. Yeah. Well they did. They did they exactly. Yeah. Um So unless we understand that we're created and we're accountable to our Creator and He's the definition of what is right and wrong, then we're going to be off in our own self-destructive track, inevitably. And sometimes he uses those consequences, those natural consequences, to wake people up But often it just gets them deeper and deeper into the same. Today they with this uh the homosexual and gender thing with they have uh org organize it as their uh uh their agenda. And what I hate about their agenda is the fact that they try to emphasize their flight with everything else Just like it used recently they were talking about in Qatar how uh the the people weren't being treated right who built you know for the Olympic And then they included the gay rights thing there also. Anyway. That's one of the reasons I asked that we all be praying for those around us, our culture, uh, because there's just so much deceit and and uh blindness going on that um yeah maybe the bright side is the darker it gets out there the brighter our light can shine. So let's pray that that's the case. Let's close the prayer.