Once again, this is Genesis 1 to 11, Foundations of Biblical Worldview. It's going to be over not just this quarter, but next quarter as well. Uh so learn today. So we're going to start out a little bit, uh there's still a little bit of introductory material I want to do because I didn't quite finish last time. I want to talk about uh the foundations of the gospel. I want to go right to the gospel and show how Genesis 1 to 11 are kind of a foundation for what we see in the gospel. Then we'll talk about the triumph of God and the fact that he was there from the beginning. um creating ex Milo. We'll talk about what that means. We'll talk about the Hebrew grammatical structure of particularly Genesis 11 and 1-2 and how there is No gap. There's no time marker between 1-1 and 1-2. We'll talk about the Hebrew grammatical structure of Genesis 1. uh writ large and especially the grammatical structure of how the days are described and how that grammatical context locks in ordinary 24 days. And then we'll talk about the theological disaster that ensues, but by any attempt to harmonize the man-made historical science of evolution with God's creation account in Genesis. So that's what we're gonna learn today. First I'll do a little Yes. Sorry. Yes. Yes, yeah, so uh yes, so he helped me out he closed and and I see the little numbers progressing. So there was uh some operator error last week with the recording, but no Now it looks like it's uh it's gone. So uh last time we went through the definitions of a worldview, I won't go back through these, but a worldview determines things like metaphysics, the nature of reality the epistemology, how we know what we know, and ethics, how we should live our lives. Those things are fixed by our worldview, how we see the world And our thinking for a biblical worldview, of course, is based on the scriptures in every area of life And as we look out at our culture, we see that things are, there's all these concerning things that we see. We see the manifestations of a secular worldview. But the underlying problem of course is the worldview. How they look at the world are are unsaved uh neighbors and co-workers and and friends and family members, they see the world without a biblical worldview and it leads to all these things, but it's the world underlying worldview that's the cause and we get this uh kind of tornado of all kinds of messy social issues out there. And the real anchor that we can have in that storm, of course, is the Holy Bible Really, it's a conflict between two religions. One is God, thus saith the Lord, the other is Did God really say? And that's been the case all the way back to the Garden And from Thus Saith the Lord, you get a Christian worldview. From Did God Really Say, you get a secular worldview, and all kinds of problems. As we go on, I'll touch on some other areas, things like biology and anthropology and geology and chemistry, not so much when we're talking about these early lessons about Genesis 1, but later on and how all of the True science, the observations that we can make of God's created world confirm the Bible. And if you start with the foundation of the Bible And the foundation of the Bible is Genesis 1 to 11, then you have the proper foundation and the proper answers for the problems we see in our world today. by grounding our thinking in every area on the scriptures. And so if we're going to found our thinking on the scriptures, we need to be able to understand the scriptures. And so We talked about some of the background information we need to have. We need to have this idea of how do we treat scripture, how do we view scripture? We view it as inerrant, uh, that it's the it's God breathed. And so uh God's word is truth. And so inerrancy and sufficiency, which means that we have everything we need in the Bible to be able to understand God's created world and to be able to live a life and service to him and everything that we need to be under be able to understand his plan of salvation. We talked about hermeneutics. uh how do we interpret the Bible, the science of uh interpreting, and that uh that we follow the traditional uh literal grammatical historical method. Which means we treat it, we figure out the kind of literature like Genesis is historical narrative, so we treat it like historical narrative. We don't treat it like allegory or poetry, unless it's allegory or poetry, like the Psalms And then Scripture is a united, unified story from Genesis to Revelation, and so we always want to compare Scripture to Scripture when we're interpreting context is critical. What's the context of a particular passage within that book and what's the context of the book within the entire corpus of scripture? And then we talked about exegesis versus isegesis. Exegesis is reading out of the text, letting the text teach us. Isegesis is reading into the text, coming to the text with a preconceived idea that I want to teach and then trying to get Scripture to support my idea. And so exegesis is really the only faithful method of allowing Scripture to teach us. And then we talked at the very end about a little bit about science. And so there are two main types of science. One is operational science. So all scientific observation is done in the present. So unless you have a time machine, you can't go back in time. You can only observe things in the present. Operational science is applying what you see in the present to the present. Uh historical science is uh is applying your observations in the present filtering through your worldview, philosophical assumptions, and making guesses about what happened in the past to make things look the way they are in the present So there's some danger in that, and there's some sleight of hand that secular scientists will use, uh, you know, don't you believe in evolution? It's just like gravity. Uh no, it's not just like gravity. I I can go into a lab right now and I can do tests on gravity. I cannot go into the lab right now and do tests on something that they say happened millions of years ago Uh it's not the same thing. Um and don't let anybody tell you that that it is. Um Okay So we talked about the author and the date, so Moses wrote this uh book, and so many of the events that we'll be talking about in Genesis happened many, many years before Moses wrote them down. Moses wrote a uh First five books of the Bible he wrote uh uh after the Exodus, so sometime in the middle of the 15th century B. C. , so around 1450 B. under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, there are uh structures in there that show that um it may be based on oral tradition or other information that was passed down from before, but it was Moses who wrote it all down as a singular book. And we talked about the fallacy of the uh documentary hypothesis. So the structure of the book is these tolodots. Uh this word the Hebrew word tolodot. Uh loose it means to bear. It comes from the word to bear and um it's s mostly used for uh attached to a person and it's the people that came from that person, the per people that that person bore, or the the descendants or the generations of after that person Of course the very first one is the Toledad of heaven and earth, so it's not applied to a person. And so uh generally and as a wide um uh understanding it's what came forth from. So what came forth from the heavens and earth and then each of these people. We talked about the fact that uh there is no division in the text between Genesis eleven and Genesis twelve. So If you look at Genesis 12 to 50, that's the story of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph. And nobody doubts that that's true his history, that that's a description of historical events. Nobody doubts that The doubt comes in Genesis 1 to 11, but if you look at the structure, there's no difference between how it's written. It's a historical narrative from Genesis 1 to Genesis 50, and there's no break At Genesis 11, but uh for some reason sometimes you get people that want to treat Genesis 1 to 11 different from Genesis 12 to 50, but there's no basis for that. in the text. And in fact, we see references in the whole rest of the Bible to events in Genesis 1 to 11 as if they're history. In fact we see arguments based on those events being history from Jesus and from Paul in particular. Yes. So um so there's um There are extra biblical sources that talk about Abraham, for example. And so um the it's very, very difficult to say that that's not It's more difficult for a secular person that's not approaching scripture as as divinely inspired to say, well, we have these other records of Abraham, so we have to believe this Bible thing about Abraham too But the events in Genesis 1 through 11 are less like that. There are not extra biblical sources that talk about Noah. uh and Cain and Abel and and the other people that are that are uh in Genesis one to eleven and so there is an opening I think or it's seen as an opening to view Genesis one to eleven as less than Historical. Yes, go ahead. I just wanted to understand that a little bit better. other sources even though flood accounts aren't so there are creation stories in other sources. Yes. That's right. And so um But what will happen in in secular literature is they'll they'll turn it on its head and they'll say that the Bible is a copy The Bible's record of Genesis 111 is a copy of these other ancient records. That these other ancient flood accounts came first and then the Hebrews uh latched on and made their own flood account, for example. And I think some of the premise that you had is that gets back to the worldview that that we need to knock down the Bible and its truth so that we can throw away other things that come from the the biblical worldview as well. Right, I think that's right. And and most especially accountability to a holy God. Um nobody wants that. Nobody wants to be accountable to a holy God. And any way to wriggle out of that is yes, go ahead, Gabe. So to add to that, so that would be the secular way of looking at things. The problem, which spoils my blood, is that there are believers who latch on to the secular perspective Because as some of the explicitly said it, we need to get the academic respectability of these secular scholars Uh and so we're gonna embrace the idea that Genesis one through eleven is a quote unquote myth, that it's not really telling a historical account, it's giving a theological Point, uh and so on and so forth. So there are believers who access evolution scientifically, they want the scientific uh support, uh they want want the secular Bible scholar support and so they'll embrace that mentality. as well. Yes, and there's a great example. I I heard with my own ears William Leg Craig call Genesis one to eleven mytho history. mytho history. So it's some sort of pseudo uh combination of myth and and history. And William Lane Craig is a well ex well respected Christian scholar. But he does not believe the historical account in Genesis 1 to 11. He calls it mytho history. Um and and it it leads to, as we'll see at end of class, I'll talk about some of the theological disasters that it leads to. Uh yes, go ahead Karen. The book was written and th that's kind of a late date, so that's probably how it's done thought for a tremendous amount of people Yeah, so um and we talked about last time the um the the um J E D P um uh documentary hypothesis. They they put uh uh the the compilation of Genesis between nine hundred and four hundred B C uh a thousand years after Moses actually wrote it. And the kind of secular or liberal scholars, even within the church, will will late date all kinds of things in the Bible. Yeah, much later than they were actually written. Uh okay, so uh let me get so that's uh that's uh review of last week. So now we're gonna be starting something new here. So somebody may ask, you may ask, well, shouldn't we just preach the gospel? You know, why the why why do we really have to bother so much with all of this uh other stuff, this Old Testament and especially Genesis You know, who really cares? Why shouldn't we just preach the gospel? So we're gonna talk about that a little bit. Uh so the gospel, the clearest, simplest uh uh uh Place where the gospel is contained is in uh 1 Corinthians 15. Paul's explaining the gospel. He specifically says, Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you. So that's a pretty good clue. Hey, the gospel's coming Paul says, this is the gospel. And he says this. He says, for I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received that Christ died for our sins. In accordance with the scripture, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, in accordance with the scriptures. So notice, in accordance with the scriptures, in accordance with the scriptures. So and when Paul's writing 1 Corinthians, what are the scriptures? It's the Old Testament. So there's no New Testament yet. I mean the New Testament documents are being written, but when he's talking about in the scriptures, he's talking about the Old Testament. So the Old Testament uh it Paul's making this point that this is what God has had planned all along from the Old Testament and it's clear from the Old Testament scriptures this is what it's what's supposed to happen. It's in accordance with the scriptures. Note also He appeared. After he rose from the dead, he appeared. He appeared. He appeared. He appeared. And so what the point Paul's making here is the gospel is actual historical events with eyewitness accounts. So the scripture gives us eyewitness accounts of actual historical events for the gospel That's important. That's important to know. But the question may come, uh well let me go let me do one more thing first. So uh the the rest of the story of course is um that uh if you confess with your mouth Jesus says, Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Romans 10. And for by grace you have been saved through faith. And but it's not of yourself, it's a gift of God, not as a result of works that no one would may boast, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. The what is you have been saved, the how is by grace through faith, and the why is for good works. That's the what how and why of salvation. And so We have this very clear presentation of the gospel. We know exactly what it is. But if and and so if you've been studying the Bible for a long time, this is so clear. Why don't we just preach the gospel? But what happens if you're preaching the gospel to an unbeliever and he asks you, well, who is this God you're talking about? And what is sin? And why do I need to be saved from it? um it becomes a little less simple then. And you have to go to other parts of scripture to be able to explain, well, who is this God? And what is sin? And where did it come from? And why do I need to be saved from it? And so that's why we need to have these foundations. Because when you're pre when you're presenting the gospel, the the the presentation of the gospel is very simple. Answering follow-up questions about what that means, what the parts of the gospel mean, well, that's a little bit more complex and requires some knowledge of the rest of Scripture. Um and so and and where this intersects with worldview is so worldviews involve fundamental questions. Things like who am I? The nature of mankind, anthropology. Where do I come from? Uh the question of origins. Who's in charge here? The rule maker or the sovereign? How should I live my life? What are the rules? Morality? And what happens when I die? What's the future? Eschatology. Does this outfit have a future? And so worldviews answer these sort of questions and these sort of um the fundamental questions uh we get a biblical worldview, many of these um get their start or have their foundation in Genesis 1 to 11. So in order to be able to have a biblical worldview and answer these kinds of questions from a biblical perspective, we have to have a good understanding of Genesis one to eleven. So when you're explaining the gospel and you get to the part where God raised them from the dead w and the and the unbeliever says, Well well, who's this God you're talking about? Well you can go you need to start in Genesis 1 to 11. Uh Eternal One, distinct from creation. powerful, personal. Well who is this man? Who who am I as a man and what's my relationship to God? Well you're a creature created to have a relationship with God, created in God's image, and therefore similar to God, but different from God, not God image of God, not God. What's the difference? How what's the distinction there? Male and female. Big issue right now in our in our society. Where d where do we get the idea of male and female? We get it from Genesis 1 to 11. And then of course we've we're going to get to this, but uh we're we're gonna do creation three lessons, we're gonna do uh Adam and Eve in the garden three lessons. So in the garden we have before the fall we have harmony with God, harmony with each other, harmony with the creation And then we have the sin cycle, Genesis 3 to 11. We have the fall of man with Adam and Eve. We have Cain and Abel in Genesis chapter 4. We have the flood. Genesis 6 through 8. We have the Tower of Babel in Genesis chapter 11. We have this cycle of sin over and over and over again, from the first sin all the way down to today. But where did it start? It started in Genesis chapter 3, and having an understanding of what of of where it came from, I think, is important to be able to explain the gospel. And the nature of sin, the fact that sin comes from our effort to dethrone God, to to be autonomous, to make uh to make ourselves the source of right and wrong, good and bad, true and false. And a covenant rebellion refusing the allegiance of the rightful king. That's where it comes from. That's the nature of sin. And it's important, I think, to be able to explain the nature of sin when you're explaining the gospel. And the consequences of sin. And we'll of course we'll get to this in Genesis chapter three. Alienated from God, damaged relations with one another. Death, of course, the non-human creation is curse, and we'll we'll start to talk about this today. And the creational task is burdened So Adam and Eve were given a task in Genesis 1. 31, the dominion mandate, which we'll get to also, and that task becomes much more difficult. because of sin and the consequences of sin. So with all of that as a background, we're going to spend the rest of class today. And also the next two weeks talking about the account of creation. Basically from Genesis 1. 1 to Genesis 2. 3. And so today we'll talk about the God of creation. We'll talk about the structure of the creation account and the days of creation Next week we'll get into the specifics of what was created each day and we'll we'll talk about the significance of the seventh day and then in part three of the creation account we'll focus on the pinnacle of God's creation, men and women. Created in God's image. Okay, so uh first we're going to make some observations So we're going to take a look at Scripture. We're going to compare Scripture with Scripture. So what does the whole story of Scripture say from Genesis to Revelation? And we're going to make some observations about our text in Genesis 1. And so it'll be helpful to have a Bible open with Genesis 1 as we go through this. And also the ability to flip from one place to another in description. Because we really do need to put this all into context. And so Here's the things we're going to talk about in so this scripture that we're addressing here, the creation account. First, we're going to talk about the fact that the triune God was already there. and had always been there before Genesis 1. 1. So Genesis 1. 1 starts in the beginning. Before that, God, the triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, was already there. And he created ex nielo, and we'll talk about what that means. Ex Nilo is out of nothing. Uh then we'll do this uh grammatical structure with no gap between one one and one two. We'll do the grammatical structure of how the Each day is constructed in the Hebrew language, and we'll talk about those theological disasters that ensue if we try to um read in Isogesus, man's ideas about the origins of the universe and try to try to force those into God's word. So the triumph of God first. So in the beginning, Berchit is the first uh Hebrew word in the Bible. It's got a prefix, it means beginning, and it's got a prefix of in, in beginning, and it means in Hebrew an absolute beginning. So in the beginning means in the beginning. The time started there. That's what it means. It means that's an absolute beginning of time. And that's well understood from all the early translations of the Bible, the Septuagint, which is an early Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament, the Vulgate, which is an early Latin translation of the Bible, the Targums, all of these things put forth this beginning as an absolute beginning. In other words, God's not re uh jigging or forming pre-existing stuff. This is an absolute beginning. In the beginning, there's nothing before that. Which is critical to our idea of this biblical doctrine of creation ex nilo. So what is creation ex nilo? It means first there was nothing and then there was something. So there was nothing, created out of nothing. God was there, but nothing else was there, and then he created. So no, there's no time. God spoke and it happened And so he didn't use any pre-existing matter or energy or anything else. God is first, all else is second, including things like time, space, matter, and energy. And so the basic meaning of the Hebrew word here is translated, created, it's bara, and bara implies that there was nothing and there was something. And in the Bible, this verb, the only subject that's ever used for this verb is God. So only God can barah. There's different words in Hebrew for created that people can create things like a potter can create a a pot, but it's a different Hebrew word, not this word bara. This word is reserved for God alone. uh creating out of nothing. It's also interesting that the um we'll we'll talk about this in a minute, that Elohim is a is a plural um noun and bara is a singular verb. So it's a plural noun with a singular verb. There's other passages in Scripture that talk about creation ex nihilo, Proverbs chapter 8, John chapter 1, Colossians chapter 1, Hebrews chapter 11, and we'll look at some of these scriptures here today. So yes, go ahead. Uh that's Elohim is plural, uh Yahweh is singular. Um so it's interesting in Exodus chapter six, uh Yahweh your Elohim is one Yahweh. So it uses both in Exodus chapter six, the Shema of Israel, uh Hero Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one. It's it uses both. It uses Yahweh your Elohim as one Yahweh. So uh singular, plural, singular. Do they know I'm absolutely unstupid? They probably do, but did they realize that thing So I I I I don't think so. I don't think uh the so uh you know the the the the Jewish tradition is God there's no persons there's no trinity in in in Jewish theology. And so even in spite of the fact that Elohim is plural, they uh they didn't catch on Uh and so that that's sometimes the case, you know, th you know, most I don't think most uh Jewish Most Jewish scholars didn't uh didn't recognize um well they didn't recognize the Prophecies about the Messiah and the fact that they were being fulfilled right in front of their eyes in Jesus. Uh mo you know their their kind of their spiritual eyes were blinded. Um and so th this is another case I think of that that th that God was revealing something that's you know ki kind of we look back and we can see oh yeah there's a plural uh that's a plural Elohim right there in the creation. But uh no, I don't think they recognized it. So yeah, and so that's another um uh it's a good point. So spiritual truths are spiritually discerned. And so um you know it's it's easy to be um you know s self satisfied or or kind of arrogant when we look back on those ignorant fools that didn't realize but You know, it's the same for us. You know, we we wouldn't realize spiritual truths without the Holy Spirit either. You know, I I would I would not be saved without uh the Holy Spirit opening my eyes and Uh in Ephesians two we learn that we're saved by grace through faith, and that faith is not of ourselves, it's a gift of God. And so if you're not given that that gift, well then you you wallow in ignorance. And so I think that's the case here too. Good question. So uh creation ex Nilo. So uh what does it mean? Uh why is it important? Uh so creation out of n nothing uh bolsters the notion that God's necessary existence is the only being. He's the only one that uh is absolutely essential. He cannot not be, in other words So all that exists except God Himself is necessarily contingent on God. So God is the only being that doesn't need a cause. He was always there in logic, we say that everything that had a beginning has a cause But God had no beginning, so he doesn't need a cause. He didn't have a cause. But everything else has a cause and uh the universe, the creation of the universe, that causes God. And so that's what Creation Ex Nilo kind of emphasizes, this idea of who God is and the fact that he's a uh he's not contingent on anything. So, and of course God had freedom to create or to not create. Uh w the creation is not necessary to God. God had all that he needed in the Trinity. So the Trinity, God, Father, and Holy Spirit uh e existent from uh from the beginning, from before the beginning, from uh you know, from e co eternal, the three of 'em. Um they didn't need us. Um but they created us nonetheless. And we'll talk about why did God create? Um well he created for his glory. Um and so the cosmos and all that is in it are neither mandatory nor a mishap. God freely chose to create humans and a habitat Distinct from Himself. And the doctrine of creation out of nothing underscores the reality that God alone is omnipotent. A God who creates out of eternally existing matter is less than omnipotent. The sovereign of the universe who spoke and all that has leaped into existence is different from somebody that had to have stuff there to uh to work on. And I I got uh I got these particular points from Hank Hanagraph. Yes, yeah, yeah. So that's right. So and and we get a little bit of uh taste of that in the Psalms, the heavens declare the glory of God, for example. And so what's the purpose of the creation? To give glory to God. What's our purpose? To give glory to God. So the Westminster Confession says, what's the chief end of man? The chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. So that's That's right. So so Doug's point is well taken. Just give glory to God. That's uh that's our purpose. Uh that's why we were created. That's why the whole universe was created to to give glory to God. With the um the whole idea of God being the only one who's without cause gives us a logical reason also for It satisfies our logic about causality. Right. And and it also helps us see that who God is, a better picture of who God is, in that that He is the only one without a cause, causeless. And that gives us to the idea that God doesn't change. Yes. And and the physics teaches us the immense power that it would take to create something. Energy. The stuff that you can talk about. Energy and matter to the extent that you know they there's laws of nature, right, that say you can't create matter. Yeah, the the first law of thermodynamics says that uh matter and energy cannot be created Um you can change matter to energy and energy to matter, but you can't create out of nothing either one of them. Yes. Uh right. And but God is. But God did that. Yeah. And it's like power. Yeah, and and so there's some very fascinating uh mental gymnastics that uh secular scientists will go through to try to get around this uh causeless cause. Um the current uh the current theory of for the Big Bang is that there was a quantum vacuum And there was a fluctuation in the quantum vacuum, and then there was everything out of this fluctuation in the quantum vacuum. But the but the and so they say and they and they define the quantum vacuum as nothing. I was gonna say But a quantum vacuum is not nothing. A quantum vacuum has properties. Where do those properties come from? Um so they they there's some mental gymnastics there, but they still can't get around the causeless cause. Um yeah. So yeah, matter can't be uh created or destroyed. It can be converted from one thing to another, but it's it's going to be one thing or the other. Uh and you know the and the second law of thermodynamics says that the useful energy is going down, there's uh uh it's entropy goes up, and so the usable energy in the universe is always going down. And so If the universe was really billions of years old, there'd be no usable energy left. So it that points to the fact that there had to be a beginning. And so that's the Kalam cosmological argument. That there had to be a beginning, so there had to be something there to cause the beginning. Okay. That's a real general argument that doesn't give us the specifics of who God is. It says that there had to be someone there to start everything. So the Trinity. So we we talk about the Trinity. I'm not going to do a deep dive into the Trinity today because we don't have time. But we we the Bible um describes a triune God, God the Father, God the Fon, Son, God the Holy Spirit, of one essence. uh co-equal, co-eternal, having all the same attributes, but not the same person, uh not the same function and role. Um and so that Trinity of course was present from the beginning. So they're co eternal, so they had to all have been there from the beginning. And in the beginning so Genesis 1 uh 1 and 2 says in the beginning God, that's Elohim there, created the heavens and the earth, the earth was formless and void, and darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was moving over the surface of the waters. And so you have Elohim, God there, but then we also have a description of the spirit of God there. And then in the New Testament, we have a couple of different places that attest to the fact that Jesus was there for the creation Colossians 1, 15 and 16, He, Jesus, is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, for by him all things were created. both in heavens in the heavens and on the earth, visible and invisible, thrones, dominions, rulers, authorities, all things have been created through him and for him. So he was there. He was creating With God the Father, God the Holy Spirit, right there in Genesis 1, God the Son was there. That's what Paul's telling us there in Colossians 1. Same thing in John 1. John 1 is a parallel to the creation account. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And so we have God the Father there, we have this word. Well, what is this word? He was in the beginning with God. All things came to being through him. So he's the creator too, this word. And apart from him nothing came into being that has come into being. In him was life, and the life was the light of man. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it And then if we skip down to verse 14 and John 1, and the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory. Glory is of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth For his fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace, for the law was given through Moses, grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. So this is a clear description of the fact that Jesus was there. He was creating God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, the triune God was there creating in Genesis 1-1. Very clear from these New Testament passages. So let's take a look. Let's drill down onto the Hebrew grammar for Genesis 1. 1 and 1. 2. And so when it comes to um either secular ideas or even, as Gabe was mentioning, ideas within the church um that uh we we need to get millions of years here into the Bible. One of the first efforts to do that was to propose a gap called the gap theory, a gap between Genesis 1. 1 and 1. 2. That so we have in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth, and then there's a big giant time gap between 1-1 and 1-2 where we can fit in all these millions and millions of years So let's take a look at that. So we'll yes, go ahead. And somebody um somewhere somebody um Oh yes. Yeah, there's lots of uh um scholarship on the gap theory. There's two parts there's the hard gap and the soft gap. Uh most of the hard gap uh it's been I think mostly abandoned for soft gap or soft gap is the bigger emphasis now than hard gap. Hard gap is that between Genesis one one and one two you had uh the rebellion of Satan, the fall of Satan. A flood called Satan's flood which destroyed it by which God destroyed everything. So yeah, we'll we'll get that to in a second. So they they've got all these events between one one and one two that there's no that there's not in the scripture. They've just read they've just kind of conjured all these events between Genesis 1-1 and 1-2. Um and th all all this arose starting in the 1700s when secular geology said that things looked old. And then there was this turning of gears within the theological circles to, oh, we've got to scramble and we've got to fit millions of years in because the secular geologists are telling us there's millions of years there. Um and so this was one of the efforts to get millions of years there is to propose a gap. And there's a hard gap and a soft gap. But If you look at the Hebrew structure, so 1-1 and 1-2, you can actually look at another place in Scripture, Jonah 3. 3. So Jonah 3. 3, so right before Jonah 3. 3, so in Jonah 3. 2, it says, Jonah went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Jonah 3. And then after that it says, now Nineveh was a great city. Now Nineveh was city great. That's the Hebrew there. Nobody proposes that. Jonah went to Nineveh and had to wait around for a million years for Nineveh to become a great city. But it's exactly the same Hebrew structure. as Genesis 1. 1 to 1. 2. And 1-2 says, now the earth was formless and bo and void. And it's the exact same Hebrew construction. Now Nineveh was, now the earth was. Exact same Hebrew grammatical structure. And then there's a description. Nineveh was a great city. The earth was formless and void. So that's um And so the grammatical structure everywhere else in the Bible is there's no time gap there. And there's a reason why there's no time gap there. Genesis 1-2 is what's called a Vav distinct uh disjunctive. And so uh Vav is a Hebrew letter and it's um uh it can be attached to a verb or a noun. If it's attached to a verb, it is a time sequence. This happened, and then this happened, and then this happened. When it's attached to a noun, it's different. It's not that's a valve consecutive when it's attached to a verb. When it's attached to a noun, it's called a vow disjunctive And disjunctive means the narrative stops and gives a description of how things are in the previous verse. And so in Jonah 3. 3, Jonah went to Nineveh, and it's a Bob disjunctive, and it's a description of what things were like when Nineveh when Jonah got to Nineveh. It was a great city. In Genesis 1-1, we have God created the heavens and the earth, and then you get a Vob disjunctive, and the earth was formless and void. And it's a description of what the earth was like in Genesis 1-1. When God created heavens and earth, it was formless and void. There's not a timestamp there. And it's very particular to the Hebrew grammar, this vow disjunctive. It means that there's no time stamp there. It means that it's describing things. as they already exist. So this is where the word and, this vav, is followed by a nonverb in the original Hebrew text. So the phrase and the earth is a vab disjunctive because the earth is a noun. It's not a verb. And so it's not a Vav consecutive. If it was a VOV consecutive, you could theoretically try to sell some sort of gap theory that there was another timestamp there. But It's not above consecutive, it's above disjunctive, because the earth is a noun, not a verb. Yes. We're talking about this connection from verse one down, right? And we just finished talking about everything as Nilo. Yep. I get the verse one and it I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I get the verse two and it tells me, hey, there's an earth there already So it's what it's saying is in um before verse one there's nothing. Verse 1 1 God created the heavens and the earth. So now there's something there. Right. Verse 2 describes what that something looks like. That something is formless and void. Because God hasn't formed that something into what it's going to be. Alright, cool. Because now I've always thought, hey, cool, day day one, God said let's what you like Yes, we're gonna yeah, we're gonna get there. And we haven't gotten there yet. But that means that that the first one is before day one Uh no so no, verse one is the beginning of day one. Okay, good. Alright, I just want to make sure because you know in some ways I go, oh well I see where this I see where this conf And I'm trying to make sure that I reconcile what was there before, when was this happening? Because I always thought this creation thing didn't really start. You know, be the confusion that's followed in my head here has been that creation starts when God said Right in verse three. That's when creation starts. No, so but I'd like where you're going because you're asserting no no no no creation starts in verse one, even though God's not speaking Right. Yeah, so so God in in verse one we have God created the heavens and the earth. So he made stuff. So before one one there was there was God only and there was no stuff. No time, space, matter, or energy. No time. We've got to wrap our hands around that. Time, space, matter, and energy. And so what what that means, the implication of that is that God is outside time, space, matter, and energy. So he he couldn't create something if he needed to be made of it. Right? So he needs to be not time, space, matter, and energy for him to create time, space, matter, and energy. So he is outside time space matter and energy. So outside of time, that's very difficult for a human being that's trapped in time to wrap our mind around. But also he's not matter or energy. Um he is a different substance than ma than space matter or energy. Uh but yes, he so there was nothing, including no time, space, matter, or energy, and then Genesis one one God created the heavens and the earth, made stuff. And in Genesis 1-2, we get a description of what that stuff looked like. It was formless and void. So that's what 1-2 is telling us. That stuff that he made in Genesis 1. 1, there's a description of it. It was formless and void. Tohu va bohu. Formless and void. So Genesis 1. 2 is happening at the same time as Genesis 1. It's just a description. It's clarifying the conditions that existed on earth when God first created. It's providing background detail for 1-1 and does not describe something that happened after 1-1. That's the key. In the Hebrew grammatical structure, there's no time sequence between Genesis 1-1 and Genesis 1-2. Yeah, very good. So there are we'll see that there are Vav consecutives within days where he does one thing and then does another thing, and that's a Vav consecutive. He does things. And that s stuff there is over time then. And then we're told how much time that was. It was an evening, it was morning, it was one day. That was what he was doing during that one day. And so that's what that's the pattern that's established here in one through five. It's one day. There's an evening, a morning, one day. And that's how it is at the end of each day. There's a description of what he created, and then there is this um this wrapping up by saying that stuff that we I just talked about happened in one day, an evening and a morning one day. And we'll talk about that grammar here in just a second. But I want to do one more scripture. So I want to go to Exodus 2011. And so Exodus 2011 is part of the Ten Commandments. So Exodus chapter 20 is the Ten Commandments. And uh so who wrote the Ten Commandments? God did with his own finger on the tablets, right? So this these words are written by the finger of God. Then written down by Moses in the book of Exodus, but written by the finger of God. And God says, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth. That's Genesis 1. 1, right? Genesis 1-1 says heavens and earth. And the sea and all that is in them and rested. So it talks about the heavens and the earth and all the rest of the stuff God made in six days. God said that he made all that stuff in six days, including the heavens and the earth that we get in Genesis 1-1, right? Genesis 1-1, and all the rest of the stuff. God says that he did that in six days in Genesis 2011. And God wrote that with his own finger. And which came first? What was written down first? Genesis 20. 11 or Genesis 1. 1? Genesis twenty eleven, written down first, right? Because Moses wrote Genesis after that. Wrote it down after that. So Genesis twenty Exodus twenty eleven comes first, and God said he created the heavens and the earth, which is what we're going to get in Genesis 1-1, and all the rest of that stuff, and he said he did it in six days. And so there can't be a gap between one one and one two between jet heavens and earth and all the rest of the stuff, because God has said in Genesis twenty eleven that he did all that stuff, including heavens and earth, which we get in Genesis one one, and he did it in six days. And so Genesis uh Exodus twenty eleven really eliminates any possibility of any gap theory. Um Yeah. Can I just restate what you said for the for the sake of clarity? Sure. Yeah. Please do. It's not that you were unclear, it's just it was a concept that's like, oh I've never thought about that before From the perspective of progressive revelation, as God is revealing Himself to mankind, uh God revealed, or God wrote, as you said, Exodus 20 year the Ten Commandments with his finger to Moses. And sometime later, we don't know exactly when, God revealed uh inspired Moses to write Genesis and then the rest of uh the account there. So historically God told Moses, Exodus twenty, before God told Moses the content of Jesus Right. Yes. Well he was telling if he read through the narrative, he was told in various times that write down Right, yes. And so yeah, puntered by the Holy Spirit, he wrote when he was told to write. Right. Uh right. He wrote it down when he was he was told to write that. So the the last thing I want to do, well the second or last thing I want to do is talk about the the structure of these days. How is it written in the Hebrew of these days? And so The word Yom is day in Hebrew, and it can mean three different things. It can mean a 24-hour period of time. It can mean just a period of daylight. as opposed to darkness. Uh and it can mean an extended period of indefinite period of time, uh usually sometime in the past, but it could be sometime in the future. But the same exact thing is true of modern English. So, for example, if you look at this sentence, in my grandfather's day, it took 21 days to cross the country, traveling only during the day. So the English word day can mean various things, but once you put it into a sentence It locks in one particular meaning in Hebrew or in English. And so in my grandfather's day, what does that mean? Is that did my grandfather only live for 24 hours? No. It's my grandfather's day. It's an indeterminate, indefinite period of time in the past. It took 21 days to cross the country. What is that? That's 21, 24 hour periods. And it can't mean long periods of time, and it can't mean anything else. It's just 24-hour periods. And then traveling only during the day, what does that mean? That means during the daylight. And so to so it fixes, when you put it into a sentence, it fixes one particular meaning. And and to pretend otherwise is an error, a fallacy called an unwarranted expansion of an expanded semantic field. And so Let me explain what that means. So an expanded semantic field is a word that can have multiple meanings. And so dei or yom in Hebrew is an expanded semantic field. It can have more than one meaning. But once you put it into a context, to pretend that it can have multiple meanings in that context is an unwarranted expansion of an expanded semantic field. You can't do that. That doesn't work in grammar. You can't pretend that once you've put it into a sentence, it can mean all those other things. And it's the same thing in our Hebrew days. And so we can look at the rest of Scripture, and there's all kinds of uses of the Hebrew word Yom throughout Scripture. Every time it's a day plus a number, which occurs 410 times in the scripture, it always means an ordinary day. Every time it's got evening and morning without day, which occurs 38 times, it always means an ordinary day. Anytime there's evening or morning with the word day, which occurs 23 times, it always means an ordinary day. Anytime you have night with day, which occurs 52 times, it always means an ordinary day. And so you can see the pattern. You can see that this is how Hebrew grammar works. When you put it with day and night or evening and morning, or as you put it with a number, it always means an ordinary day just like it is in Genesis chapter 1. And so if we look at the Hebrew structure of Genesis 1 5, for example, which is the end of the first day, of course you read Hebrew from right to left, and was evening and was morning, day one. So that's how Genesis 15 wraps up what happened on day one. Everything that happens from Genesis 1 1 up to 1-4 is the stuff that happened, and then God wraps it up by saying, and was evening, and was morning, day one And the same thing in Genesis 1. 8, N was evening, N was morning, day second. Notice there's a little, there's a subtle difference there Uh for the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, uh fourth and fifth day, it's second day, third day, fourth day. Like the positions in a race, second, third, fourth, fifth. But it's not like that for the first day. It doesn't say first day. It says one day. And why does it say that? It says one day because God defined what a day is there on the very first day. An evening and a morning. That's what makes up day one or one day. And then after that it's second day, third day, fourth day. So the first one is the definition of what a day is, and it's in it's a different structure. It's a It's one day, not first day, in Genesis 1. 5. But after that, in Genesis 1. 8, Genesis 113, Genesis 119, it's second, th The force And was evening, and was morning, day fourth. And day fifth, and was evening, and was morning, day fifth And then we get another change when we get to the sixth day. Genesis 131, and was evening, and was morning, day the sixth. There's a Hebrew article there. The sixth day. Not just sixth day, but the sixth day. So that that uh emphasizes that something special happened on the sixth day that was different from what was happening on the First, second, third, fourth, fifth day, we get the sixth day. And so what happened on the sixth day? We get the creation of man. And so the Hebrew structure tells us that something special, something different happened on day six than what's happening on all these other days. And that's something special is the creation of man. And then we also get um in Genesis 2 the the rest of the creation account where we get that day seven And finished God on day the seventh, his work which he had made. And so we also get the article in the seventh day, because that's special too So the sixth day, and the seventh day are special day, get the article, the sixth, the seventh. And he rested on day the seventh. And so the Hebrew structure tells us the definition of a day in 1. 5, and it sums up what happened on that day for each one. So if we go back to Uh Genesis 15, 18, 113, 119, it's it's at the end of what has happened on that day. Um and so that's what happened on the second day, the third day, the fourth day, and we're gonna get into the specific of what was made on each day uh next week, but this is the Hebrew structure that uh the way it's written with the evening and morning, the way it's written within a number is the Hebrew grammar grammatical structure that locks Yeoman as a twenty-four hour day. Just like in the English example When you put it into a context, and this is the very specific context which makes sure that everybody knows that it's a 24-hour day. So it can't be long ages. The the day age doesn't fit into the Hebrew structure. The gap theory doesn't fit into the Hebrew structure, and the day age theory doesn't fit into the Hebre Okay, so that gets us up through uh the theological disasters that ensue if we try to read it any other way. And so uh not only is does it not fit the Hebrew structure, but there are also consequences if you try to read millions of years into the creation account. So uh the the the most important one is In Genesis one thirty one, God says that uh he looks at his creation and he says everything's very good. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And so here we have this perfect, perfectly good uh holy God and He's made these things and He calls them very good. And if we're to believe that there are millions of years hidden somewhere in there, whether it's a gap or it's day age or whatever, what that does is it brings the fossil record all before the fall. So the fossil record i is uh it records death and disease and and suffering. I mean there's fossil um dinosaur bones with evidence of cancer, for example, and tumors. And so uh what you have to believe is that this holy God made this world and it was filled with death and disease and pain and suffering and cancer and tumors and God said that was very good. That's what you have to believe if you're gonna put millions of years somewhere in that Genesis account because if you put it in there, w where's where where do we find the fall? We find the fall in Genesis three. And so If you put try to put millions of years into Genesis 1, you've brought the that fossil record into uh before the fall. So before sin, then you would have all this death and disease and pain and suffering and cancer and tumors Uh that's a big theological problem. Uh that's a big issue. Uh the the Bible also describes death as an enemy Um and so um y y you'd also have to believe that um that this enemy was around and God said it was very good. This this enemy, the thing that the rest of scripture describes as an enemy and the last enemy to defeat. Uh well God's saying that that's all very good. Um and so uh 1 Corinthians 15, for example, says that death is the last enemy that will be abolished is death. And so Um Romans 818 describes this and and so death of course is you know you you may argue well death is just human death. But In Romans 8, uh the curse, the the results of the fall involved the entire creation. Uh the anxious longing of the creation waits eagerly for the revealing of the sons of God, for the creation was subjected to fail futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery to corruption. So the the the creation is in slavery to corruption All these things that we see in the fossil record, death, disease, that's slavery to corruption. And in Romans 8, Paul directly ties that to the fall And so if you a if you do anything to add those millions of years before the fall, you're saying that God thinks that all that slavery to corruption of his creation is very good. And that doesn't make sense. That does not make theological sense. So that last enemy is death. Paul's saying the creation is eagerly waiting for the future glorious day when his children uh will become what they were always meant to be. So we are created to glorify God and enjoy him forever. And someday we will glorify God and enjoy him forever Uh but that's not what the world looks like right now. Um and so that's what uh Paul's saying there in in uh Romans chapter eight. Uh he's explaining that the entire universe is held under the curse, uh, and it's eagerly longing for the day uh of the liberation of God's children, this uh the second coming of Christ uh described in Revelation chapter. twenty-two, no longer will there be any curse. Uh Revelation chapter twenty-two. And so this order of how things have happened, that God created and it was very good. Then there was a fall, and the fall caused the curse not only of people but of the entire creation. Um that's what the Bible teaches. Um and then in Revelation you have the new heavens and the new earth, and there's no longer any death, there's no pain, there's no suffering, there's no guilt, there's no shame, there's no disease, there's no suffering. All those things are done away with. But if you try to put all that stuff before the fall, then y you have things out of order from how God describes what he has done and what he is planning to do. So, uh, we're just about out of time. So what did we learn today? We learned uh we talked about the foundations of the gospel in Genesis 1 to 11. We talked about the triang God was already there at creation, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit that He created ex Nilo We talked about the Hebrew grammatical structure of 1-1 and 1-2, the fact that it's a bab disjunctive and there's no time gap between 1-1 and 1-2 in the Hebrew grammatical structure. We talked about the Hebrew structure of the description of the evening and the morning one day, clearly showing from the grammatical structure that Yom in this context means 24-hour day. And we talked about the fact that you get a theological disaster if you try to stuff millions of years into the Genesis 1 account, the account of creation. Uh yes, Professor Gabe. um point out uh something that um is made clear by the the ending there how you were connecting the problem of line I have not seen I haven't read every last thing that people have read you know, to promote evolution and whatnot from a personal perspective and other gap areas and whatnot, whatever else. But I have not seen anyone Take seriously the Rust description. There's such a heavy focus on how can we explain away the six days of the of creation that there's no focus given on even something as simple as First Chronicles where the genealogy goes back to Adam or Luke. What is it? two or three and the genealogy goes back to Adam. Um and so you know that's just something that I I think is helpful for for all of us to be aware of that the scripture is so consistent with itself Uh that we don't just look at our interpretation of Genesis one and that that's the only evidence there is. No, there's a there's a a wealth of biblical True, said it's a hundred percent consistent, knowing consistency, but with those who try to undermine Genesis one to eleven They find themselves at odds with a massive amount of scripture. Real world implications of bad theology uh e within the church and outside the church. So um not to go on too much of a tangent, but uh Hitler's book Mein Kampf Um it's got the German word for um uh that's used in um in in evolution. The uh the German word um uh for natural selection. The the way that natural selection is done in German is over and over and over and over again in Main Kampf. Um in the English translation of Mein Kampf they use something a little bit different to so it do it doesn't come out if you look at the English translation. But in the German translation, it's really clear that Hitler's talking about Darwinian evolution and him helping it along. That's what he's talking about. He's talking about helping natural selection along. Uh so it has consequences, yes. Uh if you believe the bad ideas have bad consequences. Yeah. Okay, any other questions? Sir. He said and and I love this idea that God created time, space, matter, and energy And and I look at this and I go, okay, God created the heavens and the earth. I see space, I see matter going on. And I see when God says created light, I see Well, okay, that's energy. But but then I I it's not as clear here about when time gets created. Yeah, so we talked about that in the beginning and that Hebrew construction is an absolute beginning. It means that there was absolutely nothing before that. And so it's an absolute timestamp of there was no time before that. Now here's the beginning and time starts from there. Which is so cool. And uh supports ideas that are wrapped up in observational science about how and theories that that are in physics about how time and matter and space are intrinsically linked to one another. Yes. You can't have you can't have space and matter and leave out time. Yeah, so yeah, the current current theories in s in physics is that it's time they describe it as time space. Not not time and space, but time space. Yeah. And matter and energy are length, and so time space are length, matter and energy are length in in physics, yeah, in modern physics. Good point. Uh any other questions before we wrap it up? All right, let's uh let's let's close the prayer