Finish up with the Abrahamic covenant. And I'd like to get into the Mosaic. Um this is typically not a uh covenant you look at uh if you study uh most eschatology which end times. Most of these the covenants are studied and it looks forward to the end times. Where is God's program going and they look again to you know, what what's the clothes? What's the pointing to? Mosaic typically is not in the studies. If you look at I've uh given you some uh references, uh Pentecost book, uh Things to come, uh he doesn't deal with it. Uh uh Ben Ware, understanding end time problems Most most don't. They don't uh it uh I am using this based uh w we'll get into this uh one again in the mosaic, but uh again it's based on these journal articles and uh I I actually Actually I I think we're overlooking something when we don't look at mosaic because I think that's part of our problem. How does the law well you know, w we're confused uh how does the law work? What happened to the law, do we abandon the law? And some of those questions we'll we'll get into. not really they're not really nice simple answers to these questions. Uh but I I think there is a a general uh uh answer for it and and again i it comes with uh what ha what do we take from that law and bring to you today? And and that's always the the stumbling block with us. Um but w what we're finishing up with today is uh this is a sum And I apologize. Blame it on the women's conference. It's a bad it's a poor excuse. Um I did not get the notes posted until very late. Matter of fact it w I was gonna do it last night and forgot I went over 'em, but I did didn't post it. I did post them this morning. Um because I I what I did was I gave uh I gave an addendum. This is a list I have in in the uh Abrahamic uh covenant notes I gave you, which you already should have. So what I did was I said, okay, I'll take and and I'll uh do an addendum where so you don't have to look up all the scripture references. I believe it's this one. So what I did was in this addendum is I went ahead and printed out the scriptural references. Makes it easier, right? Instead of flipping back and forth in your Bible 'cause you know, I always start off looking up all the references and I'm going, ah, it takes too much time So let's go over it real quick. And again, what we're doing, what do you and uh this is a uh list that I've uh combined from a couple of different people. Um you'll you'll see it uh uh uh a guide uh I've quoted to you uh uh Fruchtenbaum I think is how you pronounce it. Uh he did that Israel ology book. He also did a a a paper that I I quoted. Um he has a different list. His list is a little more uh uh is a is a little long longer than some of the other ones. Pentecost uh actually quotes somebody else who lists all these provisions. And I say that just because remember, when we come over these lists and we come up these are what we call theology. So We're taking the scriptures, we're interpreting it, and then so we have these um outlines or these these lists for things. Remember this these are somewhat subjective, right? I mean it it's it's people's ideas, but it is based on the on the facts, right? So having said all that, number one, these and think about these lists, okay, it's like this is what Abraham what was spoken to him. And think about not only that, but think about the progression, what was promised 'em. And and really th again all All this was future when it uh now obviously um let me get my brain working here. Moses wrote this, right? So we know that this is inspired. This is w this is what God spoke to Abraham. Okay? And and think about that. We're we're if we were liberals we'd be going, Well, Moses wrote this, he just saying that he you know, he's editing this and he's giving us No, this is we know because of of our the spirit with inside of us that we know that God had told us to Abraham in advance. So, number one, he told him he was gonna be a great nation, right? Uh this was y you all should probably know. Um it's Genesis twelve two, right? I will make you a great nation, I will bless you, make your name great. He says it again in thirteen sixteen. Uh uh so Remember, this is a time element. He's he's he's given information to Abraham and he he's expanding on this information. Uh and and this isn't a covenant covenant here per se. In other words, uh he doesn't say Bereat, this is a covenant, uh but but it is a promise and God's word is good, right? I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth so that anyone can number them as the dust of the earth. So he's gonna make them a covenant. great nation. He's gonna increase uh his people. Then your descendants can uh uh can also be numbered, right? If you can number it all that. Um fifteen five, he he does it again. uh look towards the heaven, count the stars, be able to count them. So shall your descendants be. Again I do this just to and this is something that you really need to sit down when you get some time, think through this uh and think through, okay, these are time frames. These these are coming later. Uh a and he's reassuring him. He's also adding some details through this. We'll see this in in in these different promises. was ninety-nine years old. This is just before he's he's gonna have uh the child, right? Um uh I am God Almighty, walk before me, be blameless, I will establish my covenant between you and me, I will multiply you exceedingly. I'm not going to read these. Again, I put them down for your edification. Land promise, again, in Genesis 12, 1. Go for it from your country, from your relatives, your father's house, to the land which I will show you. Twelve seven. Okay. Uh we have uh another it uh we assume it's a it's another time period where he's talking to Abram here. He the Lord appeared to Abram, right? So it sounds like another appearance. Uh this is after uh the first three verses, right? Twelve one through three, which we spent a lot of time on. To your descendants I will give this land. Right? He built an altar there. Okay, he believed. And again, we talked about that. Remember uh Abraham believed God and we talked about that. It wasn't just that one time. His faith was all the way through. And even after uh when he offered up Isaac, his d Abram demonstrated his faith. And and and that's what we're uh that's what uh commentators say uh really the Lord's talking about there. H his collective faith. His He was practicing faith. Um again, Genesis thirteen he he he tells him about the land. We just kind of read that. 1370, rise. He took tells them to walk through the land. And it's kind of a way of saying, look, whatever you walk through, this is what you're gonna get. It's uh you know, it's uh you know, actual picture, word picture uh uh Uh again in seventeen. A Abram's blessed. Okay. Uh we have the original one, uh the the first one in Genesis twelve two. He's gonna bless you. He says, I will bless you Again, I don't just for time I don't want to read through all these. Abraham will be will um uh have a great name. Okay? And again As you as we you take your time and you think through this, this is all the things God is giving him. And this is all f really future, right? Um, I will make you uh you a great nation, I will bless you, make your name great. We talked about the contrast with that. Remember, uh uh uh Tower of Babel, right? They want to make a name for themselves. Abram will be a blessing to others. I will bless you, the one who curses you. you have occurred. Um these seem very close. Uh those who bless him will be blessed. So Abraham will be a blessing to people, but uh again he he he looks at it from the perspective of uh those who bless Abraham will get a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, right? 12. 3. Also those who curse them will be cursed. All the nations blessed, Gentile blessings. Um, this one is kind of p particular. He says it in different ways and you could you could uh take uh the blessing to all the nations even from uh the Genesis one through three. But in this one, look at this all in your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed because you have obeyed my voice. Um you could project that, uh uh Revelation chapter thirteen. Every uh you have purchased with your blood, and you get a chance to read that. Revelation uh chapter five, verse thirteen, I think it is. Um could be wrong. have to look it up. Um but anyway he's talking about he's gonna bless everybody, every tongue, tribe, nation. Right? So uh you know we we we see this is all future and and Got his um It's actually uh Revelation five, nine through ten. Verse ten. You have made no no nine. You were slain, purchased for God with your blood, every tribe, tongue, nation and people group. So you're gonna have every people group, he he says, you're gonna have representatives of every people group there. And this is fi Abraham, he the blessing from Abraham is she we're seeing the threat. It's just continuing. He's gonna fulfill what he said he's gonna do. Um Abraham receives a son from Sarah. Uh written down one through four that's uh uh one of the references but uh seventeen nineteen he tells him specifically, remember uh uh Abram told he's gonna have a child there and he goes, Oh, but I want you to bless uh Ishmael and he says He says, Well I will bless him but uh but he says, But no, Sarah your wife will bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac, and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant for his descendants after him. Again, remember, just because uh the blessing comes and the seed comes through a specific line and he's and we tend to th w we have to think kind of from God's perspective. not that we really can in a way. It's it's it's you know, but we have to see God's gonna this is God's plan. He's not really telling us well he is telling us i here it's gonna be uh the seed is gonna come to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. But after that, you know, he he gives us general areas of Satan did not know back then actually who the seed was going to be, so he killed He he tries to wipe out the Jewish nation. You see this over and over again. But it's going to he the seed is going to come through this line is what is is the information that he's telling us. And it it's going to have happen. Um I I'll I'll leave it at that. We'll we'll get into some of that when we look at where I was going with uh Mosaic Covenant Abraham told uh they're gonna be in Egypt in bondage. Again, we know Moses wrote this, but he this is what he told Abram back then. He said d you know, that this is before he had his first son. They're going down to Egypt. They're gonna be there 400 years. He telling the plan Let me let me work through this real quick and then we'll start drawing a conclusion. Other nations will come from Abram, right? As for me, uh You'll be the father of a multitude of nations. Not necessarily saved nations, right? Name change. Abram to Abraham. Uh I was asked last week about Sarah. You know, it's funny, I I've read this before. I don't know why I can't remember it, but Sarah. Did anybody look at that by any chance? What is Ceramine. It's princess. And you don't make a lot about this? Well, one commentator wrote, Sarah, um The other thing and i the it's a little vague, but I mean it's i it's tedious, but it the it we're research uh you know it's kinda like L in a name, Noel or S Israel. You know, you see God in there. I, uh, the commentator made a point was, uh a lot of Chaldean deities ended in this I ending. You know, I I don't want to push it too far, how how how much we can take that. Other than that, Sarah means princess Um I I think the name meant the same before, but um Sign of the Covenant, circumcision Okay, where these told that and he obeys. You shall be circumcised in the fla it's the the sign of the covenant. Again, um It it looks like a conditional thing, but if you w uh this is going to happen and uh this this nation, this people group will be their sign will be circumcision, right? He tells them those in the in the nation who are not circumcised shall be set aside. Covenant with perpetual, everlasting, we'll finish with this. Um these are the three verses uh uh They're all in chapter seventeen uh th that um talk about this being a um everlasting or uh The word there is O Long, but uh I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you through their uh throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and your descendants after you. That to me is huge. A lot of them don't make a big point about that. He's he's saying, I am going to be God to you, to this people. That's huge when you think about it, because you know how disobedient they were. How disobedient we are. Thank goodness God says, I'm gonna be God to you You could be generations come and go and th there'll be a a lot of people in there who don't have faith, but uh I I I I am this is my promise. I am going to be God to this people group To these seeds. Um again, but God said, uh, No, but Sarah, your wife, um, I will establish my covenant to with him for an everlasting covenant. And there's an everlasting promise. This is in 1315. They don't use the word covenant here, but I mean, you know, for all the land which you see, I will give to you and your descendants forever. So let's go back and look at the conclusions to this. So the promises uh of Abraham, the Abrahamic covenant can be categorized. This is a typical one Uh, they call it land, seed and blessing. 'Cause he did. I mean and Essex hasn't known, well read in a second, but you know, what do you say to Abram? Um, you're gonna go to a lamb. You're gonna have descendants and he's gonna Bless 'em. Now you can unpack that blessing and I and I think that's what Ethics tries to do with his and again this is what I talked about with with you know, theology. Um you you can have different categories or d or different y you know ways to uh so the blessing means for Abraham personally, right? Sometimes it's personal a blessing, other times it's a blessing that extends out to us, right? We are blessed by Abraham through the seed, through Jesus Christ. Um so Essex looked at as national. I guess that's the land, personal. Um He's gonna have descendants, universal. Uh it's gonna be a blessing to uh those who bless Abraham and those who are blessed by us. So the nature of this uh covenant So the the main interpretive question of the Abrahamic Covenant is d uh uh has to do with its nature. Is it conditional, bilateral, or is it unconditional or unilateral? Um Throughout the scriptures God has given Abraham and his seed several commands. So and this is why people uh say look he had to uh follow these things in order to get the blessing. The commands to follow in order for God's promises uh to be received. by the recipients. Genesis twelve one. Go leave your land, your family. Uh Genesis thirteen seven, arise, walk about the land. They said, walk about, this is the land I'm going to give to you. 159, right in told to bring a heifer for the sacrifice. He had to be obedient. 171 Walk before me. Each of these covenants, walk before me. Right? He says, uh and I will make you blameless. And you will be Genesis twenty two, this offering of of Isaac, right? Take your son. God also told Abram and his seed to submit to circumcision in order to to participate in the covenant and um I'll let you read that uh just again for time. Um right they had to be obedient, uh uh i if they didn't uh any one that that didn't participate in this covenant, the sign of the covenant, they would be to put out uh of the camp. He would be put o out of the nation. Finally God said he would fulfill his covenant with Abraham because of There's obedience. Uh let's look at uh twenty six five real quick. Okay, he's talking uh with Isaac, right? Um the famine in the land. Isa Isaac he says in verse four, I will multiply your disciples. Descendants of the stars of heaven, I will give your descendants all the lands by your uh and and by your descendants all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Because Abraham obeyed me and kept my choice. Lord, my commandment, my statutes and my laws. So he said, Look, because he he did this, right, uh this is why I'm gonna bless you. So is this a conditional c uh covenant? So these inst instances point to a conditional or bilateral covenant in which uh the Lord was only obligated to fulfill his covenant promises if the response of uh was obedience on the part of the recipient. Well, in other words, people will make the point, okay, Abraham had to leave his land, leave his people, in order to get the covenant. That wasn't that wasn't my point here. My point here is that God's talking to Isaac and he says this condition is this covenant effect because Abraham was obedient. Yeah, exactly. Right. So it's not a conditional covenant, but it was its only condition was based on Abraham's obedience. Once Abraham was obedient, the covenant was no longer condition. Well you're arguing a point for me, so yeah, you're yeah, and then Well you know, but exactly but think about exactly why people look at it from the other point of view and and what what's our answer to that. Uh you know, y th when somebody r raises a question it's it's even if it's illegitimate, sometimes you'd be surprised, you look at things uh and you think, I never looked at it from that point of view. They're wrong, but here's an aspect I didn't look at. Uh so but yeah, you exactly. You answered the point. And and and that was the thing. Uh all these uh conditions. Once he did it, then he said, Okay, I am going this is what I'm going to do and it was all future. Uh Mel just sums it up for us. Uh there you know, um Let's see, there's also uh uncondition let's see. Let me just read through these real quick. The instances point to a conditional bilateral covenant. There was also a case for uh uh unconditional covenant on the part of God. Abram left his land and his family. Then the Lord appeared again and stated in in seven that he would give Abram uh uh the land with no conditions. And and that's what I've gone through in this this text here with each of these. Um the one we should know the most is it uh this chapter fifteen. It's a typical covenant where they walk through the the the slaughtered people pieces, they're divided, they walked through these pieces and and God alone did it again with the the lamp and the torch, uh as a representative of God. Abram did not go through it. That was uh the oath that they took. uh in the method that they did. Abram did not participate. It was God alone. Uh yeah. Um Thirdly, uh the promises uh in thirteen fifteen the covenant and uh seventeen seven and th uh thirteen and nineteen that they're gonna be everlasting, uh again, the fulfillment of these promises lies into the future and are dependent on the Lord alone. Uh otherwise how would he know? Well, you know, well maybe this is this isn't gonna happen if the people don't obey. Uh no. It's uh it It it's a and it's funny because a lot that um let me read what Hamilton wrote. This is in uh Hamilton he he uh exegetical commentary on on Genesis. Uh nowhere does God add add a condition conditional if clause to any of the promises he makes to Abraham or Jacob that suggest that obedience or faithfulness is a uh sine qua non uh for the fulfillment of that promise. In other words, it was an integral part. Without that uh obedience, uh the promise uh wasn't going to be fulfilled. It's not there. Uh there is a consensus that the promises of Abraham a covenant or unconditional, but the timing and the participants in that fulfillment are conditioned by the fate produced uh human obedience. Excuse me. And this is a Kaiser writes this, and you think about it, he sums this up well. Kaiser writes, in our judgment, the conditionality was not attached to the promise, but only to the participants who would benefit from these uh abiding promises. So I mean God is obviously not gonna be a respecter of anybody. He's not like, Oh, you are part of Abraham C you know, obviously I'm gonna b you know, bless you. We know that's not true, right? But his blessing is going to come to them. Uh we see this over and over again. They're disobedient. Um really i i it's no different with the church, right? God has sealed us. And uh we still sin. Uh God's promises will be fulfilled. We are going to be fully sanctified one day, thank goodness. If it was dependent on us, uh it's just election over and over over again. And it's funny because really a lot of the camp that writes about this uh tend to be reformed, call it covenant theology, uh these different types of theology. Well You know, election right, God elected us from the foundation of the world. He he sh what he's doing here is telling us his plan. He's not telling us specifically, uh Which some he is, uh Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. He's gonna he tells a certain uh people that the covenant's gonna go through. But it's not on obedience. Every one of 'em we're gonna look to this. has failed and it's funny after every covenant is usually a problem, a disaster. It usually comes after an event uh which we'll bring out and then a kind of a a breaking of the covenant happens. Um there disability Obedience. It's our nature, it's our sin, right? So, no, we don't think there are pe uh I'm gonna read this real quickly. I read it before, it's Leviticus again because I think Um and you see this in Deuteronomy, you see us repeated over and over again. Levitic Leviticus twenty six. Alright? They're at He's making this this this covenant. He's made it. They're uh the covenant is being made, and he's already telling them in in Leviticus uh twenty one, if then uh you act with hostility against me and are unwilling to obey, I will increase the plagues and seven times. He's talking about I will bring upon you the sword and execute uh vengeance uh for the covenant if you disobey me. He's basically telling them through this whole chapter they're gonna disobey me. He's talking about uh their uncircumcision uh forty one I also was acting with hostility against them and bring them into the land or their enemies, or if their uncircumcised hearts Become humble so that they make amends for their iniquity. Then I will remember my covenant with Jacob, and I will remember my covenant with Isaac and my covenant with Abraham. Okay. Again, it's what Kaiser said. It's what participants are going to be obedient to God. That's the the variable um that's the thing we don't know, right? And it it's uh it's kind of with us. We we don't know who's going to be saved. Um Verse forty four. Yet in spite of this, this is when they're in a foreign land When they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, nor will I abhor them as to destroy them, breaking my covenant with them, for I am the Lord their God. But I will remember for them the covenant with their ancestors whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God, I am the Lord. Incredible He's gonna be our God. He's their God. He's g i it's we don't know with who. And and that's kind of where we're going with these covenants. We'll see this in the Mosaic. I I don't um I I put down some verses here to to show us further. Uh uh okay, uh Luke. We're in the New Testament, right? He's just uh he's uh given this promise. The Lord uh Uh in in uh one uh Luke chapter one verses thirty to thirty three, he's probably telling Mary she's gonna be with child, the Lord will give him the throne of his father David. Uh this has got to be an earthly throne. If you look at Revelation twenty-two uh one and three This is uh it's the throne of God and the Lamb, right? This is uh New Jerusalem in in in chapter uh twenty-two Right? The new Jerusalem's come down. This is the state of it. This is the end of the revelation right here. It's the throne of God. He does not refer to it as the throne of David. It it it the throne of David for us is just is logical. It fits in r real nicely and in Revelation uh chapter twenty in the thousand years. We think that's a literal time when Christ will literally be reigning on the earth. I think this is a time of restoration for uh the Jews when they're finally gonna come to faith in numbers. Luke chapter one, verses sixty eight to seventy-five This is Zechariah's prophecy of a Savior. Member went up to him circumcised. All right, this is uh Excuse me, I'm sorry, it's John the Baptist, right? And he's talking to him and he's uh the verse I pointed out here Um And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed is the Lord the God of Israel, who has visited us, accomplished redemption for his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation in the house of David, his servant. Spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets of old, salvation from our enemies and from the hand who hates us. Show mercy toward us. Remember his holy covenant, the oath which he swore to Abram our father Okay, we see it all the way through. And then the last one we got Peter and Acts. This is after they've rejected the Messiah and um this is the healing of the uh lame man in the temple. Right? Uh Peter is delivering his sermon in the temple. It is you who are the sons of the prophets and the covenant which God made. with your father saying to Abraham, and in your seed all the families of the earth will be blessed. Again, just it it's we know this, we're so familiar with it, but just think about the thread that that's going through uh this Abraham the covenant. It's foundational. It continues and it's it's going to be fulfilled. Okay? At the end of the time. Any questions, any comments, any thoughts on Is it just review? Is it just um is there uh Again, think about some of the promises, think about the time element that happened. Put yourself in in Abraham's place. He was getting more information. It's not uh it it's the covenant is is kind of it's based what we the way a lot of people see it, the way I see it, uh I agree with them is is that um You you've got the the the paradigm, the form, the the mold in Genesis 12, 1 through 3. And he's just giving us more details all the way through. When he's giving us it's a and it's a time el element too. This is the this is the progression, this is the way God's program's gonna be It's the words that God used in his promises, like the words forever, you know, and that he's going to give Israel the land forever he's going to be their God forever. Um he's eventually gonna draw them to him and wave them forever. Um I don't understand how some people read into scripture that the church has taken over Israel's place. I just I don't understand how they go that route. That's hard when you see written in the the Hebrew, you know scriptures if you study the Hebrew. And it means forever. There's no there's no condition to that and I don't and to that promise. And I I don't understand how they take that route. Mm. I know that's another lesson, you know, we're we're Well we did talk about that. We did talk about it a little bit. Now just just to throw um Because you know, that's a problem with academia. We l uh Mel said sometimes we think too much or we get too smart. All of them does have a range of meaning. It can mean um something that's going to happen uh just happened or happened recently. And and s that's a you know, uh old languages use words in different ways and context makes everything. You know, they never we have we can have words for, you know, each uh Greek, Cardi, I always use this. Heart, mind, soul, will. That's that's the range they you you you kinda learn. So you have to read it in context. Sometimes just literal heart Sometimes why Jesus says to 'em, Why are you reasoning in your hearts? We're not talking about the art, we know that. So y and I guess that's what I'm saying, and unfortunately that's what you have with all of 'em. And so when somebody has a mind track and they're gone Well I you know, they see a a a a little gap in there, they run with it. But you're right. It's it's uh i when you look at the context and you follow the th the thread, how can you It's it but again, when we talk about hermeneutics, we talk the first thing we have to do is talk about ourselves. What are my roadblocks, what are my preconditions? What what what can I see? What am I not open to? Uh it's easy to look at somebody else. Um So th and that is the that all that's that is the challenge with hermeneutics. Um you know w what are we uh what are we pre predisposed to And he easily starts off with things like I think or and and and that's uh again uh our our goal is to what are the facts? What i you have to make interpretation from the facts, but are you basing it on facts? Sometimes you have more That is another. Some sometimes we make decisions and and we're we're we're not that sure because we ri God did not reveal too many nice hard facts to to support our position. Does that help at all? Yeah, I know. Yeah, I just I just have a hard time with the theologians, so to speak, that go the route that God has somehow withdrawn this forever promise and given it to the church. That's the Right. That that to me that's terrible. And that's well that's kind of what we're built. And that's and hopefully that that's the the people that I've s based this on and and th they're reasoning it on and then that's what we're trying to do, is present the facts and and bring us to the point. And w wh why do we s believe what we believe. Uh her question from a secular point of view, I understand where they're coming from. Don't agree with me, but I understand where they're coming from because they don't see they don't see the land promise as eternal. Right. They see that they s they see the land promise because Israel for the longest time did not occupy the land. Right. They don't they don't see Israel as being the Israel of the of uh uh that's talked about in the in the old testament. Right. And from like I say, from a secular point, it's not hard to understand where they're coming from. But When you when you when you go back and you take the promises that God made to Abraham, if you take them as perpetual, eternal, then you lose you lose your credence as a as a covenant or right there of the post. If there if God promised to Israel the eternal, then the church cannot have people placement for Israel No, I agree. I think it's um I mean, Jesus didn't even reveal I don't know. I I guess I've been watching this, um it's helped me to think in a sort of way, just normal thinking. The the chosen, have you s have any of you? I saw some of it. The chosen you can get it for free after and you can actually watch all the they have like two seasons out now, but um but it helps you to really understand how the disciple it's about Jesus Christ his disciples. That's right. But how they were just regular men, you know, but he didn't even reveal to them the church right away. You know they had a they were just regular Jewish guys trying to you know, follow the Lord Jesus who didn't Every didn't do everything the way all the Jews were doing at the time. Anyway, it's up to the link to it. How he didn't even reveal to them right away the church itself. So Right. I mean, I can I mean God doesn't reveal everything to you know, and and besides that I don't think men I've been reading um a book by MacArthur um I should have read it a long time ago, but it's about worship. Okay. Why you know what what is true worship? How we should worship. And um God is so above us. Right. He's so above us that we can't even would we think of God we only know what is revealed in scripture okay about him that he has chosen to reveal to us. But there's so much more that he hasn't even revealed to us. Absolutely. That he he's incomprehensible as we saw and we think sometimes right. Um that we don't I mean, he's more. He whatever we think about God he's more. Right. He's more than that. And um it's I I don't think he would ever he would never he's a he's God. He doesn't change. Right. Right? No shadow of turning. So when he made the promise, a forever promise it's forever. You know, and it may take hundreds of years or whatever for it. Actually, that Christ will come back in we'll see the fulfillment of all that and then you know, uh Mel was talking before uh class started and talking about um you know sometimes the depth of things. You know, people talk about uh how how deep you get into studying a passage. And it kinda goes with what you're saying though, that d that's God's word. And when you do start to get down to the depth, y uh a lot of it's academic, but you you learn little nuggets that you would not have known otherwise and his word you can just keep going deeper and deeper and deeper and that's what God is. I mean he he's written this word and that's why we take these classes to get we want to get below the surface. And keep you know, and we'll never fathom all of this, but and that's the key to this word. Right. And it's the depth of God is here. you just stay uh kinda up here then that's kinda where you see God I think. Um and and they're and fortunately we're blessed with a lot of people that help us get down lower. I mean I use them all the time. I th it's not like I'm going original material here but Anne Kane for the women, she does that prep silentity which makes you really suspicious you know and um she did one on the precognitive specifically so Yeah, I know I know they did. Karen said something to me, I'm thinking oh oh Well But this and again this this is you that was that was pre uh that's inductive Bible study. That by the way is called exegesis. Same thing. Different name. This is what we're doing here really is the theological w we're we're drawing conclusions kind of from it. So y you can see you see how you can hit it from different perspectives. But one last thing I'd like to say about your point about what Jesus this is what I hope you take. These covenants and this framework, yes, you do need to look at this, especially in the gospel, because the gospel really, from the perspective that I that I'm embracing here, progressive. The gospels were really Old Testament. You're in an Old Testament economy. We like to read it as the church. Not really. Yeah, and he and Jesus even said himself. I mean he came to fulfill the law not to do away with the law. So I mean he he wasn't doing away with any of the Old Testament. I mean he he wanted he goes you need to go you need to do more than that. You need to do more than the Pharisees obeying the law. Okay. You need to you need to be better. Right. So it's like Right. The thing is, if you think about it, right? Like God is only revealed to us within us words about himself. And we have a hard time retaining that and obeying that. And if you look at this I forget stuff. I wish I yeah. Yeah, sure. We are for and Look, you see him in the in the Bible. They're forgetful. He gave 'em all this stuff. He gave he he he gave them uh uh uh he was there physically in a pr in a manifestation, in the mountain, and never Look how quickly forget. We're we're not there. We're they they're just they're people. Yeah. Yeah, they're Israel lies, but they're just people are people. Sure. And I wouldn't re one of the things I think uh along the lines you're talking about, uh I think the study um and I use this a lot, this guy named um uh right here. Uh I'm basing this really on this guy this man's article, William Barrick. Um it's uh it's from that uh Master Seminary uh journal series I was telling you about. Um this is he he did a This is excellent. Um I like uh a lot of his um conclusions, a lot of his insights. This helps a lot with because I think a lot of our confusion is like I said at the beginning of this. Uh let me just let me just see if I get we're out of time. Let me just go to this introductory thing because this is kind of his thesis statement, so to speak, for his article. And and then he's gonna end some of these statements. The covenants of God which He made with Israel all have five uh concepts in common. Uh the authority of the covenant resides with God alone. All covenants came at a time of crisis. None of the covenants nullifies a previous one. These are all statements and we'll unpack these some somewhat. Uh salvation from sin is not obtained by keeping any of the covenants. Uh none of 'em, right? Abraham it doesn't matter. We know that. But we forget that. Sometimes we put too much in stock in these things. They're not salvation. They might point us to salvation. They may point us to our need for salvation. All it can do is convict us of sin, really. Uh but th they're not salvation, right? And and that's important because w the lines get get blurred when we when we talk about this. Uh in the back of our minds we kind of bring it forward sometimes. Uh uh uh significant negative events followed each of the covenants after they were instituted. Uh the theological uh context of these covenants is God's choose election, right? To be faithful to the promise of his plan, to make a nation from Abraham Abraham. By his grace and redemptive power he delivered Israel out of bondage from Egypt. All right, uh that particularly uh uh with the mosaic, right? The content follows the pattern of uh uh y it I I'll talk about this as Suzanne or however you pronounce it, treaty, suzerain. Right? The Suzerain Treaty where and it's just really it it's uh it's a conquering king, uh with details, uh the laws which is vassal uh vassals of vassals Right, whoever got conquered would obey. Uh I think I used Webster's dictionary here. This is a good definition. A dominant state controlling the foreign relations of a vassal state by allowing its sovereign authority in its internal affairs. So it was Israel was a vassal state, right? They were the Greeks, uh the Romans, they were they had self government but all you know, the the authorities came in and said this is the way it's going to be. Right? Um so we see this over and over again. What he's saying is this is uh a parallel really with this um Mosaic covenant, right? God says this is the way it's gonna be, or you're gonna have consequences. We'll we'll look at that. Obeying the laws would bring blessings and disobedience would bring cursing. Mosaic Covenant was addressed to Israel alone. It was instituted for the practice of righteousness. That's important. Remember, this covenant, this Mosaic covenant was to a nation. Keep that's a big thing to keep in mind. Another another big thing here. The law cannot be separated into moral, civil, or ceremonial parts. You probably have heard this before, right? Talk about the Ten Commandments. It's a unit. It's one unit. James, uh I think it's two ten. If you break the law in one way you break the whole it's a unit. Uh i y we we compartmentalize and go the moral thing. No No, it was a unit. That's a hard thing to keep in mind. The question is how many sins do you have to commit to be a sinner? One. Same thing, really. Exactly. Right. James was saying. Exactly. Right, you gotta keep and and uh Paul in Galatians, man, he goes, You got to go on back to the law, it'll never work. Uh, you know, every you know, you wanna be circumcised or whatever. It i it's not gonna save you. Uh the law has no authority over Christians because Christ does fulfill the law. Again, when we talk about this law, we're talking about again, the unit. So if you fulfill the law that means you're gonna have sacrifices, right? You're gonna have you're circumcised, you're gonna obey the Sabbath, you gotta do it all. See, and that's that's the the gist of this. And I'll finish with this. But remember, these laws, uh I think this is fleshed out. I know I've read this, I'm not exactly sure what I got in my notes sometimes. Um really they had all these laws before God gave them to them, right? They kinda intuitively they knew it's a sin of murder, right? Uh you had the laws of Hamallabi, right? I mean you saw this throughout people are are it's on our nature, right? God said we put in burn Romans two, I think he put it on our conscience, right? These kind most of these laws, these are some of these are rather specific, granted, but it was also to make Israel a a peculiar nation, right? There was supposed to be a kingdom of priests. similar things. They were an example to the other nations. But really let's not get remember the so we say, Well, do we abandon the law? No, the law was really there before the law was written out, was it not? Right? It was. You know? Stealing, stealing. Uh lying's lying. Murder's murder. Right? I it it's uh so sometimes again and I don't point that out, l let's not make this thing like, oh, we're abandoning God's word or God's law. That's not what we're saying here in in in and the other quick point I want to make is think about this this week. If what we were talking about with Debbie and and Israel we are are in a church period now, are we not? We don't follow the law. So you have to recognize this. We're under the new covenant. We're we're we're we're seeing part of it. Right? It's express We are under the new covenant, right? We are getting blessed. The Spirit did in fact come into our hearts, did it not? That's what the new covenant said. He says, I'm putting my laws in your heart. One last thing. And I just want you to think about these thoughts, 'cause in these are big categories. Um look at what he says in Deuteronomy twenty-nine. Moses is going over and over and over again, you know, uh and he did this with Levigus Leviticus, he just in in in Deuteronomy. Look at what he says in in in four. He goes, um uh Uh Moses verse two chapter twenty nine verse two. Moses summoned all Israel and said to them, You have seen all the Lord did before your eyes in the land of Egypt and Pharaoh and all his servants and all his land. The great trials which you Your eyes have seen. These great signs and wonders, right? Listen to verse four. Yet to this day the Lord has not given you a heart to know, nor eyes to see, nor ears to hear. God is sovereign. Salvation comes from God. You give we give you all all that give you show you all these great signs. Right? God opens a heart, doesn't He? I never really noticed that before. I mean I've seen reference reference to it, but I you know, reading through it, uh I said, Well you know, you think God opens the heart. Now think about that through all through all of this and you know, and especially when we talk about the law. Law was not gonna save anybody. It du it there definitely was a point you know, it let's say the though. If if you're honest about the law they're going, man, I can't do right? And that's what he wanted to do. I can't do this. I'm not capable of that. I want to, right? Like Paul in in Romans seven. I want to do it.