Heavenly Father, what a joyous, joyous day we get to celebrate. Resurrection Sunday. Lord, uh may our worship just be as sweet Sweet aroma to you today. I know there will be many family and friends here today. I pray this would just be a a precious testimony of your gospel to see the fellowship, to the preaching of your word, and actually the good news of Jesus Christ. Lord, important topic today we're going to discuss forgiveness Help us to really understand this concept from a biblical perspective, from your perspective. So give us wisdom, discernment, and clarity, Lord, that we might glorify you in our relationships. And certainly in the process of reconciliation. So we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, if you guys recall I gave you some homework last week. We were talking about the the portrait of a peacemaker. And again, this is all still focused on us, isn't it? Right? It's about What's happening in our heart? So you've heard me say this often. I'll keep talking about it. We're focusing on our heart attitude and how we respond. Right? Those are the key elements of what's happening in biblical reconciliation. And so we we briefly went through um I don't know if there's eight or nine different attributes there. And again, these are not just qualities we should have as people. These should characterize our relationships um in the home and especially in the church. And so the question I had for you as we were leaving last week was, which of the qualities does your church or small group as a whole tend to demonstrate well in which areas could use further development. Any thoughts? And you can be honest, transparent Hello Karen. I think when I'm thinking about our small group, yeah um we tend to absorb one another When questions arise, we talk to each other with God's word. Mm. Because if we're just throwing our thoughts out there It might be based on God's Word. Yep. But if we're referring to a scripture or a passage, we're not only exhorting them to God's Word, but they can go there themselves and do some more study. That's good. Thanks, Brian. Um for those of you that are in a small group, I I'm not going to ask you to raise your hands, but does it Does it take time to build those relationships, that trust that happens in a small group? Absolutely. And that's the intent of it, right? Um this first one, compassion. Can you think of uh a place where this is most relevant is in the small group? I mean this is where you are life on life Right, we talk about practicing the one anothers in a small group. So that first one even, compassion. How many of us go to a small group? It's at night, we're tired, I just want to get through it. Sometimes, um yes, the fellowship is sweet. But are we being compassionate? Do you remember the elements of compassion? What's the first part of compassion? Oh good situation awareness, right? You're you're aware You're aware that something's off with that person. And then what? And then you act on it. You take a second to say, hey, how's it going? How's it really going? And if they throw down a card, as Ken Sandy would say, if they throw down a little a little nugget, you pick it up and you run with it. And you keep probing and you keep asking. Use discretion. Maybe you have to pull them aside, maybe you have to call them afterwards. But even that first attribute of compassion is something we can practice more and more in our church setting, in our Sunday mornings, right, in our small groups is being aware and acting on it. So I think that one element alone is something we all can continue to develop in our own lives and in our relationships. I think sometimes it needs to split the two categories. compassion for but this one like well that one's your own fault like you have to yeah yeah no great mark yeah absolutely right and and we need to be praying for um a gentle spirit a loving spirit for sure Kindness, we we taught, I don't know if it was under kind kindness or one of those. Um we are all made individually by the Lord, and there are some that just kind of tweak you the wrong way, right? That's that's life And even in your small groups. And praying about it, um, asking God's grace and mercy to just be a a friend, a brother or a sister in Christ, right? Just being aware. How often do we rush into a conversation and we're not really listening? We're we're speaking. That's a great one. Boy, if we could all improve in that area, um things would increase a hundredfold in our marriages, in our small groups, in our church. So yeah, so love I'll I'll just say something to be thinking about. Um if there's an area that needs development, whose job is it to improve it? All of us, right? It's not the elders' job, yes part of it. Ministry leaders, yes part of it, small group leaders, yes part of it, but ultimately it's all of us. We all play a role in making our church having these attributes of a peacemaker. Okay, so be thinking about that in your in your own life. Um, if there's areas you need to improve and to go before the Lord and just humbly ask for His grace and His mercy. um and especially in our small groups and our marriages. Okay. Moving on to this idea of forgiveness. Obviously forgiveness is a a key central part of the gospel message. You you hear me keep talking about going back to the gospel. You heard Ken Sandy talk about that. But it's a little bit complicated actually. So I'm hoping today will help frame this idea of forgiveness. a little bit better. And we'll start with what it's not and then talk a little bit about what it is as we look at God's Word. And then we're going to talk about um this framework I'll call it, two kinds of forgiveness, this attitudal and transactional. And I know you can't read it, but I I put it over here on on the board. I'm an engineer, so I gotta have a graph, right? But it's going to talk about this idea of a vertical relationship. Who is that with? Between you and God, obviously. And this is where they're going to talk about attitudinal or judicial. We'll talk more about that. The other aspect obviously is horizontal between two people, and that's transactional and relational. So we'll we'll talk about some of those aspects. I think it will help add some clarity to this topic of forgiveness. We're on page 53 in your notebook. Which I'll be referencing throughout. Forgiveness is one of the most misunderstood concepts in Christianity. On the one hand, this is bizarre because of how forgiveness is so central of our salvation. On the other hand, it is not Surprising given the way the church has been so thoroughly psychologized. Psychologized. There you go. Psychologized. Right That's why it's so important we go back to what does the Bible say. So we'll start with what it's not. I think I think that's important. Common misconception, sweeping an offense under the rug. Right? It does no good to just say, I'm not gonna worry about it. Right? You're not dealing with it. To forgive and forget. You hear that a lot. Am I expected to forgive and forget? How can I forget the way that person stabbed me in the back? How can I forget an adulterous relationship? Right? That's not what the Bible says. But we need to find out what it does say. Minimizing the offense. If someone says, please, please forgive me, don't worry about it. It's okay. Right, that's minimizing the event. That's not addressing the issue, letting the person off the hook. Nowhere in the Bible will you hear it say, forgive yourself. Nowhere. And certainly forgive God. Right? That's blasphemy. Alright, so we need to talk about what it is. So I talked about the two types. I just want to introduce it now. We're going to talk about it in a bit more detail as we go through the lesson. As we saw last week, true forgiveness is modeled after God's forgiveness. There can be no understanding of forgiveness apart from God. That has to be our foundation, our model And imitating him allows us to understand what it looks like to forgive in every situation. Let me read the definition from the author of this book, Pursuing Peace. What is God's forgiveness? We can define it as God's decision, declaration, and promise to those who believe in Jesus Christ to not hold our sins against us because of Because of Jesus Christ. Do you catch that? It's a declaration from God. It's a decision that He makes. Unconditional. Citing the New Covenant vision of Jeremiah 31, and it's also in Hebrews 8, summarizes the nature of God's forgiveness as a promise. For I will forgive their wickedness and will remember their sins no more. That's the new covenant that we find in Jeremiah 31. God's forgiveness is a decision He makes, part of His eternal plan of redemption He chose to send his son to die on the cross to offer forgiveness for all who would repent and believe in him. And he actually grants that forgiveness, declaring them not guilty in his eyes. when they do repent and believe. Furthermore, God not only decides to forgive, he declares it. He tells us God doesn't leave us guessing. What a beautiful help. Right? When he declares it, what are we? We are justified. That's what that means to be justified. I think one of the most beautiful words in all of the Bible, for us as humans, right? To be declared righteous by the Lord. We'll talk a little bit more about that. First, we understand that forgiveness involves sin and guilt. We've all felt that. Forgiveness is the undeserved releasing of guilt to someone who has sinned against God and toward us. The undeserved. Only God f can forgive judicially to release anyone from the death penalty of sin. But we can forgive relationally to release someone from the social and other consequences of sin. So did you catch that? Again, talking about those two different elements, the judicial, that vertical um relationship with God, and then horizontal between two human beings. I think this is important. Guilt is not a feeling, it is a status. Right? When we sin, we are guilty. In our condemned state, right, without the Lord Jesus Christ, we are guilty. And here's the state. So if you're in that state, here's the state you can be in. A person is either innocent, righteous, or guilty. That's it. Forgiveness then is the mechanism by which sinners, those guilty of sin, are released from the penalty of sin. This is important. Forgiveness is not the absence of justice. When God forgives and thus when we forgive, justice is not thwarted. Justice is accomplished in one of two ways. Now, often we think, and it can happen temporarily, where it appears there is an injustice. Especially towards us, right? But but ultimately justice will be served. And like it says, it's going to happen one of two ways. God will either execute justice on uh justice on a sonner sinner by pouring out his wrath on them for eternity in hell, or he will have executed justice for a sinner by pouring out his wrath on Christ. At the cross. Some receive justice, some receive grace. No one receives injustice. Now, what's important here, you guys all know this, but it's not like when God forgives us of our sin, it just goes away Right? What happens to it? It's imputed to Christ. That's what happened on the cross. This idea of imputation, right? His um righteousness is imputed to our account. We are now declared righteous. That's what justice is. And our sin is imputed to Christ for all eternity. He bore the weight of all of our sin. That's what happened. So somebody paid the penalty, and it was Jesus Christ. Or If you do not become a believer, you're going to pay the penalty. It's one or the other, no in between In this uh book it's not in your notes, but the author I think does a really good job of uh presenting some word pictures, I'll call it, of God's forgiveness towards us. And I think this is a really important uh setting before we get into to more of what the Bible says about forgiveness. So I'm just going to share those with you quickly. The first one is Psalm, if you want to for reference, Psalm 103, 11 through 12 A passage that's familiar to you, I'm sure, but this is how far our sin is removed from us. For as high as the heavens are above the earth So great is his love for those who fear him. As far as the East is from the West, so far has He removed our transgressions from us. So as far as we're concerned, our sin absolutely is removed so far away from us we can't even comprehend it. But God did something with that. He gave it to Jesus. Right? That's the gospel message. Don't forget that. And that's why I always say we gotta go back to the gospel. Psalm 130, 3 through 4. If you, O Lord, kept a record of sins, O Lord, who could stand? Could you imagine? Now this is going to be important later. What do we like to do? Do we like to keep a record of sins? Absolutely. What if the Lord did that to us? We'd be crushed under the weight of our own sin. But with you there is forgiveness, therefore you are feared. Isaiah 1. 18. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord Though your sins are like scarlet they shall be as white as snow, though they are red as crimson, they shall be like wool. Isaiah thirty eight seventeen In your love you kept me from the pit of destruction. You have put all my sins behind your back The Lord for all those. Isaiah 43, 24 through 25. But you have burdened me with your sins and wearied me with your offenses. This is the Lord speaking, but he goes on I, even I, am He who blots out your transgressions for my own sake and remembers your sins no more. This whole plan of redemption is for who? It's for God, for God's glory. Isaiah 44, 22, I have swept away your offenses like a cloud, your sins like the morning mist. Return to me, for I have redeemed you. Those are beautiful, beautiful word pictures of what happens when the Lord is forgiving us. With that in mind, let's see four facets of God's forgiveness for us, and thus how we are to forgive one another. Again, God has to be our model. He has to be the blueprint for how we need to do this. Quick little quote from the book that I really like. God's forgiveness of us serves as our motive. We forgive because he forgave us. And our model, we forgive in the way he forgave us. Alright, so keep that in mind. He is our motive because he forgave us, and the model, this is how we are supposed to forgive So that's what we'll see in the passages of Scripture. You guys keep me on us on slides here. Alright, first, when God forgives us, He does not remember our sins. We just read that, didn't we? Um I won't read some of those first passages. We've read those already. Remember Translates the car. The root and its derivatives have crucial roles in the Old Testament. On the human level, the words embrace reflection, especially on what is in the past. Such reflection may lead to regret or relief or may actively um or more actively appreciation and commitment. God's remembering has to do with his attention and intervention, whether in grace or judgment. So where where he puts his attention, if you will, and what did we just read? God remembers our sins no more. You're going to see this play into the horizontal The relational aspect. We're being asked to do the same when we forgive somebody else. Easy to do? No way. Right? We need the Holy Spirit. Second, when God forgives us, he does not remind us of our sins and use them against us. Again, how crushing that would be. Christopher, I forgave you, but do you remember what you did last week Crushing. Psalm 103. He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities, for as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his loving kindness towards those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us, which I just read in the in the book there. Alright, so he um doesn't remember, he doesn't remind us And blink. There we go. Third, when God forgives us, he does not receive accusations from others. Romans 8, who will bring a charge against God's elect? Remember, Romans 8 is that beautiful passage Which reassures us, reaffirms who we are as children of God. And it starts with what? What's Romans 8. 1? Quoted all the time. There is no condemnation. For who? For those who are in Christ Jesus. That's the qualifier. Romans 8. 33. Who will bring a charge against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. Again, there's that declaration and imputation. There's really two concepts to, or two components of justification. Who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus is he who died, just rather who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. Who is the great accuser? Satan. Right? You see that in Revelation 12. Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of God. and the authority of his Christ have come. For the accuser of our brethren has been thrown down. He who accuses them before our God day and night. Who's the second greatest condemner? Ourselves Ourselves. So often we fall into that trap of condemning ourselves or condemning others. Right? We talked about Matthew 7 and that judgment that Jesus was confronting, that self-righteousness. And lastly, number four, when God forgives us, he removes the barrier that our sin created in our relationship with Him. Again, we go back to the gospel message, right? What were we in our sinful state? We were separated from God. Why? Because of sin, what else? That's us. What about God's attributes? Just. Just. Looking for another one. Holy Right? Holy, holy, holy. Because he is holy, he cannot have anything to do with sin. Not one little speck. It's really because of his holiness that we are separated from him in our sinful nature. That's why love, let's cultivate a really high view of God and a correct view of ourselves. So these three passages really point back to the gospel. Romans 5. 10, for if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God. What for if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more having been reconciled, we shall be saved by His life. Ephesians two. But now in Christ Jesus you who formerly were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who made both groups into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall. And then Colossians 1. And although you were formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, yet he has now reconciled you in his fleshly body through death, in order to present you before him holy and blameless and beyond reproach. What does it say in Romans 3, right? We were hostile to God in that sinful state, in that separated state. And in what did we feel? We felt the guilt. We felt the hopelessness of that separation. And yet while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. That's what we're celebrating today, his resurrection. It is finished. That is the gospel message. That's why it's so important for us to continue to cultivate that message in our mind. And especially this idea of forgiveness and God's forgiveness of us. And again, this justification, that's the point now where he can look at you and see you clothed in his righteousness. Right? That's why justification is so wonderful and so beautiful. So, with all that said, how can we forgive like God forgives? I wanted to start Yeah, I want to jump to this too. So this idea of of vertical and horizontal, this attitudinal, um the author has a a nice chart in here that I think is helpful comparing the the two. And and he reconciles passages, and I think we're going to get to those, where Jesus basically says forgive everyone, right? We see that in Mark 11. Um you see evidence of that in Mark 23. And yet, so it's unconditional. Forgive everyone. But what kind of forgiveness is that? What does that look like? This attitude of forgiveness? We're gonna come back to it, but it basically has three elements to it. And this is again the relationship between you and God. If somebody sins, ultimately they're sinning against God. So number one, attitudal forgiveness involves releasing the offender from your From our judgment and entrusting him ourselves in the situation at God's hands. Does that make sense? You are releasing this situation Nothing may have happened with the relationship so far. And and who is this between? This is between you and God. In fact, the passages I just talked about, this is a prayer between Jesus and God or the people in God. Alright? So step one is you are giving this over to God. You are entrusting His ultimately sovereign, wise judgment in this situation. Okay Number two, by doing that, attitudal forgiveness involves emptying our hearts of bitterness. That's the danger if you hang on to this, is the bitterness that's going to take root and take control of you. What does uh it's in Ephesians, right? Who are we to be controlled by? The Spirit. Holy Spirit, when it says be filled by the Spirit. Do not be drunk, but be filled by the Spirit, that means to be controlled by the Spirit, right? Who's controlling you if you have a heart of bitterness? Right? Sin. Sin. So it's so important. You are released. Again, we're going to come to it. There's still a relational aspect that has to be dealt with. But as far as it depends on you You can give this over to the Lord. Do not let bitterness take root. Number three, attitude of forgiveness involves being ready in cases of major offenses to grant what he calls level two this horizontal or transactional forgiveness and to reconcile the relationship if the offender repents and seeks reconciliation. So this author, and and let me let me say this up front, and he even says it You know, there are some differing views on how he's framing this. Many believe in this kind of two-stage or two levels of forgiveness. There are nuances and biblical scholars, but But everyone is is kind of in the same boat, but I do want to throw that out there that this is it's nuanced, all right? But I think the big thing I want you to take away is scripture um does seem to justify this idea of first and foremost there's a this relationship between God that has to be dealt with. You and God Right, and not letting uh this attitude of bitterness take root in your heart. And that starts by by giving it over to God, by entrusting it to God. Okay? Alright, because our forgiveness is relational, not judicial, that's that vertical I'm talking about. Our forgiveness is a volitional choice, meaning it's it's a will, it's a choice that we make. It's it's um and can be conditional. of how we will relate with the person. Biblical forgiveness is making the following promises. This is really, really important, guys. If you take anything away from today, I want you to take away this this concept But then these four things that we're going to talk about, right, and they're on the screen here. I promise that I will not dwell on this incident. This is the idea that we talked about in scripture about not remembering anymore, right? To dwell, we cannot promise that the incident will not cross our mind. Right, we're human beings. But we can promise that when the incident comes into our mind that we will not mull over it, we will not relive it, we will not become embittered. Promises to God or to the other person? Both. For instance, the first one here to 12. If you are truly giving it over to God, what are you saying? Lord, I trust you with that. This is yours. I trust you. To take it back, to start reliving it, to start dwelling on it, what have you done? He said, Lord, I don't trust you with it. I need to take control of this. Because I I was wronged. I have an injustice happen to me. I I know you're up there, you got it, but this is happening to me real time, right? So that's the idea here, is you're giving it over, you're showing complete trust to the Lord. May you have to do that several times? Maybe. It's a process. Alex. I was just going to say this to emphasize that too, as he's in the making these promises to the Lord is coupled with actually asking of God for the strength to the power of the spirit. Yeah. Alex, that's a that's a great, great point. Um That's why I love Psalm one hundred thirty nine. The end of Psalm one hundred thirty nine says, Search me, O Lord, show me any grievous way. But if you look at the rest of Psalm one hundred thirty nine, I'm convinced it's It's displaying a person who is surrounded by God's love, right? Who is protected by God. So yes, we are to examine ourselves, but that's the prayer. Right, Lord, show me where I I feel like I gave this over, but show me where I'm not. Give me the power to truly trust you in this situation. And it may be a process. Karen, did you have a comment? Yeah, I was just going to say um Like if I think about it, how it says in here that it it crosses my mind if and I thought I gave it to God, but it shows me how it is. Yeah. Because if I'm so bitter I can't just give something to God. I have to like look at it all, you know? And when I'm harmed. And then I think I gave it to him. And then when I think about it and I'm I'm so angry about it, it's like I know I didn't give it to him Yeah. Like I really didn't. Yeah. Yeah. And it shows me that I didn't that's the good thing. Yeah. And Karen, I think it's it's that self-retrospection or self-examination that says I recognize that. That's being filled by the spirit That's the spirit reproving you that hey you didn't really give this over. And and so look at the second part of this. Um if you want go to Philippians four. We are promising that when the incident comes to our mind we will redirect our thoughts according to Philippians 4. 8. I love uh Philippians 4. 4, right, where it says, Rejoice always, um, have this uh spirit of thanksgiving in our prayers and and what is a result of that? The peace of God that surpasses understanding will guard our hearts and minds. But what we do is we often stop there. You go to verse 8, which is really important. That's the put on aspect of this. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just Whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. So Karen to your point, you recognize you're not thinking about this correctly. What do you do? You put on godly thinking That's what we we just read in Philippians eight. Right? That's where it talks about in Ephesians four. You put off the old self, you renew the mind. How do you do that? In the word, like Alex said, prayer, right? Submitting to the Holy Spirit, yielding, being filled by the Holy Spirit And then you put on the new self. The new self is thinking like this. So these are great passages. This is a quick one you can memorize and have ready so that when you're being attacked and those thoughts are attacking, bam, you pull that out And you start thinking about these godly things. But that's a discipline, guys. It's a discipline that you have to work on in your life to do that. It's not easy. We talked about that. All right, so I will not dwell on the incident. All right, number two, I promise that I will not bring this incident up again to use it against you. What happens, um, you know, you and your spouse uh you know, you have a fight, you truly repent and ask for forgiveness, but a week later Yeah, do you remember last week when you right and and again it's the hard attitude. It's the hard attitude. An issue might have to be dealt with. Maybe the true hard issue is not resolved at that point, even though there's forgiveness, and it needs to be dealt with But it needs to be dealt with with the heart right heart attitude. Often though we bring up previous events as why? We want to stick it to somebody, right? We want the upper hand. We want to win. We want our way. James Ford, right? Why do you quarrel? Because you want what you want. By the time we have reached the point of granting forgiveness, we should have fully dealt with the issue. But if we haven't, we will only discuss the incident to bring resolution. So those are kind of exceptions, right, to bringing it back up again if we really still need to deal with the issue. We may also need to bring it up in the future if a pattern is established and we need to give examples of that pattern. But we will here's the key. We will not bring it up to guilt, shame, or bring retribution on the other person. Did you catch that? Right? There might be an issue that needs to be solved if it i if it's repeated That's your brother or sister, and you you want to bring glory to God in our relationship. So we have to do the hard thing and potentially confront that person, but we do it in a biblical way. But outside of that, right, we shouldn't, we're we're deciding not to bring it up again. All right, number three, I promise that I will not discuss this incident with others Be careful here. We won't tell our best friend, close relative, or small group about the situation. We won't bring it up as a prayer request. Right? Or to let our accountability group know. There are exceptions to all of these, right? You can see a couple there. If the law has been broken, of course Um and authorities need to get involved. If there are lasting consequences or we need outside help to fully resolve the situation, grow from it, we may need to tell a counselor, a pastor, or someone who can help us So um you know I often mentioned Karina and I are in counseling and and we need this background. We need to understand some of the issues that have been happening so we can really get to the heart of the problem. So there are certain circumstances where that needs to be brought up, but um we need to be very careful about who we turn to to discuss these issues. And this is talking about if forgiveness has been given. If the person has repented and forgiveness is given, you're done with it, if that makes sense. Alright? You're not discussing it up with other people. And then fourthly, I promise that I will not allow this incident to stand between us. There are exceptions. We'll get to those. The majority of conflicts in our lives and the ways in which we sin against one another do not create lasting relational barriers Expressions of anger, the silent treatment, broken promises, etcetera, can almost always be forgiven without any lasting relational consequences. Right, that's that's human beings humans, and we can often overcome that with true repentance. Okay, but there are some exceptions. Significant acts of broken trust may require a lengthy period of rebuilding trust, which involves Extreme transparency not needed in most relationships. One example would be adultery, right, between a a husband and a wife. That that covenant oneness bond that God created before creation, right, or at creation, is is drastically broken through the act, the physical act of adultery. Um can the spouse just forget about that really quickly? No, I mean this trust has been broken and it's going to take a long time to build that back. Can you have recon reconciliation in that case? You can. Can forgiveness happen? Absolutely. Right? And that is the preference versus separation or divorce. However, when there is significant harm, physical, sexual, may make it wise and necessary for a complete separation. Examples listed there. Failure of integrity may make it unwise to continue working relationships. An example might be firing someone who mishandled business finances. So there there you know it really depends on the context of the situation as to what this looks like. Relationships might be distorted because of something that has happened Right? It may be so severe that it just is going to take a long time to trust that person. Or, like it talks about a working relationship, a business deal, you may say, I love you, brother, but we can't do business together Right? It's just not gonna happen. So yes, relationships can be distorted, but it doesn't necessarily have to break a relationship. And and you are choosing to say, I'm not gonna let this stand between us as far as it depends on you. Does that make sense? Okay. Yes. So do you have to recognize uh reconcilism? Do you have to? Good question. What do you think? So let's build out that that uh study case, if you will. If the person comes to you and truly repents Do you need to forgive them? Yes. Yes. That's in the Bible. Right. Right? And in so doing, you are reconciling that relationship. Will it go back to what it was before? Maybe, maybe not. It depends on the circumstances. Right? We go back to these trust issues. But again, I would encourage you, you've got to be searching your heart to see what's happening from an attitude perspective It always goes back to your heart. It's okay to say that person, you know, in the case of adultery, that'd be really hard to trust But it can happen over time. And that's going to be your prayer for a long time. Give me a kind heart. Give me a loving heart. This person really hurt it hurt me. But that can be forgiven over time. Complete forgiveness. Does that make sense? Yeah. It says there in most cases there can be a fully restored and even strengthened relationship. In some cases the relationship may be altered temporarily or even permanently. Kind of we just talked about that In a few extreme cases, the relationship may need to be completely separate, right? We see that unfortunately sometimes in marriage relationships. church relationships. When you see a church split, right, you would love to see those groups reconcile, but it doesn't always happen. Right All right, so I I do want you to w walk away with these four because I want you to think about and if you haven't, um did Gate pass out, do you guys have these pamphlets We have them in the Counseling Um Center and it's from Ken Sandy's ministry, but it's a great, great resource. And on the back it has the seven A's of confession that we talked about, but it has the four promises of forgiveness that we just talked about. It's really important because I want you to think about every time you s you are forgiving somebody, you're committing to these four promises Right? It's not enough to just say, okay, I forgive you. You're saying I'm not going to dwell on it. I'm not going to bring this uh incident up against you. I'm not going to talk to others about it. I'm not going to let it stand between us or hinder our relationship. That's a heavy lift It's a heavy lift. And guess what? Who do we need to do that? Holy Spirit. Right? So again, in the counseling rooms if you want to grab a pamphlet, really, really good resource. Alright, so let's go back to this question, Karen, you were kind of getting at it. What if the person doesn't ask for forgiveness? Am I still supposed to forgive them? What are your thoughts? Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. There is some, and this is where the debate comes in, there's some measure of debate on this question, but the best biblical approach seems to view forgiveness in two senses, and this is what we talked about: attitudinal Right, that vertical relationship and transactional. You may also say vertical versus horizontal. Transactional or horizontal forgiveness Is when a person has sinned against us, they confess their sin, ask for forgiveness, and we grant forgiveness, making the four promises above that we just talked about. Okay? This is the kind of forgiveness we see in Matthew 18. In fact, let's go there. Matthew 18, verse 15. Also Luke, or I'm sorry, let's go to Luke 17. Luke 17, starting in verse 3. As those who received infinite forgiveness from our Father, we extend forgiveness to those who repent and ask for it. All right, let's go to Luke. Luke seventeen. Luke seventeen, starting in verse three. Pay attention to yourselves. If your brother sins What does it say? Rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him. This seems conditional, does it not? And this is where we're trying to reconcile the these kind of two aspects of what we see in God's Word about, yes, there's this unconditional, this attitudal forgiveness that we're supposed to give immediately. Right, that's that relationship between God, you're turning it over to God, we're not going to be embittered. But this horizontal seems to carry somewhat of a condition to it. You know, Jesus says if he sins against you, the first thing is rebuke him Now obviously that means to confront um in a gentle, loving way with truth, right? Not embittered, not angry, not not responding in more sin. But if the result is they actually repent So here's this idea of what if what if I um confront somebody and they don't repent? Can I forgive them? It's kind of a trick question. It's a yes and a no. There's the attitude of forgiveness that absolutely you can forgive them. You turn it over to God. But I think what the author is saying here, if that person does not repent that relational forgiveness is hindered. Right? That that's how he's trying to reconcile what is written in Scripture. Again, you can you can go along with that framework. I think it helps Um but there is somewhat of a condition that is happening horizontally between people. Okay? Yeah, great point. And that's the next passage here. So transactional forgiveness is so critical that Jesus says in Matthew 6 For if you forgive others for their transgressions, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others, then your Father will not forgive your transgressions. Now let's be careful here This is not saying that you are then if you don't forgive others that you are then condemned, right? This positional or judicial forgiveness. Once that happens to you, you are forgiven. Right? You are justified before the Lord. What's he getting after here though? If you have a heart attitude, though, that says, I'm going to hold a grudge, I'm going to become embittered, that's not how he forgave us, right? It's going to hinder your prayers. Can prayers be hindered? Yes. We know in 1 Peter 3, right, it says, Husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. Why? So that your prayers will not be hindered. Yes. Our prayers can be hindered by our sinful attitudes. So that's what this is getting at here in Matthew 6. Let me keep going. I think there might be some other questions and then I'll come back to that because I want to hit this other aspect here But what do you do until the person asks, or if the person never asks? You have two options. Become bitter by holding on to their offense or forgive them in your heart. That's the attitude of forgiveness that we're talking about. Transactional forgiveness is between you and the other person. Attitudinal forgiveness is between you and the Lord. So similar to Matthew 6, we have Matthew 18:35. Remember, we talked last week about the two servants Right, and the the first servant had ten thousand talent debt, went before the king, I need more time and what did the king do? Or he basically wiped away the debt. He forgave it. And then what did that servant go out and do? Right? He had a servant that owed him a hundred denarii. So the comparison is like uh billions of dollars to a couple hundred dollars and he threw him in prison. That was the heart attitude that God's getting at here. If you don't forgive the way I forgave you, right, your your prayers, your life is going to be hindered. Okay? It's not you're going to lose salvation We forgive others in our hearts in four ways. And I would say this is a combination of vertical and horizontal that we have here, attitudinal and relational. We remember that while they may have sinned towards us and hurt us, they have primarily sinned against God, who will in his way and his time exact justice. So we entrust ourselves in the person to the Lord. We see often in the Psalms, the Psalmist lamenting, Lord, how long will the evil prosper? It's the Lord's timing. But there will not be injustice that happens at the end, right? Romans 12, never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay it, says the Lord. And that's what you're doing. You're entrusting it to the Lord for his perfect justice. Again, another attribute of who God is. He is just. He is just. Why? Because he's holy, holy, holy. James 4, there is only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and to destroy, but who are you to judge your neighbor? And then 1 Peter 2, and while being reviled, he did not revile in return, while suffering He uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. All right We remember that we are called not to become bitter towards others, so we choose not to cultivate sinful attitudes towards that person. Again, this is kind of that attitudinal, that vertical of forgiveness. Ephesians 4. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you along with all malice. This is tied to that um put off put on passage in Ephesians. Colossians 3, husbands, love your wives and do not be embittered against them. Hebrews 12 Pursue peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God, that no root of bitterness springing up causes trouble, and by it many be defiled And then number three. We remember that just as God forgives us instantly when we ask, because our sin has been paid for by Christ. We too must be ready to make the four promises that I talked about in the pamphlet there of forgiveness and reconcile with them when the person repents. And I won't read all those passages. You have them. Let me touch the last one though, Luke 17. And if he sins against you seven times a day and returns to you seven times saying, I repent, forgive him. Now again, this transactional, this relational, horizontal uh forgiveness, if the person is truly repenting We are commanded to forgive them according to the the four promises. Okay? Even if it happens again and again, if there is true repentance there should be that relational forgiveness. May there be consequences to your relationship. Yes. Yes. And lastly, we'll close, but I do have a a use case or a study case I want to talk about to maybe bring some of this to bear. This is hard, guys. This is impossible without the Holy Spirit. So it's important we're renewing our mind through God's Word, through classes like this, our small group discussions. We're praying fervently before the Lord. And also this element of doing good to them. You may have to treat them as your enemy. And I've said this before, sometimes in our Or marriage counseling? That that's what we have to counsel. Your spouse might be acting like the enemy in in what does God's word say? Matthew five. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Why? Because your behavior might win them over. 1 Peter 3. Romans 12, but if your enemy is hungry, feed him. And if he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head. Um for those who are at the Ken Sandy conference, you remember the example he gave of the the elder and the pastor that were having a They they were separated, right? They just had in total discord, broken relationship, and the elder felt the Lord put it on his heart, hey go wash his windows, right? And and that was the act that prompted a discussion and ultimately a reconciliation. So even in the midst of being wronged, of someone not asking for repentance or forgiveness of not repenting, we still can act. We can still love our enemies All right. Any questions about what we covered? A lot of material here. Again, I want you to take away this concept because I think it's helpful that there are times when the other person is not asking for forgiveness or not repenting. What do you do? Right? Your first action is to guard your own heart by giving it to God and trusting it to God. And then there are things you can do in that relationship to help even though they're not repenting. But it may break the relationship for a time. In the midst of that, you're praying, you're renewing your mind. Okay? You bring up a a a more um clear point that I was trying to make When we give it to God, we are trusting him. When we take it back, we are not trusting him, but we are acting as God in that situation. That's really what we're doing. Right? You're saying I'm the judge and jury now. So that's a really important aspect. All right, let me give you a use case and and then we'll we can talk about that, see what your thoughts are. Alright, so and there's much to this we can play the context, but I just want to get some of the thoughts out. So you share an intimate prayer request about your husband. So I'll pretend this is the lady. You share an intimate prayer request about your husband to a sister in Christ. That's the scenario And you find out that she shared it with a broader prayer group, praying for your husband. What do you do? And you find out about it. All right, so Brian, your immediate reaction is I can never trust this person again. I can never trust this person with anything. What what seeds are you starting to plant? Maybe you're looking to see it all that prayer. Maybe What what do you what do you what's the first thing you should do? God and recognize that you did share something that you shouldn't have in a way and then you have to go and ask Okay. Yeah. So there's there's an aspect of remember early on we talked about go into every conflict. um suspecting yourself, right? Examining yourself. So um appreciate that, Peyton. It starts with, boy, maybe I shouldn't have shared that. Okay? I'm still looking for something else though. I think you still need to um you know, call her out and say can we talk in private about this matter. You heard it from somebody else. Let's get to ground truth first. Oh, I have so many scars of jumping to conclusion instead of hearing the other side of the story. Maybe she never said that at all, right? Go in humility and make sure you understand the situation first Alex, were you gonna say something? Um Yeah, I was gonna say um miscommunication is often the the breaking point for trying to for function, you know. Yep. And so like I would ask myself Was I unclear in communicating the confidentiality of this? Did I even communicate that? Did I assume that? Yeah. You know? Yeah. Assume that people are thinking what we want them to know instead of being as clear as possible, as direct as possible, as verbose as possible. So that would be the Yeah, I love that. So much boils down to good, clear communication. So let's let's pull that scenario. You know, you go to that person lovingly and say, hey, I I heard this, that that really hurt me. Um, is that actually what you said? And the person might look be like I had no idea you wanted me to keep that a secret. I am so so sorry. Would you please forgive me? Right? Issue might be resolved right there because you weren't clear. And and back to Peyton. Should I be sharing this about my husband? And if I am I maybe need to make it really clear. We need to be um counting on others with our prayer requests. We do. That's what the body of Christ does Right? But you're going to learn who those trusted relationships are. But you always need to be examining, is this something I should be sharing? Or does it need to remain discreet? Or maybe I need to ask my husband first. Do you mind if I share this with others So communication, boy, absolutely, absolutely clear, especially in the marriage relationship. But the church relationship too. Very easy for the prayer team to be The the gossip mill. Um how many of you know Norman Rockwell? You've probably heard of him. Um Saturday Evening Post, The Painter, A lot of Family Life Um Issues or you know, paintings, if you will. And where we lived in Massachusetts in the Berkshires, he was actually from there, so there's a Norman Rockwell Museum. But but early on I I love Norman Rockwell paintings. So we have a couple in our house And one is the gossip, uh it's a gossip painting and it starts with the wife is telling something no, the husband is telling something to the wife And then it goes through a bunch of faces where the wife is telling somebody and then she tells somebody and there's like four rows of people telling, and then the last picture is the husband confronting the wife because it got back to the husband Right, so it's the gossip. I call it the gossip picture, but yeah, it'll come back to you. But yeah, that's you know, we have to be careful with our prayer chain. Right? You think you're doing it in in the right vein. But all right, so let's say you confront this person and like Oh, you're being too sensitive. You know, I I just it's important for us to be praying for each other. Right? There's no repentance. What what do you do? You still forgive regardless. Regardless? No or girls on policing against you, I mean that that the whole point is to be hold holding on accountable, but You you certainly want to pursue that, but let's go back to what we talked about today. What might step one be? Right, your relationship between you and God. Right. You know you're angry, you're starting to s feel those seeds of bitterness. It starts with that attitude of forgiveness. I'm going to forgive that person in front of the Lord. I'm going to entrust this situation to the Lord. It doesn't mean you you've given up having to confront this person or reconcile. That's not what it's saying. That's why I think this framework is helpful. You are starting with a position of I'm going to give this to the Lord. I'm going to trust this to the Lord. Yes. Circumstantial. Yeah. We can build out our case studies. Yeah, it you can put 'em in any order, but I think that's a critical step. Absolutely. Um hey honey, this this happened. I w I need you to know about it. Yeah, yeah. You know, you need to go reconcile. Yeah. I think all you know, I think those two aspects could happen pretty quick, but I think that's an important component of this this case study that we gave you is the husband. Right. You need to go back and ask for forgiveness for for what you did as well. So that's an important part. Alright, so you've given it over to the Lord, but you still have this person who is not who has hurt you who has not repented. What do you do? What did Jesus say? If your brother sins, rebuke him. You need to confront it. And you do it in a loving way, you do it in a gracious way. You have that communication. When you did this, you know, always focus on the behavior. When you did this, this is how it made me feel. This is what happened to me. Now I've forgiven you before the Lord, but But until this is resolved our relosh our relationship is broken. I I don't feel I can trust you. But you can have a very open and ob honest conversation And if this is a sister uh in Christ, you should be able to appeal to you know from the Word of God in that relationship Right, she has hurt you. That needs she should want to deal with that. Okay? So you continue to use these principles of Transactional relational. Now, like I talked about, you can choose, you know, we talked about the four promises. You can choose not to dwell on it anymore. Lord, you got this I I'm I'm not going to carry this around anymore. Right? Because when you take that on, now the burden's on you. You don't want to carry that around. Let the Lord take that. You can do that. You can choose not to bring this up If you feel like you've had those conversations, you may decide we're we're not going to talk about it anymore. You're not going to talk to others about it. Boy, make sure you don't Share a prayer request with this lady over here, right? She's gonna blab it to everyone. Right? What kind of heart attitude is that? You see, it always goes back to your heart attitude. Okay I if the person is not repentant, then this case study they are a believer in your church, at what point would it be Look at Sarah's like church discipline, man. I I think um it it requires wisdom and discernment Um could it be wise then it's a great it's a great question though. Could it be wise to take um a few wit witnesses with you Right? If you know this is a repeated issue, it may be worth taking a couple ladies with you to say, hey, we love you, but we're seeing this from several different perspectives Again, so you're appealing again. Um does it rise to the level of something that needs to be brought before the elders of the church? Maybe, maybe not, right? It depends on the context of the situation. But I think to your point, you're not forgetting it. Right? You're confronting it. And that may mean use church discipline process. Step one is you and that person privately. Step two is bring some witnesses with you Right? Um continue to appeal to this person's heart. And it may take time. The the other part is love her. Do something special for her. Right? Who knows what's going on in her life? Go back to uh the portrait of a peacemaker. You may find in this discussion, if you have a heart of command compassion, you may find out there's some extreme brokenness in this person's life. And now you can come alongside. You see what I mean? I guess that's the point I'm trying to make. Okay? Last comment. All right, good discussion. Let me close this in prayer and we'll get to the remainder of our worship time. Father, we love you. This is such an important topic. forgiveness. You modeled clearly how you want forgiveness to happen. You modeled clearly your incredible love, grace and mercy that while we were still sinners You sent your son to die for us, and that's what we celebrate today, his resurrection, completing that plan, sitting at your right hand now interceding for us as we deal in this complicated fallen world With image bearers, Lord. I do pray for our heart attitude. I pray that we will be a people of prayer. I pray that you would give us the the diligence and the discipline to put off, to renew our mind and to put on, to think rightly according to your word. We love you and we thank you and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen.