So God wasn't changing the responsibility. And over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. Yes. Yeah. Okay, so this class is on biblical manhood and womanhood. And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, and to everything that moves on the earth, which has life, I have given every green plant for food, and it was so uh yeah we've got equality and differences in unity. It's equal, right? But it was very clear to Adam, and ought to be clear to us, that even by the way she was created, emphasizes the equality, the sharing in God's image, which So it wasn't a baby. We talked about that. And he blessed them and named them man in the day when they were created. uh the word man and him and you they're all singular, referring to Adam as the one who is primarily responsible. uh it it can i God is referred to in Scripture as our helper. You ha uh the woman has to subside, she has to listen, she has to go by what her husband says. Correct. Yes. And um and forgive you know, forgiveness and being more Christlike is so beautifully pictured because we have Part of you is very critical for me because I come from a culture where very much very you know, the man is in what he says that goes. uh I kinda think that Satan maneuvered Judas and other things and whatever to try to get Jesus done away with And to be able to have a relationship with him. here in Genesis, but uh there's a sense in which um both masculinity, we'll talk more about that, and femininity both are part of God's image. uh character in terms of um uh general traits. In the Trinity, there's actually hierarchy. That have nothing to do with value, but all about God's design. He's talking there to both Adam and Eve. Sh you might wonder whether she's any different from the animal, right? From the side of bone, is that correct? sharing God's image um um and mankind, men and women, um are emphasis on the union. And he came up with words like hippopotamus, right? to Adam is like the pattern for a father giving their daughter away in marriage. First Timothy two, twelve through thirteen emphasizes that that's uh a major reason It's interesting that as you as you read through the beginning part of chapter one, you see that God named various aspects of it. and and so on. He gave recognition of man's headship even prior to the fall. the sort of the necessary implication of headship even in the naming of mankind But you must master it. the correspondence between these two verses, they're being used in exactly the same way. Which says, I am my beloved's and his desire is for me. So faster, if I'm reading if I'm understanding like if this was an ideal world that things worked out the way how it was supposed to be, does that mean that to have this peaceful relationship then supposed to do. context, you know, so clearly points to our tendency towards sin and how in marriage that forgiveness and c you know and and and to constantly fight against it and you know and forgive one another and show God's love and Christ's care. his responsibility. was responsible for. Okay? God said, Let us make man in our image according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over the cattle and over all the earth. And God blessed them. Then God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the surface of all the earth, and every tree which has fruit yielding seed, it shall be food for you. God saw all that he made, and behold, it was very good, and there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. Right? And his image, his his being. uh relationship with God, the way we can have relationship with God. He made man in his image, he made woman in his image. Jesus Christ is the second person of the Trinity. uh human beings, they're not people. is patterned after God's personality, his being a person. has a parallel to some extent in the way he created man and woman to be two people when they're married, two people, one flesh. design this in such a way that the husband and wife procreate, they participate, they don't actually do the creating, but they participate in God's creative work. But then mostly chapter two is about an expansion of what happened on day six, about the creation particularly of mankind. and closed up the flesh at that place. in terms of value and standing before God and and sharing in in in the image of God, there are nonetheless differences. different not just physically different but different in roles. Apart even from God saying so, even by the way he made her, it was obvious. where I draw a lot of the material for this lesson and and many of the other lessons as well. But it's expanded in day six is expanded in chapter two, and it's very clear that Adam was created first. before God. So God was emphasizing by this object lesson something that Adam needed to appreciate, which was God wasn't done yet. The the account in Genesis two of God bringing her to the man, God basically married them in the garden at that point. Who did he give that command to? uh uh repentance. The King James Version of Genesis 1, I'm sorry, 2, God says, it is not good for man to be alone. a recap of what we've been reading already. and referred to them as Adam, man, before the fall. um expected that he would communicate the rules that God had communicated even to Eve, who came later. And the word for helper does not in and of itself indicate a relationship to authority. So it's not inherently saying anything about um authority or submission or hierarchy or anything. But you must master it, he tells Cain. That the structure in the Hebrew between Genesis 4. Which is not uh particularly in this context uh for. It's not the word that's used in Genesis 3 or Genesis 4. will be met by the rule of her husband over her, further indicating what is that what is pictured here is conflict over who's in charge. Even though God created them equal, equal standing before him, equally representing his image, he created them to have different roles. But it's patterned and the key is it's patterned after God's own nature, the Trinity. Right? Yeah. Uh for those at least who are redeemed. uh the sin that just happened and all sins ever since that happened because of it. that God brings brings the solution to that sin that's crept into the world and the effects of it that are already uh are all the all the more real. And it's it's not only about our salvation, it's also about God's design that draws this parallel between the church and Christ, between uh the persons of the Godhead and the husband and wife and it's all kind of part of God's design genius. things have been turned upside down around us, right? and roles and and so on. When he's using the word man there, he's referring both to Adam and to them generally, male and female, he created them in his image. But when you think about God being created in man's image, uh no, I know the other way around, right? that God looks like us. examples of that. Um not three gods, one God, three persons, and um our personality, our being persons God's creation. uh God's image equally because she create uh he created her directly out of Adam rather than from the ground. in the Godhead that there is equality and unity and yet there is I'm I'm sorry, I think Sarah do you need a copy of the notes? Well it it's just that it wouldn't inherently be obvious that she shared in God's image, because clearly the animals don't would not have been it so obvious had she been created from the ground. Uh in his image. Yeah, God just did it miraculously. Right? And so God uh brought all the animals in front of Adam with the task of naming them. The sort of the ancillary point that we're going to talk about here is that God was going to be officially, he hadn't yet, but he was going to be officially giving Adam and Eve It was good. I don't know if you've ever heard of Howard Hendricks, a professor of Dallas Theological Seminary years ago. Uh and so he says bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. speaks of limitations and and distinctions on um particularly women's roles in the church. So do you remember the command God gave said you can eat from any tree of the garden you want except this one tree that is in the center, the the tree of knowledge of good and evil Um yeah, he went to Adam. Uh it it was referring to her as a helper, someone who would help him. uh appropriate for. In Genesis three fifteen, we're going to get to that later, I hope. Cain killed Abel, or no, it was before Cain killed Abel. that that relationship of the the head of the home and the wife who submits to him There's equality, there is a distinction of roles, there's even hierarchy, submission within the the Godhead, and there's no sin there, and it works beautifully. And that's uh uh uh um um that's another consequence of sin. Um but sin made that conflict. So if you back up to one verse, to Genesis 3. a blow to the head, whereas Satan will bruise him on the heel. Something that we probably didn't need to emphasize all that much a generation ago. Page of lesson one, God created man and woman equal in value and dignity. Some critical elements of God's design. having intellect, emotion, will, spiritual being, character, and all these things that that uh man has because we're made in God's image. In the Trinity, there is absolute equality and yet a difference in roles Right? And likewise in marriage, patterned after even the essence of God, there is absolute equality and yet absolute roles in hierarchy over the earth, the animals. um summary of all six days of the first of the days of creation. Yeah. equal and united in all those ways. But in fact, the fact that she was created from Adam's side emphasizes that this is well in fact Adam saw that immediately. make he made Adam out of the ground in his own image. uh the animals. She's sharing in God's image because she's actually coming from Adam. Dr. And we're going to look at at uh the first nine of those today and the tenth one next week. um responsibility, as we've seen, to care for, manage, superintend all the animals and the rest of creation. Fortunately, they don't send a form to Washington to find out what the child's going to be called, right? loose translation of that of Adam's reaction where it says God brought her the woman to the man. Wow. And that is the pattern. Adam named her, much like he named the animals, although she was different. bring it's calling for repentance, right? That word meet in the King Jamesish speech means corresponding to or appropriate for. And so a helper meet is a helper who is suitable for him. Yes, helper, that's that's what God called her, helper. Um King James had meat, which we don't use that word in that way anymore. Yeah. this account, and this is now is in it's highlighted in Genesis 3, and that's the conflict. May seem a little strange in that context. It says, if you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? This desire to control her husband and his actions and whatever uh led be a consequence of that sin. So it just gets compounded. for both Adam and Eve is not to to take away the responsibilities that they had before sin Um likewise with Adam, he was already given the responsibility to cultivate before sin, back in chapter two of Genesis. Is not because of sin. The seed of the woman, referring to a descendant of the woman. Uh and and it's the only place in scripture referred to the seed of the woman, it's always the seed of the man, because that's where the seed comes from. So that mystery uh it was a mystery in that it wasn't inherently obvious in the Old Testament. uh don't have to be as um pronounced as they would have been had we not been saved. just as it's to represent the ongoing relationship of a wife to her husband in Ephesians 5, he says, this mystery is great, but I am speaking with reference to Christ in the church. And to start off, today we're going to look at sort of the fundamentals of God's design of men and women. um essence, his own personality. uh reflected better by man and woman um together than either of them could uh reflect God's image in its entirety. So they were equally held responsible to be fruitful, to multiply, and to fill the earth. Now they have different roles and that affects maybe some of their relationship with God. And especially from the creation accounts, we see that there's definite equality in value, equality in dignity, equality in You know, at the end of every day in chapter one, God would say what, so such was created and Right? It says specifically he called the the the day day and the night night and and likewise heavens and earth and seas and so on. Scripture in a lot of places refers to man in the generic, referring to mankind. Um the context makes it clear that she was created to be a helper for Adam. The serpent made me do it. I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth. One of those times is in the very next chapter, chapter four, verse seven, where you know um Um but her her desire to control him brings clash, right? That's because of sin. And in chapter three, his sentencing meant that it was going to be a lot harder. um we still can exhibit that um uh overcoming of putting off the old and putting on the new, right? Um doesn't mean it's easy. Um it's referring to the virgin birth of the Messiah who would take on the role of punishing uh the the the punishment that was deserved for. And Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, uh refers to that initial marriage of Adam and Eve. Focusing first on how he made us equal, and yet how he also made us with differences. And that is very unique to humans, right? From this. And um uh we're we're gonna see some some um We are persons. God has personality. That's something that is not true of the animals. Although prior to the incarnation, the son wasn't a person Men and women, boys and girls, all human beings, are um equal in God's design. And uh um uh she is very different from Okay, so in addition to all that equality, we can see and uh by the way, I would highly recommend This book that I reference here on page six by Wayne Grutom, Biblical Foundations for Manhood and Womanhood. And so God giving Adam the responsibility to name the animals emphasized, should have emphasized to Adam his responsibility for them. was, you know, he says, okay, giraffe, elephant, hippopotamus, whatever. and brings her to him and as he said, um you know actually, you know um And a foundation for a distinction of roles even in the church. for obeying it but also um uh helping Eve to understand it and and obey it as well when she came along. Meet for him. It means helper suitable for, not a help meet as this is a synonym for wife. Not that they were to be helpers of each other, but that she was created to be a helper for Adam. He tells Cain. The pattern of God's sentencing in um Genesis three But that those responsibilities are going to get harder to implement because of sin. So God's design was that she would bring forth children, but because of sin, now it's going to be really labor. He, proceed, shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. Because it's talking about this the solution to the problem God's addressing that just cropped up. The seat of the woman that is the Christ who is to come will deliver a fatal blow to Satan. on display and and and uh referred to uh even in God's sentencing of Adam and Eve and the serpent. We have the Word of God, we have the indwelling Holy Spirit, we have the wisdom that God has given us, and the um And its application to the relationship between the church and um uh Christ the mind of Christ to seek after God's will and design, so that the effects of sin in our marriages because the the coming of the church age wasn't all that pronounced in in uh the prophecies in the old testament. It says very explicitly in verse 27, God created man in his own image, and the image of God he created him. And it's the same way we're on page six. And he knew it right from the start. just the highlight here that the order in which they were created is significant. Had to be from Adam. That woman you gave me. And that was just design to be reflected in marriage. Picking up in verse 26, of course, is the sixth day of creation So uh as we work through those verses here, um we're gonna see God is always in Scripture referred to in with masculine pronouns, he, right, and him, even even um But again, God is always referred to in the masculine in scripture. But we can say that he is a human now. Not from the ground. And um that's significant. Um okay, so the order matters. And that really messes up what the Bible's saying. So there you go. So you remember they they sinned God um first A have you eaten from the treaty of which I told you not to eat? Doesn't mean desire the way we normally would think of desire. But it it doesn't inherently tell tell us whether that urging is a good thing or a bad thing. Both Eve and Adam into sin. And that wasn't God's design that there would be conflict about who was in charge. Yes, and we'll talk a bit more about what that means. Right. share that with others around us. Um so when the King James Version said help, it was as a noun and elp as a segue. her her um she was created to be a suitable, a corresponding, a an appropriate helper for him. Genesis 4:7 says, and against you is its desire, and you must rule over it. That same language uses six of the same key Hebrew words, and against your husband your desire will be, and he will rule over you. Then Genesis for Oh, and and the other key thing to point out here is the preposition L And so the desire here is a strong urge, but grammatically and in context, it indicates a positive desire, not a negative desire. And it's significant that both the husband and the wife respond to that conflict in simple ways. And even without sin and before sin, uh the husband by God's design was uh the head of the family. Uh and so the woman is his helper and is submitted to him uh even before sin. Correct. Salvation in Jesus Christ restores all aspects of God's judgment against Adam and Eve's sin, which God began to reveal in his curse of the serpent. Now that is the very first glimpse we have of the gospel. And then look at verse 28. So um he he created both man and woman on day six and he blessed them equally. And then he says, as he continu as we continue in verse 28, he says, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth, subdue it, rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and so on. And so on or in uh chapter two, we see that God created Eve from Adam's side. Grudham points out ten reasons for showing male headship in marriage even before the fall into sin. illustrates his his responsibility over them. Um and then later in um when they did sin Okay, so the point here is that since God named the human race after the first man So we talked about that a bit. um challenges Adam, you know, where are you? Now um that phrase your desire will be for your husband It's not a good thing. And at the bottom of the page here, I point out what others have actually pointed out He he designed it to be uh different roles, have they each having its own dignity, patterned after God's own nature. Here, uh I think we've mostly covered those things. was his victory, Satan's victory, was actually his own defeat. And so there is hope, even within marriages, right, that that even though the consequences of sin So with that, we need to uh the the the last one is the parallel within the Trinity. Okay. That's why I said that's a joke. Um who did God go to first? Help me. Uh it's it's in the first or I'm sorry, the second column of the comparison of three sixteen and four seven, where um The God gives us the will and the actions to follow through with what we So the design of the the marriage, right? Um and um so salvation So one of the the um things we can learn Yeah. However, um as we flip the page to page six, just like we see in the um Yes. both to mean uh to refer to Adam and to refer to them together, mankind. And in his own mind probably thought, aha, checkmate. He wasn't a hu he wasn't a human being. And number five, the primary accountability. Okay, sex the purpose. We're going to come back to this when we get to the next passage that uses the same word desire. and got him on the cross through ungodly people who were very susceptible to Satan's deceptions. That leads us here to in point C that that this the Trinity, one God and three persons. And in something even like a marriage, the way God created it, there is y there is equality and yet distinct roles But I'm going to mention it now so I don't forget. We've translated that against rather than for. differences, equality and differences happening at the same time. And so there's there's some symbolism there, I think, in terms of uh being sort of a coequal before God. First is the order. named man, kind, man. Even though within the Godhead there's there's um uh equality, right? And then likewise Adam named his wife because of his headship. Yeah. Yes. It was good. It wasn't a ten year old. Exactly. And throughout the Genesis three passage, um They're all passing the buck, right? But after Christ and looking back on what God accomplished through Christ, Paul is saying now a lot of this mystery is now being revealed, right? Well let's close with prayer. Not only the the the physical flesh that God had created, but a sharing of his image as well. It's just very clear. We're gonna get there. urge to control, to have victory over, like sin would be having victory over Cain. Right? There's no one corresponding to him. Helper is the meaning. Number four on page six, the naming of the human race. That's a good thing. All that cooperation and and uh exactness, exactly the same essence. Who did God give that command to? Some of the dialogue of John the Baptist where he says, challenging people who had come to him for baptism, he says, um That's my pet piece. Mankind was created in God's image, but there's an extent to which God's image is So it says God put him to sleep, the first anesthesia, I guess. When God pronounced judgment on Eve, God indicates that that seeking to control her husband is something that would And value and dignity. And fortunately God gives us the the strength, the power, the grace to do that, i even though we're still in the process of overcoming sin and becoming more like Christ. Uh and he uh convicted himself in that he blamed the one who made him responsible and he uh blamed the one who where it refers to the marriage relationship as a picture of the relationship of the church to Christ, Christ being the head, the church being the bride. Which involves having oversight and rule over the the animals and and uh the whole earth Well it's um God could have spoken to her directly, but it's pretty clear he probably didn't, that he was holding Adam responsible. God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. It's not that femininity is just foreign to God because God is a man. In his wisdom, he didn't create marriage to be three persons. You remember that right? Right. Um you know, like taking um her from his um creating her from his ribs, uh kind of put It says, this is the book of the generations of Adam in the day when he created man. Later, in the same day, that God had given that restriction That now is more understood looking back than was apparent looking forward He also created mankind, both male and female, to have intellect, emotion, and will. And then uh I don't know if you wonder about the relationship between Genesis 1 and Genesis 2, but Genesis 1 give us gives us the high level Second is uh Dr. I forget where it's at. Right. It's because of God's desire. Both sides. That was the message that Adam got. Yes. So the order was significant. When you think of person, what do you think of? They were God's stewards, His servants to manage Um just said side, so Yeah, well take a look at Genesis two. Like it wasn't from his toe, it wasn't from his knee, wasn't from his arm, it was from Exactly. Two words, help meet. He was saying the consequence of sin is it's going to get harder. We're gonna need to wrap up here, but let me um overview We have personality because God were made in his image. And you get and and he creates man and he finally says it's not good. And in fact it says, therefore a man shall leave his father or mother and cleave to his wife, right? Takes work. Oh, okay. The desire of sin is to control you And of course the Hebrew is normally right to left, not left to right, but just to help you see from the English. Right. You ever notice that? We talked about that, right? Now, does the desire there seem like a good thing or a bad thing? Yeah. Well the biggest reason I think God had him named the animals though And so we mentioned that Eve wasn't present when God gave the restriction, and so it must have been that God had Yeah. Now there's someone who corresponds to me. I'm not gonna get there now. You know, it was equally the same. So it should be obvious to us that men and women are each created in God's image Verse 21. It's not clear from Genesis 1, because that's sort of the the overview of all six days. We say first person in the Trinity, second, third. Sir Aya, did you get a copy of the notes? It's not a physical image. And and Adam got it. Adam of Adam. Yeah. So the other time in the Old Testament when this word desire is used is Solomon Solomon 710. So to do that, we of course go back to Genesis. And so in the King James it says, bring forth fruit, meat unto repentance. Right? Well, it turns out that that word desire means a strong urging. That's the problem. And if it's genuine repentance, it would have what? And there the word that's translated for actually is the word for for. No, I've read this a hundred times, but right now when I read the other version it's just at the side. I don't know if there was any recuperation uh involved, you know, from that surgery. And and whatever. Okay, and then third, the naming of the woman. Okay. Eve's sentencing says, I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth. Okay. Maybe it always has. Yep. They're they're they're there in marriages today, even among believers. We are persons because they are persons. He's speaking to them. Eve was created to be a helper. 15, God said to the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. But no, she is like Adam. It's the one who who um uh made me do it. And it really helps for us as believers to understand God's design and how we can uh apply that, how we can uh God created Adam out of the ground, but he created Eve out of Adam's side. Right. In pain you will bring forth children, yet your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. But what did he say in in 316? Right? Yes. God created Adam before Eve, and um That's a good point. And also in the King James, if you go to the New Testament and um the And it's not a good thing, obviously. It says, after he created them, it says, God blessed them. And so their standing before God is the same. The order of created creation. Eve wasn't even created yet. Or sometimes helpmate. This is God speaking to Cain. Right. Yes. God created man in his own image. This is now someone who uh and by the way, um in Um so it's it it's not about what could have been, it's just that it it was sending a message, I think. And Okay, so on item B there in the middle of page eight. And then uh the k the description of the helper Well Cain didn't exactly do that, right? And note that the words man, him, and them here are used interchangeably in this creation account. He could make anybody, anything from the ground in his image. But even even before the incarnation, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit existed from eternity past in three persons. That's a way to summarize it. But um Yeah, and the only reason I agree this this is this So um there although God's creating her from Adam. Um and and so God cursed the serpent It doesn't mean that they're people. So the point is that even from um So to be in harmony, an ideal harmony, she would have to be submissive. So I mean to that that kind of clarification on the word design and how it's used in the Right? Um so it could very well have been that had he created Eve out of the ground, he could have created her also Yes. So it it doesn't mean subservient. And so we're going to be covering a number of related topics from Scripture about God's design for manhood and womanhood. Yep. The animals don't have a spirit, a soul that lasts forever, or that can have And that creation happened certainly before the fall. But in gr verse sixteen, to the woman he said But we also have a spiritual capacity. So it's They're both created as adults. And what was Adam's first knee-jerk reaction? God warned him, you know, why are you so downcast? He became he took on flesh. He blessed them and commissioned them. Nazbi. And actually that plays into how he made them physically different. In the Hebrew, it's used only two other times in the Old Testament. I don't know. Grudem referred to as the representation. So if you go to Genesis five, there's kind of a summary here So your desire will be against your husband. Now is that a good thing or a bad thing? Yes. Adam. Eve sinned first, then Adam, but God called Adam to give an account. They come to him in twos, male and female. And then he had Adam name the animals because of his rule over them. So we're gonna we're gonna talk about how God created, um, designed marriage to work. Right. But um One of my pet peeves is people use the term Actually, it says seed of the woman. And together uh they are uh reflecting his image even better in terms of uh It's unique to humans. Three persons, actually. And so it becomes clear that she shares in the image of God. A not so fatal blow. Just like parents name their children. 7 and Genesis 3. Yes. What it means is appropriate for uh corresponding to Uh the Holy Spirit is referred to as our helper, right? Well, let me see if I can explain it here. Um and Right? Um the King James used the word help because that's what's what help meant, a helper, one who helps. Now Genesis five comes after the account of the fall, but here Genesis five is just a So the the uh that's what we're gonna get into here next, that even though men and women are created equal, Adam, where are you? It's because of the King James, unfortunately. And in uh I think the NASP says a helper suitable, something like that. And it it's doesn't need to be the case. It's all about his essence. Okay? So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept. Um but the only point here so far is that there's Um but you know it's the the pattern Um and we have intellect, emotion, and will because we're patterned after God's Okay, just making sure. This is now bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. That's the point. When in fact the very thing that he thought was People, human beings, right? So this is now bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. We've noted that already. It's not a desire for, it's a desire against Um but what was the point of that? Right? Is that what I'm hearing? But it seems like it's it's And of course, God of course is the one who creates, but he's he has Adam was created before Eve. Help meet is not one word. Now he was excited. In the image of God, he created him. We're gonna talk um a lot about that. We we we have that because he created us to be spiritual beings, to have an eternal soul Uh there's unity in the Godhead, there's unity in in a marriage, and yet there are um She was like him, corresponding to him. Patterned right after the very essence of God. Um She's from Adam and shares equally in God's image. And when we refer to the Holy Spirit as the third person of the Trinity God the Father is the first person of the Trinity. And uh First Timothy two One of the most interesting things we see from Okay. And one of the aspects of getting harder is this conflict in marriage. He became human. Well, uh i it would be possible to make that conclusion even if that weren't true. 16 is exactly the same. He will rule over you. Um it's a it's a result of sin. Now there's thorns and thistles, and it's going to be by the sweat of your brow and all that, right? That would have been interesting, wouldn't it? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door, and its desire is for you But that's what God told him. Thank you. Man that is the point. We ha we're created in God's image. It's the parents who have the responsibility to name their own children His As adults, yeah. Here is your responsibility. It's the pattern for marriage. Um and what's his conclusion after doing all that? Um that's fine. You're hiding. And um he says, well, you know, um Right. God the Son submits to the will of God the Father. So he gave that command to Adam. It's the desire that sin has over you. You have to know from the context. Right? And then chapter two fills in a little bit about what happened on it on day seven. And so there's there's um the Let's go to number eight here on page nine, the restoration. So um And likewise, they were equally given responsibility to rule Um Yeah, you're good. Yeah. It would bear fruit. He made him in the likeness of God. I was like, but I remember there was a bone involved. So It is. So I hinted at at this earlier, but It's not. But not help. Right. And so Um Right. Which may in fact be referring to the crucifixion. And then the ninth one here, real quickly, is the mystery of all this. And so I'm on page five, the first um Correct. The word meet means corresponding to. Um Christ on the cross. But the point is that His Okay. And so there's there's a sharing of Adam said That is, it was Adam, not Eve, who represented the whole human race when he sinned. And God named Adam Adam Well he's not a man either, right? Um but So that that word for man is being used. That word desire They're both prepositions, but they're not the same. What what it's what the point is that So what is the point then? Very abusive, verbally, physically, whatever. Right, yes. Right. But um I think that was the fastest surgery in recovery. Not that man wasn't good, but it's not good for man to be alone. Um there's nonetheless a distinction of roles. Presumably s young adults, but a That's not because God didn't know where he was. That would be a better translation of the word L But we are persons because Um they don't And if you use them in two words, you've got to speak like King James did. Conflict between the man and the woman Yeah, su the the the the woman made me do it. We've hinted at that a bit. It is. Male and female he created them He made them actually And in uh verse seven And he's seeing a pattern here, but there's no one corresponding to him. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of man Right? But anyway Sin. Equal in value and dignity. This is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh However Right? Same vocabulary, the same structure. But among believers Put him to sleep and created ease Um In fact, um He will still have this role of headship Yeah, that's the point. That m man is created in God's image, but that doesn't mean Right? And so he the the There are two points, I think. So Because they're equals. But originally they were a and always have been three persons. But there's still some parallel here because uh in So because that's one of the reasons why she would share in Yeah, and ideally, you know, following God's design What is the solution? One of the things we can learn here is that No. There's unity, uh there's um So um How did Eve learn about that restriction? It would be e there would be evidence of the genuine um And so in the context of God speaking to Cain, Male and female, he created them. He's God. So um that And that's essentially what this is referring to here, Genesis 3. If she had been created from the ground like Adam was Does that make sense? I will make an A-N help. And um And we're going to talk about that a lot later. In fact, um And it's all the same. Yeah, there was a bone. This desire on the part of the woman It's going to be a painful process, right? That's not how God designed it. Right. They're not We're going to talk about it a lot more next week. He created then male and female. If it's a strong um He's he's um He then he took one of his ribs Basically. One was um And um In pain you will bring forth children. He just wanted him to fess up. But she has to put up with it. And I think Adam got it. Adam's conclusion? They're patterned after God's own And and what was her response I think we've hinted at this before from Ephesians 5. And Yeah. There's hierarchy there. Um I I uh Um And his naming them So Okay So it it was from a Probably I mean Right. Um Correct So where I'm on page eight here. Adam cannot ignore it But you must master it. Um Right But There's no Yeah So Right? I mean God could God rested. 15.