All right. Well, uh you know, you have the the notes there, that introduc introductory paragraph. Uh I heard a number of years ago, interesting statistic that The vast majority of accidents, I don't remember the exact number, happen within a five mile radius of your home, right? Maybe you've heard that. Uh it could be for a variety of reasons, and maybe that that's the you know the majority of the driving that you do. I know where where we are situated, we have you know, Costco, grocery store, church, you know, all kinds of things within really three mile radius, so we rarely go outside of that anyway. Uh so you do most of your driving within that small radius and so that would make sense why most of your most of our accidents would be there. Another possible explanation though is that Because we're so familiar with that area that's closest to us, we pay less attention. Right? There's a four way stop between here in my house and sometimes I start going, I'm like, wait a minute, I didn't notice who went who was stopped stopped first you know. Did I did I just um cut somebody off who was supposed to go? Of course I normally feel like other people are cutting me off when I'm supposed to go. But uh but that familiarity means that we just kind of coast and we don't we're not really paying attention to our surroundings and so we're we're less vigilant and more susceptible to mistakes and to the the issues that that can arise out of that. Well in the same way, uh we tend to have most of our conflict with those who are closest to us, right? Our immediate family for sure our spouse if we're married, absolutely, but also those that we have regular interaction with. Maybe those in a small group or uh those that we serve in a ministry with, uh those that uh we work with uh you know on a day-to-day basis. Just those who are in our closest circles of influence tend to be those that we have the m most conflicts with. however big or however small those conflicts may be. What that means then is that when we're having conflict, when we're uh addressing conflict Uh this isn't someone you can just say, well I'm never going to talk to that person again. So I'm glad we resolved the conflict, but you know, good riddance, uh they're no longer um gonna be in my life. Normally that person's gonna be in your face, you know, every day, day in and day out, uh to some degree, and you're gonna have to continue to learn how to live with them, how to relate with them, how to interact with them either while you're in conflict or after you resolve conflict. And so this lesson is aimed at thinking about how can we do that? How can we be purposeful in how we relate with those that we're in contact with, those that we're that we're in close proximity with, that we're in conflict with on a regular basis. So let's start by considering these passages. These are all familiar passages. Most of them we've brought out at one point or another in this class. But these particular passages relate uh to those who have sinned against us, how we are to interact with them, right? So uh kind of think of it this way. If if these passages speak to how we are to relate to those who have sinned against us, Not only is that true in terms of regardless of whether or not we're reconciled, you know, and even especially if we're not reconciled, this is how God calls us to relate with others. But even more so, if we have reconciled with someone, these have strong implications for how we are to relate with them. So you have there to start with Romans 12, 14 to 21. Bless those who persecute you, bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Never pay back evil to anyone. Never take your own revenge. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink. Do not be overcome evil, but overcome Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. Now you can see there that I skipped some of the sections, uh some of the verses or phrases within within that larger text. But focusing in on how am I specifically commanded by God to relate toward uh with those who have sinned against me. What's the first word in that passage? Bless. Bless. When someone has sinned against you, when someone is acting like your enemy, You are to bless them. Now, in this particular context, uh bless means to speak well of them. That's uh the uh the idea. He's not uh by using that uh word he's not speaking of do good to them because he g he's gonna address that later. In this instance he's saying speak well of them. When you're in conflict with someone, do you typically think good thoughts and speak well of others to encourage, to uplift, to point out, you know, the good qualities that they have, to point out the good things that they do. No, we don't typically do that, right? We're we're thinking about all the negative We're thinking about all the ways that they sin, all the you know, their their bad character traits, their bad attributes. And Paul's saying, no, no, no. Bless them, encourage them, affirm them Uh uh be uh be one who speaks in a way that builds them up, uh as Paul says in in uh uh Ephesians four twenty-nine. Bless and do not curse. Don't tear them down. Build them up. And then he says, rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. We typically think of that verse in the context of just the general life of the body of Christ, and that certainly is applicable For sure. But in the context here, Paul is speaking about how we are to relate with those who have sinned against us. So we are to rejoice with those who have sinned against us when they are rejoicing. And we're to weep with those who have sinned against us when w when they are weeping. Again, in our flesh, our natural tendency is to uh you know be maybe bitter or envious if someone who has sinned against us Is rejoicing? Why is God blessing them? Doesn't He know what they've done to me? Or However horribly it is, we might say, well good you know, they got what they were what they were deserving, you know, if they experience some difficulty, some loss where they are weeping. Yeah, they they deserve that No, no, no. When they are rejoicing, you should rejoice with them. And when they are weeping, you should weep with them. I mean just our the the complete change of perspective that is required from what we naturally think is is what Paul is communicating here. This is incredibly difficult. He says never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Right? So someone does evil to you, and what's our natural tendency? To throw it back at them, right? To do evil to them. We we practice one-upmanship in evil. Oh yeah, you do that to you to me, you know, look what I'm gonna do to you Uh you said that to me, you know, here's what I'm gonna say to you. You hurt me in this way, I'm gonna hurt you in that way. That's our fleshly tendency, but he says don't do that, don't take revenge, but rather, if he's hungry, feed him If he's thirsty, give him a drink. Don't be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So when evil comes at us, our Right response empowered by the Spirit should be to heap good and kindness and bl and acts of blessing to them To meet their needs uh in whatever way uh whatever needs that they have And by doing that, we not only overcome their evil, in the sense of their evil doesn't have its intended effect on us, so we overcome their evil intent But we also overcome the evil in our own heart of what we're wanting to do against them by doing good. So in in this particular passage, we could spend a whole lot of time talking in more detail and specifics here, but you you get the general picture here that God is calling us. to respond to those who are at odds with us, whether they are actually intent on evil toward us or whether they're just in some degree in opposition toward us. They're at cross purposes with us. to respond in a way that is radically different than our natural fleshly response. And this is not just difficult, this is really impossible. Right? This is impossible. And so we need to have the Spirit dwelling within us. We need to be reliant on the power of the Spirit. uh we need to be seeking help from the Lord uh to respond in this way. Or or think about Matthew, what Jesus says there in the Sermon on the Mount But I say to you, Matthew 5. 39, do not resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. If anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, let him have your coat also. Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with him too. Give to him who asks of you, and do not turn away from him. Who wants to borrow from you? Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Now we can read that and we can say, okay, I know what Jesus is doing here. Do you remember how he said, if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away? How he's speaking hyperbole? That's what he's doing here. He doesn't actually mean these things. He means something way less than this, yeah I don't think Jesus is speaking hyperbolically here. I I think he's he's giving practical examples. I mean just uh you know the the forcing you to go one my one common situation in that day and age would be that a Roman soldier, uh who um you know, they weren't exactly the the kind police officer on the corner trying to help, you know, feed people in their daily needs. uh they might say, hey, uh I I'm gonna conscript you. Uh I need you to carry this heavy burden for me and you know I'm going to the next town. Um and you know, don't worry, I'll I'll find someone else at that next town to get me even to the next town after that. And Jesus is saying if a i if if a soldier does that, no, just go with him the whole way. I'll help him out. That's one possible application I think that Jesus has in mind here of of why someone would ask you to go one mile. Um but these the other you know all of these examples are situations where someone is wanting to take advantage of you. In some way, physically, slapping, uh materially, taking things from you, uh labor-wise, having you help and and do things for them And when we where we would n naturally say, No, no, no, don't ever let anybody take advantage of you. Don't ever let anybody take advantage of you. Jesus is saying, no, no, there's a way that you can respond, which is not just let them take advantage of you. Which is you love them, you serve them, you minister to them according to their need. So he's not saying just Be a doormat and let people walk all over you and do whatever they want to you. You actually go above and beyond what they're asking of you so that they don't think they're taking advantage of you, but they realize you are actually ministering to them and you're serving them beyond what they even thought they were asking. That's just one one way to think about it there. Again, he says, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. So there's an attitude that we need to have toward those who are against us. Or consider Luke 6, but I say to you who here love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who We mistreat you. Or Philippians 2, do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus. I think what's going on here is not Jesus telling, or excuse me, Paul telling uh the the church there, hey, I know you all are already unified, you're all already getting along and just you know outdo one another in how you serve one another and and how you prefer one another. You know, you're already planning to go to lunch and You know, just go to the restaurant that uh that the other person prefers. I don't think that's the situation in Philippi. Uh I think there's plenty of evidence in Philippians which Uh um th that's the next book I'm preaching, uh starting in in June. Uh there's plenty of evidence that there is a massive amount of disunity and sin against each other in the church And Paul is saying, you guys need to stop all of this sin, you need to stop all of this disunity, you need to come and be of the same mind. You need to humble yourselves before each other. And you need to look out for the interests of one another. And so he's saying, look at the person who has desires, who has preferences, who has needs that are different than yours. And prefer that. Serve them, minister to them, humble yourself. And then finally, first Peter two, thirteen to twenty. Submit yourselves for the Lord's sake to every human institution. Honor all people, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the kings, servants, be submissive to your masters With all respect. And so here we have the the example not only of kind of the interpersonal relationships, but the institutional relationships, whether it's to government uh who uh does not have your personal interest in mind, especially if you're a believer, uh, or uh your community, honor all people. Or slaves to their masters who are unkind and who are harsh, who mistreat you. He says, Don't don't let the fact that they are sinning against you, that they don't have your best interests in mind, that they're that they're treating you and mis or rather mistreating you stop you from submitting honoring, loving, and uh what do you said submitting? Rather continue to uh respond in those ways So again, these are all ways that we should relate with, interact with. Um Engage in just life in the community, life at work, life in the family, particularly with those who are against us. Particularly with those who are hostile to us, particularly with those who have sinned against us even in grievous ways, who are seeking to take advantage of us. And this is a radical way, a radically different way of of living than than what we typically do. And so what uh one of the principles we can draw here, that that first bullet point, as we think about how we are to relate to those who have sinned against us the consistent biblical mindset is that we are to be proactive. That's the blank. Proactive. In loving, caring, and serving them. We tend to be reactive, we tend to be passive, but these passages make it clear that we are to be proactive, we are to be intentional. We're to be thoughtful, we're to think in advance of how can I minister to this person, how can I love them? We're to be proactive. And of course, the the opposite of that is we are uh in our closest relationships, and really in any relationship, but especially our closest ones, we should not Burn bridges, cut ties, cut off communication, disavow, or do anything that is antithetical to love and unity. Right? What's the the word these days? Ghosting. Uh don't respond, uh don't communicate, just walk past each other, don't look each other in the eye. Uh it's not just not you know, typically go things on on social media because so many people's relationships are just on the internet But in even in the context of the church, it's like they're not returning my calls, they're not returning my text, they're not looking at me when we walk, they're not, you know, I'm trying to say hello, but they're not even responding, they just totally ignore me That's our fleshly tendency to say, I don't want to talk to you, I don't have anything to do with you. And these passages say, no, no, no. We're not allowed to do that as Christians. Oh, we're just not allowed to treat each other in such a contemptible um disregard for one another. clarifying question. So it says in our close relationships. Yeah, so in our fire relationships we could totally do it. Well I think uh sex to say that we want to distance ourselves from evil and and Some people that, hey, the person's not a believer, who are just toxic, foul mouth, etc. etc. I'm keeping my distance And or hey, maybe I want a a witness to them and then but I think there's a dividing line or a a a decision player. Yeah. So uh for the Distant relationships where we don't have the just that regular interaction, maybe one way to put it is we need to consider how to have a wise relationship with that person where I'm not going to treat you as if you don't exist, but I'm also not going to try and be your best friend when You know, you're just only seeking to harm me or you're you're um detrimental to my own sanctification. You know, you're trying to influence me in in evil ways or whatever. And so um rather than just you know again cutting ties, cutting off communication, burning bridges. Uh whet whether or not we have to verbally express our intention and how we're going to carry the relationship forward Whether or not we actually set explain it to them, what should be in our mind is I want to engage wisely with this person, which may mean not hanging out with them, right? Not not going to their parties. You know, Psalm one, Blessed is man who doesn't walk in the way of the wicked or stand in the way of s uh sinners or sit in the seat of scoffers. So if if someone is like that, okay, I I I can't continue to to hang out with you. You know, I I'm not you know, if you want to talk, if you wanna you know I guess it's kind of like what Paul said. Um as much as depends on you via use with all the things. Yeah. That's right. And and sometimes it doesn't depend on us, but yes, as much as it depends on us. Yeah, Maria. It talks about you know what what you're saying about separating from um not yeah, you separating from people that are evil. So I mean and that can happen also, you know, like not with at work, for example, or in your family. Things like that. So I mean What is the balance? How do you balance that? So you know Paul says in First Corinthians, um sorry, second um I think it's first Corinthians five that I'm thinking of. Uh or is it Second Corinthians What what I'm thinking of is when Paul Told the Corinthians, um, you know, don't separate from believers or sorry, no don't separate from unbelievers, but separate from believers. Rob, do you uh do you know what I'm Um I I I know what you're talking about, I don't I can't find the reference, but the Ephesians five of the passage uh talks about bees, don't you participate Participate in the deeds of darkness. So what w the the principle that that I'm thinking of in uh I wish I could find the the passage i uh is how we relate to a person will communicate something about our disposition toward them. So if we relate in some ways, we can communicate approval affirmation, um even celebration. Um you know if if we're going to you know a same-sex wedding ceremony I think that can only communicate I'm celebrating what's taking place here. If we're having a meal with someone And they th the the nature of the conversation is such that it's as if um There's you know l let's say someone who's been disciplined out of the church. Uh and and you know that, they know that. Um but you the the nature of the interaction is such that it's as if nothing has ever happened then you can communicate, yeah, you're you're fine. You're good, I'm good. Whereas scripture would say, if no, if someone's been disciplined out of the church, you treat them like an unbeliever, meaning You don't um shun them, but you proclaim the gospel to them, you make it clear to them that you don't think they're a true believer. So how we relate with wicked, those who are wicked, unbelievers, how we relate with sinning believers, we just need to make sure that we're communicating through our interaction uh the right kind of thing. Um you know, Jesus obviously interacted with um prostitutes and tax collectors and whatnot. But there's no indication that he approved that he communicated to them that he approved of their sin. Um I think he was very clear about his attitude toward all sin. Uh but he he still loved them. And Second Corinthians six says don't be bound together without believers. Yeah. That's a Partnership. Right. Some sort of close relationship that binds you together with that person. Yeah. Yeah. So I I think just at at a very general high level uh level, we need to think how what does my interaction communicate about my attitude toward them They should never communicate hatred, hostility, but uh there can be varying levels of um hey, you know, you're a person made in the image of God, you know, I love you as even though you're my enemy Um but um you know I I'm not approving of your actions or whatever it might be. So we just need to think about what are we communicating. And in some cases we need to be express uh explicit about that with them. Because they might be confused if we don't say something. Right? So we can we can rightly um have a um uh you know, hang out with an unbeliever. Um and just if we don't communicate what our what our uh disposition is like that can be confusing. I feel like probably more that should be said about that. Any other Corinthians 5. 12 what you were looking for This is why I normally like my my big bottle because the pages are a lot thicker and easier to turn to. Yes. Yeah, it is. Thank you. Paul says, uh I wrote you in my letter not to associate with immoral people I did not at all mean with immoral people of this world, or with the covetous or s and swindlers, or with idolaters, for then you would have to go out of the world But actually I wrote to you not to associate with any so-called brother if he is an immoral person or covetous or an idolater or a reviler or a drunkard or a swindler Not even to eat with such a one. For what do I have to do with judging outsiders? Do you uh do you not judge those who are within the church? So the reason he says in this particular context, don't even eat with them is because of the overt uh meaning of eating with someone in that culture was, you know, to associate with them in a positive way. So um again he's saying for believers who are living a sinful lifestyle, don't again I think the general principle is don't communicate, don't interact with them in a way that communicates affirmation and approval Daniel. Oh I I was just gonna say it it's also a twofold warning. So from from the path that Rob uh brought complexity that boundary gathered measure that the the unequal yoke. It also is the warning that you'll get you'll get full of taxes sort of uh not affirming it positively but also for yourself to affect yourself yes Because of a partnership pulled in a way that that then not only solars the testimony, but affects your law. Sure. Yeah Alright, so I hope is that helpful? I originated the question and three minutes later. I was trying to remember kind of where that came from. Yeah, Margaret. I'm not sure, but when you have an unbeliever in your in your family and you're trying to reach out to them and they they choose to close doors and Do you continue to pursue them or do you just kind of meet them on their own terms because you don't want to be pushy or um I think you're quick examples You know, recently we were um we would visit my mom when we came back, my sister was with us, we dropped my sister off at her house. And her cat right attitude, I was you know this feeling kinda like well. But we should go and we should you know we should go and we should check on on you know on our nephew and see how he's doing. And he's because he's kind of caught up as a little sexual life lifestyle how we feel about it. We haven't we haven't torn them down, we just shared him with them stuff you feel but um but he kind of put up a whole lot of Mm-hmm. And my sister said, Well, he's in the basement, I'm going to say that to me said evil. And so I said we should go check on it. Um so I'm thinking Kirk's attitude was right and maybe we should have done that. I was feeling sensitive because I thought well if he's putting up barriers to be knocked on those barriers Yeah, I mean I I would put it this way I I think if you look at Romans twelve in particular, there's an intentionality that says, I'm gonna go out of my way to show love in a multitude of different uh potential ways. Um but we just need to recognize when are we being annoying and pestering and You know, we're it's uh we're actually what we're trying to do is is detrimental to the relationship. Um remember ministering to someone uh a number of years ago who uh they were trying to reach out to someone that they were in conflict with and they were just like twenty text messages every day, you know, all of which we're getting un unresponded to, but just day after day after day after day. It's like, dude, this is over the top. You are making this worse, not better. So um I I think our most of our tendency is to not go far enough. Um but I think we can g go out of our way to show loving kindness and and just, you know, hey, you're a person that I care about and to communicate that in whatever way. Um and then potentially consider is their response telling me that my attempts are uh actually making it worse Um so that's you know difficult to discern in some cases, but something to think through. Rob? I I think uh in individual very specific cases like that it's important to remember Remember then if if a person's heart is going to be turned, it's going to be turned by the Holy Spirit. And so uh being in tune to the leading of the Holy Spirit for a funding that's a follower of Christ, who is the one that would really reach that person's heart, is key. There's not you know, there's not a chapter and verse for every single specific um circumstance, but there is the Holy Spirit within us for every single circumstance. So excellent. Wisdom and leading of the Holy Spirit is what it comes down to I mean in a in a case case like that. Yeah. Yeah, very good. And and none of these passages listed here at least are saying every time you interact with someone that you're in opposition with or is in opposition to you, make sure you preach the gospel. They're not saying that. They're saying love them, do good to them, be kind to them, meet their needs. And so um you know just like first Peter 3. 1, uh wives, uh uh You know, love your husbands uh and with a submissive attitude so that they might be won by your actions. This is a total paraphrase, by your actions, not by your words necessarily. So I think that's another area where someone goes wrong is They're like, every time I see you, I'm gonna preach the gospel to you and tell you you're a sinner uh and that that can be detrimental as well. Somebody has a turn face now. Unless someone has a strong faith it's not good to face a really strong faith too Yeah. Yeah, you need to have strong faith. You need to be strong in the Lord and and be leaning on the spirit. Yeah. Yeah. Well on the on the next page there it says in order to do this we can't simply think in terms of how to treat someone but how to relate with them. Right, so it's the blanks are how to treat someone, but how to relate with them. You see the difference there? One is just I'm gonna do something to you The other is I'm going to engage in relationship with you, where there's more of a give and take. So the key verbs in the above passages are bless, rejoice, weep, feed, give, do good, go, love, pray And the rest, some of those can be done to someone, like you can bless someone, uh, you can feed them, you can give something to them, uh, but most of these must be done with someone. That's that's the I think that's the last blank in in the notes. Most of these have to be done with someone. Obviously rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. And so we need to consider how can I engage in relationship with a person in a God-glorifying way. And that final bullet point there. And if you take time to think about it, Christ did all of these things toward others, those whom he knew would crucify, reject, and betray him. So you know maybe not so much the Pharisees uh as such, but the crowds. You know, Jesus uh loved the crowds, he Prayed, he did good, he healed. He wept for Jerusalem In all kinds of ways, he treated those who he knew would reject him in ways that showed superabounding love. So that's the overall principle. How we think about engaging in relationships should be radically different than what comes naturally to us. We should Seek how to love them and serve them. Now let's get much more specific. How do we do that in particular relationships So I want you to, if you can, if you can, think of someone that you've had a rough relationship with. Maybe you're in conflict with them right now. Maybe you've been in conflict with them in the past and it's okay now, but it's there's a little bit of strain there in your relationship. Just think of someone uh or even someone that you're you know, you've you've had a broken relationship with and you know you're not talking to each other or whatever it might be. Think of one specific person just for the sake of thinking about these principles in a very practical way. How do you go about applying these truths? Well, the first thing we need to do is we need to know the person. We need to understand them as well as we can. Jesus relates to us according to his knowledge of us. In Psalm 78, it says, verse 39, Thus he remembered that they were but flesh, a wind that passes and does not return. Uh just speaking of God's knowledge of humanity that you know we are frail and that we are temporary, we're finite beings, or in Psalm 103 Verses thirteen and fourteen, it says, just as the Father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. For he know he himself knows our frame. He is mindful that we are but dust God relates to us understanding our frailties and our weaknesses. And He cares for us with great and extraordinary gentleness. He knows what we need, what we struggle with. He knows our tendencies, our strengths and weaknesses. He knows what we know in the sense of he understands what we comprehend, where we are intellectually. He knows where we are in our maturity. He knows everything about us. And so when the Lord Jesus Christ and His Spirit ministers to us, it's on the basis of who we are and where we're at at that very moment in our lives. Right? He doesn't teach us lessons that we're not able to learn today. He teaches us lessons that we are able to learn today. Yeah, that's the the progress of sanctification is he is molding us moment by moment, day by day, into the image of Christ. And there's things that we will learn ten years from now that we just don't have the capacity to learn today. This we understand this fundamentally in education. You don't teach a kindergartner calculus There's a whole lot of steps in between. That's the way that Jesus, our Lord, ministers to us. And so when we are Relating with a person who is either our adversary or someone that we're trying to live a reconciled life with, we need to consider who they are in this moment. What are they like? What are their strengths and weaknesses? And we need to change how we relate with them on that basis. First Thessalonians 5. 14, we urge you, brethren, admonish the unruly, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with everyone. It's just a recognition that everyone's in a different place, in a different moment, and we need to consider what does this person need in this moment? Do they need admonishment? Do they need encouragement? Do they need comfort? Do they need a word of instruction or exhortation? Do they need to be strengthened? What is going on in this person's life? We often relate with people without taking into consideration who they are right now. We interact and communicate with everyone the same way, but that is not like Christ. He interacted with the f the Pharisees, the crowds, individual sinners and sufferers who are seeking who were seeking to trap him and his disciples differently based on what each needed. You know, sometimes I I hear people say, Well, this is just who I am. This is just how I talk to people. This is you know, this is just my personality. It's like, well, okay, yeah, uh this is who you are, but this is not who you are supposed to be. You are supposed to be like Christ. Given your your own uniquenesses and your own personality, you need to be conformed to the image of Christ. And so as you interact with others, don't say, well, this is just who I am, this is how I talk, and you know, I remember talking to someone a again a number of years ago who they just tended to have an angry disposition in how they talked with people in general. Like not even when they're in conflict, but just in general. And then when there was a conflict it just escalated even beyond that. And I remember just sitting with them trying to uh just appeal to them of, you know, this is you you're you're just almost always offending people just by the way that you talk. uh the tone of your voice. Well this is just how I always talk and this is how we deal with things at work. And you know why w I uh you know uh and unfortunately they they were too prideful to to listen So we need to think, all right, not not just who am I, but how where is this person at and how can I love them? What are their needs? Now, obviously, unlike Christ, we don't have innate knowledge of people. We don't know what's going on in their heart. So we need to take time to think about people. Or at least the person that we're trying to live a reconciled life with. In a relationship where you've been in conflict or and experienced reconciliation, think about the person Sit down, take a quiet moment, and ask yourself these kinds of questions. What are their tendencies? What is their communication style? You know, sometimes I've had repeated miscommunication with someone and I've had to try and learn, all right, when I say these kinds of things or when I say things in this way, they tend to misunderstand that. So how can I How can I change how I communicate with them? What is their level of life and spiritual maturity? What are their strengths and weaknesses? How can you communicate with them in the most effective way? You can see these these other questions. The the point is, you know, again, not that you have to ask and answer every single one of these questions, you know, all the time. But the point is just think about the person. Where are they at? What is their maturity level? Wha wh wh where what's their spiritual condition Uh what how how can I love them like Christ based on where they're at in their life right now? You know, that last one, do they have idiosyncrasies that you need to intentionally cover in love? Right? We all have idiosyncrasies, we all have just ways of interacting or mannerisms or whatever that uh that are not the most helpful. Uh and so Is there something that is just kind of where they're at right now in their life, whether it's uh some unique physical challenge or or other kind of personality quirk uh that's not, you know, driven from a sinful heart of trying to annoy you, but that's just that's just who they are. That you just need to recognize I can't allow myself to be um frustrated by that. I need to uh overlook that idiosyncrasy. You just need to consider the person. And so, once you think about them, I think the Spirit of God in you, as you're depending on him, will help you know how to relate to that person. Or I would say if if you you know if you just don't know, maybe maybe you can ask them. Listen, I know we keep miscommunicating here. Help me understand what would be helpful. What am I doing that is not conducive to effective communication? So think about the person. Know the person as well as you can. And secondly, you want to practice godly listening and speaking. Godly listening and speaking. Proverbs 1813, Hugh gives an answer before he hears. It's a folly and shame to him. It's really easy when we've been in conflict with someone that we more naturally and and instinctually, whenever there's something that s s has the um uh appearance of another conflict, you know, another disagreement We go back to in our flesh, this person's wrong, you know, we're at odds and we we think the worst right away And so we need to slow ourselves down and think, well maybe this is not, you know, a a pattern, maybe this is not another problem, maybe I just need to understand better what they're trying to say or or understand their actions. James 119, we need to be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger. So we need to watch over our own souls and cultivate a heart of patience. in tolerance and willingness to hear and not jump to conclusions. And of course, Ephesians 4. 29, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace. to those who hear. So we need to intentionally think about how we say what we say so that we speak in a way that builds them up. That ministers to them, that encourages them, that affirms uh God's evidences of grace in them. Uh and that even when we have to admonish or reprove or point out you know sin, that we do it in a in a loving, gentle manner. wholesome way, as it says in Colossians four six, that our speech should be uh with grace as though seasoned with salt. so that you will know how you should respond to each person. Now obviously you can't control how they respond or how they receive what you say, but you can control the way in which you communicate even difficult things. So that there's the highest possibility that they will receive it in love. Again, both your tone, your your the speed of your words, the words that you choose uh your facial expressions. All of those kinds kinds of things come into play in communicating in a way that shows this person you love them, you care for them. and you want to uh have a good relationship with them And then uh y as needed you want to work together with mutual understanding to solve So in many cases the reason we have conflicts is because we have differing opinions about a decision that needs to be made or uh differing opinions on how things should be done, different approach, different vision for the future, uh plans, goals, things like that And so if you sinned against each other in in that initial stage, but now okay, you know, please forgive me for how I respond, you reconcile. Now there's still the issue, right? There's still the the problem that needs to be solved. There's still a decision that needs to be made. And so we have to think about not just how do we live a reconciled life, but how do we how do we actually deal with the differences? that are uh here in our relationship, you know, whether uh whether it's different opinions on how we should be spending our money or where should we go uh on vacation or what should we should be doing for schooling for our kids. uh or all kinds of things, how do we practice good habits of working through our differences uh in in this relationship There are some differences of opinion that can simply be resolved by giving deference to one another You see these passages here. Again, Philippians 2, do nothing from selfish or empty conceit, but with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourself. Do not merely merely look out for your own personal interests but also for the interest of others. So if you, as the person who is seeking to honor Christ, at least in your own heart, not not to say that the other person isn't But that you know in your own heart I am seeking to honor Christ, and you recognize that the difference of opinion that you have is really not of eternal significance It's not a matter of objective right or wrong or truth or error. It's really just a personal preference and you know I'm fighting for my preference and you're fighting for your preference You need to consider, you know what, maybe we should just maybe I should just let go of my preference and just uh go with their preference. You know, to which we all say, but why do I have to be the one that does that? Why can't they be the one who gives up their preference? And the answer is because you love Christ And Christ gave up all of his preferences for you. And so I should be willing to give up my preferences for yeah, willing. And Corinthians, uh Paul talks about the the ones that would say each other before she said, why don't you just be wrong? Yeah. Yeah. Don't don't you hate that passage? And that passage says, okay, that there's a right or wrong here, and they're probably wrong, but accept that wrong. Yeah. Yeah, why not rather be defrauded? And that gets consistent with what Jesus said about, you know, slapping on the face and ta being taken advantage of. But yeah, why not why not rather be wronged? And so And so that bringing that principle here, and maybe I should add that for the future in this section, such a helpful passage. Uh it's not just pure preference, but there might actually be some wrongs or some material substance to the conflict that uh we need to be willing to die to. Um Romans 15, 1. Now we who are weak ought to bear the weaknesses of those without strength and not just please ourselves. So if maybe the the conflict is over some uh issue of Christian freedom, and you're like, but we're free in Christ to do this. Why can't we just you know, have dancing, you know, in this at the wedding, or why can't we just enjoy a bottle of champagne on New Year's Eve? Or why can't we just You know, whatever, and the other person is fighting against that because they, you know, they believe that's sin or that's wrong, or they're just their conscience is bothered by that. Uh Paul says, we who are strong enough to bear with the weaknesses of those who are without strength. And so we need to be willing to give up our freedoms and our unders our understanding of what is uh free what we're free in Christ to do for the sake of others. Again, Romans 12, give preference to one another in honor Ephesians 5 21 and 6-9 be subject to one another in the fear of Christ. And obviously I didn't want to include that whole section in the notes, but my point there is not The idea of mutual submission, submit to one another, I don't I don't personally believe in mutual submission. So I don't think it's possible Uh I just I look to the military and say if if the military practiced mutual submission we would lose every war and every battle and nothing would ever get done But you know sometimes you're in the position of being underneath someone else, whether you're uh a wife to a husband, or whether you're a child to a parent, or whether you're an employer, an employee to an employer. And God has called you to live in subjection to someone whom He has placed to be over you, then you need to be willing to give up your preferences and your desires For those who have authority over you. Doesn't mean you can't Uh speak into the into the situation doesn't mean you can't give your counsel or your input. It just means that ultimately if if you're at a a a a point of conflict And someone's got to give, then the biblical principle would be the person who ought to be in submission, who is in the position of submission, should be the one to to give. Now, we could say the opposite. Husbands, love your wives, sacrifice for them, give up your own life. So you submit to your or not submit, but you um sacrifice your preferences And so, you know, work that out. Who's who's gonna do that? Can we can you talk about uh being a stumbling block to our brothers and sisters in crisis times because we are not walking in the matter that we should be So I'll answer that the way I'm I'm I'm hearing that and then you tell me if if I didn't pick up what you were laying down Um what I what I'm hearing you say there is when we're not walking in reconciliation, we are a stumbling block to other believers because we're uh showing that it's not important to live uh in unity and harmony And we're basically encouraging others in the same path. Is that kind of where where you're going with that? Um You know, l how does that happen? Let let's say you're in a small group and you're you know you're struggling being reconciled with someone either in the church or in your family or whatever. And you're maybe during the prairie quest time or whatever, you're sharing about this difficulty and you know you're you're conveying an ungodly attitude which you know maybe you don't realize what you're conveying Uh but in that moment, uh if there are immature believers who don't know enough to speak into your life and to correct you uh what you're effectively doing is encouraging them, yeah this is normal. It's normal to be at odds. It's normal to um to live persistently without reconciliation Whereas what we should be communicating is, no, this is not normal. This is not good. I'm I'm you know, I'm doing everything that I can in the power of Christ with the help of the Spirit to live a reconciled life Um but w we can really and again Philippians touches on this a lot, we can really spread disunity. uh by just encouraging one another to follow our lack of efforts, uh to imitate us in our lack of efforts to reconcile. Anything I you should you want to add to that No, I just just in looking at a note from Romans chapter fourteen it talks about that was more from judging something being a stumbling block, but it says now we are to now we who are strong ought to bear the witnesses of those without strength and not just please ourselves and by doing just the opposite of what it says, we become a st stumbling block to the weaker vessel. Yeah. Yeah, I mean uh the w um that's kind of two different contexts of living a reconciled life versus taking advantage of your freedom freedoms in Christ in a way that causes other to stumble but but yeah there's a oh bigger principle there that's that crosses over All right, next bullet point there. In some conflicts the differences of opinion needs to be settled by mutual agreement and to mutual satisfaction. To accomplish this, consider the following method as a wise way to work through disagreements to reach mutually agreeable solutions or decisions. So uh the rest uh of these notes here are kind of a a way to work through where you have, you know, competing interests, competing desires, and how do you come to a resolution of that? Without one just Letting go of their preferences completely. How do you actually talk through your differences and arrive at a mutually agreeable solution? Alright, so that's that's what this is here. So Obviously you have this in your notes. I would encourage you to really really think about this. When Mike Moody taught this, I don't know a couple years ago he taught this session of the class and he talked about how he and Linda used this to t to uh come to an agreement on where they will be buried when the Lord takes them out. Because they were disagreeing on that issue. So I think that audio is on on sermon audio if you're interested to hear his is uh talk talk about that. But um but this is the IPI model. Uh I know you have it in your notes, but I'm just gonna Do this. Um IPI model stands to stands for issue, position, and interest Uh oh. So an issue or the issue is obviously what the conflict is about. Now the problem is when we think about what the conflict is about, we often lack clarity of what the problem is And so what this model is encouraging us to do is identify a particular question That needs to be answered. So the issue is a question, and some problems might actually have multiple questions You know, so for example, uh the issue of vacation, you have where do we go? Uh, when do we go? And maybe even with whom do we go? Do we take the kids or not? No. You know, do you go with the in-laws or not? So some issues might have multiple questions that each need to be worked through this process individually. You know, and you need to figure out in that case kind of what's the logical way to answer the questions. So that one flows from the other. But fun fundamentally an issue is just a question that needs to be answered that when once we come to an answer At least this set, this particular problem will be resolved. So as you see there, it could be how we educate our kids, where we go on vacation, what house to buy The position, uh positions are what each party thinks the solution should be Uh that's just your own personal opinion, your own personal desire, your own preference of what you think this the answer to the issue should be. And so obviously there's going to be at least two different answers to that. There might be more depending on the situation, but there's going to be at least two to uh be aware of. And so, you know, again using those examples that you have in the notes, it could be, well, I think we should homeschool our kids. No, no, no, I think we should put them in public school. Uh or um I don't I don't care what we do as long as we don't public school, you know If we do private school it's fine. Whatever the issues are, or um I think we should go to the beach or I think we should go to the mountains Or I think, you know, as it says there, we should buy a home on Easy Street. No, no, no, I want to buy a home on Renovation Avenue. You know, just what are the different positions that you're actually arguing over? And then the interests are the reasons that you hold the position that you do. The reasons that you hold the position that you do. So th that's that's what the interests are. So the process is actually very simple relatively. It's not necessarily easy to do because we have to let go of our pride. But the process is simply identify the issue, which is, you know, you have to start there. What is the question that we're trying to answer? And again, you might come to realize, okay, there's actually multiple questions here, but identify those with clarity and agree on that. I thought we were talking about vacation. No, I'm talking about education. What are you talking about? Identify the issues Just clearly identify the position. You know, even write it down for the sake of clarity. And it's helpful to communicate in a way where you not just state your position But you, as it uh says in the n notes, they're kind of reflect back so that uh you each understand each other's position. You know, so I say Uh I think we should homeschool our kids. What I'm hearing you say is you think we should homeschool our kids, right? That's obviously a very simple, easy statement, but other positions might be more involved, more nuanced where there might even be a misunderstanding of what the position is that that you have. And so you want to you want to communicate those in a way that you both agree you understand what the different positions are. That's just kind of factual. This is my opinion, this is my position. There's no need to argue about that. This is just this is just what it is And then underneath that is walking through, helping each other understand what are the different factors that I'm considering that are in my mind That are leading me to hold the position that I do? What are the reasons that I think we should go to the beach or whatever the position is? And what typically happens where there's usually a breakthrough is when you get to this step which you know we normally don't talk about what what our reasons are, what our motivations are. But when we get there and we put those things on the table, then we realize what what is the thought process that my spouse or friend or whatever has gone through to come to their position and all of a sudden Their position goes from being crazy and wrong to being a reasonable option on the basis of what their interests are. At a minimum, it's reasonable because these are the things that they're interested in, these are the things that they're they're factoring into the equation, and therefore that's why they spit out that position uh as the solution to their interests. You know, so often we just we look at another person's opinion and we just think, well that's dumb. Why would you want to do that? Right? You know, why in the world would you want to buy a house that's completely done and all we have to do is move in. That's crazy, right? W wouldn't you want to renovate the house and take it down to the studs? And you know, don't you want to do that? No Right. Whatever it is, we often dis hear their opinion, we're like, well that's ridiculous. Why would you want to do that? Well when we hear the interests And it's like, oh, okay, I can see why you want to do that. Or at least I can see you know I might still disagree, right? But at least I understand the thought process you've gone through to come through to your positions And then also when you go through the interests and just talk through those together, you might realize that assumptions that were made in arguing about the position were wrong. I think there's an example in there about, you know, where to go on vacation uh where I think one of the examples is, oh, I thought you hated my parents. That's why you didn't want to go to Minnesota in December. You know. Didn't realize that you know the cold really hinders your your your body and you know makes it very painful for you. Okay, and you you're actually okay with going like in the summertime. You know, once once you understand interests, then you can reasonably talk through how can we address the various interests with the best solution. And maybe that kind of helps us relent to the other person's position because we realize, okay, this is actually reasonable and I understand now and I'm okay. Or we come up with an out-of-the-box outside the box, not out of the box, outside the box solution of being able to meet multiple interests from both of us that either of our positions couldn't meet So walking through a very simple process like this just helps us to think reasonably, rationally, slowly, carefully, considering the other person's interests. Right? Uh and then to think, all right, how can we how can we meet these these things? Um and y you might still have to defer, you know. against your will or again at least against your preference. Um like if you decide alright we'll go have Christmas with with my f with your family this Christmas and then we'll spend it with my family next Christmas, you know, you might prefer to swap that But at least you understand, okay, we're you know we've worked out a solution to where we can be a little bit more you know balanced or whatever. But just a very simple process to work through uh an issue of disagreement Any any comments? Would you advocate uh writing these down on a note? Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, I I think it's helpful whether you use their whiteboard or not. I think it'd be helpful because well for one thing You won't always be able to have the full conversation in one sitting. And it's important to have things it can be very helpful to have things written down so that when you come back together you remember, and I think it says it in the notes there, that you kind of review next time where you've what you've already discussed. uh rather than saying, well I thought you said this and I thought you said that. No, no, I didn't say that. You know, that way it's all concretely written there. Just in terms of the main issue, the position, the interests. So that I think that can be very helpful. Any other thoughts or comments? Yeah. Romans twelve, let me say this one thing. I didn't I didn't say this. It's in the notes. But once you've gone through this process and you come to a harmonious solution, I think it would be wonderful to s to pray together, thanking the Lord for helping you work through this issue of disagreement and come to a solution in a way that pleases him. Especially if you have a history in that relationship of not being able to do that But just to recognize, you know, Holy Spirit, you have really helped us work through this. And so we just thank you for for your kindness toward us. All right, I think I think I covered all the main ideas there in that process. Alright, Romans twelve. We got two minutes. Okay, real quick. Um we talked before about how as believers God wouldn't punish us Yes. Right? I mean that's not his discipline is not punishment because Satan's mistaken on all of that. So in Romans twelve when it says um beloved, never avenge yourselves but leave it to the wrath of God for his written vengeance. So when it talks about the wrath of God in that passage, it makes me think that we're talking about believers with unbelievers. Um How does that look for believers and believers? So if someone really does harm to me and I am going to step back and not take decisions on my own What does that how do I so I mean I'm not thinking through how God's gonna punish that person, but what could that look like for the other person if there So a couple of thoughts. Number one, uh if they are a believer, we we can remind ourselves that their sins have been paid for by Christ. Full vengeance has been accomplished for their sin just as much as my sin. That's that's the fundamental thing. Um if they're not a believer and you know we don't know Uh if the Lord will save them, we can trust that God will execute justice and vengeance on them uh in hell, or that if He chooses to save them, that their sin will be taken care of. The the the more immediate thing I would say is if uh if they've uh committed a crime, for example that one of the ways that God executes his justice and his wrath is through uh the human institutions who are instituted by God to to deal with those things. And so, you know, rather than taking personal vengeance, we say, you know, y they're gonna be turned over to uh the civil authorities, they're gonna be punished, uh, hopefully through the judicial system And even if they're not, or even if they are, that's not going to be the full expression of God's wrath because uh even human institutions can't fully punish someone. So th that those would be the main two things. Just recognizing the eternal wrath of God, either on Christ or on that person. And then the human institution. Now, the problem is there's a whole lot of ways people treat us that aren't illegal uh or that for whatever reason can't be prosecuted by the justice system. And that's where we just have to do what Paul's, or Peter says in 1 Peter 2, 23, I think it is, that we need to imitate Christ in entrusting ourselves to him who judges justly. And we just we can just say, I I don't know how you're going to take care of this, Father, but I know that you are a just judge, and that somehow, some way, at some point you will take care of this. Okay, let me pray