So let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you so much for the joy of your creation. We thank uh thank you for the tremendous gift and responsibility you have given us as men and women created in your image to bear your image to the world. And we thank you for the joy of knowing that your creation is perfect, that what you have done displays your glory and ultimately points to Christ. We thank you for all of that. And so today as we start to delve into issues related to masculinity and femininity, I pray that Father, you would help us just be joyful and happy and glad at what you have done and how you've designed us. that in our own personhood we can reflect you and continue to proclaim you uh by showing the distinctions and the differences that that really accentuate. how beautiful and wonderful your creation is. So Father, as we discuss this today, may you teach us and continue to guide us and to lead us and to again encourage us to know that your will is perfect. We thank you again for this time. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. All right. Just a little bit of recap as we move into this next section. If you remember back in lesson one we talked about equality and differences and we started off by talking about the equality that men and women have being created in the image of God. Again, God created man and woman equal in value and dignity. And so we want to continue to keep that at the forefront of our minds because once again, um despite the curse of sin and despite the fall We still are image bearers and we continue to show the glory of God in who we are, created man and woman, male and female. And so we never want to look upon each other with any sense of inferiority or superiority, but to see each other as equal and both dignified, created in the image of God. And so we just don't want to forget that. I know that in the world today we see the outside of a person much more quickly than we really contemplate the actual bearing of the image of God and so oftentimes we rush to judgment when we see people who perhaps have marred or scarred that image in severe ways. And we just don't want to go there. Um We want to again express love and grace and dignity toward every single human being, knowing that they've been created in the image of God, but are susceptible to the curse and the fall. And so again, it's a reason why we want to continue to preach the gospel. We want to tell people and proclaim to people the necessity of what it means to be an image bearer, that there's purpose, there's design. And there's glory in that. And so again, we want to be encouraged to know that we are all equal in value and dignity. Second, men and women have been created differently. We have different roles And this again accentuates the the proper understanding of the difference between complementarianism and egalitarianism because again if you look around at each one of us Um particularly looking at us as image bearers, immediately you begin to see how we're different. Men and women were created different, not just physically, but we were created differently in our character, our traits. etc. And so the exercise of that image accentuates the idea that there's differences. And those differences are not differences to negate um any type of equality or dignity, but it's to complement each other so that once again, as we're image bearers in the world We see that we're able to complement one another so as to reflect and again proclaim that image in a proper biblical way. So once again, the two major issues related to God's design in image and likeness is that we were created equal in personhood But we have different roles. We have we're distinct from one another. Now uh lesson two we delve in delved into the issue of marriage and how it parallels the Trinity And we talked first of all about the equality and the differences within the Trinity, that the Father is not the Son, the Son is not the Father, the Father is not the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit's not the Father, but each one Has a different role even though they are equal, they are equally God, uh fully God, um there's differences in the roles between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. And so we see that. Well that's reflected in what God has done in making us His image bearers. And so we even see equality and differences within marriage that are patterned after the Trinity. We see the Father leading and the sun submitting. We see headship. We see once again submission done in such a beautiful way that it really accentuates the wonderful complementary roles that they have together. And so all of that is patterned uh within marriage and so marriage should be a reflection of God's um design, God's creation And once again, as we've talked about this several times, we must remember that marriage really is a testimony of God's gospel, his his plan and his purpose in the world. And so we need to understand that, we need to to be joyful about that, and we need to see that as really a proclamation of the gospel to the world. I tell you, uh a believing husband and a believing wife Coming together so as to become one flesh and raising children is a testimony to the world of God's not only God's plan, his creation mandate, but it's his plan to reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so to see that lived out in a godly marriage, a godly family, is such a joy. It i it really is something that ought to accentuate joy in people that they would look to uh a of marriage that is reflecting the glory of God as something to be attractive. And again, we've had numbers of people come into our lives where they have looked at our marriage as imperfect as it is, but to see it and to say, we're so happy to see a couple committed to Jesus Christ and demonstrating those differences and and again the uniqueness of husband and wife as a testimony to Jesus Christ. And what a joy that is to be able to have people come and tell you that. But it's a tremendous responsibility that we have as Again, believers in Christ to accurately and again with our lives demonstrate the power of the transformation of the gospel and to see the sanctifying work of God in our lives so that our marriage can be a testimony uh to the world. So, anyway, it's just one of those things where Again, if you look closely at marriage and you look closely at the role differences, you really begin to see how they complement one another. Now the struggle is that we're doing this in a fallen world. We're doing this in a fallen flesh. We're doing this at war with Satan, the enemy of God, and so the world, the flesh, and the devil are wanting to tear God's design apart. And if you look at it from a broad spectrum, it almost looks like he's succeeding. But take courage. He's not succeeding. And so again, the issue is that within our lives and how we are growing in Christ, we are bearing this image for a purpose and a reason. And again, God is using not just the relationship between husband and wife to be a testimony to the world, but even as you as an individual with a coworker who is of the opposite gender. Again, the relationship and the roles that are being complementary in that um really testify to the goodness and the grace of God in the world. And so again, we just want to be encouraged to look at these patterns as God's design and purpose And again, nothing will thwart God's design and purpose in the world. So even the fall even though the fall seems like it's winning, it's not. So uh Again, take courage and all the more preach the gospel. Lead the gospel and uh you know live it. So The conclusion we looked at last time was looking at headship and submission as patterned after the Trinity as well. And as we look at the issue of excuse me, of headship and submission. Those two words can be so provocative in a culture that wants to be egalitarian, where it wants to see no differences uh in role or gender or whatever. And so these are words not to be feared, they are not to be shunned, they are not words to be avoided These are words where, again, if you understand them biblically and you study them in the context of how we are created, they become beautiful expressions of what it means to be walking in the will of God. As man has been created the head of his family in particular, but also to exercise leadership in that headship There is beauty in that. Likewise, when a woman submits, there is a glorious testimony regarding Christ and how he submits to the Father. So it really is tremendous when you look at these words in relation to how we are created in the image of God. I just want to encourage you this morning Please do not shy away from these words. So many people want to avoid these words because they feel like they communicate something that is not biblical. Well, oftentimes they have an unbiblical understanding that they're applying to these words that's that these words that is more cultural or worldly than really looking at these words biblically and to see how they complement, again, the pattern that we see in the Trinity and then also in creation itself. So please don't shy away from the words headship and submission. Um I remember there was a time when submission people were talking about it as though it was a dirty word And it's not a dirty word. It's a glorious word. It is a word that is used very distinctly in the scriptures. And so we want to get to know that word. We want to know and understand what it means. Not shy away from it and not impose cultural ideas to it as so as to dictate that aspect of the meaning and shy away from what the Bible says. We want to go back to the Bible and let the Bible define these terms, not culture. So again, don't shy away from these words. And when we look at these conclusions regarding headship and submission As we talked about last time, we saw that male headship in the marriage is patterned after the eternal headship of God the Father over God the Son in the context of equality and unity. That was one of the conclusions that you see very distinctly in Scripture. Likewise, it's therefore, it does not imply that women are inferior or of less value than men in general or their husbands in particular. Once again, these words are not meant to accentuate or communicate superiority or inferiority. They are there to help us to understand how we can function complementary to our roles and distinctions as man and woman. And so again, we don't want to use let the culture dictate these words. We want to let the Bible dictate these words. These are not culturally variable words. They're not, again, dictated by the culture. And so we violate this principle to our own detriment when we apply cultural definitions to these words over and against what the Bible says. And again, it dishonors God as the creator. Now that's what we've covered so far. So we're moving into lesson three. We're making good progress. I'm hoping we'll get through all the notes by the time we finish the class, but if we don't, you've got the notes, you can read through them. And I really appreciate the way Alan has laid them out because they're they're detailed enough that you guys can just glean tremendously from what's written. But in lesson three, we want to get into the issue of God's design for masculinity and femininity If there is one way to tell the difference between man and woman, it's these two words. Again, masculine and feminine. Beautiful, glorious words. And again, we don't want to miss the meaning of these words. Now, a general statement. We're going to get into defining a little bit of what masculinity and femininity is, um, but we want to make this general statement first of all before the class that God has designed men and boys to have different characteristics from that of women and girls. Although some differences may vary across cultures, many traits are consistent across cultures. and across time because they are God ordained. The traits, and this is bolded a bit here, the traits listed below do not necessarily describe all men and all women, but they are valid generalizations. These tendencies do not in and of themselves make anyone superior or inferior to another for each trait can be expressed in positive and negative ways. So we're going to make some generalizations here But please don't look at these as though this is again definitive of every man, every woman. Go ahead, Brian. Okay, so before you get too far away from it, um last weekend we were at the Shepherd's Conference East Coast. Yep. And we're there with five hundred men and we're standing in I'm standing in line getting ready to get my um My for my uh beef or beef sandwich, whatever it was. A lot of testosterone going on there, so with a lot of beef and maybe like ten or fifteen people in front of me I see this woman standing there. And I'm looking around going. I guess, I don't know, I guess she's coming in with her husband to eat along with us. Until she Till she turned around, it was a heat. And but from the back I'm thinking, I'm confused. And I was even more confused when the person turned around. So it was blade which would get rid of the post. Yeah. What what do you what do you do if you're talking to the person? Why do you need to encourage them? Go cut your hair or whatever. These just thoughts that crossed my mind and I know Now when we talk about masculinity and feminity femininity, it doesn't necessarily focus on the external appearance. And I know you're saying that, so but yeah, it is confusing. It's very confusing. So the In a sense, these are generalizations, they're not specifics, and so we want to be careful about making uh judgment statements until again we can see and understand what the Bible says about these things. So yeah, but thanks. Um that was a great conference, so it was fun. to be able to be there with five hundred men and singing together, so it's great. Alright, so those generalizations aside, um we want to get into talking about this issue of what is masculine or what are some masculine traits, and then again, what are some feminine traits Now at the top of your notes on page fifteen, it says, God has designed men and boys, again, this statement, um, to again give this general statement that these do not necessarily describe all men, all women, but these are valid generalizations So we're looking at the valid generalizations that are being expressed in the scriptures. So the very first one as we look at this has to do with, let's look at masculine first, has to do with the issue of strength. Um we've seen this, especially since the Olympics have taken place this last summer, to be a very contested issue with regards to, okay Is a woman stronger than a man, or is a woman equal to a man, or is a man weaker than a woman? Generally speaking, if we look at scripture and we look at the pattern that's being expressed In creation, we see that men have a tendency in their masculine trait to be stronger than women Now I I say that in a generalization because I can tell you having competed in gymnastics and been involved in sports, there are some women who are definitely stronger than me They're they're definitely much more athletic than me uh when I was competing. And so but the issue is that generally speaking, this really does distinguish a difference between men and women Um, generally speaking. There's are there are those exceptions that we see, but again, it seems to be that when it comes to a man, God has designed it for a man to be stronger Not stronger just so that he can be macho, but to be stronger so as to give, again, testimony to other traits like protection and care and again you can just list out the different character characterizations of that go along with the issue of strength But if you look at the scriptures, very clearly you see a distinction in men and women all throughout the Bible. Like 2 Kings chapter 24, verse 16 says, all the men of valor, 7,000 And the craftsmen and the smiths, one thousand, all strong and fit for war. And these the king of Babylon brought into exile to Babylon There seems to be a very distinct, again, specificity to God when he points out that these are the ones that are strong What you see in here is not one woman. Now again, does that mean there wasn't a strong woman there? Absolutely not. But the issue was that this was a general trait that was attributed to the man as created in the image of God. And so then, Proverbs twenty verse twenty-nine says, the glory of young men is their strength. And the honor of old men is their gray hair. I love that. But again, strength, uh vitality, um All of that, virility, all of that seems to speak to the design that God has made concerning man and his masculine trait. So again, stronger physically doesn't mean he's superior and the woman is inferior. It just means that this is a s this is a part of God's design, his creation. This trait accentuates Um again this maleness that God has created in creation. So, once again, we want to be careful about taking this generalization and applying it too specifically and and saying that, okay, all men are stronger than women um That's an error and we want to be careful um how we do that and how we say that. But just generally speaking, what is beautiful about this is that God has designed it so that when a man exercises his strength, it really is a testimony to him being created in the image of God. That's strong physically. The next one is fathers are commanded to exhort and discipline their children. This we see very general very generally throughout scripture, from Genesis all the way Through to Revelation, we see this testimony that God has put it upon the man to be the one to exercise and exhort discipline over their children. It doesn't mean that the woman shouldn't or the wife shouldn't It just means that accountability, leadership really falls on the man to be the one to lead and to exercise this male trait, this male masculine trait. So once again we see this as again a testimony to what God has done in the design of creating man And um I love the fact that once again there's a shared le there's a shared discipline in the parents disciplining the child, but when accountability and leadership When it comes down to accountability and leadership, it really comes back to the man. And again, that's just to emphasize the fact that this is a masculine trait that has been given to the man so that he can do this in a way that reflects accurately the glory of God. So once again we just want to be careful about that generalization, but we just see this pattern throughout Scripture. Um I love the fact that First Thessalonians tells us that you are witnesses, and so is God how devoutly and uprightly and blamelessly We behave toward you believers, just as you know how we were exhorting and encouraging and imploring each one of you as a father would his own children So you see exercise in the church. One of the reasons for for male headship in the church or leadership in the church is because we're demonstrating what needs to happen in the family. We're demonstrating what is the reality in the family, and that is that ultimately fathers are the ones to be disciplining and exhorting their children. Now again, it doesn't mean that the woman the wife can't or shouldn't. It just means that this is where ultimately the accountability goes back to the man. And it really is a It's a negative testimony to the glory of God when a when a parent or father goes to work and comes back and does not discipline the children or have any impact in the lives of the children. It's one of the sad reasons why today we have so many families that are that because of divorce children are being raised without a father figure. And I think it's one of the reasons why we see these feminine characteristics um be accentuated in culture is because a a boy does not have a father example to live by, a masculine example to live by. And so again, this is one of the things that really bears witness to God's design, his creation, and it is a glory to be able to demonstrate that in in the family to God. Proverbs 4:1, hear, O sons, the instructions of a father, and give attention that you may gain understanding. Not that the son could not gain understanding from the mother. In fact, we see testimonies of that in Scripture But it's the issue where accountability and leadership come back to the Father. And the Father is this wonderful testimony to the order of creation. um to the sun. And so there's this example that's being set in a godly way. Hebrews chapter twelve, I love this. This is a spiritual example of the physical, but furthermore We had earthly fathers to discipline us and we respect them. Shall we not much more rather be subject to the father of spirits and live For they, the Father, our fathers, disciplined us for a short time as seemed best to them. But He, God the Father, disciplines us for our good. so that we may share his holiness. Now, discipline is hard, is it not? Discipline is difficult. I remember my dad would say, Mike, because you did this, go get the belt. I don't want to go get the belt. I knew the consequences of this And my dad, again, as imperfect as he disciplined us, it was such a wonderful testimony that now that I'm older and I'm being disciplined by God in certain circumstances, I understand that it's for my good. My dad loved me dearly, and so he disciplined me in ways in love. There were times in anger, but again, it was in love And I I now know that because I now see God the Father in that way. And my dad was very imperfect. He wasn't a believer. But he was very imperfect in his discipline, but what a glorious testimony that is to me now as I've grown up and have now been able to discipline my own children But again, this is a masculine trait that really goes back to God the Father. And it's something that's reflected in the wonderful creation that God has designed. So um I remember many years ago, one of the things I heard that I found interesting is that oftentimes new believers when they come to Christ They kind of see God the Father in heaven as how they saw their earthly Father. Mm-hmm. Because it's they it's I mean obviously they grow in their understanding that God is perfect and holy and all these other things, but Even with sin, how did your father treat you when you did something wrong? And you have to learn how now the Heavenly Father deals with us graciously, bringing us along to do right. It's kinda like that that connection. So that's why it's important to see the father in the home doing what he needs to do so that the person can kind of see, oh this is this is right, this is good, God disciplined me for this way. Yeah father. It's like you automatically have I had to distinguish between my dad and God the Father. Like my dad was imperfect like most fathers are, right? And I had to think of like My dad dealt with me like this, but God deals with me differently. And it's it's like a rewarding kind thing, but I also understood the purpose of what my dad was trying to accomplish. So I respect that and I love the voice, but still it's important. Yeah. It's again it goes back to the created order. And it's one of the reasons why over and over and over in the Bible you see God holding the man responsible for these leadership and headship um examples. So, yeah, as imperfect as our fathers are and as we are um still to exercise headship, leadership, responsibility in the family is really a testimony to God's creation. and how God does it is perfect and I'm so thankful for that. So so this is um two very um generalized but again consistent patterns in the scripture where we see these being applied to the masculine um traits of a man. Number si or letter C, men are accountable to provide for their family. This we see again over and over in the scriptures. It's not that the productive Proverbs 31, woman can provide and help with the family. It's just that ultimately leadership, responsibility headship, protection, um all of this c these kinds of traits, they ultimately go back to the man and they're distinguished as being a very masculine trait that really again complements the woman as we get to hers later on. But here we see very consistently in the scriptures, men are accountable to provide for their families. Genesis chapter two, verses five and fifteen. Now no shrub of the field was yet in the earth, and no plant of the field had yet sprouted, for the Lord God did not send the rain upon the earth, and there was no man to cultivate the ground. Then the Lord God took the man, put him into the garden to cultivate it and keep it. Man, you are responsible for the weeds. that are in your gr no, I'm just kidding. Um No, it it's the issue is is that this is the uh this is again an example of work and how man was designed to work and it was supposed to be a joy for it. Um the curse corrupted all of that and again made it more difficult. Um in fact the curse made it more unbearable than it was bearable, but nevertheless Man was created to work. Work is a joy. Work is something that, boy, I tell you, if you're out of work and you're idle, you begin to feel it as a man. You need to be productive. You need to contribute somehow. And so this is something that again God has put into a man. It it it's the masculine aspect of manhood that provides for and compels a man to want to go out and provide for his family. And again, we shouldn't look we shouldn't We should be very careful when culture starts to dictate, you know, that a woman is the bread keep breadwinner. Um we want to be careful about that because There may be a time where the woman can work and she can provide for the family. But again, I have a friend, um, a wonderful friend who was out of work for a number of years and his wife um worked as a nurse and she was able to provide the income. But every time we got together, he would say, Mike, I'm s really struggling with this because again I should be the breadwinner. I should be the one providing for my family. I should be the one who is working. And he couldn't get a job. He's now since he's gotten a job. And again, it's a joy that he's able to do that. But boy, when he was talking to me about it, it was accentuating this idea of, yeah, I get it. This is a masculine compulsion. This is a trait that God has put into our hearts and into our lives that drives us to want to be a protector and a provider. And so once again, this is a generalized statement here, but clearly in the scriptures, men are accountable to provide for their family. And if a man is not, he's shirking his responsibility. And we need to come alongside him, encourage him, and again, help him. Go out and try to find a job for him or once again encourage him to take up that leadership role in the family. Genesis chapter 3 Then to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree about which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat it. Eat from it Cursed is the ground because of you. In toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. Both thorns and thistles it shall grow for you, and you will eat the plants of the field, by the sweat of your face you will eat bread till you return to the ground, because from it you were taken F for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Therefore the Lord God this is verse twenty-three therefore the Lord God sent him out of the Garden of Eden to cultivate the ground from which he was taken. Now again, it's not the work that is the condemnation here. That was before the fall The issue is that it's the toil and the difficulty and now having to provide uh and take care of his family by the sweat of his brow. That's part of the curse And that's why work is hard. It should be hard. Because it's a reminder of the of the fall. It's a reminder of the curse of sin. But again, the work should be a delight. It should be, again, encouraging us to fulfill our purpose as men. So once again, it's it's not the job, the work that's that is the curse. It is the the painful working of it that we experience that really speaks to the curse But we should be working. Uh first Timothy five eight. But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially those of his household He is denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. That's how strong this testimony is for a man to provide for his family. Again, we don't want to be denying the faith, do we not? I mean, we don't want to be denying the faith. We do not want to be presenting a false testimony, a testimony that confuses, again, God's created order and creation as male and female. So we want to take to heart what God has put in our heart to do, and again the traits that He's given us. And this definitely is one of those that speaks to the generalization of masculinity A man wants to work. He wants to work. Let him work. The next one is men are accountable to protect their family. And again, we've sp Talked about this, but once again, generalization, God has put it into the heart of man to be the protector of the family. And I love this because this really is one of those distinct issues that really can be identified as a masculine trait. There's an article that we're going to briefly look at, but it's in your appendix, appendix B that I want you to read. It's by John Piper and he talks about this issue of what is masculinity and femininity and how it speaks to the glory of God's creation. But in it he talks about the protection that a man gives for his family. That even in even in n non-marital relations There is this tendency of man to protect the woman, the weaker vessel. And again, how he describes it, I love it, because He says that generally speaking, if two people were walking down a street, a man and a woman, and somebody came out to accost them Who would be the first one to step forward? Generally speaking, the instinctive reaction is the man, or at least it should be. Now if The woman is a karate master and she's like buff and ready to take on the guy. The guy might step aside, but but no, instinctively the man seems to step forward and say, I need to protect God has put it into the heart. I had a sound memory from when we were media and we were driving along. Is that when I stepped aside and you got you beat up that guy? This is in hand. Because I don't remember what happened in front of us, but there was the possibility that we could get in a wreck and your arm went out in front of me. And and it struck me so much that, wow, his his instinctive reaction is to protect me from this powerful crash. And that's God given and it's beautiful and it makes me feel cherished and so grateful for that protection as a woman. Now she has since been wearing a seatbelt. No, I'm just kidding. I'm kidding. She was wearing a seatbelt at the time. I did it but but yeah, I mean it was just an instinctive reaction. Sharon, can you give me a glass of water? so opposed to masculinity. We are in autonomous you know, we're kind I'm just I'm trying to be really quick with this thought. But we're in a society whereby it doesn't promote masculinity even in the workplace And so because of that, men can't get to a position to where they're able to provide for their family, to protect their family. Because ultimately we're not like Back in the day where we have to hunt down lions and you know I mean I hunt but you know I'm hunting just recreational. We don't have to do all those kinds of things. It's a little different. Now we protect our family by financial goods because of society society we live in Yeah. But if guys are unable to get to that plateau where they can take a wife to themselves and be a man, you know and love their wife and provide that kind of protection for them And they're kind of exposed. So our society works hard to keep men untrained, uneducated, and just unwilling to give them an opportunity to do that, whereby the laws I'm a business owner, so the laws are kind of geared towards women doing things and getting that position because they're filling a certain So men never really grow into that. And so we lose a large generation of men who desire to be masculine Yeah. But don't know how and they're working against a society that's not allowing them to be that person. Yeah. So they can't even protect in the next Yeah. And they're vulnerable. Everybody's vulnerable. Yeah. I mean I know this is different in a way, but it's it's similar. I told I'll I'll be really quick. I told my sons this. I said the way you protect your family Make sure you can provide for your family. So you can put them in a community that their children are safe. So the wives can nurture their children. We're not hunting or fighting wars right now Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and it is i it is a challenge in today's culture and society where they want to Not just blur the distinctions between men and women. They want to erase the distinctions between men and women. But that's where we as Christians can make concessions in the sense of our own family and our own s our own working out of how to provide for our family that would accurately reflect God's created order and again these traits that He's given to us. while at the same time working within culture to be a testimony to it. Um I know there was a time when I just had to take a lower paying job uh which meant that we had to thank you very much. Um where we had to um get rid of a car, we had to make concessions and our lifestyle, you know, how we went out entertained or did anything like that. I mean we had to just really look at every way that we could cut and make concessions for our families so that we could live a biblical life before others. And um sometimes we don't think about that as believers in Christ and we really need to. But you're right. I mean it it's We're we're fighting an uphill battle and that's one of the reasons why we're in the world but not of it. Uh because we want to be distinct from it. And uh But yeah, I think that's where two the body of Christ can come together and really help each other and strengthen each other by asking some of these critical questions related to, hey, I'm in a I'm in a job situation where I'm not allowed to to be able to express my God-given um created image of God bearer to the world, how then should I operate in this situation? Well, believers can come alongside and help help each other in that. But again, it is a challenge and I don't want to minimize that in any way, shape or form because I've seen it. I I've lived it and uh it's hard, it's difficult. And again, like I said, culture is trying to um erase the distinctions and they're doing it such a at such a rapid pace that it's hard to even keep up and it feels like you're losing ground. Don't give up. Don't give up. Be the testimony that God has made you to be and and do it despite what the culture would say. And it may be that you may have to just say no to something that again would be hard for you and your family, but it would be a glory to God that you did it. So yeah. Um Deuteronomy twenty verse eight then the officers shall speak forth to the to the people and say, Who is the man that is afraid and faint hearted? Let him depart and return to his house, so that he might not make his brothers' hearts melt like his heart I mean the issue is he's gotta go back and protect his family. And so there's nothing wrong with that. That God's put that into the heart of man. Isaiah chapter 33 verse 7, Behold, their brave men cry in the streets. The ambassadors of peace weep bitterly. Why? Because they they see this destruction coming down and they can't protect their families. Once again, Isaiah 42, the Lord will go forth like a warrior. He will arouse his zeal like a man of war. he will utter a shout, yes, he will raise a war cry, he will prevail against his enemies. Uh it's just amazing because I think that's one of the reasons why men during World War Two were so eager to sign up. um to fight the battle because they knew it was a battle ultimately that would come back to their families. And again, this issue of wanting to be the valiant warrior, the one who steps forward is a distinctly masculine trait. And it's something that we see even in the midst of war. You can there's a whole bunch of other verses here that you can look at, and we won't look at those, but Once again, these are generally speaking some of the more stronger masculine traits that we see in Scripture. And they really speak to men being men as opposed to this culture today where we're blurring those lines and again men are becoming more and more effeminate. So This is something where we need to be fighting against. We need to be accentuating this teaching in our families, but also demonstrating it to our families and to the culture around us. This is this is what men are. This is who men are. And I love the fact that lately uh I just saw on the news recently where once again there was another transgender athlete that was providing and I think it was a volleyball team and they decided, nope, we're not playing and the one team f completely forfeited the match because they said we will not we will not compete in this way Now again, I don't know all the ins and outs of of why the decision was made, but it spoke to the issue of we're we're not going to blur the lines of the distinctions between men and women. And I really appreciated it. Um how many of you got a chance to read the article that I posted um on the website I'd strongly encourage all of you to get it and to read it. It was really helpful. I appreciated the tone of the author because he was trying to describe What is a man and what is a woman? And he did it biologically, he did it all the way down to the jeans and uh not pants jeans, but um jeans as in your body jeans. Um And I just really appreciated it because even in a culture where there are there are deviations um from the the norm, um Because of the curse of sin and because of the fallenness of man, even that, at its most biological level, cannot erase the distinctions between men and women. And again, I appreciated the tone of the author writing it because he made it very clear that regardless of the the um the differences that may be indistinguishable. Men are still image bearers, women are still image bearers, and again we have distinctions. So definitely read that article. It was really helpful. Let's get into um feminine. Uh general feminine traits. Going alongside, just again, comparison with man, um we see in Scripture that the woman being the weaker physically. Um again, this is not to say she's inferior. Let me accentuate that again. This is not to say that man is superior, woman is inferior. It's just this is the difference between a man and a woman. These are the feminine traits of a woman. And again we see this very clearly in the scriptures, 1 Peter 3, 7. You husbands, in the same way, live with your wives in an understanding way as with someone weaker. This is not to say that maybe she is physically weaker. She probably could beat her husband up. But the issue is that She he is treating her in such a way as to accentuate her feminine traits so as to again complement the role distinctions distinctions that they have as man and woman But again, this is a beautiful characteristic that distinguishes women. And it really accentuates the stronger physically of a man to be joyful and glorious and and happy to be able to defend his wife. Um again, it it doesn't speak to her inferiority, it speaks to the beauty of her feminine traits. And that's something that again we see being erased in our culture today. Um Jeremiah chapter fifty-one, verse thirty. the mighty men of Babylon have ceased fighting. They stay in the strongholds. Their strength is exhausted. They are becoming like women. Their dwelling places are set on fire and the bars of her gates are broken. Now again, this isn't to talk about the inferiority, it's just a general character characterization that men in their vi uh virility, their strength, their vitality, they are able to demonstrate this masculine trait that really accentuates the difference between men and women. And it's a beautiful thing. Um so women, when you think of yourself as being the weaker vessel, don't think of it as inferior order, but just think of it as the beauty of who God has created you and what a glory that is Um deferring to the man in a in a husband and wife relationship um is a beautiful thing. Deferring to a guy that maybe's courting you um is a beautiful thing Uh it is is one of those things where, again, that that role of submission takes on new meaning so as to accentuate the beauty of what it was for Christ to have submitted to his Father. It's a testimony of God's grace. Your femininity is a testimony to the glory of God, to the gospel of God. And so if you can look at it from that perspective, it really gives new meaning in terms of what it means to be a woman. And what a glory that is. Um it's such a such a wonderful thing The next one, timid. Women are more timid against adv adversaries. Um we see this very clearly again the pattern throughout scripture in the day that the Egyptians will become In that day the Egyptians will become like women, and they will tremble and be in dread because of the waving of the hand of the Lord of hosts, which he is going to wave over them. Again, this is not to say this is an inferior or inferior situation. It's just that the feminine characteristics of being timid is not a it's not a negative thing It's just showing that this is a characterization that God has created in a woman so that the man can come and and be the provider, protector. But again, it's one of those distinguishing characteristics that seems to be generally feminine that God has illustrated here in Scripture. Nahum chapter 3 verse 13 Behold your people are women in your midst. The gates of your hand are opened wide to your enemies. Fire consumes the your gate bars Again, we just see very generally speaking, women have a tendency to more be more timid towards adversaries. Um Let's move on to letter C. Unless somebody has a comment. I don't want to miss out on the comments that there are. Okay. Let us see. Women are more compassionate and affectionate to their children. Again, this is a general characteristics. I know you guys are compassionate, loving, and and uh affectionate towards your children Um but just generally speaking, we see this as a pattern in creation. Isaiah chapter 49, verse 15, can a woman forget her nursing child? and have no compassion on the son of her womb. Even these may f even these may forget, but I will not forget you. God is again saying this is how I'm affectionate and compassionate and caring towards you. It's like a a mother that would be compassionate towards her children. And uh and let me tell you, would a woman forget her nursing baby? I always loved that verse. Every time I read it and when I first read it, I was first saying my first child and everything from what I wore and what I planned that day was it revolved around nursing my babies. And I was like, wow, like does God like think about me like throughout the day like that? Like we've got like I don't know. I was so fascinated by that was my first child though in nursing, yeah, 'cause it was an all consuming thing. Like Yeah. I don't know, I was really touched that like God compared his love for us in that way to like how a woman Exactly. It's wonderful. It's a wonderful testimony of the deep love, care, and consideration and and again, um you know, her the affectionate care that God has for us um as a father, but also exhibiting these traits. Um And we just see the example of just the loyalty that a mother, a nursing mother has to its baby, or ba her baby. Um So again, these are feminine characteristics. The hands of a comp of compassionate women boiled their own children. Let me read that again. The hands of compassionate women boiled their own children. They became food for them because of the destruction of the daughter of my people. This was a lamentation that um Jeremiah gave, but it sh it really showed the painfulness of the curse of sin that would come. And again There was a desperateness of the destruction that was coming down upon them. It doesn't excuse any of the actions that took place But what it shows is that there was deep lamenting, deep grieving at the destruction of Israel and Jerusalem at the time. And I can't imagine I cannot imagine a woman, a nursing mother, having to sacrifice her child to stay alive Now again, it does not excuse that behavior in any way, shape, or form. It just shows you how deep the lamenting and the cry that went out to God for that. Isaiah chapter 66, as one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you, and you will be comforted in Jerusalem Once again, just the comfort, the compassion, the affection that a mother has. That is a distinctly feminine characteristic. Not that men don't have that same affection a similar affection. It's just that once again you just see this distinction between man and woman because of this distinctly feminine characteristic. 1 Thessalonians 2. I love this passage. Again, looking at the church, but as God cares for us. But we prove to be gentle, Paul says among you. as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children. Having so fond of an affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God but also our own lives because you had become very dear to us. I love the fact that Paul uses a distinctly feminine trait to distinguish the type of love, care, and consideration that a pastor ought to have for the church. A shepherd ought to have for the church. Now again, this is the kind of affection that really shows loyalty and and care and deep, deep love. Um and Paul was saying, This is the kind of love we exercised among you and uh the only example that he could come up with that would be anywhere near to the type of love that he wanted to communicate to the Thessalonians was that of a mother and her child. So once again, it's not that men are not compassionate and affectionate to their children, it's just that this becomes a very distinct but common general characteristic of women in the Bible and in the world. Yeah, I just I just want to say I mean I'm My ed was very effectively detached to me. Um I love pouring out compassion and affections my voice and uh There's there's never been a time in the middle of the night that they've ever called my my name. Um when they come in the room on the hill here, here they come and they just go right around the first side. Um It's just funny. So I just think that's just a testimony to just them her just being very tender to them. Yeah. And uh and also another fact that I've I've heard that they've done research on that Like just with the rate of abortions, um, which are just through the roof, I think it's like four thousand a day in the United States. And uh but if uh if uh if a woman hears I think like a sonogram or ultrasound, like the numbers just completely like drop off. It's just happening unfortunately. Once they see that To hear that. Yeah. Yeah. I just find that to be very telling to the Created Order. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is funny. I I I laugh, Mark, when you say that about your children going over to your mother's side of the bed. I mean your wife's side of the bed, but it's um it is funny. You can Give all this love and affection and care and you'll go to the mom. So and it's wonderful, it's beautiful, I love it. Um my nose and stuff I like to Yeah. That's too funny. Alright, so this is a generalization, again, a characteristic that distinctly feminine. Letter D. Fond women are fond of adorning themselves. Men generally aren't. In fact, we can go without a shower for weeks if we're hunting. Maybe even longer. Um But uh no, this is this is distinctly feminine. We see this characterization in in Scripture. Um Jeremiah chapter two verse thirty-two. Can a virgin forget her ornaments Um, or a bride, her attire, yet my people have forgotten me, days without number. Looking beautiful. So 1 Timothy, likewise I want women to adorn themselves with proper clothing, modesty, and discreetly. uh not with braided hair and gold and pearls and costly garments, but rather by means of good works, as is proper for women making a claim to godliness. Again, we need to remember it's not the outward appearance that is supposed to be attractive, it's the inward character that needs to be the most attractive. But again, there's no denying that a woman wants to look beautiful. A woman wants to look attractive. That's a distinctly feminine characteristic. Now guys want to look good, and that's fine. But again, this is a distinctly feminine characteristic. And it's a beautiful thing. And especially if godliness is there, um it tremendous testimony to men. of godliness. It's one of the reasons why I was attracted to my bride. Um so um First Peter three, your adornment must not be merely external, braiding braiding the hair, wearing of gold jewelry, or putting on dresses But let it be the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit. That's a distinctly feminine characteristic. Again, which is precious in the sight of God. For in this way in former times the holy women also who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, being submissive to their own husbands, just as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord And you have become her children if you do what is right without being frightened by any fear Once again, it's the the characteristic of a woman to be submissive, to be beautiful in a godly way that accentuates her femininity. And I think that is again something that's being lost in our culture today. Um for the sake of practicality and um you know just finding the right job. Um women are having to change their appearance so as to get that right promotion or or achieve that right goal And for some reason it is distinctly um different than what the Bible says. And the the question then becomes, is the focus of the culture having so much of an influence on the church that we are looking more externally than internally. And I believe that in the church today there's a lot of that going on, where there's an external focus rather than an internal focus Let me just tell you, men, if you'd be men and be godly in your masculine traits What a testimony that would be to the women. Women likewise, if you would be godly in your feminine trace and really seek the Lord, what a testimony that would be. There would be such a complement that in the church there would be a stronger testimony regarding the gospel because of it. So my challenge to you is really look to that as your goal, of to be the best woman or the best man that you can be. Again, exhibiting those traits that are distinct, that accentuate your masculine or feminine traits, so that you can be a testimony of God to others. I tell you, women will be attracted to those single men. Men, you will demonstrate what it is to lead and to again provide it and be that type of husband for the woman Now this isn't a marriage class, so I'm not trying to be the matchmaker here in any way, but the issue is is that I think even in husband and wife relationship, what a greater testimony it is when a man can be a man and a woman can be a woman And the way that God has designed us to be. But that is something that again the culture is fighting against, wanting to erase. And we need to stand up boldly and say, no. No. I'm willing to lose things for the sake of being the best godly example that I can be in this world So again, it's just one of those things where we need to take to heart applicationally this issue of masculinity and femininity because it is accentuated in Scripture And we have examples of it in Scripture. And so we want to see to those examples, both negative and positive, how we can be a godly person in the world. So now general observations regarding I'm just going to go through this really quickly. You've got this in your notes, but just general observations um about the complementary nature of masculinity and femininity. Um oh you know what? I'm gonna hold off on that. because I did want to go back to the article that you're encouraged to read in the appendix. If you look down at page 18, your homework is to read Appendix B Biblical masculinity and femininity, and I would strongly encourage you to read it in your notes. Um if you need a copy of that appendix, um I can go ahead and Well, the notes are posted in the in the hopebook, so you can download them if you want, but if you need a physical copy, we can get you a physical copy as well But let me say this. In the Appendix B, a biblical description of masculinity and femininity, it's this article that John Piper wrote in the Biblical Manhood and Womanhood or recovering biblical manhood and womanhood. Strongly encourage you to read the whole article, but this is a portion of that that chapter. At the heart of mature masculinity is a sense of benevolent responsibility to lead, provide for, and protect women in ways appropriate to a man's differing relationships. I love that definition. Because it's very helpful to see that, that this sense of benevolent responsibility to lead, provide for and protect women in ways appropriate to a man's differing relationships That means, again, a man will lead, guide, protect his wife different than he would do it for a woman outside of the marriage bonds. But still there would be masculine traits that would be given. Likewise, at the heart of mature femininity is a freeing disposition to affirm, receive, and nurture strength and leadership from a worthy man in ways appropriate to a woman's differing relationship. I love that definition. Now here's the thing. In the in this article in the appendix, Piper Tears these definitions apart and gives you phrase by phrase, sometimes word by word, a definition of what he means by these definitions. So again, he's going to describe in detail what he means giving examples of what biblical masculinity is and what biblical femininity is And I would strongly encourage you to keep a highlighter with you or some pen where you can just line, mark, make comments in that article because I think you're going to find it tremendously helpful. I did in reading it, and again, I just I loved the way Piper tore this down to its to its um DNA, so to speak so as to help us understand what biblical masculinity and feminity is. And again, I love the fact that he calls it mature. masculinity and mature femininity because in our t in our society today there's a lot of men who need to mature and there's a lot of women who need to mature. And again, we need to be w striving for and working towards a mature understanding of what masculinity is and femininity is. And this article I believe will help. So I'm going to stop here. If there's any comments you guys want to make, any thoughts you want to share, we've got a couple minutes to do that, but we'll get to the rest of this next week Julie. Um I find that that this transgenderism is can be insulting because they've reduced being a female to make up and shallow silliness. Um, you can make yourself beautiful without beauty. Uh women do love beauty, but that comes in different forms. Um they and I think that chart expresses true femininity. It's not just about wearing skirts. It's you know, women's ability to relate to others, nurtures, as we've mentioned, um, they have a sense of vulnerability and sensitivity. And um And I like that responsiveness to the role that God has given men to in their headship over us. But um I think it it would be good to just question people who defend that, you know, how you want to identify as if do you think all it takes to be a woman is to put on a skirt and some makeup? I mean What is that femininity? It's just Yeah. And on the lighter side I think you have you seen that exercise where like the woman bends her head against the wall and can lift up a chair and stand up and a man can't? There's a difference physically. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Any other comments? Any other thoughts to share? All right. Well, let's go ahead and close it. Well go ahead, Spencer. I probably already said this, but I've I've always seen it this way, the the house kind of involved with the design of all creation And man protects women, raising children together. Do you believe that that design should extend not just in the church but into government as well? It's the bedrock of society. I mean the home is really the testing ground for s ultimately for society. And that's why we have to Be proactive about raising our family and again nurturing our family because this is not just a future generation, it is multiple generations, should the Lord tarry and is coming back. society is trying to push women into places of power. And I guess from a political standpoint, if I'm really reading Genesis correctly, I don't think that's really the right way. I don't think that's true or honest in the way that it should be. No, I'm not saying that men are always going to be better within certain people. Generally speaking, I think eventually take those leadership roles because that'd be lead those with That's where it got close us. Yeah. Because we're supposed a good man's outside of himself, so the protect society needs to take a lead and say, this is true and this is what we're saying. Yeah. Yeah. In my estimation, it says nothing about the woman's capability of doing these things. It's just again, it's trying to reflect God's created order and accentuate that Um when you take when you take a mascul a man away from an expression of his masculinity Then you are speaking against God's created order. Again, it's it says nothing about the woman's capability or intellectual ability to be able to do that kind of work. Let's just remember Genesis 3. 16. That was part of the curse that a woman would desire that for her husband on a negative level. She'd want to usurp the husband's role. And what would end up happening is the man would then begin to abuse the wife And the issue is is that we want to see God we want to see a a clear, wonderful testimony of God's creation of both the image and likeness of man and woman. Expressed in a way that accentuates God God's creative order. Now again, it doesn't mean that a woman can't be a mayor, a senator, or even a president She's totally capable of doing that. But again, when you start to strip away and reverse the order, then you begin to speak against God's creation. And that's where the problems all occur. So and and again, like you said, the family is the it's the testing ground, it's the beginning of society, and it's where ultimately society goes Um yeah. So I was um I like what you said there and it makes sense. Because that even works in a family group where you have a woman who is more spiritual than her husband Her responsibility, like we talked about, like your husband being unbelieving, your your responsibility as a wife is still to submit to that unbelieving husband you know, such a house be blessed all people who have sinned. But that doesn't change the role. God still has a requirement. He's gonna lead. And your responsibility is to lovingly submit to that, even if it's ru you know, even if it's catastrophic for the family in some way. Well it's the Lord do that. So it doesn't diminish regardless of our fall in the world that we live in. It's still the ordained operation of God to set forth. So I agree. A lot of smart women, a lot more spiritual women. Yeah. You know. But the most spiritual women, what do they do? They quietly submit their advice if the husband is foolish and he doesn't want to receive that instruction. I mean uh not instruction, but that advice. Yeah Then it's like to their detriment. But she's supposed to be a help. She serves them in that wish. Yeah. Witch builds the family. Yeah. But it doesn't change the rule. Yeah. I just want to Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Any other comments? Uh yeah, go ahead. So the the only question I have is um there's been a few times in the class where It's when we talk about the curse, it's you know, the women's desire to control her husband and then that turns into domineering or abuse. But can it also be true the opposite where he just gives up Yeah. But that definitely happens. Like This is extra biblical and this is Mike Jarvis, so just keep it in this room. Oh, it's being recorded, but I'm just trying to imagine what Eve did when Adam said, It's the woman you gave me, she's the one. I wouldn't be a bit surprised if Ad uh Eve slapped him upside the face. That that was offensive to Eve, let alone blasphemous to God, because ultimately it was accusing God. But the issue was is that Um, yeah. I mean, I can see how a man, if he gives up, the woman instinctively wants to step in. um to try to remedy those deficiencies in a man. But that's where there needs to be counsel and godliness in terms of helping the woman to see how she can support her husband and again um encourage hold him accountable. all of this so as to remind him what his biblical mandate is. But no, I agree with you. I think that's part of it. It's not just in the family. Like it's just around in politics. Like women are taking these roles in politics Because where are the the godly men who are worthy leaders? Yeah. So of course a woman is gonna be able to rally people around her because of the differences between men and women when there aren't very many prominent men who are worthy. Exactly. That's what you're gonna say isn't there a passage in Isaiah where he says that the good men will be removed from power and removal who rule over them. I can't think of where it is, but it sounds familiar. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Good comments. We need to continue to dialogue about these things. Alright, but we've gone over time. So uh let me go ahead and close this in prayer and then we can be dismissed. Father, thank you so much for this time and We thank you for the wonderful truths of your word and we thank you for the examples that we see, both negative and positive, to help us to understand what your what your call on our life is. We thank you for the distinctions that you've made between men and women. and how they can be accentuated so as to really show how we're created in your image and likeness but also how we can begin to really proclaim your gospel in such a way as to demonstrate the reality of how Christ has brought us together and yet we're different. We thank you again for this time. May you be blessed with um our worship. Corporately and Lord, we want to give you all the praise and glory, so we thank you in Christ's name. Amen