And we will start with prayer. Father, again, we don't take any day for granted. We know your mercies are new every morning. And so we delight to be here this morning on this very, very important topic about relationships and conflict resolution, especially in our homes and in our church. We are excited for uh just the dedication service we're gonna have this morning, but um to just praise you, God, for being holy, for being merciful, for being gracious. For your just all of your attributes, Lord. We are grateful that you are immutable, unchanging. And so we pray for much wisdom and discernment this morning as we understand how to how to interact with creation that you created, us being made in your image, Lord. So we thank you and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, we are on lesson five. Um I think it's page thirty-three in your book called Taking Responsibility. I wanted to, um, before we jump in, just um talk a little bit about what you guys talked about last week. If you recall the last time I was here, kind of the two big things I I want to continue to focus on are what? Remember? The heart and how we respond. Right? When we talk about um conflict and relationships It's all about what's happening in the heart. So really, really important lesson last week on the heart. If you were not here, I encourage you to go back and listen to that from Pastor Gabe. The heart And what we're going to start to see now is really starting getting into the response piece of this. How are we to respond in a conflict? All right, so I want you to keep those two in mind. Do you remember What's a big reason for conflicts? We want what we want. Right? When we want it. What's a great passage to go to to remind us of that? James 4. James Four, right? Why why do you quarrel? Basically he's saying because you want what you want. That's what's happening in the heart. So we really have to understand what's going on in the heart. Some of the comments from the lesson last week, the heart is the control center of life. It is what drives us. Do you know what's going on in the heart of the other person? Oh, we think we do. We think we do. We're going to talk about that today, right? Really, really key concept. The control center, what's going on in the heart. It goes through lots of um characteristics of what's happening in the heart. The heart speaks, plans, desires, thinks, emotes, acts, worship. There is a lot going on in the heart, of course. Because the heart is the core of our being and the wellspring of life, we will never truly address a problem until we address the heart. Did you hear that? You won't truly address a problem until until you address what's going on in the heart. Um I told you guys Kareen and I are are doing a lot of counseling now and that's where it starts. I mean that is biblical counseling. When you counsel somebody That's what you're trying to do when you minister the word. You're trying to get at what's going on in the heart. You have these surface presentations, they call them. These surface, uh how it represents, how the conflict might be represented. And you can deal with those surface issues, but if you don't get after the heart, you're not really getting after the problem. All right And God has given us the sufficient and necessary truth in His Word to do just that, to get after the heart. And you're going to see today, one of the most difficult parts of this process is to do what? Start with ourselves. Okay. The heart is made to worship. And then I like at the very end, um there were two helpful questions in any conflict. Without looking, anyone remember what those were? 'Cause I'm looking but you can't. What am I wanting that I'm not getting? Right? What is that expectation? What is that desire that I'm not getting that causes conflict? Or what am I getting that I'm not wanting? Criticism, persecution, you name it. Those are really two good questions to be asking yourself at the very beginning of this process of conflict resolution. Um as we get into our lesson today. I want to emphasize and really challenge you. You know, this is just not a conflict resolution with anybody. Make it really personal in your home. That could be two siblings. That could be a child with a parent, a parent with a child, and and most importantly, you know, you and your spouse And then the relationship in the church. All right? Yes, this extends to all extended family, to work, to community, but I really want you to focus what we're doing here in your home and in the church. Okay? Alright, I think Pastor Gabe talked to you about uh the four G's. This is kind of the framework as we go through um this this curriculum, if you will, and first and foremost, in our relationships we want to glorify God. In our conflict resolution we want to glorify God. How do we I best Glorify God in this situation. Remember what do we say about conflict? It's an opportunity. Look at it as an opportunity, an opportunity to glorify God. Today we're going to start with that process. Get the log out of your own eye. So we're going to spend some time. If you got your Bibles, you can go ahead to Matthew 7. It's in your notebook, but it's good to always have uh the written word open And so we'll see key truths for today that we'll see from Matthew seven and then how to confess your own sins. And we're just going to start that process today. So let's read Matthew 7. Again, it's there in your top of the page 33, but um good for you to to read it in the word itself Matthew 7, 1 through 5, do not judge so that you will not be judged, for in the way you judge, you will be judged. And by your standard of measure it will be measured to you. Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye? But do not notice the log that is in your own eye. Or how can you say to your brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, and behold the log is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. So let's um we're going to dig into Matthew 7 because it's really important to understand what that verse is saying before I do that I want to show you a chart I know it's a little bit hard to read um and my wife she is here she loves this chart I mean she wakes up every morning and says, Christopher, can you show me the circle chart? Right, no, not really. She hates this chart. But I really like it. I stole it from our parenting class. What it does is it shows the complexity of the heart All right? Dave talked about heart, soul, spirit, right? All interchangeable. This is what's going on in the immaterial person. This is the complexity of what's happening in a person's conscience, mind, intellect, emotion, will, and flesh. So I go back to you think you understand what's happening in the other person's heart? You don't. There's no way you can until you start pulling up Okay? Really, really important to understand all that's happening. You know, is there are they motivated maybe by fear? Um are they motivated by any of those items there past history, circumstances, that all gets rolled in to what's happening in the heart of a person. Right? So really, really important. That's why I wanted to show it. Karina, I did that for you. Alright, we just did. Alright. So let's uh tear this apart a little bit. Seven one. is the sinner's favorite Bible verse, but it doesn't mean what people often think it means. In context, it is not judging what is That well sorry, it is not judging that is condemned, but it is hypocritical judgment that is the issue. This is all about what Jesus, remember, um he just got done with uh the Sermon on the Mount. Um he's really contrasting What is happening with the Pharisees and how they are judging, right? You remember the prayer of the Pharisee and the tax collector, right? Right? And what does the Pharisee say? Lord, thank you that I'm not like that person. Right? He's judging the motives. Go back to that picture of the heart. He's judging motives and desires. What this word here judge, let me go back to this Do not judge. This particular in this particular context means to condemn, to be critical. It is a self-righteous attitude. Later on we'll talk about, and you know, we are to be discerning, are we not? We are to examine the fruits of others. We are to confront heresy in the church and outside of the church. We absolutely need to be discerning. And you see, even in this verse, it doesn't say don't worry about your brother speck. It doesn't say forget about it. You need to address it, but you've got to start with your own critical self-righteous attitude. And if we're being honest with ourselves, that seeps in really quick, doesn't it, guys? It is so easy to start having a critical spirit. And that critical spirit, again, can be driven by tradition, um legalism Expectations, back to the two questions, right? What do I want that I'm not getting? What am I getting that I don't want? So we have to address this self-righteous, hypocritical attitude In Matthew seven, fifteen through sixteen, and many other passages, like I just said, it makes it clear that it is right to examine others by outward appearances. But we must keep in mind both the way we judge and the standard by which we judge. That's the key here. The way we judge must be defined by Christ's like character. Grace, mercy, patience, love, humility. Galatians 5, right? The fruit of the Spirit. So again Jesus is clear. We have to do that. You think of church discipline in Matthew 18. We are to confront our brothers and sisters. But how do we do that? We do that with a spirit of grace and mercy. To glorify God. Step number one. How can we glorify God? The standard, the standard which we judge must be what? Say loud? Righteous. Righteous? Yes, yes. What is the standard though? The Bible. What do we often do? We can use conscience or conviction or right to be that judge. Let us go back to the Word of God. Consistently. Let that be our supreme foundation for how we judge. So again, judging in the spirit of grace and mercy, and we use scripture, not tradition, not conscience, to verify what's going on there. Alright, so Jesus talks about the plank, right? Jesus talks about the plank. The plank is what? It is sinful behavior. It's our words And thoughts and our behavior. Okay? I want to pause here for a second. Let me go to a reference in the book here that I thought was thought-provoking. Now this is this is from the author, Robert Jones. Want to get your thoughts on this. By a plank, Jesus refers to our sinful behavior. Alright, that's that's clear what Jesus is talking about here, both the plank and the spec. From my understanding, the speck was maybe a a twig, a very small piece of wood. Still would be an irritant in your eye, though, right? If you had that sticking out of your eye Um the the imagery here though is is quite quite awesome where you're noticing this twig in your eye, so you approach your brother and sister and what do you got you got a big two by four sticking out of your eye, right? And Jesus is trying to say How can you possibly address the speck in your brother's eye? Still an irritant, still needs to be dealt with, but how can you see clearly at all? You've got a big two by four sticking out of your eye Right? That's what he the imagery that he's trying to get at here. So the plank, Jesus refers to our sinful behavior. Jesus evidently refers to wrong actions that are visible to others Actions that render us hypocrites if we criticize the sins of others. That's what Jesus is getting after here with the idea of the Plank is our hypocritical, self-righteous, critical nature. He's not necessarily trying to say your sin is always more than the others. We'll get to that in a second, right? He's not making a comparison of the the depth or the grievance of your sin other than to say to start with a hit a hypocritical self-righteous attitude does what? It really puts you in the place of God. You are now the judge, right? So he's saying that's a plank. That's what has to be dealt with. Our planks refer to our behavioral sins, observable by others, both our sinful words, including our facial expressions and grunts, and our sinful actions. Some writers wisely distinguish heart sins and social sins. God calls us to confess to Him all sins, but confess to others only our social sins, our sins that people might witness. In other words, God does not call me to confess to someone I am jealous of you or I lust sexually for you, heart sins, but only my words or actions, social sins that might arise from them. What do you guys think about that? Agree? Disagree? Thoughts? You would. And I think I read there, all sins would be confessed to the Lord. The author is contending that that some of those thoughts would not necessarily be confessed to others. Yeah. And I I think that's the intent there, um everyone, is showing good discernment You know, we we all struggle with thoughts we probably shouldn't have, whether that's you see a woman and you lust after her, or you see a man and you lust after her. You know What would it look like if every time that happened you ran up to that person right? That that would be foolishness. That would not be wise. That's not showing good discernment. But there are probably certain cases where it would be appropriate to say You know, in in the context of what's happening with the conflict, you know, here's the thoughts that I'm struggling with. That might be very appropriate. Um For those who might be um going through, you know, the the men of purity I'll call it, right? And you have an accountability partner. What you're thinking is a big part of that process Right, of of uh asking for God's forgiveness and repenting, turning away from that sin. So yes, certain contexts would require that, but I think the general idea here is you're not running around every time you have a a temptation or a wrong thought um to be confessing you know your sin to that person because that's probably not going to be very wise. Does that make sense? So I just want to point that out. Okay Sin, what is sin? Can be defined as any lack of conformity to God, which means what we we sin every day, don't we? Many of us have probably already sinned today. It is falling short of God's holiness We manifest sin in three ways, like we just talked about, through our thought, in our speech, in our action. Right? Jesus was clear about that. If you um well I didn't commit adultery, well if you even lust after a woman you have committed adultery in your heart. If you I didn't commit murder if you even hate somebody in your heart. I mean that's the seriousness of what's happening in the heart. Right? So we sin in many, many ways. And then the types of sin. We can sin and you guys gotta keep me honest here. Alright, we talked about the hypocritical judgment. Uh Matthew's we talked about seven, fifteen, and sixteen Again, the plank that Jesus is getting after here is not necessarily a relative of your contribution to the conflict. It's your heart attitude. That's what he's getting after here. So when you think of plank, it's sin and it's what's happening in your heart. It's your hypocritical, critical spirit Alright, so how we sin? We can either sin by commission, thinking, speaking, and acting in ways that violate God's standard. Right? That's pretty typical. The other way though is by omission Not thinking, speaking, and acting in the ways that God requires. Often when we feel as though we have not sinned in a situation, we should consider if we have not done something that we could or should have. So anyone have any examples of omission? It does. And Karen, I love you brought up something. you know, yielding to the Spirit. You know, when we talk when it's commanded to be filled um by the Spirit, right, in Ephesians, that is talking about yielding to the control of the Holy Spirit. And when you when you feel the Holy Spirit tugging on you, responding to that. Because what happens when we don't, when we grieve the Spirit, we become callous. Right, and you start to overlook those opportunities. Good. He just mentions in the book there that often in the marriage relationship is where you see the sin of omission. Um husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Your wife, not wives. Wife. Right? How often do we fail in that by just omission, by not doing what we're supposed to be doing Um wives submit to your husband, right? How often are they do do we omit that, not do that? So very prevalent in those types of relationships. Any other comments on that? Yes. I think along with that you're saying about being led by the spirit, you can often see people there's a need for a volunteer or something and you can't do all of them, but sometimes uh you do feel the spirit moving you and you might say, Oh, I'm not feeling like I want to do it today and then you don't do it. Yeah. And you you should have done that one even though you there was l other ones that you didn't need to do. Yep, yep, great Mark. Great example All right, let's look at Romans 3, 9 through 18. What then? Are we better than they? Not at all, for we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin, as it is written. This is the state of all of us. There is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands. There is none who seeks for God. I won't read all the rest of that, you know, but that's our starting point, right? That's why we need Jesus Christ. It does show in the rest of that, though, how we manifest our nature, right, because of the sinfulness in us However, what we saw in Matthew 7 is Jesus is doing what? He presents the proper order, meaning what? We have to start with ourselves. Let's go back to The verse and I'll come back to that. Very end of that. You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye I I told you guys um as counselors, Karina and I again are counseling many married couples, instinctively what is happening when they come in is is what He said this. Yeah. If you can just fix her, man, we're gonna be good. I I know I I got some problems, but if you can just fix her and what she's saying in her heart the same thing. I I mean inevitably that's what happens every time when we come in So our strategy is to do what? We take them back to the standard. Here is your God-given roles and responsibility in the marriage. These are not guidelines, they're commands, and they're unconditional. You don't do it based on how your wife is reacting, how your husband is reacting. You do this before the Lord. Husbands, love your wife as Christ loved the church. Man, that's daily dying to self big time, right? But that's where we point them back to, starting with you Then we can examine one another, right? We start with here's your roles and responsibilities. Now let's examine yourself based on God's standards. How are you doing? Right? Where can you be improving? That's the attitude that we want to have. Is that a is that an easy step? Is that a natural first step in any conflict Absolutely not. Right? It's a it's a heart attitude that has to be cultivated. It's a discipline. It's work. But that's how you can start. And we're going to show you how you can examine yourself, how you can start that process with stop, right? I got to start with myself. I gotta start with myself. And that's what Jesus is doing here. Start with yourself in this passage. Starting with ourselves reorients us around God's purposes. We focus first on what God expects of me versus what I expect of others Again, in the marriage relationship or example I just gave, starting with clear roles and responsibilities that are found in God's Scripture And guess what? Those were there before the fall began. This was God's perfect design before the fall began. And he has that design why? For him to be glorified. It points all back to Jesus, all back to God. Acknowledging your personal sins breeds empathy, compassion, and patience. It helps me realize that I am just like those who sin against me. Wait, yes. Alright, so we talked about this weight issue. Jesus assigns a greater weight to your sins than to the other person's sins by calling yours planks in his Specs. Again, he's not getting at the point that you're always the major contributor of a conflict. We've talked about this, I think, the last time I was here You could have a marriage conflict and let's say the wife can s and you never go in trying to make a percentage, but just for example's sake, the wife is five percent of the issue and the husband is ninety-five percent. What is Jesus saying here to the wife? Nice and loud. You're not perfect, but w what do you need to focus on? Your five percent. You gotta be all in on your five percent, right? Because that's your vertical relationship with Jesus Christ That's what Jesus is saying here. You've got to start with yourself. And what he's trying to show, this relative difference, if you will, between Planck and Speck, is is the seriousness of this hypocritical or a self-righteous attitude, right? It's serious. It has to be dealt with. It's serious because he calls it a plank versus the spec. Whatever you can see in the person's life, right, the observable, their words or actions, you can't see their heart. Go back to the circle chart, right? Cream's favorite chart. Go back to that. The complexity of what's happening in the heart. You can't know it. You cannot know it. Like an iceberg, you can only see what sticks above the surface in their life, but you cannot know what lies underneath, under the surface. Okay? Uh there was a question in in the book that I really liked, and you might want to write this down. Whose sins bother you more? Your sins or the other person's? Whose sins bother you more, your sins or the other persons? Can you see the absolute change in in attitude here and focus? What grieves you more, the fact that you spoke with a tone that was that was hurtful, um, that was mean for the sin in the other person's life. Humbly dealing with your sins first puts you in a better position to minister to the other person and help him deal with his sin. Again, do you see that? It's not saying we disregard the other person's sin. It's saying you first got to get right with yourself in order to deal with that other person. Again, that is a not a natural first step for anybody, right? It has to be established, it has to be cultivated. Um another great reference I thought that the author made here Notice he's talking about the passage, Luke 18, about the Pharisee and the tax collector praying. He says, notice the contrast between the two men lies ultimately not in the presence or absence of sin. Both are sinners, right? But in their willingness or unwillingness to humbly own and contritely confess it before God. In fact, as others have observed from this parable, the only thing worse than being a robber, evildoer, or adulterer is being proud that you are not one. While personal peacemaking demands self-examination, true humility goes one step deeper. In his insightful book on Christian marriage, When Sinners Say I Do, Dave Harvey recommends that before we inspect ourselves, we should suspect ourselves. Instead of coming to tense relationships with a presumption of innocence, I should assume in a relational conflict that I likely sinned in some way. Does that make sense? You got that? This does not mean that I am the only or primary contributor to a conflict. We just talked about that It does mean that I have likely contributed to the problem and I need to see how. And that gets back to the question, whose sins bother you more, your sins or the other persons. It is highly likely, highly likely in any conflict you have sinned. Largely, smallly, suspect, go in with that attitude. I did something here I want to examine myself, right? To g to get that foundation before the Lord. To really get that heart attitude, bowing before the Lord. Suspect yourself in any conflict. Now, we're going to talk about this. That doesn't mean you're self-condemning. Romans 8. 1, what? You are no longer under condemnation. However, are we asked to examine ourselves? We are. I'm going to show you that in a second. Okay. Any questions on that? Make sense? Absolutely. Um and and I would only say nuance that a little bit. People can tell when you're trying to manipulate, right? That's not what Ron's talking about It is a humble attitude of confession before that person. And absolutely, it it's going to bring the defenses down of that other person. Right? That's the the leadership role we have to have in a conflict. Excellent point. Alright, so finding the log. We talked about this. In many cases, some of your contribution to the conflict, your sin, will be fairly obvious. You will usually be able to identify sinful attitudes, thoughts, words, and actions that contributed to the conflict, but don't stop there. This is all about finding the log, examining ourselves Remember that conflict doesn't start when you open your mouth or move your body. It begins in the heart. Usually well before a conflict actually comes out in the open, right? It's all brewing there in the heart. It's all festering. Finding the log in your heart can be difficult because Jeremiah 17, the heart is more deceitful than all else. We can easily deceive ourselves. Someone said it earlier, I'm innocent, right? I know I'm innocent. My conscience is clear. The heart is deceitful. However, as a believer, you have a new heart. You are a new creation. I go back to you, you are no longer under condemnation But what do we do? Paul talks about it in Romans 7. While we are here, what's happening? Man, we are struggling with the flesh. We will struggle with the flesh until the day the Lord takes us up into glorification. All right? That's the battle that we have ongoing in our lives. But the flesh that remains can sometimes obscure our vision. We can also lack the necessary understanding of God's word that would otherwise help us identify what is going on in the heart. That's why the Lord encourages us to cry out to Him. For help. I want you to go in your Bibles to Psalm 139. One of my fave And this is one of the passages, Matthew 7 of course, but um I really like to take in our counseling, I'll take um counselees to Psalm 139 and get there real quick. And go to the end there, um 23 and 24 It says, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts, and see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. I mean, this is just a humble, heartfelt Getting on your knees before the Lord, saying, Lord, I know I'm not perfect. Right? Show me. I think I'm innocent. I think my conscience is clear in this issue, but show me Show me any grievous way. And what I like to point out to people, though, is I I won't read all of this, um, Psalm 139, but let me pick it up in verse 13 For you formed my inward parts, you knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works, my soul knows it very well My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me when as yet there was none of them. How precious to me are your thoughts, O God, how vast is the sum of them. Earlier in the passage it talks about being hemmed in. Right? This this idea is that God has this person uh the psalmist, they are protected, they are hemmed in. Right? They are one of God's children. And so when you are examining yourself, you're doing it in the spirit of a child of God. That's the emphasis here. You're not condemning yourself. We so easily fall into this trap of condemning ourselves. We are to examine ourselves, but it's in the context of being a a child of God, righteous before the Lord. How can that be? Right? Jesus Christ, of course. But that's um I just want to emphasize that when you are examining yourself, it's not to pour on condemnation Right? It's to humbly go before the Lord as a child of God, who loves you, who the Spirit testifies that you are a child of God. You know that because you cry out, Abba Father. Romans 8 Any questions on that? Does that make sense? We are to examine ourselves. However, our propensity to self-deception is why God has given us other in the body of Christ whom we can ask for help. So Karen, you gave a great example of asking uh you it was your mom, right? Show me, right? If you have a brother or sister that you trust, show me. Um your spouse Show me a sibling that you trust. Show me. Right? Use the body. I won't read all those verses there, you can read those at your leisure. So if after following the process you s you struggle To identify the heart issues behind your words and actions, seek the Lord in prayer and reach out to someone who can walk with you and help you. But first consider the following. So this is kind of the process. So that makes sense. Think about it. You have this conflict, you're angry, you're starting to rage, you think you're in the clear, and what Jesus is saying is stop and look at yourself first. Go before the Lord in prayer, right? Calm down, seek the Lord, have him show you any grievous way. Getting after that plank in your own eye, your heart attitude first and foremost. And here's a process you can go through. And so often it is our speech, isn't it? In what ways were my speech? The words, the tone, the timing? Boy husbands, we're great at timing, aren't we? Clueless. We're clueless. Timing. When is the best time to bring up this topic? What is that? That is living with your wife in an understanding way. First Peter three. Was it unwholesome and unedifying? Were my words crass? Were they sharp? Were they stinging or otherwise hurtful? What was I trying to accomplish by speaking that way? Right? Back to the heart attitude. Ephesians 4, 29, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear. Guys, that's something that needs to be disciplined as well. That needs to be cultivated. Right? To be an encouragement instead of spewing words of of hate in the moment, aggressive tones. In what ways did my speech attack the other person? You know, back to what Ron said It's so easy that even the tone can make somebody really defensive. How can you rather have a very humble spirit in a gentle tone, a one of confession, that will disarm that person, and now you can have a conversation Matthew 5, 22, but I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be guilty before the court. And whoever says to his brother, You good for nothing, shall be guilty before the Supreme Court. And whoever says you fool shall be guilty enough to go into the fiery hell. That seems pretty severe, doesn't it? That term fool though, rock off. It's an abusive insult that carried the same kind of moral guilt as an act of murder. That's how severe it was to call somebody a fool. Why? It's getting back to the heart attitude, this this heart of anger and and towards what? Another person made in the image of God. Number three, in what ways did my speech deny the image of God in the other person? What does such speech reflect about my thinking about them? This is a really important one. And another one that we often bring up in in the marriage counseling relationship, you won't believe how married couples talk to each other, the language that is used, the swearing Towards your your bride, your spouse. I mean that's what it that's what it crumbles down to. Um how many of you guys have heard my dishwasher story? Some of you have, I know, because I've used it in other classes. I'll be real quick Thanksgiving a couple years ago, right before Thanksgiving, our dishwasher breaks. Uh-oh. We're gonna have a big crew over for Thanksgiving. No worries, got about a week A run up to Lowe's, we pick out a dishwasher, all good. It's going to be delivered a couple days before Thanksgiving, we are all good Time comes and they said and and it's a third party that they get to deliver it. So they have to go to Lowe's, pick up the machine, and then they come to the house and and they had a deal on I got a free install, so I'm like, absolutely, install the dishwasher. I don't have to do anything And they said, we got a window. Uh Wednesday, Tuesday morning, this is the window that you get. I'm like, all right. I'm at work and unfortunately I'm in a meeting where I can't have my phone and I'm in there all morning And I knew these guys were supposed to be coming. So I get out and sure enough I got a message. I I hurry up, click on. He's like, hey Mr. Green, we picked up the machine. We got to your gate. I live in a gated community. We called, no answer You know, I had to return the machine. I was like, what? So I call him up because it's still in the window. I still got time. So I call him up. I'm like, hey dude, got your message, blah blah blah. And my tone started to get pretty aggressive. He was he was very kind. you know, explained what he did and he said, you know, we're getting ready to go on a Thanksgiving trip too. I I we can't do it. And I'm like, all right. Um I I didn't swear or anything like that. I don't do that. But my tone, Green could tell you, my tone was pretty aggressive. All right. And I remember um going through a lesson or something about the image of God, and man, the Holy Spirit just convicted me. Right I this is how I was talking to another human being. And he did everything by the book. He did everything he was supposed to, right? It was my my selfish desire to have a dishwasher. First world problem So I called him back. Two minutes later I called him back and I said, Hey this is this is uh Mr. Green and you could tell he was like Yeah like I'm gonna give him another drilling right I said listen I I need to ask for your forgiveness You know, this was totally uncalled for. You did everything by the book. You have a great Thanksgiving and I I apologize. That was the right thing to do. Guess what? We had Thanksgiving, we had a big crew over, and guess what we did? We washed the dishes by hand. Right? I I say all that to say it so easily creeped in. I had this expectation. I needed my dishwasher before Thanksgiving, right? And it I didn't get it. And I treated this person made in the image of God as something lower than me. Right? It happens I had to call 'em up and ask for forgiveness. And I don't say that proudfully. I just it's a great example of how so easily you can lose sight. And again I say this in our relationships in a marriage or family And in church, these are people made in the image of God. They are image bearers just like you. Let that be our starting point, guys. Does that make sense? Alright. The dishwasher. Alright. Number four. In what ways did my speech seek to manipulate the other person? How did I attempt to control them? Uh again, we can sometimes use language that is what? Self-purpose, self-deserving. You've got to watch that. You've got to go back to your heart attitude. Number five, in what ways were my words and actions of the flesh and thus at war with the spirit? What desires of the spirit did I rebel against? Again, we go back to the picture of the heart and the flesh at the very bottom. Often in the Bible, especially in the New Testament, when you see the term flesh, it's in a negative way. We are warring against the flesh, the desires of the flesh, of our own sinful nature. Galatians 5. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions, envying, drunkenness Carousing in things like these of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. What follows immediately this verse, fruit of the Spirit, right? This is how we should not be, this is how we should be the fruit of the Spirit. Let that be your governing action The fruit of the Spirit. And what does it say? To grow in those things, which means we have to cultivate those. They don't come naturally. What lie was I believing about the situation? Again, it's easy to think you understand the motives of that other person. You understand the complexity of what's going on in their heart. Suspect yourself. Say, I don't. I need to better understand. And have a conversation. And we're going to walk through how to do that in later lessons. But again, this is all about looking at the log in your own eye. In what ways were my desires disordered or unmeasured? What did I desire so strongly that I was willing to sin to obtain it? or sin because I couldn't have it. Right back to James four. What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Is it not the source your pleasures to wage war in your members? You lust and do not have, so you commit murder You are envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. This is a really great exercise to go back to start with myself. What's going on in my heart? What desires or expectations do I have? I like the disclaimer, this is from Gabe at the bottom on there. My point is not that we must ask each other of these questions every time we are in conflict That is not possible. The point is that once we start to understand our hearts by thinking through these questions at various times, we begin to see the log or plank in our eye more clearly. And that enables us to deal with our sins more quickly and thoroughly. It's a process, right? It's a process. Any so that's a long list. I I speeded that out pretty quickly, but any thoughts, comments, um examples of of where maybe you guys have encountered some of that? Yeah, yeah. Um during our our prayer session this morning, Pastor Gabe reminded us that I think it was this Sunday actually four years ago that we came together as a church. Creet and I and our family were not here yet, but two mourn. Um I guess Pastor Leek had just passed, and so it's been four years since uh our founding pastor and What a rich, rich legacy he has left behind. So um be in prayer for his his family, um, his wife and children. So Um I'll I'll give you one more plug. If uh let me ask, I'll shame you guys, how many have registered for the Relational Wisdom Conference this week? All right, good. Alright, keep your hands raised. Those who don't, I'm gonna take a note. I teasured. You still have time. I I really, really encourage it. If you think this is is good stuff, um It's going to be a very, very encouraging conference. And again, I go back to as image bearers, we are all made as relational people, right? And we're going to have this conflict. And so how to how to deal with that wisely is something we should all be growing in. Right. So you got the log in your own eye, and then and then we're going to start this idea of confession. We're just going to touch on it uh today but really get into it the next lesson. Once you have identified your heart, attitudes, thoughts, words, and actions, and again it's just not the the the the actions, it's How you're thinking, the words you're saying, the tone, and actions that were sinful and contributed to the conflict, you must remember that sin is first and foremost against God, right? It's that vertical relationship before you start working on the horizontal relationship. And that does what? That that creates a really high view of who God is. Any of our sin, lack of conformity to God's word, right, that's what sin is, needs to first and foremost be confessed to God, that vertical relationship. And that's again, I go back to the example of marriage counsel. That's where I'm trying to get the man and the woman is you've got to start with that relationship, your relationship with God. Genesis twenty. Then God said to him in the dream, Yes I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also kept you from sinning against me. Therefore I did not let you touch her. Um his wife. Genesis thirty nine, there is no one greater in this house than I, and he has withheld nothing from me except you because you are his wife. How then could I do this great evil and and sin against God? Joseph, right. Psalm fifty-one. Who's Psalm fifty-one about? David. Against you. And this is after he sinned uh with Bathsheba and killed Uriah. basically, or had him killed. Against you, you only I have sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you are justified when you speak and blameless when you judge. Don't get overwhelmed by this verse. He's not saying I didn't sin against Bathsheba or Uriah. He's saying first and foremost, I sinned against you, God. And by doing so, he's putting the seriousness of who God is. He's elevating God to a really high place. First and foremost, I have sinned against a holy God. That has to be our first step. Okay. Though all our sin is judicially forgiven. We're going to talk about these terms in later lessons. Judicially forgiven and relational forgiveness. Alright. Judicially forgiven, and we cannot undo God's work of regeneration in our lives, it is still imperative to confess our sins to the Lord and receive his relational forgiveness. We're going to see that in lesson eight. So here's the distinction, right? We talked about Romans 8. 1. Why? You you there's no longer condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Why? Because you are now justified You are declared righteous before the Lord. You are positionally forgiven of all your sins, right? In contrast to this relational forgiveness that has to continue to we need to cons continue to seek forgiveness. Why? Because we live in a fallen world. We live with image bearers, but fallen image bearers that have sin in their life. Alright? So we're gonna again we'll talk about that distinction later. But I did want to make that distinction because I think it's important. And that that judicial forgiveness you can never ever ever ever lose That's the assurance of your salvation. You can never lose that standing once you have it before a holy God. And that's a very comforting and encouraging truth. Psalm 32, I acknowledge my sin to you, and my iniquity I did not hide. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the guilt of my sin Proverbs twenty eight, he who conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will find compassion. To conceal them is what? Omission, right? To not to address the sin in your life to not cry out to Lord, Show me, search me, show me any grievances within me. And then 1 John, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Alright, so hopefully that that made good sense to you. Right. Last week we talked about the heart, and now we're talking about the response. What what you do with that. And it starts with the plank in our own eye, the self-righteousness. The critical spirit that so quickly seeps into our lives. It just does, because we think we know what's going on in the heart of the other person. And God is saying, stop, start with yourself. Does that make sense? Yes. Alright. Any comments, questions? If you guys want to come up afterwards you can, but let me uh let me pray. Lord, we love you. Um it's it's great that we can have a bit of fun, but we understand the seriousness of what you're teaching us. And we know that it takes work, it's a discipline, and yet your Holy Spirit, we are dwelt with your Holy Spirit. We have the power of the Holy Spirit who's interceding for us. Jesus Christ, who is interceding for us. Give us the courage and boldness to have this attitude in our relationships, to seek first and foremost, to examine ourselves, not under condemnation, but under the loving, righteous cover of a holy God. Lord, be with our service this morning. It is a great time to celebrate. Let the fellowship and conversation afterwards be edifying to you. As we as a body of your church just praise you and rejoice in who you are and how you have blessed us. We love you and we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.