And once again, I just thank you for this class, as this is a joy for us to be able to study this topic in a world that has so twisted your truth. And again, have it with you and learn these issues so that again when you engage with people about what manhood and womanhood is, that you're able to do it with a biblical mindset. You're able to do it educated and um informed by the scriptures so that you have again the resources that you need uh to communicate effectively And then we're going to talk about it from the perspective of just headship in general. and hopefully provide you with some very um succinct answers to some of these questions. And so those role differences really shape who we are as men and women, especially as believers in our marriage, in the church, in the way that we reflect the likeness and image of God in the world Why shouldn't we lift her up and commend her as a a leader in the church? But ultimately you can just say to somebody, the reason why we don't commend a person like Phoebe as a leader in the church is because she's not commended for her leadership. You can't go clearly to the grammar here or the name and identify this person as a male or female. And again, to be commended meant that they, in their service to the body of Christ, maybe even in their teaching of the body of Christ, it really was a a role that we ought to model. But our issue here this morning is Priscilla and Aquila. Now again, we've talked about this pretty extensively, so I hope that the answer from you guys would be an automatic no because of the difference. Prophesying involved speaking new revelation from God previously unknown. Okay, show me chapter and verse. And this is the important part, not our roles within the family or the church. And let me tell you, that upset the Roman world in a major way. So she's saying, Barak, this is what God has told you. And again, people came to faith in Christ. That's the important example, the the um template that needs to be laid down so that we know what to do and how to follow it So in a church where a church might affirm a female pastor, they are going against the positive pattern that is set in Scripture. And wow, if God comes to you and says, Hey, I'm going to give your enemy your enemy into your hand, all you need to do is just go take ten thousand people, go out there and fight, and it'll happen The issue is that whatever God has told me to do, He's given me the power to do it. Let's remember 1 Corinthians 10, 1 and 2, I think it is, the things that were taught to us in the Old Testament, they were given to us for examples. So anyway, the one that follows through, the wife that follows through in that unequally yoked marriage, I believe is the one that ultimately You could debate it, but it's it's very strongly worded here, clearly, that this happened in the church. Deborah's saying to Beric, don't you remember that? I just pray that you would continue to work in our own hearts to see clearly what our roles and our differences are, but also to rejoice are taught as we continue to learn about what it means to live a righteous life, a a life that glorifies you, that you would motivate us uh to be all the more passionate about reaching the world for Christ. Uh so Father we thank you. They would recognize how the image has been marred because of sin, so that they would come to saving faith in Christ. what it means to be a man and what it means to be a woman. And so how do we address that when the Bible seems to be very clear that there are role differences? uh that have ministered alongside him, but also those who are ministering in the church. And here Paul in his inspired letter of Romans writes this. which is that Sankria, that you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and that you help her in whatever matter she may have need of you. And one of the things that I want to say to you before we get to the answer of how do we respond to this to the egalitarian objection is please don't minimize You want to be this kind of woman in the church, serving. The point is we come to serve. We don't want church or the assembly to be something selfish, something that we gain, although we are benefactors of the ministry of others in the church. And I'm so thankful for you women because again your service to the body of Christ is absolutely essential. I think like any other person, if you go back to Acts 6, I mean there were men that were again identified to serve the body of Christ at a particular moment in the life of the church And Phoebe could be one of those who later on you see as a tremendous service to the church. uh her helper ship, not her headship. And that's led certain people to draw a conclusion that this person is actually recognized as an apostle. And again, we don't want to we don't want to just center on Junia or Junius. Please tell John High for us. that he was able to articulate clearly the way of the Lord, just based off an understanding of John the Baptist's ministry. And then just add the New Testament to that and you've got a full gospel. And when he stood up and began to speak and to teach in the synagogue, it must have been absolutely profound to listen to them, to him. It's never a public ministry in the assembled church. But then when Priscilla and Aquila took him aside and said, hey, we've got more to explain to you, I can only imagine that Apollos must have just been enlivened by that He must have just gotten so excited. So that's number one. And being in Ephesus, other apostles would have been over their life as well. And so number four, it's unclear why Priscilla's name is really listed first in four of the six references. She had a gift of teaching, so she was able to exercise it, but never in disorder of the church. She is one of those examples of where a woman can be a teacher in the church, in the assembled church over men and women. Priscilla taught Paul a few things about how to sew and how to put things together. And they prophesied in the context of the assembled church. And he goes on, shames her head, for she is one and the same as the women whose head is shaved. or agreement with what the apostles taught, and basically they judged that prophecy. The whole New Testament hadn't been canonized yet. Prophesying is not the same as teaching, but then also if you look at that miraculous gift as it was used in the early church, and if you see how teaching was there to guard against false teaching Teaching, therefore, was linked to the authority of Christ delegated to qualified pastor-elder overseers, an office limited only to men in the church, and the teaching gift was also used to judge the prophecies spoken. It's a challenge. I think very clearly in today's modern church, people have such confusion about this that they just want to make it say what they want it to say. Does it apply, you know, when we get together and look at the scriptures, just how far does it apply to parachurch ministries? from the scriptures to us. And if you have a word from the Lord right here in the book, then you're welcome to share it. Chapter by chapter, verse by verse, phrase by phrase, word by word, um so that you understand what the text means by what it says Now that you're in Christ? And Paul is making that very clear in this in the context of this verse. They don't deserve the gospel. And Gentiles were coming to faith in Christ in dramatic ways. And so when Paul comes along and says, You're all one in Christ, that revolutionized the world. for female leadership among God's people, she was both a prophetess and a judge. in the hill country of Ephraim. it amounted to being a savior for Israel. and pledged that by the hand of a woman, J. And that's why it's really awful in one respect when a man is so passive that he doesn't lead his family and the woman ends up leading out of necessity. Because he's not taking that leadership. Take it among your kids. Priscilla d'Aquila might be a great precedent, a biblical precedent that's in the same pattern as so many other godly men and women of what the pattern for the family ought to be And thank God he did. And they want to try to argue it from scripture and their arguments are weak, bad sometimes. Yeah, we don't know. And he believed so strongly that Deborah was a prophetess and a judge, you would think that he would say, Okay, I'm gonna go. But yet to say, I'll go if you go If you don't go, I'm not gonna go. I and we have no idea if she even wanted to go. The thing about it, she is the leader. Now, what does the wife do at that moment? my spirituality, my understanding of Christ, what it means to obey God, I need to obey God rather than you. And we just are so grateful that Lord you have given us such a um a clear mandate uh as Daniel and his leadership of the music and Lord all aspects of the service, we just ask that you would glorify yourself and uh and really help us to be conformed more and more to the image of Christ. All right, um let's go ahead and open with a word of prayer and then we will jump into our lesson this morning. in the activity that we have as believers in Christ to reflect your image, to share your likeness uh with an unbelieving world. So what I want to do first of all is encourage you to definitely download the notes if you haven't already. Lord, to just emphasize the fact that you bring restoration and salvation. Uh the difference between complementarianism and egalitarianism is what? And so there are no distinctions between um us as believers in Christ or us as men and women, because after all, Galatians two twenty-eight says And so once again, the difference between the two is in the area of roles. And those are the questions that usually come up from egalitarians who who really believe that once again, because of who we are in Christ, those role distinctions have been erased. Why shouldn't women be commended as leaders in the church? For she herself has also been a benefactor or helper of many and of myself as well. on a particular name, it's like, wow, I didn't know that I stood out. Um, and so Paul is commending her. She is a tremendous helper. Now again, this is a real strong commendation from the Apostle Paul regarding this wonderful, godly woman in the church. And this is really the commendation that we all seek as believers in Christ. for the service that we offer to the church. No, we can see in these people aspects and character qualities and and again values that are put on these people that can be seen in us. In fact, I personally can name, having been here for a short while, I can already name a number of different people who in my mind would fit the Phoebe category here at Hope Bible Church. Paul's commendation here and just take that leap over to once again her being commended as a as a teacher or an authoritative role model in the church. So I believe Paul was so good in making that distinction, but right here he commends her for what she should rightly be commended for, and that was her service in the church. So that's a very simple response. Uh question that needs to be answered, but again you've got Alan's notes here so you can go through and look at those in detail Objection number two. Now, a lowercase A, not an uppercase A, because again, the qualifications for an apostle with a capital A was that they needed to be a wit an eyewitness of the resurrected Christ. But here in the context of Romans, there's this person that was that was a prisoner with Paul, or a prisoner alongside of Paul. who was outstanding. rather among the apostles, so that it gives clearer, uh more clearer indication of what Paul is talking about here. of this uh of this name. that a female apostle existed or had foundational lead leadership role in the early church. And we cannot, based on the grammar, deduce that this person is being identified as a lowercase apostle, which apostle just means messenger, a sent one. If an e egalitarian comes along and says, well, hey, what about Romans 16, 7 with Junia or Junius? Base a complete understanding of the role of men and women in the church based off of just this one verse So once again, more than likely, whether male or female, this person would have just been well known to the apostles, but not one of them. There were many people who suffered for their faith, many people who went to prison, many who were executed because of their faith, men and women. And so you can't deduce from that that it was just a man or just a woman, neither can you deduce from this verse that this person was an actual apostle. So the apostles recognized uh how significant this person was, and they commended them for it. Maybe these two were a very cla. in this text. and his commentaries. people who really stood out. uh to the church and especially to the church at Corinth. They took him aside and explained to him the way of God what? The things concerning Jesus being acquainted only with the baptism of John. Again, this is the kind of guy you want to have in your church. How do you go from accurate to more accurate? And so no doubt in my mind, Priscilla and Aquila said, Hey, Apollos, we want to share with you something that even more supports the way to the Lord. the way of the Lord aside from just John. And so based off of just the Old Testament, you should be able to clearly articulate what the gospel is. When he stood up and in Acts chapter 4, verse 12, he says, There is no other name given to us among men by which we must be saved. And how did he know that? the types, the promises, the principles, all of what was being articulated in the Old Testament as pointing to Christ. Alan lists in his text, it needs to be corrected, but it's Acts 1818, not 1816, I think is what he writes. Priscilla ought to be lifted to the level of a teacher in the context of the church. Walked alongside her. Because again, we just don't see clearly in the scriptures her performing that role or doing that role in the context of the local church, in the assembled church. But number three, nowhere does their ministry appear to conflict with Paul's prohibition in 1 Timothy 2, 11 through 15 and 1 Corinthians 11, 34, and 35. They were overseen by the qualified pastor elders of the church. their ministry is always outside the context of the local church and more importantly we never see what they do in these times that their names are listed. um the egalitarian objection here. But every woman who has her hair head uncovered, and again, notice this phrase, while praying or prophesying He's just saying that while you do this, make sure that there's in your mind this order in the church that is that goes back to the order of creation. and teaching in the scriptures, you see that they are not synonymous. But generally speaking, a person who is given the gift of prophecy. And it was the teachers that would come along, this the qualified men and women in the church who had the gift of teaching, they would come along and judge that prophecy They would judge that to determine whether or not it was in agreement with the Old Testament scriptures, whether it was in agreement with what Christ taught So again, prophesying was not the same as teaching. So that helps us really in understanding what's going on here in the early church. When prophecy became enscripturated, so to speak, that's when it rose to the level of again the Word of God being universal for all churches, all people, all times. And this happened all the time in the in the New Testament. Um you see that there was order in the church and this again does it lend itself to a very good objection. is not the same as what it is today. And especially in First Corinthians chapters eleven through fourteen. Okay, so that's subjection number four. It said to the assembled assembled church or this assembly congregation, how far do you take it? Uh but again it's a different dynamic. the corporate assembly of the church on on a Sunday morning when everybody gets together. Everything that is spoken of in the context of a word from the Lord is judged by this book the plenary verbal inspiration of scripture. But again, prepositions, various words. And you will hear the voice audibly, okay? Um but again these are things that we can have absolute confidence on. So once again, just very, very important. He hasn't erased the distinctions. But Paul's argument has to do with salvation and not our roles. There is no difference. They're not culturally determined. And so though each person comes to saving faith in Christ by the same means, by grace through faith, as a gift from God, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, we each have different gifts But again, when it came to slave and free man, oh my word, that literally upset the Roman world. those who are slaves and those who are free. It had a dramatic effect on the world at the time. That's that's unquestionable. Then Deborah arose and went with Barak to Ket to Kadesh. um thing for Israel, though given the context of judges, j Israel was at a very low point. in their life. He refused. the miracles and all the things that God with did with the first generation, by the third generation, everyone did what was right in what? And so here, God uses this glorious, faithful woman to rise up and to be the judge over Israel. uh in this occasion Israel's then delivered and they're delivered for a number of years for female leadership. This is a national, a political arena. He said you need to appoint qualified leaders to lead. And so we we need to look at those patterns that are given to us in Scripture that are the positive patterns and say that's the precedent that needs to be set. Sadly, there are so many bad examples in the scripture which are there for our learning that we can go back to and say this is not how we're supposed to do it. a pattern, a template for how we're to do things. But here, Barak was supposed to be the judge. And she did it gladly, she did it joyfully, she did it painstakingly in the case of Barak, but she did it because this is what would have delivered Israel So be it, because it will be for the greater glory of God and the greater good of God's people. But um it's a great question. And they really show us how do we how to have faith in God, how to um how to do what God has called us to do in terms of acting in faith This is uh something that we need to really take in mind. you get a sense where she is, recognizing that really, Beric, you should be the one that's leading here. And hopefully through that process without God's word, God will use that to bring a husband to Christ as well. It does, just to clarify a little bit more, that let's remember that headship it is a created order issue. And it again took place before the fall and it took place after the fall. Um but the rule is she would obey God and she'd be taking um she would be following God's command as an example to her husband that in the area of as an example to her husband and it can be a tremendous testimony to him. And so he he not he needs to not be passive in that. Um so and we just need to be coming alongside, encouraging one another in those areas that maybe we're unclear what should I do in the situation How do I obey God in this situation? around today that really is helpful and under it it's important for us to to help people in those situations. biblical men and women to honor you, to love you, to follow you, and yet to show our differences in roles that can complement one another We thank you for your church and for the beauty that we have as brothers and sisters in Christ to come together on level ground at the foot of the cross to be able to confess our sins, to acknowledge you, to worship you, to again be sanctified by the cleansing of your word in our lives. give us ready spirits, ready and willing hearts to receive the word joyfully to celebrate and and again to exalt you for all that you are to us. uh you would be the testimony that we give to the world. uh in that situation. And just give yourself to looking at the details that are in the notes that Alan has put together because there's so much material in here that you really want to become familiar with. And there's going to be sections that we won't be able to cover as we bring this to a close. on answering some of the common egalitarian questions. uh worth, um reflecting the image of God. will again affirm equality in the essentialness of our personhood, but they don't see a difference in roles But complementarians, they see likewise an equality in personhood, but there are distinct role differences. or objections. ministry uh examples that we have in uh Romans chapter sixteen and in Romans after Paul is listing out all of his thanks for all the various people um before the church. I was gonna say if I were Phoebe, I'm a man, but I can't be. of the church. This woman seems to go out of her way to help people, to encourage people, and again to be there in service for those who are in the church From the elders, the qualified men who served the body of Christ as overseers. But here, once again, this is tremendous that Paul is talking to Phoebe uh or talking about regarding Phoebe and so I just want to encourage you as women please don't pass over these kinds of verses. But here we can't make the leap from her service to that of an oversight in the church. My kinsmen, my fellow prisoners, who are outstanding to the apostles. This name, which is used only once here in the whole New Testament, does not provide strong internal evidence So the issue here is that how are we to understand this? So all right, that's objection number two. Shouldn't women be able to teach men in the context of the church? Wow, I would have loved to have known them. And there is a good, healthy biographical study in the scriptures because of how often they've been referred to. And again, I would commend them as a subject of study for you to just see how influential they were in their ministry. because they were the ones who really came alongside Apollos and helped him. Um I'm just going to give you one example of where their name is listed, but Acts chapter 18, verses 24 through 26 This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord and been fervent in spirit. That you could argue the way of the Lord just based off of an Old Testament knowledge. So once again, those are strong arguments for saying that really an egalitarian question or objection using Priscilla doesn't it's not strong. role in the church. but she did it in an orderly way in the church if she did it. was in line with what the apostolic teaching was concerning the church. Very clearly, Paul says, especially here in the context of the Corinthian church, every man who has something on his head while praying or prophesying shames his head. But the question is, is if they prophesied in the early church, then why not have them teach? And so once again people prophesied in the in the church. uh judge that prophecy based on its validity and again if it was something that was true to scripture then again they would welcome the church to receive that because with their schemes and their again their twisted, perverted ways of looking at Scripture. objections that say, well, if women prophesied in the Bible, why can't they be teachers? Hopefully it does. And I realized once again these are difficult chapters to interpret because once again Paul is using language that we're not accustomed to but also the way that he is describing what took place during that first century when the miraculous gifts were in practice. to read it in detail. Take the time to seek the clarity. Um, do we prohibit women from teaching? This is the canon. Every single word for a purpose and that's why we exposit the scriptures and we do it sequentially because once again we want to take the whole book that we're preaching through as one unit and we want to just go verse by verse, chapter well And based off of that, we can then begin to learn how to judge these modern-day prophetic words so that we can help people to understand what is truly in line with Scripture. Objection number one. There's neither male or and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. Absolutely not. Salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, and again to the glory of God alone, for men and women. So, looking at this, Jew or Gentile, which is an ethnic distinction, slave or free man, which is a social distinction because of this. Different skills, different abilities, different roles. Because that social distinction that was there was there in such a powerful, pronounced way, and there were extreme differences between No, he's just identifying that all of these people in these various distinctive categories, ethnic, social, gender, you need to understand that you are one in Christ You all have it equally. In fact, Paul says, you have the mind of Christ as a redeemed saint. Has not Yahweh, the God of Israel, commanded? And so then, Barak, verse 8, you gotta love this. No. Um, why shouldn't she be a positive precedence for female leadership among God's people? She really was doing what God had called her to do. Well isn't there a whole song kind of like making fun of Barrett? And that was the second that was the third generation. But once again, the issue here is that Baric didn't do what he was supposed to do. for women taking leadership upon themselves when men are passive and inactive. not desire or aggressive wanting to take over that role, but out of necessity. And again, we can come alongside you and help you to do that. But more so an example, a pattern, a um a almost like a template. So it's a it's a pattern that we see in Scripture that really is God's plan for these situations And so as we're seeing it early in the in the church in the New Testament, what did Paul and others do when they came into a region, presented the gospel? for how a true biblical church ought to operate. Again, it doesn't say anything about her gifts, it doesn't say anything about her skills, her talents, her abilities, doesn't say anything about that. to the authority of God's word in her life. her situation and it reminds me of a woman whose husband might be her sin, but she has to obey God rather than obeying him. What can we draw out from this in terms of application? Yeah. And his response is that guys should be leaders. And he didn't. the uh courage within him to do this. What makes what makes us think Deborah wasn't scared? But she is the one who has the courage. In a on the unequally go marriage, the husband says, Oh, I'd like for you to stay home to stay with me. being the example, loving her husband so much that she will follow God's word to the T. I wanna I want to show love, but at the same time I want to show more safe might be. a wife was being told, a believing wife was being told you need to stay home, she needs to obey God rather than man. But headship does belong to him. You're created in the image of God. I'm going to go ahead and close two minutes early. And it's amazing because in verse two, Paul says that you receive her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints. about this person. And there are those, and I'm going to address this in just a second, but there are those who believe that junia or junias, which is seen in some translations, is really the feminine We can't, based on this commendation from Paul, we cannot deduce that this person, number one, was a female kind of passing along the commendation of not just himself but other apostles as well regarding this individual. Um these are all just fantastic words in this verse that help us to understand just how these people were commended. So in fact I I believe that given these arguments and others um i the the stronger um conclusions lend towards not Was uh what's Paul what was Paul's profession? in these objections. received as an encouragement and something that was beneficial for the church at that particular time. The distinctions? But here's the main part. And the sons of sons of Zebulun, and I will draw out to you Siserah, the commander of Jabon's army, with his chariots and his many troops, to the river Kishon, and I will give him into your hand. But if you don't go with me, what? I oh that was it. What should we believe? assurance, uh c courage, conviction, um all of that. Can you draw any conclusions from what we've talked about with regards to these objections? Honestly, I I can kind of relate to Baric that that would be a tremendous thing, to know that you'd have to go out into battle and maybe it'd take your life. brought that to him at a time when, you know, he was down low. We need that encouragement. Well everything. Stay home. where she is appraised, so to speak. Uh oh. We are obviously behind in the notes. people like Phoebe when you read her in Scripture. not for her teaching, not for these other pastor, elder, overseer um gifts that have been given to the church. Luke writes, now a Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by birth, an eloquent man arrived at Ephesus, and he was mighty in the scriptures. The central focus of the Old Testament gospel that was preached concerning the way of salvation they saw clearly Christ as the golden thread that wove its way through the Old Testament to the New Testament. And that's Apollos. Who know the way of God more accurately like a Priscilla and Aquila and can teach you and help you. No, is the answer to the question. Male or female, which is a gender distinction, we are all granted salvation uh the same way So once again, Paul is not erasing the distinctions. So, once again, this is such a powerful, powerful verse, but it does not erase the gender distinctions in the church. Barak, the son of Abinoam from Kadesh Naphtali, even further north, and said to him I'm not the one you need to have going with you. Nevertheless, the honor shall not be yours on the journey that you are about to take. Where Israel, when you are at your worst, when you are in sin and in disobedience to God, then what I'm going to do is I'm going to start raising up women And that's the context that we have here. Female judge. This was an exception to the rule, and therefore it puts a pause on this idea of looking at Deborah being the positive precedent. So if she is trying to show respect to her husband, but at the same time living a life that glorifies God and everything that she does, then she's going to have to take God's word. And that following Christ would be an example to her husband. There is neither now f nor female nor male. The the i the difference is that the Old Testament looks forward to Christ, we now look back. There is one interpretation of scripture, many applications, and our job is to strive towards that one clear interpretation, and it takes work, it takes study. Is everything that we need from God. This is the Word of God. really upset the world. Okay. Nevertheless, now I bolded it there, but you guys ought to underline that, circle it, highlight it, and say, whoa, whoa, whoa, this is huge here. Should she be a positive precedent? And it's one of the reasons why Gabe in his sermon said that there are times, not all the time, but there are times when a woman being raised up is really a judgment. Probably many times, but um but again it's helpful to go back and really look at the Word of God and see what does God's Word really say about that. Yeah I don't have a slide for this and I'm just thinking this off the top of my head, but Yeah. We all are to serve, to call to serve. No, this is what's right. Kudos to JL. Well, the text kind of helps us here to understand this. Since Priscilla taught Apollos alongside her husband Aquila, and she and since her name is listed first Which would include pretty much all the Old Testament. That is a wow moment for us as believers. And surely these two women, Deborah and JL, were the ones that really received the honor Yes. Freedom, um again, deliverance will take place. You know, just to make it simple, um I would say that today our modern equivalent would be the Assembled Church on Sunday. Salvation is the same for you as it was for me. Okay, you guys know this. Oh ye of little faith. But once again, this pattern that we're looking at is one that we want to have set for all of us. The understanding that they need to take the lead. Response number one. Small group Bible studies are have a different dynamic to them, but here at Hope Bible Church we want to have qualified leaders leading those. J L Do you remember what she did to Cisera? It's just that once again, if you look at this person, whether it be male or female, this person is commended by the apostles. And and this is one of the reasons why if you go trace this out to then God's word in Isaiah Yes, all the way back. will be accomplishing all those things, witnessing to a husband, witnessing to all those in church. And so this implies that they ministered together as hus husband and wife. But just to be clear, First Corinthians eleven, four, and five, we looked at this. I I might be stretching that verse a little bit, but it looked like Deborah was trying to encourage Barrett to do the right thing. He was a coward. Alright, any other comments? Yeah. Period. All right, let's go to objection number five. She missed out an opportunity by not going, to witness to her husband, to witness to all the ones at the church. Was judging Israel at the time. central kind of northern part of Israel. The logical um implication of this is why aren't you doing this? I mean the way I said it today, I'm the pessimist, but um the way we said it today is i it could be some other way and it could have been a very encouraging thing for him. It really is. You're given new meaning about what it means to be a man. It's a pattern. The first one that the first verse that sticks out to me is Hebrews 10. It's interesting. Absolutely not. Take it in the church. Romans 16, 7. This last week I took some time to really read through all sixteen chapters of 1 Corinthians kind of a couple times just to get a sense of the flow of Paul's argument He he's like, unless you go with hold my hand I'm not gonna do it. But is this a strong enough argument? So first of all, um objection number one, this is on page forty uh of your notes, but objection number one is if Paul commends Phoebe so highly Number two, their teaching ministry occurs always occurs, and here's the point, it always occurs outside the context of the assembled church in private Absolutely not. But again, when it comes to salvation, are men saved differently than men than women? In fact, I always love the way that pastors put this, but the but at at the cross, at the foot of the cross, all the ground is level. What should we do? Uh objection number two in the general category. And again continue to teach us. I know you do. Doesn't Paul commend Junia, a woman, as an apostle? And so this was a woman instead of a man. So I love his his study notes, so yeah. Because once this Holy Spirit came upon them at Pentecost, once they put all the pieces of the puzzle together, This is the raw the the the measuring rod. I mean she was bold. And the the um dative case here of the of the grammar really lends itself more to to the apostles So once again, wonderful commendation, wonderful verse here. In fact, down in verse 2, he says, for she herself has also been a benefactor or helper, some of your translations have helper, of many. She was in by all accounts a very submissive wife. Don't breeze over it. Doesn't Galatians 3. I mean that's that's not a debatable m uh statement. And I think it's something that we need to again bear in mind when we're looking at these examples in Scripture. That word servant is theakonos. Yeah. You need to take the lead in your family. Since women prophesied in the early church, doesn't this mean that a woman should also be able to teach today? Judges 4, 4 through 9. And so God raised up Deborah. Yeah, standing in obedience to God as opposed to saying, I'm gonna I'm gonna take leadership. Um thinking about a couple that's unequally real and as the wife is trying to show respect to her husband They immediately planted a church. We come to, again, exalt the Lord Jesus Christ, but we want to be commended by God. Yeah. But let me just once again remind you that when you're going through these passages, take your time She is the one who knows confidently that this is what God has commanded and she knows that delivery But again, it's it's it's a delicate relationship is issue, um, especially in the family, but it's one that's clear with regards to headship and obeying God. And so if she's commended so highly, then why wouldn't we recognize her as a leader in the church? This wasn't a pattern that was in Israel's life. Because she was only a judge for a short period of time. L. Oh my word. But uh that's how I would answer it, um, that it's the corporate gathering of the church on Sunday morning. And yet the gospel went out, spread rapidly, in thirty years to cover basically the known Roman world with the gospel So really we need to we need to encourage, exhort, commend, challenge, discipline men to take the leadership. It's a uh how would you describe a precedent? And that's where we would all want to come alongside and encourage. Um yeah. End of story. Yes. Well no, it's it's a very graphic thing, but wow, I mean and and how God delivered um Sisera into um Even though this comes in Romans 16 with a list of all these names and all these people and and again, oh that was back when Paul was alive. Those are a lot of speculative questions that are not clear from the text. And so how to interpret those verses in a way that we can apply them to ourselves today, see the universal principle that can be applicable to all people at all times. Plenary means all of it. He's just made them equal in Christ. He makes He makes your understanding of what it means to be a woman so much more. That was it. Yeah. And uh so once again this is uh something that we just need to keep in mind. I'm going to go right back into the synagogue and tell them what you just told me. Of the six times their names appear in Scripture, and I listed them for you in their in your notes, the one i the one difference is um I think So once again, wonderful, godly couple in the church. But again, very, very important. We would do exactly what Paul would say, but again, look at it from the perspective of um the miraculous gifts having ceased and now you have scripture in front of you When the church came together and men and women gathered together in a local assembly and worshipped God and God was speaking through men and women in miraculous ways And that's what we see in Scripture. When a spiritual leader like Paul comes along and says, I commend this person, that's just an added benefit. Alan has a little bit more detail that he goes to in the notes, and I would strongly encourage you to read it because again the language that Paul uses here helps to support that argument That's a very strong possibility. And so if you are wanting to hear the voice of God audibly, read this book out loud. If they can't, help them to find that chapter and verse. I kind of feel like she was presenting to that because like he doesn't window, he's scared. He's the head of the home. I would have loved to have been taught by them. And if you need to, um go to great commentaries. And thought Deborah wanted to go. So let's go ahead and pray. Um but you know, just trying to understand the perspective of here Paul is writing to the church uh in Rome and he writes and he comments But what is he commending her for? Apollos came again fully engaged in what the way of the Lord was. , Israel's enemy sister, would be killed. And we thank you for today. And if you notice, Priscilla's name is listed before Aquila. Uh worker of tunics and uh or tent maker, yeah. Um so I would say that for us primarily it would be the the assembled And once again, even in relation to the gender distinctions, even that was uh e expressed in a very distinct way in the Roman culture. I think you have something there because if you read the fuller context of all that takes place between Deborah and Baric Greet Andronicus and Junior, or another variation of that is Junius. Let me stop right here. And there are these arguments that are going to be out there from people, especially in the church, who really see the value of a woman pastor I was talking to John MacArthur a few minutes ago. And let me say this too. 28 make equal all gender-specific roles in marriage and in the church? They're not socially determined. Because it was. Yeah. Be the leader that you need to be. Um I'm almost positive that when Paul left and Apollos uh stepped in, this is one of those couples that you want to have in the church all the time. But this is the totality of God's revelation to us, and he is not giving us anything more than what we have here. Okay, she's a prophetess, she was a judge. I'm I'm kind of hoping that you know your Bible well enough in the geography that you can kind of picture this in my your mind where she is Barak was the one who was supposed to go and do this, and he was supposed to honor the Lord and really truly be the judge of Israel. You're a leader in some way in your life and uh as a man embrace that. And uh and yet he needed to be reminded that God is with you. Now do you know who Phoebe is? So, that being the case, that helps us tremendously to answer this question about whether or not Yeah, on a Sunday morning we would, but do we prohibit you guys from speaking a word from Bad woman. Um, and then have Priscilla and Aquila. Now just by way of observation in the text, just based off of John's ministry These were separate spiritual gifts, and I have the verses listed there for you And this is what she is telling Barak, this is what God has reminded me of what He's called you to do. She was courageous. As far as the gospel and Christ, she is a leader in that house. We thank you in Christ's name. Um let's go to objection number three. That's what I thought when I read that song, like yes, you know, they're like, Yay, like Jay L, she's great. He was supposed to be the military leader for Israel. Today we're gonna we're going to enter back into one of those sections, well actually it's lesson eight and nine If you notice the highlighted portions, Paul says, who is a servant Look at what Paul is saying. Actually no. But again, God has given us areas of ministry and life where we exercise our headship and our leadership. We're all one in Christ. God spoke directly through Deborah, a prophetess. There was the first generation that came out of Egypt that saw all the miracles. She would be the one that would basically be following Christ Um and that's where we need to encourage him that beyond the gospel And we just pray that today, as we move our way into the service, that you would Don't don't you remember what God told you? Go and march to Mount Tabor. Deborah's call to judge Israel was due to Barak's failure uh to show courage and military leadership in Israel. Alright, so uh let me ask you guys, um any questions? Does she say, yes, I'll stay home, and miss out on the opportunity to obey the command of going to church? So whether it's omicon. We believe in verbal inspiration. Well, actually, let's go to objections in general of male headship. And so the question is, is Paul then erasing all of these? And yet, if that prophecy was off, it was disregarded. The context here has to do with how we are justified and sanctified in Christ and not She can be a positive precedent for female leadership in the fact that she obeyed the Lord. We should obey in fear and trepidation. So um your wife shared um place of falling today It's just that when it came to the teaching ministry that they did as a couple, they did it always outside the local assembly. Women prophesied in the church. You're growing in Christ. We can know the way of the Lord. Do not rush through it. Now Deborah, a prophetess, okay, we know that she's a prophetess. Who is going to give you the victory and who needs to really go with you? And so that's the precedent that we want to have. I mean what what kind of things stand out to you in terms of these objections and then these responses? It doesn't mean that he demands and has to dictate certain things that have to happen. I didn't know that I was a helper in that way. Any questions or comments? Okay, wait a minute. Each judge, if you trace them through, um, you have where all of a sudden the judge comes and does what he does, or she, in this count. The same thing that we see in families. Well, you go from the baptism of John to the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ And we know that because Paul was instrumental in their life. Again, there were charlatans that tried to play at being spiritual leaders in the church, and and we know that they would infiltrate the church Verbal is all the way down to the prepositions. We are equal in Christ, but we are different. A church actually just kind of was planted, and usually in somebody's home. Well, again, it's a very weak argument All ethnic, social, and gender distinctions are made equal in Christ Now I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is a servant of the church. Teaching involved explaining, interpreting, and applying what God had revealed, which was consistent with written revelation So she said, Okay, I will surely go with you. You get the context of the passage. In the context of the book of Judges, it was at a very low point. That's some movie like that. And we only have this week and next week left Again, thinking nothing of yourself, but rather putting others first. I I wish we could do a study on uh kinsmen, fellow prisoners, apostles. And again, that was a miraculous gift of new revelation being given to the church It's the same word from which we get deacon. We want to center on Andronicus and Junior She's just he's like, well if you come with me, I feel like she's submitting I don't know, to me. Pray for Gabe as he is preaching this morning. And we're going to talk about it from the perspective of headship in the church He comes to Phoebe, wonderful, wonderful woman of God But again, Deborah's not the positive precedent for this. And so what I want to do is I want to just kind of summarize a little bit of what Alan has listed in his notes There is no new revelation And uh and that's why I love the fact that we here at Hope Bible Church very strongly affirm But you can't. I think it's one of the reasons why Peter on the day of Pentecost So given these arguments, it's just not a strong argument to then lift Priscilla up and say, oh yeah Alright, let's look at the text. And the sons of Israel came up to her for judgment. So, but this was an exception, not the rule. And if that prophecy was something that was not to the level of in of Scripture, then it was just to be So but anyway, godly, godly couple. That is clear. So I would say the rest of the book as well, but yeah. Deborah was a prophetess, the wife of Olipida, what a name. Takes you all the way back to Adam. Amen. Now again, she quite frankly could have had some leadership aspect in her service Let me tell you, salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. This is the plumb line, so to speak. So but again Father, thank you for this time together and we thank you for once again the opportunity to study this topic of biblical manhood and womanhood. We thank you that every person on the face of this planet is created in your image. They are th there's aspects that may overlap each other. And uh and let me just say this. Likewise, does he erase the distinction of you being a female But once again, there there's an issue where you have to obey God rather than man So is there a difference or is there not a difference? And uh so again, it just seems very clear that given the name the number of times their names are listed, they always appear together. Um so that there's I mean because again, sitting in a class like this He is telling us that in the context of our salvation and justification, we are all equal because of Christ. Pinned him to the ground. And so early on we start seeing who those qualified leaders are in the church. She knew not only when God spoke to her and spoke to Barak, she knew that when God spoke to her, she needed to obey. Father, thank you so much for this time today. We're going to address that this morning, because that that issue needs to be addressed. Okay, Phoebe is one of the um We want to be others-oriented. The response, Phoebe was commended for her service. Now that's debatable. Yeah. But I'm glad you're at least trying to wrestle with the text here. And so I would say that if there was a situation where Once again, this is this is the clear answer. Sixty years if you take it from AD 30 all the way to the end. Yeah. I'm I'm I myself I'm not a leader, but I'm a follower, so I should be more like a leader than a follower in that respect. They had an effective ministry as a husband and wife team in teaching and again encouraging, exhorting, etc. Deborah. I don't know if you have taken the time to get to know Prisca and Aquila, Priscilla and Aquila And again, it helps us to understand how to argue against the modern Once again, those are universal distinctions that God has given us that go all the way back to creation. Again, they are determined by God's divine order of creation. She was committed. And He's enabled me then to be able to accomplish what He has said needs to be accomplished. Um but yeah, but it's a good point. Correct. And again, if you're a woman sitting here, this is the kind of commendation that you really want to strive for And both of them suffered. That is amazing to me Because once again, the Jews saw themselves as the as the people of God and these filthy Gentiles Although Deborah was a good is a good example of faith, obedience, service, courage, she's not a precedent Sorry? Do you remember? And so, but Christ is still the focus. But men would then When the Holy Spirit took up residence in your life, you had the fullness of God dwelling in you Um but yeah. Yeah, definitely. And so there's no indication that she had a teaching or authoritative role over men in the church. Uh he told me he said perhaps a married couple More accurately. So again, it's I hope that answers your question. Um they are an amazing couple in the church Well, prophesying is not the same as teaching. We are all one in Christ, is what Paul is saying here. Do you guys remember who the woman is? But again it's like if God has said this He was speaking and teaching accurately. We can recommend a bunch. You have all the riches, the benefits of being in Christ. Didn't God command you this? The answer. Be the one that God has called you to be. Let me ask that just generally speaking. Well, let's look at some of the common uh the common questions and the common responses And it was the church leaders that were the ones that were to protect the church, protect the flock. Because number one I know I'm going through these pretty quickly. And so And this was not so much in the tabernacle in a religious sense too. If anything, it's the all the other judges being male, that probably was the precedent If so, shouldn't women serve as leaders in the church? That's that's that's not debatable. And especially if it's something that you just don't have clarity over. God gave The fullness of God is dwelling in me. Really what men need to be do what we need to do is we need to encourage men to fulfill their God-given leadership in the church And I'm submitting to that. So every man has within them She was a helper in the best sense of the term Yeah, sure. As a Bible-believing Christian, as a Christian committed to the Word of God But Lord, as we However, the difference between egalitarianism and complementarianism is what? And Paul was Now once again, uh going back and just reminding ourselves You should be able to know the Old Testament so well So we would say no Take with you ten thousand men from the sons of Naphtali and from the sons of Zebulun. Pinned him to the ground. Correct. And and here Phoebe is tremendously commended And they helped him in such a dramatic way. And so what happened was I don't know what you're going to say, so I'm just asking for clarification. Again, do you cease from be being a male when you come to faith in Christ? So that's the issue there. But in doing that, she could be the most loving, gracious, humble, submissive wife He was uh but he was good with fabric and stuff and um I wouldn't be a bit surprised if But I definitely want to commend to you what has been written so that you can read it, study it. Is it for speaking? Does that mean that she really took the lead here? Make sense Define what a positive precedent is. And so what did God do? So when we see in the early church that only qualified men were given to lead the church, that's the precedent that applies to us today. It is. In some of your translations, you may have among the apostles More accurately. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard him What this tells us very clearly is that women prayed But so we need to be encouragers to those in leadership or to our husband, to the men in leadership. How often And it's debatable because once again you can't So once again Kind of like Priscilla and Aquila. She always did it in a way that again was um So, again, if Paul commends Phoebe so highly, then But again, wonderful, wonderful testimony But good question. That that that Have you ever heard this argument? He raised her up to judge Israel, which was a tremendous Again, fear greater fear and trepidation of the Lord than fear and trepidation of what would happen if I go out there and get killed. And Paul is not condemning women for doing this For Yahweh will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. Okay. Does that make sense? Then Barak said to her, I will go if you go with me, then I will go. That would be s more similar to uh Deborah's situation. All right. Exactly. And so many have argued that Phoebe is one of those examples of a deaconess in the church. So basically no definitive conclusions can be made w can be made about Priscilla's leadership And the art well, there wasn't an article in the there was a definite article in the Greek, but not a not a indefinite article. And she used to sit under the palm tree of Deborah between Rama and Bethel But he but in the spiritual areas We thank you for your word. As we read 1 Corinthians eleven and then going on to chapter 14 And so again, remember that when people come along to you and they say, Well, I received a word from the Lord If it's not in there, remind them it's not there's not a chapter and verse, and so it's not a word from the Lord. Now, I'm giving you a sample of the text because Judges chapter 4, almost the whole chapter, deals with Deborah and Barak. Um So I'd kudos to Denver. But again, take your time because Um it's a very simple answer to I think a b a more complex And that was limited to men. And so we have to be very careful about going there with them. The second generation began to forget Thank you for Once again, you it's not clear enough. So wonderful commendation Apollos was instrumental in their life A template, yeah, that's a great word. So thanks. Go to people in the church, you know, who are You're welcome to speak it. Um, first of all, um Their own eyes. Wow, has God just erased It's just that once again God has laid down But again, this person is listed among the apostles. Thank you. Absolutely not I mean, there's so many unequally yoked relationships There is no other way We just don't see that. Yeah. So you have equality and dignity So just think of it this way that uh egalitarians So how do we respond to this issue of since Deborah was a prophetess and a judge He raised up Deborah. Yeah. It's unclear whether this person is male or female. Yeah, Rex. This is what you were called to do. But they're like but Barrett, like it was Merrick's. Is if she were to stay home, that would be the exception to the rule Well, I tell you, if if um But again, the six times that their names appear in Scripture, they always appear together. Um Yes. Good question. A leader. It's not them taking leadership, it's them willing to obey God. I always read that and I was like, that's a great one. Let's watch a movie, let's hang out. And He's still, again So this is uh lesson nine. And to be a judge was really a Yeah. So it's not a good argument. And so we need to say that's not biblical. I mean that's a that's a huge thing and maybe he just didn't have the And uh what's amazing, they were they were um It was judged. If you're a believer sitting here this morning, the fullness of God is dwelling in you. Who am I? It was the worst of times for the nation of Israel. It's a little bit longer of an explanation than probably what you thought Is it for teaching? We'll get to Priscilla and Aquila here in a minute, but yeah Um yeah. Again, there's neither Jew nor Greek, there's neither slave nor free. Verse 26, and he began to speak out boldly in the synagogue. If you study prophesying God. We thank you for the clarity of it. We never see it um violating the prohibition that God gave and that Paul gave in Scripture. The elders are the ones who give oversight to the small groups for sure A leader. So again, he's your courage. And that is not just a New Testament teaching, that is an Old Testament teaching. In fact, you're encouraged to do that. I say to that, wow And I'm sure Real quick Any other comments or questions? It just doesn't. Israel had essentially rejected God It just h it means he takes the leadership So that's number three. You have everything you need for life and godliness in Christ All like That she's the one who ultimately taught Apollos and Aquila just kind of just It's not clear So in a sense, they're a bad precedent It seems like she's submitting to him. But in the meantime And uh And uh And that's really how we need to see it here Doesn't Deborah provide a positive precedent Take it in your home And I think that seems like a similar precedent where these women are saying We can look at these individuals as role models. She is the one In fact, it was actually labeled as false teaching. For being a help. But then what did Paul tell the churches to do? He hasn't. Then she sent and she summoned who? Therefore God rebuked uh Barak's cowardice through jet through Deborah. Alright She's commended for her service. That's just a blessing. Define what a positive precedence precedent is. I don't want you to go to church today Well, let's look at what Paul says So again, these women did this And we can't allow that to happen. Yikes And you can't Why not We've had those discussions and uh It's not a strong argument Does it apply to small groups? She may have had the gift of prophecy And if it takes my life That was back when Paul was ministering Deborah might be saying to him. Okay? And so we can't we can't just take And that those leaders then become the precedent. We just pray that It's it's a judgment on the man And they did that by judging the prophecy. And here's why. We thank you in Christ's name. And so this distinguished her. And they could see in the pictures Yeah. She's going It's really a grace of God. But here's a response I would say that uh We just pray, Lord, that in every aspect of our life And no doubt in my mind That's not right. So she very well could have But again, this And then realize I It was So that's why you want to present the gospel. Number four Does it apply to youth outing? I Amen. But