Okay, so here we are in part three. Uh today we're going to learn a few things. We're going to learn exactly what God created. So uh of course we don't know everything. We know what God wanted us to know about how he created and what he created. So uh we'll talk about day one, God creating time, space, matter, and light or energy. Day two, God separating waters and creating the atmosphere. Day three, God separating dry land from the seas and making plants and trees. Day four, God making the sun, moon, and stars. Day five, God making sea creatures and flying creatures. Day six, God creating land, animals, and people. And so uh today we're going to talk about each what happened in each of these days, uh, but we won't really talk much about the creation of people, men and men and women. We'll that's reserved for next week. So we'll really get into uh the creation of men and women next week. We're going to touch on it at the very end today when we talk about day six, but we're really going to talk about uh the pinnacle of God's creation, the creation of men and women next week But first we'll have a little review. So last week we talked about the fact, well, uh maybe we should just preach the gospel. Why do we care about the cre this creation thing And so the gospel is very plain and very clear. 1 Corinthians 15 is probably the clearest where Paul comes right out and says, This is the gospel I preach to you, and then lists off what it is. And essentially it's Christ died for our sins, he was buried, and he was raised on the third day. And Paul says that's in accordance with the scriptures, and he also says that there's eyewitnesses, that he that cr the risen Christ appeared. to his disciples. He appeared to five hundred people at once. He appeared to Paul. Uh last of all, he says And so the gospel is an account. Gospel is a message. It's uh you ongelian, you is good, ongelian is message, good message, and so it's a message about events that happened, real events that happened in space-time history. Christ died, he was buried, and he rose again. Those are things that happened in history, attested by eyewitnesses. That's the gospel. Very simple And if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. But what happens when you present that to an unbeliever and he says, Well, who's this God you're talking about? Where do you find that out? Well you you we find that out who he is as the creator, for example, in Genesis 1, what we're going to do today. And what is this sin you talk about? What is that, and where did that come from? Well, we talk about that, of course, in Genesis chapter 3. And so the gospel is very simple. But the follow-up questions you may get when you present the gospel uh require some knowledge, especially of Genesis one to eleven to figure out who this God is and what why what is the problem? Why do I why do I need to be saved? Uh and so that's why it's so important, I think, to have a firm foundation in Genesis one to eleven. So Uh the the idea behind this class is that Genesis 1 to 11 provides these the foundation for biblical worldview. And so worldviews ask these kind of fundamental questions, who am I, where do I come from, and who's in charge? And so today, when we go through the details of Genesis 1, we're going to find out emphatically who is in charge. Uh who's got who's the sovereign, who is the rule maker, and why? Why does he get to make the rules? And so when we do today's class and when we do next week's class, we're gonna find out who is in charge here and why he has the authority to make the rules. So we also mentioned last time that uh in the beginning, the very first word of the Bible in in the context that it's in uh uh announces the the first words of the Bible in the beginning as an absolute beginning. And so the beginning of time, so there's nothing before that. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. Before that there was nothing. And we get the the doctrine of the creation ex Nilo from there. But it's a it's an absolute beginning of time. Um is what the Bible is teaching there. So it's cre therefore it is teaching creation ex nihilo, creation out of nothing. So first there was nothing and then God spoke and then there was something And so he didn't need pre-existing stuff. He didn't need to already have matter and energy around, for example. He spoke and brought those things into existence as well, and we'll talk about that today. The word created, the word translated created in English there is barah. That's a Hebrew term that's uh it means created, and the subject of that verb bara is only God. Only God can barah create something out of nothing. And there's a bunch of other passages in the scripture that talk about creation exhilo as well, both in the Old Testament and the New Testament. Uh the Trinity of course is present. Uh it it may not it probably was not clear to uh the first readers of this account. But the Trinity is present. You have God. Um the uh Elohim is the Hebrew word that's the w the word for Creator God, Almighty Creator of the Universe, that's Elohim, as opposed to Yahweh, which is the uh covenant name of God. Uh but this is Elohim here. And then also, of course, we see the Spirit of God present. And in the New Testament, we're taught very clearly in several passages, Colossians 1 and John chapter 1, that Jesus was there at the beginning and that all things were created by him and through him. So the Trinity is there from the very beginning. We also talked about the fact that there are no gaps. There have been many uh attempts uh especially over the last couple hundred years to try to force uh millions of years into the account, the creation account Uh one of those is the gap theory to try to put uh a lot of time between one one and one two. We we talked about why that's not uh that doesn't fit the Hebrew um grammar for those couple of verses. Uh one two is a vav disjunctive, which means it um it uses this Hebrew letter vav that's attached to a noun. When it's attached to a noun, it's a disjunctive, which means that the ti there's no time stamp there, it's just telling you how things were in verse one to one. The earth was formless and void. In verse 1-1, there's not a progression of time there in the Hebrew structure, the Hebrew grammatical structure And then of course you have Genesis 2011. Genesis 2011 is the account of the Ten Commandments. Exodus 2011 is God wrote with his own finger on the tablets of stone the words of the Ten Commandments, including, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. And so God clearly says that he made the heavens and the earth, which is in Genesis 1 1, and then all that is in them, which is the rest of the creation account. And God with his own finger says that all that happened in the space of six days. And so there's no ambiguity. uh about the fact that this was six days and not big long eons of time. Uh we talked about the the Hebrew word Yom which is the the English word day and the fact that it can mean different things It can mean a 24-hour period of time. It can mean just the daylight portion of a day. It can mean an indefinite time in the past or in the future. And it's the same way with the English word day. English word day, Hebrew word yom, uh very much equivalent. And the the the problem comes when If you put the English word day or the Hebrew word yom into a particular sentence, it actually fixes the meaning to one of those. And I put this English sentence up the last time to show that. So we have the word day in three different places in this sentence. In my grandfather's day, it took twenty-one days to cross the country traveling only during the day. And the there is no ambiguity. You can't pick and choose which meeting of day you have for each of these The context fixes one particular meaning for each one, each occurrence. It's exactly the same in with the Hebrew word Yom. And so we can look throughout the Bible in places where it's uh totally unambiguous Uh and all the other places where we have day with a number attached to it or a day with evening and morning attached to it, it always means an ordinary twenty-four hour day. And so that's We can tell from the Hebrew structure then that it's definitely ordinary 24-hour day in the context, the grammatical context of Genesis chapter 1. And so I showed the the places where this occurs at the end of each day, Genesis 1. 5, 1. 8, 113, 119, that uh it it has this structure, evening and morning, and then day with a number The first occurrence in w in the in uh Genesis 1. 5 it's one day, uh. And then after that it's second day, third day, fourth day. Fifth day, and then there's a little bit of difference with the sixth day and the seventh day. There's an article there, the sixth day, the seventh day, to show us that that is something special. Something special happened on the sixth day and the seventh day And of course we'll talk about that uh mostly next week, uh what the special things were that happened on day six and day seven. Uh we talked about the theological disaster that ensues. If you try to put a whole bunch of time uh into the Genesis creation account, uh what you get inevitably is death before sin because the fossil record has lots of death in it and also has disease and um you know evidences of cancer in dinosaur bones and things like that. And if you put lots of time such that the fossil record comes before Adam sins then you get death before sin, and that's um that's a theological disaster. We talked about the fact that death is the last enemy. We have accounts in the New Testament about that. The last enemy that will be abolished is death And what if you put millions of years in Genesis, what you're saying is God calls this last enemy good, very good, at the end of his creation account And that doesn't make sense. That's a a theological disaster. And in Romans 8, we see that the death and the disaster of the fall uh is talking about the entire creation. Not just the death of men, it's talking about the entire creation groaning. And so it's not just the death of men that uh is the result of the curse of sin. It's the whole cursed creation. Um okay. So that was what we talked about last time. And so this time That was uh so the the the three-part kind of sub-series that we're doing here and just the creation. We talked about the structure of the creation account, and so today we're going to get into the specifics of each day's creation events So what happened on each one of these days? And then next time we're going to zero in on the pinnacle of creation in day six, God creating men and women in his image. We're going to talk about how people are different from the rest of creation, and we're going to talk about the significance of the seventh day. All that'll be next week. So as we approach this account of God's creation. We need to keep in mind the the wonder that we have here. Um and so one of the one of the I have many, many commentaries on Genesis says as I mentioned at the beginning, this is something that has been a passion of mine for four decades. So for forty years I've been studying uh this Genesis, especially the creation, um and creation versus evolution, those sort of things. And so I've accumulated many books over the years and one of the ones that I really like is a commentary on Genesis by John Calvin that he wrote in fifteen fifty-four. And at the beginning of this commentary, Calvin said this: Since the infinite wisdom of God is displayed in the admirable structures of heaven and earth. It is absolutely impossible to unfold the history of the creation of the world in terms equal to its dignity. For while the measure of our capacity is too contracted to comprehend such uh comprehend things of such magnitude, our tongue is equally incapable of giving a full and substantial account of them So the creation is too wonderful, too awesome for us to even be able to describe as we study it. We see indeed the world with our eyes, we tread the earth with our feet, we touch innumerable kinds of God's works with our hands. We inhale a sweet and pleasant fragrance from herbs and flowers. We enjoy boundless benefits, but in those very things of which we attain some knowledge There dwells such an immensity of divine power, goodness and wisdom, as absorbs all our senses And so this is John Calvin saying, hey, I'm writing this commentary on Genesis, but there's just no way I can do it justice. And so that's how I feel trying to get up here and explain this awesome creation, how wonderful our God is, um there's just no way to explain it. And so Uh there's just so much joy in you know, I'm sure all of you have experienced it where you've gone on a vacation and you've seen just the wonderful splendor of God's creation, whether it's a mountain or a or or a forest or a beach or something or the ocean, the sunset of the ocean. There's just so many things. Um, you know, the beauty of flowers or butterflies. There's so much there, so much wonder there. that we can't take it all in. It overwhelms our senses. And it it should, and it I think it does, cause us to fall on our knees and worship this God that did all that So that's what we're facing today. So I hope that you can get just a little taste or glimpse of the wonder, the glory of this creation. uh that we're we're reading here. That it's just sometimes we just it's just dry words off a page, but I don't want it to be that. Please don't let it just be that dry words off a page So we're going to go through these days of creation and in general, God created Earth, space, time, and light on the first day and then made an atmosphere on the second day. Try land and plants on the third day, sun, moon, and stars on the fourth day, sea creatures and flying creatures on the fifth day, land animals and man on the sixth day. And so I'll talk about this here at the beginning and then I'll kind of leave it alone for the rest of this class, that the the sequence of events that God describes in Genesis chapter 1. do not match in any way the story, the secular s origin story that starts with a Big Bang. They're totally out of sync, out of whack. And you can't make 'em fit together either. Um the the Big Bang in the the the current theory 13. 8 billion, fourteen billion years ago. Um and then the beginning of star formation. But star formation in the Big Bang it it takes Billions of years to make uh population three stars, population two stars, population one stars. And the Earth comes billions and billions of years after that And so God says in his word that he created the heavens and the earth first and the sun on day four. So the sun doesn't come until after the earth is made. In the Big Bang, you can't have any planets until after you've had population three stars, population two stars, population one stars, and then you can start having planets. The sequence is totally incompatible with with the Word of God. So the this secular origin story, it can't be synchronized with Scripture. It just can't be. I tell you that as a scientist, a physicist that studied the Big Bang and knows the physics that they teach for the Big Bang, it won't work with God's account in Genesis. Uh and so it's futile to try to do that. It's a it's a waste of time. And it steals God of his glory, I think, as well. Alright, so we'll leave that aside. So let's look at God's Word and what He said and how He actually created. And so I think it would be useful to have your Bible open to Genesis chapter 1. We're going to go all the way through the creation events as God recorded had Moses record them. And so remember, this creation happened long before Moses wrote down the creation account. But under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he wrote down the creation account exactly as God wanted us to be able to read it. And so, the first day, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was formless and void. And darkness was over the surface of the deep. And the Spirit of God was moving over the surface of the waters. Then God said, Let there be light. And there was light. God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening, and there was morning, one day. And so here God defines what a day is. There was evening, there was morning, one day. After this, it'll be A second day and a third day and a fourth day, but one day he says here in Genesis 1. 5 to show that this is the definition of a day, an evening and a morning. So uh let's take a look at what has been created here. So I put little parentheses here. In the beginning, that's time. We talked about the fact that the Hebrew construction here Indicates an absolute beginning. So before that there was nothing. And so that's the beginning of time. God created the heavens, that's space, and the earth, that's matter And he also created light, that's energy. So light and energy, if you study physics, Light is an electromagnetic wave, and electromagnetic waves are what carry energy. So There are other forms of energy, but light is one form of energy. And so we see here from the very first day God's created time, space, matter, and energy. Which means before that, so this was in the beginning what happened, so that means before that, there was no time, space, matter, or energy. Because God had just created them. That also means that God is outside of time, space, matter, and energy. There are a lot of implications of that. That makes God different. from us. We are not outside time, space, matter, and energy. We are trapped in time, for example, in only the present. God as someone who is outside of time is not trapped in the present. That's something that our minds are unc uncap incapable of understanding, what it's like to not be trapped in time. Or space, or matter, or energy. But that's God. He's in the beginning, he created all these things, and somebody that creates something is obviously outside of that something. He's not made of that something that he has himself created So he's outside of those things, time, space, matter, and energy. So on day one, we see that time is been created, and that may surprise. Uh to think about that. And it's it bends the mind to try to think about that, that God created time. Before then time didn't exist. Only God existed. Um he is eternal. So before the beginning there was no time. There was also no space. He had to create space. Uh so there would be somewhere for him to put all the rest of the stuff he was going to create. So he made time and he made space. Uh now in physics Thousands and thousands of years after physicists are starting to catch up to what God created in the beginning. And we have learned recently that space and time are somehow interrelated. Um there's uh and and in in order to be able to understand all of God's creation We need to be able to think of space and time as interrel related with a mathematical model that combines the three dimensions of space and one dimension of time into a single four-dimensional manifold that allows us to explain things that happen at very f high speeds. So the Einstein's theory of relativity In order to be able to understand what's happening, to be able to, and we can make observations that these things are happening, the only way for us to describe those things is to think of space and time as interrelated, as space-time. um when things are traveling close to the un uh to the speed of light. And also to understand quantum mechanics. So I'm not going to give a lecture on quantum mechanics today. You'll be You'll be glad to know. Uh I could I could give a lecture on and I have given lectures on quantum mechanics, but in order to be able to understand quantum mechanics, you also need to understand the the concept of space-time uh things like quantum entanglement and the and the collapse of wave functions and quantum entanglement. You need to have space-time uh an understanding of space-time to be able to even have a background to uh to discuss such things But God created all that in the first day, time and space, and we're just figuring out there's much more to discover of what God has done when he created time and space. He also created matter. He created the earth, the stuff that makes up the earth, lots of water, all this material he made from nothing. Uh so he made matter appear out of nothing. And he's not obviously made of matter. And he did it by the power of his word. That was all that's needed, the power of his word. And we learn in John chapter 1, 1 through 3, that the Word, in the beginning, the Word was with God, and the Word was God And all things were created through the power of his word, and that word we find in in John 1 14 uh became flesh and dwelt among us. So this is the the one of the other one of the many passages in the New Testament that tells us that The creation was involved the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And that the God the Son was the Word, and the power of the Word was what made everything. And then he made light. So he made time, space, and matter, and then he also made light, uh one of the forms of energy, the primary forms of energy. So everything was dark and then he made light. Um he did this of course by the power of his word once again. He said, Let there be light and there was light. Um and so his word was all that was needed. And so we find that once again that there is a relationship between matter and energy that for thousands of years people had no idea but Just after thousands of years of God's creation being in existence, God making things, God upholding things by his power Uh the most brilliant human scientists are are blindly groping and trying to figure out what God did on that first day. And one of the things he did in making matter and energy, those things, it turns out, are related to one another. So one of the striking results of Einstein's theory of relativity is that mass and energy are convertible one into another. Um we used to have the law of conservation of energy, and we still do, but uh now it's the law of conservation of mass energy. Because mass can be converted into energy in accordance with the famous equation E equals M C squared, E is energy, M is mass, C is the speed of light squared, and so you can make energy out of mass, out of matter. Um and of course the uh Einstein First uh started working on this in the early nineteen hundreds and then uh of course in the nineteen forties we had the invention of the atomic bomb, which used this equation to make A little bit of matter into an awful lot of energy. Uh but matter and energy are related to one another. So on day one he creates time, space, matter, and energy, and of course Uh space and time we know are related to one another. Matter and energy are related to one another. And in Einstein's general theory of relativity later on we found that space, time, matter, and energy are all related to one another. uh with uh the effects of gravitational time dilation for example. Um and we can observe the we We can make physical observations that this is true. The time, space, matter, and energy are all related to one another. And so, of course, the almighty creator of the universe knew all this. He did this on purpose. He made time, space, matter, and energy on the first day. They are related to one another. God made them related to one another. And man is coming along centuries later and um And really i uh in a lot of cases I see this as a physicist, people really puff out their chest about how smart they are and how You know, look at us, how wonderful we are. We've figured this out. Well yeah, it took us six thousand years and we still don't understand, you know, vast parts of this, how how this works. Um But yeah, we're really smart. Compared to the God who made all this, we're not very smart. Uh but he's wonderful. It's wonderful that he did this, and it's wonderful to actually Study and figure out, try to figure out what did God do. How did he what did he what has he done here with this time space matter and energy? And that's just day one So dates then we had a second day after that, so he makes time, space, matter, and energy. And then God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters. And let it separate the waters from the waters. God made the expanse and separated the waters which were below the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse. And it was so. God called the expanse heaven, and there was evening and there was morning a second day So the first one is one day, the definition of a day, and now we've come to another evening and morning, and that's a second day. So, the second day, God continued his work of preparing the earth so that plants could grow and animals and people could live on it. So he's building up to something. He's going by steps and he's making this world uh so that plants and animals and people can inhabit it. So he's got to do some things to it first. So the Bible says on this day, the second day, he made an expanse around the earth, and it separated waters under the expanse from waters above, and he called the expanse heaven, which we might call sky. So this is the atmosphere and the space beyond. And so uh I meant to say at the beginning, if you have questions, please stop. If you want to ask about quantum mechanics, that's okay. But if you want to ask any other questions, please stop in the middle. So if you don't have any questions, I want to talk a little bit about this expanse and what it was. um and what uh what what we might call it sky. And so we're gonna find so here I'm talking about it being the atmosphere and then later on we're gonna say we're gonna see in day four that he puts the uh the sun, moon, and stars in the expanse. So in the sky. And it's going to say that the birds are flying in the expanse. In the sky. So what's up with that? How can it be two things? How can it be the uh atmosphere and space? So uh just Think for a moment, you're at your house, you're out in your yard, and you look up, and there's an airplane flying overhead. And you say to yourself, I see an airplane in the sky. And then later on, you're also out, and it's night, and you look up and you say, I see stars in the sky. So what does that English word sky mean then? You saw an airplane in the sky, you see the stars in the sky. What does it mean? Is it the atmosphere? Is it the whole outer spam, because the airplane's in the atmosphere, the stars are billions of light years away in outer space, but you say And it it's common usage and it makes sense that you see the airplane in the sky and you see the stars in the sky. Um this word expanse in Hebrew is the same thing. You look up and you see something in the expanse. You see something in the sky. And so the Bible describes the the birds being in the expanse and it describes the sun, moon, and stars in the expanse. Same thing. It's roughly equivalent to our word sky when we look up in the sky and see something like that. Okay. So this second day we got the atmosphere. Of course we can't see the atmosphere, but it is critically important. It's good that God made an atmosphere that contains the air we breathe, the birds fly uh in the atmosphere. uh in order to fly they need the atmosphere to have exactly the properties it has, to have lift with their wings. So the air is made up of primarily nitrogen, uh which is an inert gas, uh which is good that it's an inert gas. And uh and then some oxygen too, about twenty-one percent oxygen, so seventy-eight percent nitrogen, twenty-one percent oxygen. And the other one percent is made up of trace other gases, including uh something you may hear a lot about, carbon dioxide. Uh it's too small for you to see. Carbon dioxide is Point zero three eight percent of the atmosphere. So thirty-eight thousandths of a percent. Uh so less than one tenth, uh less than half of a tenth of a percent of the atmosphere is carbon dioxide. And these are just the right amounts. So God made things exactly the way they needed to be. for life. Yeah, go ahead. So uh when was this sort of definition of the breakout of Atmosphere established. For the purposes of the baseline of oh no we're putting too much CO two in the atmosphere or whatever. Yeah, so yeah, so uh good point. So the of obviously these um uh this is a modern measurement and it's possible that there were s very slight differences in these in the past. But not much, because you can't change them very much without disaster ensuing. So if you get too much just a little bit more oxygen, not not a little bit, but if you had say ten percent more oxygen then if you sparked a flame, the entire atmosphere would catch on fire. Uh and that's not good. Uh so you can't have too much oxygen or you know, ev every time s the first time somebody lit a fire you you you would have had a conflagration that burned the whole planet. You can't have too much more CO2 than this, or some of the other ones because they become poisonous at too high a concentration. CO2 at a high concentration. If there's too much nitrogen, not enough oxygen, we'd suffocate, we wouldn't be able to breathe. Carbon dioxide is essential for plants. Plants have to take in carbon dioxide, so there has to be carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. But if it was in large concentrations, of course, it would be deadly to us. And so this tiny amount of carbon dioxide is just right for the plants. It's plenty for them. They're very efficient at using plants and it's harmless to us. Um and so God made this atmosphere, the way He designed it, created it, um so that we would have enough oxygen for us, enough carbon dioxide for the plants. And And then the rest of the atmosphere made of what we call inert gases that don't react with other things. So that we we would be able to live, the plants would be able to live, the animals would be able to live. Um he he designed things on purpose in a perfect way. And so you see at the end, God makes this atmosphere on day two, and then he says it's good. And so and this is a almighty perfect, all good God saying, hey, that's good. And so we know it really is good. It's not good like we would say something's good. It's good like God would say something's good. Alright, any any other questions about atmosphere? Okay. Then there's a third day. And so then God said, let the waters below the heavens be gathered into one place. And let the dry land appear. And it was so. God called the dry land earth, and the gathering of the waters he called seas, and God saw that it was good. Then God said, Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees on the earth bearing fruit after their kind, with seed in them. And it was so. The earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed after their kind, and trees bearing fruit with seed in them after their kind. And God saw that it was good. There was evening and there was morning a third day. So God is progressing along with his creation. He's continuing his work of making the earth the perfect place to inhabit for animals and people. And so the next step, so he's made an atmosphere, and now he makes plants. So at that stage the whole earth's completely covered with water before we get h before he does this. And so if we had been there to see it, you would have seen nothing but a giant ocean, a planet with no land, just ocean coming into day three. And so there's a lot of water on the earth. And so uh did you know that if you leveled the earth's surface, so if you made the earth a perfect sphere, if you brought up the uh the ocean basins And you brought down the mountains such that it was a smooth sphere, that you would have an ocean covering the entire planet that would be two miles deep. So there's enough water to cover the entire planet two miles deep if it was a just a perfect sphere. So bring down the mountains, bring up the ocean bains, perfect sphere. You get an ocean covering the entire planet two miles deep So that's how much water we have. And so probably that's about what the earth looked like. And then God made um uh made ocean basins sink and made mountains rise such that we had land and seas like we do today. But uh but if you made it uh a sphere it would be uh uh a ocean around the entire earth two miles deep. Okay, so and where is all that water? And so Uh today, uh about 90% of the water is in the oceans, it's salt water. So only about 3% is freshwater. And if you expand the three percent, so the bottom line there is expanding out that three percent that is the uh the freshwater About 69% of the freshwater is in ice and glaciers. About 30% of it is in groundwater. And about 1% of it is in surface water. So that's one percent of the three percent. A very tiny fraction of the water is actually on the surface. So how does that work? How come we don't run out of water? Oh, the other graph here is uh uh the Mount Everest is the tallest mountain on earth. Uh the Marianas Trench is the deepest uh trench in the ocean and if you put Mount Everest into that trench there would still be six thousand five hundred feet of water above the summit of Mount Everest So the ocean is much deeper than the mountains are high. Uh it's uniformly that's why that's why if you made it a spirit you would still have oceans they were two miles deep all around. Uh one, the earth is seventy percent covered by water, and two, the oceans are really deep. Uh compared to this to the size of the mountains, we have much deeper trenches, much deeper areas of the ocean than we have el elevation of mountains on land. Um so um the dry land appears. As I said, about seventy percent still water uh today. About thirty percent is dry land, but the dry land appears, God commands the dry land appear, the power of his word once again. And of course then we get out of the oceans come up land Driven by God's word, the power of God's word, the ocean floor rises out of the water and forms the dry land that we see around us today. So um we'll talk later, much later in the class about the fact that this world that was was destroyed by the flood. And so the the actual topography what the continents look like or what anything looks like is not the same today as it was then. So this what this world that God made What it looked like, we can't know. We can't know what the land masses looked like or um anything like that Um we get we have a description, this description, we have uh a description, we have some descriptions in Genesis 1 through 6, uh but The world that we see today is the post-flood world. And so he made he made a world first uh that we can't see today. So he he makes this so the earth the ocean floors sink, the mountains rise, and we get uh these the we get some land masses and oceans. They're separate now. And all blood by the power of his word. Um and so the God does the Bible doesn't tell us how many continents there were at first. We know how many continents there are today, but as I mentioned, that whole world was destroyed by a global flood. It went back to the water covering everything. And we'll talk about that. Uh that the water covered everything um in the flood when we get to Genesis seven and eight. Um but we don't know There could have been one continent. Uh the s the secular geologists say that there was once one continent. Um their underlying assumptions are of course all wrong about the Earth and how it got here Uh but there are some geological evidences that there may have been one continent. That God when God said he gathered the seas in one place and the lands in one place, it's possible that that means there was one Cotton. Uh but not necessary. Not necessary, I don't think. It could be. Um and and some have speculated as much that Um there's evidence for plate tectonics that there uh there's motion of the um the kind of the giant uh plates of earth, of crust. And if they move, then we can measure their movement, and it's very small. But there is speculation that in the past there could have been motion of those plates at a much higher rate And there's a certain theory called catastrophic. Plate tectonics has said that as part of the flood, flood and the immediate post-flood, that those plates move very quickly. And so it could be that it was there was an earth split, some sort of earth split then. But we do know for sure that there was a split at the Tower of Babel, uh that there was a split in the world in terms of languages, that God separated the the earth the people on the earth and languages and so that's the other reading of the earth being divided in the days of Pelig was that that happened The Tower of Babel happened in in his generation. But we don't know. Um we don't know for sure. We'll we'll talk about that a little bit more when we get to Genesis uh ten and eleven. So Genesis ten and eleven is talking about the separation of the earth into uh languages and people groups. Um but there is also um there's research done by uh by good scientists that that think that there was a separation a physical separation at that that time as well. Uh at the time of the flood I'm talking about The modern law of conservation of mass energy says that we can't create or destroy mass energy. Right. So the the amount of mass energy that we have in the universe is fixed, in other words. Now the creation of course, there was no mass energy, and then God created all the mass energy. Right. You're right. The rest of us are, but God is not. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, it's a good question. So um when when is the the the conservation of mass energy fixed. Is it at day after day one? Is it after day six? So uh we'll see in day four that God creates you know stars Uh huh. And so before day four there were no stars and then day four God says stars and there's stars. Um so That doesn't sound like the conservation of mass energy to me on day four, but God makes you know stars come into existence out of nothing. Now there are there are other um PhD scientists who are devout Christians who believe God's word who who believe that the stars were made out of the water that God made on day one. Th th I mean there's a I it it's it's too long and complex for me to go through the whole thing, but there's a a theory that When God separated the waters from the waters, and and it says that there is a w there was a waters above the expanse. So water is above the atmosphere after day two. Well where did that water go and what happened to it? And There's a guy named Dr. Russ Humphreys that has a theory that says, well, God made the stars out of that water, that that he used that water to make everything else. Um maybe maybe he did. Um Maybe you did. So it's possible to read this creation story and for God to have formed other stuff out of uh out of everything that he made on day one, then he made everything else out of the stuff that he had already made. The heavens and the earth, in other words, he made on day one And then the rest of his creative work was to form what he had made into what we see today. That's certainly well within, I think, an Orthodox reading of the scriptures here. But the the point the Bible makes is all of that is done by the power of his word Um and a at the very beginning, in the beginning, he made all the stuff out of nothing, time, space, matter, and energy. Now Um there he certainly did then after that make things out of existing stuff. He he he separated waters that were already there from land that was already there, for instance Um so that's a I think is a valid uh reading. And so then you could still have the the conservation of mass energy happening after Day one. But remember, God is outside time, space, matter, and energy. And he's all powerful over time, space, matter, and energy. And he can, as he did on day one, create times we can create matter and energy out of nothing. He's demonstrated that he can he can do that. Okay, so plants appear. God spoke again and commanded the land to produce all kinds of plants Um so if you had been there you would have seen green grass and palm trees and other vegetation spring up out of the ground. Um you would see colors of flowers blooming, daisies, daffodils, roses, orchids, everything uh many, many more. And so uh did you ever wonder why is it that God created so many thousands and thousands of different kinds of flowers? I mean why didn't he just create two or three? I mean he could have created two or three kinds of uh flowers and put them all around the world and and be done with it. Why did he go through why did he go why did he bother with making thousands and thousands and thousands of different varieties of flowers? Why did he do that? Glory. Because it it's his it's part of his glory that he's um he is uh part of his glory, part of his character is his creative nature. And to the whole creation is for the glory of God. He made the creation and for a purpose to um to to make a a planet, a a world that's inhabitable by man. That was a a a purpose, a a primary purpose of the creation. However, the underlying purpose, why did he create man? Is to for his glory. The purpose of all of it is for his glory. And so the fact that he made thousands and thousands of different kinds of flowers is to show his glory, show forth his glory. Um and so he made many thousands of kinds of flowers, not just two or three kinds of flowers, to show his glory and creation. bushes and trees of all sizes, uh plants with their seed, so they repro reproduce themselves. And so this is the beginning of things that are created that uh reproduce after their kind. And we'll see this as a theme when we get to animals and we get to people. Everything reproduces after its kind And so grapevines don't produce mango trees and peanuts don't change into coconuts. Um everything reproduces after its kind. And of course God was pleased with what he saw and declared it to be good. And so um give getting back to that, only one percent of the water on the earth is actually fresh water on the surface So how come we don't run out of water? Right? There's only this tiny little bit of the the water is fresh water and so there's billions of people on the planet. Well w shouldn't we just run out of fresh water? Well we don't run out of fresh water. And we can't run out of freshwater. Why can't we run out of fresh water? Well we can't run out freshwater because God created the The uh the water cycle So uh water is continually being cycled through this water cycle. It evaporates out of the oceans, it goes into the atmosphere, some of it's stored in the atmosphere, and then it it comes down as rain, as fresh water on the land. Uh some of it is stored in groundwater, which we can also access, some of the groundwater uh in terms of wells, for example, and then some of it is in freshwater streams and rivers and lakes. Uh but we can't run out of freshwater because God Create made his creation such that it keeps being recycled. And of course, people can drink uh ocean water. So I was in the Navy for twenty four years and what do you think we drank on a ship in the ocean for six months? But you can't bring you the w the water tanks store enough water for like a couple of days on a ship. But we make water out of the ocean. All you do is boil it. evaporate uh the uh you know boil boil make it into steam. Uh the the water that uh that that rises as steam when we boil it is only the fresh water. The the salt stays behind. And then you evaporate that and it's fresh water and you drink it. And in the Middle East of course they have big desalination plants and they drink water from the from the sea over there. So God has provided all the water we need. We can't run out of water. Um people that uh Go on and on about running out of water. You can't run out of water. Now, there can be situations where people have uh extreme difficulty accessing fresh water. And that's a real problem in places in Africa and Asia where the the water that is there is polluted, for example, or they don't have they live in an area that doesn't have access to to fresh water. But that's an access problem, not a the water doesn't exist problem. So God has made the the water cycle. So Uh I better hurry up because we're only on the fourth day here. Uh so God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens and separate the day from the night, and let them be for signs and seasons and for days and years. And let them be For lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth. And it was so. God made the two great lights, the greater light to govern the day and the lesser light to govern the night. He made the stars also I love that. He made the stars also. So how many stars are there? Nobody even knows. There's hundreds of billions of stars. But all that gets is he made the stars also in the in the creation account. Hundreds of billions of stars, a whole universe, you know, a vast universe. Full of stars, but in the creation account, he he made the stars also. God placed them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth. So what's the purpose? To give light on the earth, and to govern the day and the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. There was evening and there was morning, a fourth day. So on the fourth day he made the sun, moon, the planets, and all the stars, billions of them. And he just commanded, and by the power of his word, they came into existence. So how awesome is the power of God. Um that he made all this and he made it for our good and for his glory. Everything he made for our good and his glory, including all those billions of stars. The Bible says their purpose was to give light on the earth, sun to light the day, the moon to light the night, and for signs to mark seasons, days, and years as well. So the two special lights are the sun and the moon. The sun of course is a huge star at the center of our solar system. It's so big that if you were to fill the sun with something the size of the earth, you would need one million of them. So one million Earth-sized objects would fit inside the sun. That's how huge it is. It's made up of mostly hot hydrogen and helium gas. The temperature at the surface of the sun is 6,000 degrees. At the center it's 15 million degrees. And so that's an incomprehensible amount of heat, 15 million degrees. Water boils at 100 degrees Celsius, 212 degrees Fahrenheit, and the center of the sun is 15 million degrees And so the sun's energy comes from nuclear fusion at the center, hydrogen being fused into helium, the same concept that makes a hydrogen bomb. And despite that, the sun's output is almost entirely heat and light. There's very little dangerous radiation. But even the small amount of dang dangerous radiation God has um perfectly designed the Earth to block that harmful radiation. Um there's two ways he does that. One is the atmosphere, one's the Earth's magnetic field. Um and he and he made all those things just right so that it would support life on earth Um and so he put the the relationship between the sun and the earth just perfectly for life. The the earth is ninety-three million miles from the sun So the the center of the sun is fifteen million degrees, and so we better not be very close to that. We've got to be farther away. But we can't be too far. We have to be just the right distance so that the planet is just the right temperature And the the band of distance is very limited where you can have a planet that has the right temperature. Um you have to keep basically most of the planet between uh between freezing and about forty degrees C. Uh if it's if it was 5% closer to the sun, the oceans would boil, and so we wouldn't have any water, it would all evaporate. Uh if we were 5% further away from the sun, the oceans would all freeze. So we wouldn't if you get 5% closer you have no liquid water because it all boils. If you get 5% further away, you have no liquid water because it all freezes. So you have to be exactly in this one spot to be able to have liquid water on the earth. And God did that. Um He made the Earth's orbit just right. Uh our Earth's orbit is an ellipse, but it's an ellipse that's almost a circle. It's very close to a circle. If it was any more elongated, then when we got further away from the sun we would freeze and when we got closer to the sun we would boil. But he made it almost a perfect circle so that we don't do that. The Earth's rotation If it was a little bit slower, we would get unbearably hot during the day, because it would spend too much time it one one area on the earth like where we are would be facing the sun for too long and then at night you would freeze, uh, because you would be away from the sun for too long. But he made the rotation just right. So we have day and night. And also that matches the amount of sleep we need. So God thought of everything. Now, the Goldilocks zone, scientists actually call it this. No, I mean it has a different name. It's the habitable zone. Uh but you'll also hear it referred to by scientists as the Goldilocks zone, the place where it's just right. Just right, the Goldilocks zone. Not too hot, not too cold, just right. The Goldilocks zone. Um and God did that. He put the earth exactly where it needed to be so that we could live here. And he thought of everything. Uh the pull of gravity on the earth by the moon and the sun caused the tides. Uh the moon is the primary effect, but the sun also has an effect. That's why we have Neep tides and spring tides, because when the moon and the sun line up you get extra or When they're uh opposite you get less spring tides and neat tides. Uh but that tide um i is important. If we didn't have the moon, if we didn't have tides Um the tides cleanse the earth and sh earth shore. They they mix up the ocean so that the oxygen goes in there for the fish to breathe. Um w that we need that. We I mean for the fish to be able to leave, they need tides If you didn't have the moon, you didn't have tides, you wouldn't have fish. Because you wouldn't get the right uh enough oxygen dissolved in the in the ocean without it. Uh it keeps the currents moving, preventing the sea from becoming stagnant Uh also he put a gigantic planet outside of our orbit uh called Jupiter and it's so big and has such a high a strong gravity that it sucks all the comets in, or almost all the comets in. Any comet that would come close enough in our solar system to hit us is get sucked into Jupiter. And so God put that there so that we wouldn't be bombarded by comets and and and large meteors and things like that. He thought of everything. So he knew what he was doing. Uh he made everything just right. Um and the Bible says that his eternal power and divine nature can be seen from the things he has made. And that's certainly We've read the most of us have read that verse over and over again, but um but if you really think about all the things that he did in creation. A as you study more and more and you learn that, you know, the fact that Jupiter is out there, you know, saves our planet from d destruction. And God did that on purpose. So he made a gigantic planet in a j uh just the right place so that it it sucks in the dangerous comets. Everything. The fact that you put us right in the right place, the that we have the right the right kind of amount of spin, all those things, that we have a moon that's large enough to cause tides that makes it so the oceans can support fish. Uh all these things uh he did. And all those things show his eternal power and divine nature. So a fifth day God said, let the waters teem with swarms of living creatures and let birds fly above the earth in the open expanse of the heavens. God created the great sea monsters and every living creature that moves with which the waters swarmed after their kind, and every winged bird after its kind, and God saw that it was good. God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas and let birds multiply on the earth. There was evening and there was morning a fifth day. And so God has made the conditions where he can now put uh animals on the planet. He he had to have the moon because he had to have tides before he could put the uh the the sea creatures in there. But now it's ready. Now the planet's ready to take uh sea creatures and and land creatures Ready to support animal life. He had made the water, soil, air, plants, and fruits for their food, for the birds, for example. He had created the sun to give light and warmth, and now he creates the first inhabitants. the animals that live in the sea and those that fly in the air. And so he simply commands and it and it happens. So the sea creatures, so he he speaks and the sea creatures team in the ocean. Everything from tiny ones like krill to small ones like sardines, medium ones like salmon, huge ones like marlins and swordfish, and even gigantic creatures like whales and plasiosaurs. He made things like jellyfish and eels, corals and crabs, octopuses and porpoises, and all these others. So once again we see He didn't make just one or two kinds of flowers. He doesn't make just one or two kinds of sea creatures. He makes thousands and thousands and thousands of different kinds of wonderful sea creatures. And so when you go to an aquarium, you see all these different things that God made. And it's wonderful and it's a reflection of the glory of Hit of our creator and his creativity. And he's just he's he's just showing off his glory. And so to be a show off as a human being is a bad thing. But for a perfect God to be a show-off is a good thing, to show off his creativity to us. God's showing off. And he does that with the plants and he also does it with the sea creatures and that's why even if if you're a little kid you love going to the aquarium to see all those wonderful goofy fishes that God made. Um and there's just such weird stuff. Jellyfish are weird. Uh but it's wonderful that God made jellyfish. Um and He made ones that light up. You know, you go and you see those little jellyfish that light up Um, you know, it it God's just showing off there. Um so uh oh did you know that the vast majority of fish do not eat eat each other, uh but they eat underwater plant materials like seaweed algae and plankton And we'll talk about that in a in a little in a future class. And so also flying creatures, God spoke in flying creatures, birds, parrots, pigeons, poultry, flying insects, like butterflies, bees, and bugs. um bats which are mammals, all the flying creatures. Um he made those. And of course then we would have uh there would have been a sound, so a lot of the birds make sounds. And so God not only made all these thousands and thousands of different kinds of birds, but He made them with different kinds of sounds. The the bird calls, the birds sing with different tones and notes and uh and that's part of God's the wonder of God's creation as well. So he made creatures with four different kinds of wings, birds with wings of feathers, insects with wings of membranes. or thin scales, bats with wings made of skin stretched over long arms, uh pterosaurs with wings uh made of skin stretched over a long fourth finger bone. Uh flight feathers alone, the study of flight feathers is just amazing. The design features of a feather that makes it so a bird can fly. Absolutely incredible. Incredible engineering. They move apart so that air can uh when when the bird raises its wings the feathers move apart so air can flow through to reduce resistance. On the downstroke the feathers close completely together. and provide the appropriate lift. A bird can vary the shape of its wings for efficient takeoff, flapping, gliding, landing. uh all those sorts of things. And uh flight engineers today still study uh various flying creatures. Um there's a great lecture um by a British man who was he was designing a very tiny drone for the British government. And the way he was able to design the drone was by carefully studying a dragonfly. He very carefully studied the dragonfly, and he copied the way a dragonfly's wings moved. when he built the drone so that the drone he could build a little tiny drone that could fly. Um and and and nobody nobody could figure out how to make a little tiny drone fly before that. And he figured it out just by watching what God did to make a dragonfly. Amazing engineering and all that. So uh we're up to the sixth day and we only have a couple minutes left. So God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures after their kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind, and it was so. God made the beasts of the earth after their kind, and the cattle after their kind, and everything that creeps on the ground after its kind. And God saw that it was good. So the Bible says the sixth day of creation he made all the animals that live on the land. He did this by cleaning the clin uh commanding that they come forth from the land He made animals of special use to us. That's the cattle, cows, sheep, and horses. He made small animals like squirrels and spiders and rabbits and mice and frogs and lizards. Uh he made beasts like apes and elephants and many, many more. Once again, thousands of different kinds. He made, not just a few, but thousands of different kinds. And they appeared immediately at God's command. They lived peacefully together. God says that he made each animal after its kind. This means that he gave the power, the animals the power to have offspring like itself. However, one kind could not change into another kind. They always reproduced after their kind. In other words, rabbits have baby rabbits, not baby kangaroos, and the same is true for every animal. And so that was the animals. And now, so we got up to the creation of man. That happened on day six as well. And we're not going to cover that today. So um in the in in addition to the fact that I've run out of time, I also don't didn't plan to talk about man today. So uh we're gonna focus on the creation of man uh next week Everything about the creation of man we're going to talk about next week. So today we talked about all the creation, how God step by step created a world that's perfect for our use and habitation and also and primarily to show his glory. And we're going to talk about the fact when we talk next week about the creation of man. The creation of man is for God's glory. Everything is for God's glory. The the creation, the step-by-step creation is for the benefit of man. But remember that man is for the glory of God. And so all of it ultimately is always for God's glory. Okay. Any uh we have Ninety seconds for questions. Just a thought or or a statement, maybe not really a question, but it it seems kind of interesting that Of course, each day seems to be dependent on the previous day, so meaning if you stop with the birds and the the the the fish, they could survive off of each other, you know, the eagles animals eat the fish and whatnot. But of course the land animals would need fish and other stuff or eat within their own uh So what we're gonna see uh when we study uh the very end of Genesis one is that God gave plants for every animal to eat. People and animals only ate plants. So animals did not eat other animals. in God's perfect creation. And then God reiterates that in Genesis chapter nine by extending the um what what people are allowed to eat to animals. And and he reiterates that in Genesis one I said you can eat plants. And from now on, you can also eat animals. So he he he reiterates that in Genesis 1 I told you you could only eat an eat plants. Now I'm telling you you can also eat animals And so the scripture is really clear that people didn't need animals and animals didn't need animals in the perfect creation before the fall. Um so yeah, so plants were made so that animals could eat plants. Right. Yep. Okay. Any other any other questions? Right, that's exactly right. So people were were made, created to glorify God. And so when we do that, when we fulfill the purpose for which we created, then I think it causes joy. That's that's a good way of of putting it. All right. Anyone else? Let's close in prayer.