Well okay, so as I mentioned earlier, uh the priestly covenant, we'll look at that again later. Um uh there and In the meantime, as as we go through that in order, and I apologize, uh I I thought about it earlier and then I it just I didn't think about it. I I I probably should have included it later after we did the Abrahamic Covenant. and uh uh even the Mosaic Covenant. We'll we'll we'll look at that. Um even though that's a temporary thing. I mean I I think it's important. It's such a stumbling block. What you know, uh how does that fit into all this? Um Mm so we'll look at that later, but in the meantime, like I said, if we could um you get a chance over these next few weeks, be reading uh Ezekiel, 'cause that's w uh Ezekiel chapter Chapters 40 through 48, just familiarize yourself with those passages. Because that, if we look at this literally, that is God's word on the description of the millennial kingdom or the millennial temple. We'll have to see read it, see if you agree with that. If if in fact that is a temple and uh uh uh again we'll we'll point out some of the uh reasons why it is and uh but really just for familiarize yourself with that text. So today we're gonna look at um Abraham the covenant we're in uh today we're just gonna look at uh Genesis twelve. You can see I've listed here these are the different um Uh we're just going to do really the the primary one. Uh uh Genesis 12, 132 uh 1 through 4. And um you can see the other passages here. And what we're looking at is is kind of an expansion upon this covenant. These aren't different covenants. What you'll see is God just kind of adds some more detail, more detail. detail. Uh that's the way we read it. Uh as literal, um as I don't want to use a label of uh uh just grammatical, historical liter literal interpretation. Uh we we see these covenants kind of combining together. They they're one covenant and God just kind of expands. We've seen that kind of revelation already in God's word. I don't see why we should be really surprised with it. I mean again, we've talked about this earlier. If nothing else you have the old covenant, the old testament, the old covenant, and you have the new covenant. We live in the new covenant. It's definitely a different thing after Christ came. So the all the These steps we're looking at are just uh the progression, the the major signpost, if you will, uh of God's revelation as he goes through. So what I've taken here and uh as I work through these this um uh this is from uh uh a journal article uh a man named uh Keith Essex Essex. Um uh He did the section on the Abrahamic Covenant. A lot of what I'm framing this on one of my good sources is are these journal articles. So the Master Seminary came out with these and um they went to the covenants, right? Uh this is this uh gentleman uh did the article on uh the Abrahamic covenant. Uh it's quite good. Uh there's a lot of aspects I like about it. Um uh I use August sources uh uh Dwight Pentecost has a a book, Things to Come. Uh his is that's quite thorough. He goes through a lot of aspects. Um and he quotes a lot of people and and when he does I like it because he uses uh uh uh people's quotes. He takes the whole passage and just goes ahead and quotes the whole passage instead of footnote it. Uh or or paraphrasing I should say. And I kinda like that because if somebody's written something and they they kinda done the work and nailed it, give 'em credit for it, you know. A lot of times we uh feel compelled to r to uh paraphrase it and put it in our own words but um why reinvent the wheel so to speak. So anyway, what what I've done is I kinda laid this out as um uh as Es Essex has done. So uh uh And it but this is also his uh the wording in here is kind of his translation. So now the Lord said to Abram, Go forth from your land. In the grammar of this phrase is reflexive and would read, Go for yourself. With the construction of the Hebrew phrase in which it is used, the phrase could be read, Go get thee away. Here the Lord is calling Abrams. To break himself away from the following three phrases. Uh this is what he specifies the following thr uh three phrases here. And from your relatives and from your father's house to the land where which I will show you. So he's telling them, Look, go, leave your land, go forth right, is a command. And he's telling 'em from what? From your relatives, from your father's house to the land which I will show you. Abram was told to leave the land in which he resides, to leave his relatives, his family, and to leave his father's house where his inheritance, his relations reside. So Abraham is to leave a culture and its influence on him. He is to go to a land the Lord will show him. Uh we're gonna develop that a little bit, but think about what he's doing. Okay? He's calling him out. He's gonna tell us in this passage uh what he's gonna do. Uh This is really if you look the we don't have the phrases in here covenant, we don't have eternal or anything else, but again, look at the paradigm, look at look at the w what he's what he's doing here. This is what he's gonna build on. Okay? Also remember, think about it. Go back to uh let's stop for a minute. What's the big picture? Where have we been, right? We came from the garden, we we fell, uh we saw what happened with Noah, man became sinful, the flood. Right? After the flood he destroys the earth. What happens? What's the next b major event and what's the next major problem? You think saying just kabelus. Exactly, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So then we go back and man goes, Okay, I'm gonna do it this way, right? And we're gonna pick up on that thing, but just think of the progression here, right? 'Cause uh look at what he's calling Abraham too. He's calling them out all this again. So he's going to do it a different way. He's not going to destroy the whole world this time, but he's calling them out. So he's leaving his land, his people, even his father and his relatives. And look at the I wills here. I will make you a great need. Nation, I will bless you, I will make your name uh great your name, I have to read it the way he wrote it. So you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you. And one who slights you I will curse. And all the families of the earth shall be blessed in you. Again, I'd say look Uh and here's my notes. Uh notice the I will statements, the grammar is such that upon Abram's obedience to uh leave his land and his father's house and the Lord will perform his grace and blessings on Abram. Now this I this is taken from uh Essex. Uh uh The Hebrew construction in Genesis 12, 1 through 2 is such that the imperative go, right? He says It's a command, right? He says go. It's related to effect as effect to cause to the second imperative B. I know it's awkward but I did quote him there. So what he's saying is is that Let me finish this up. Abraham cannot be a blessing if he stays in Haran. But if he leaves to where the Lord leaves, he will be a blessing to others. So what he's saying is the construction of this is is that this imperative go it sounds like a conditional thing. Well if you go this will happen. But it's more than that really. It's it's uh it's kind of w what he's emphasizing here is that God knows he's gonna go. He goes, You need to go. Okay? Uh you will go. You will and because you go, you will be a blessing. Uh uh it's kind of a it has a little bit more More force to it here. That's what he's trying to get across. The Abrahamic covenant is God's means of restoring man's greatest need to be blessed by God. Five times the Lord promises to bless Abram and or to cause him to be a blessing. Excuse me. The Lord also determines to make Abram's name great. Now remember we talked about Babylon. Babel we'll pick this up again later w a as we kinda unpack this. What were they doing in Babel? Trying to make an end to themselves. Yeah, exactly. So I'm gonna I'm gonna be circling around, I'm gonna re be repeating myself, but these lessons are so primary and and also these lessons are repeated over and over and over again in different stories in a different way. You have the same pattern. It's It's salvation really. Right? We are gonna do it ourselves in our own flesh, Adam and Eve. Really, that was their temptation. Wow, I could be like God and do it my way. Um Right? Or we do it God's way. And now it's more difficult. We we we d I mean we always needed grace, but now especially we were cursed, right? I can't do it God's way unless I do it in his grace. in his power. I can't. Um uh I got a uh my I have a new nature but my flesh is weak and that it's it's not capable. So Oh this is Very important what you're talking about here. Because it was it it would have been very unusual in that day and age for a man to leave his family. Because the family was all important. You know, I mean uh the the head of the family was sort of a mini potentate or many king, he ruled over the whole household, uh, which included servants and everything else, and Abram Abram, uh at that time it was called Abram says was told to get out, you know. You leave all that you know behind. You're gonna you're gonna start you're gonna start a new life. It took a great act of faith on A on Abram's part to do this. Absolutely. Absolutely. And uh again let l let kinda go through it and and we're gonna we're gonna keep rolling over these ki I'm gonna be repeating myself, but you're right, they're you're right, it's so foundational. Right. He came out of what you said, leave all this behind. it all behind. You're right, it was huge. Uh let's see where am I? The Abrahamic Covenants, God's means I read that, right? Uh yep. The Lord blessed now We need to think about this for a little bit, right? The Lord blessed his creation and called it very good, right? Uh the favor uh was upon both man and creation, that they would be uh fertile, prosperous, protected. protected and would be preserved. Alright? In order for man and all the creation to function in their ultimate best, they must be blessed by God. I mean it seems so obvious, but you know really think about that. Without God's blessing, which is his grace, right, we can't I can't be the carry that God that created me to be. I can't be w whatever gifts, whatever uh uh the way he created me, for me to be the best carry I need to be operating his grace. Right. And that's that's his blessing. And again, it uh we saw what they did, right? Genesis 1. 28. God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth, subdue it. roll over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the sky, and over every living creature that moves on the earth. It's a command. And and this is always the tension, isn't it? God is sovereign. And he works with us, doesn't he? He somehow we work with him. That's there is no perfect definition of that. It's it's uh attention we don't like understand, but it is there, right? Um, it's obedience and and where does God's sovereignty stop and my will p it's the age old question. And yet, um Uh this is this is what it is. It's uh some of the things we just have to grapple with. Um But it is. He he says, he tells them, right? God bless them and said to them, be for multiply. We're in commands here, we're in imperatives. Right? But he gave without the blessing, they're not going to be able to do any of this, are they? Well we saw what happened with the fall, right? Right? They lost the blessing and and gained the curse. Alright, at the creation, uh God's blessing called for man to multiply, rule over every living thing, and to have authority over the earth. By naming the animals, Adam demonstrated demonstrated his authority over the animals with God and for God. And that's kind of what we do, isn't it? Good morning. Good morning. Um with God and for God. Um w were stewards. Take my watch off because I I can spend a lot of time on some of these little things. Um again, it's that's the tension. How how that uh works itself out, um all I know is that God tells us what to do. He's redeemed us, and yet there are times where I'm disobedient, there's times where I'm smart enough to cling to his his grace, pray for it. if I I'm not there, and um that's the battle. So the temptation in the garden was to have authority over creation independent of God. They rebelled against God and instead of blessing, they were cursed. Genesis 3, 1 through 7, right? Manifestation of the curse is witnessed in Cain and continued until the wick wickedness of man was great when every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil, right? We went over that in in uh Noah, the flood. Right? He he chose one man out of there. Men had tried to make a name for themselves through the union of demons, um uh well Again, whether it's physical, whether you go that route, at le at least it had to be spiritual because it it's it's quite clear in scripture. The demons and the and the uh the sons of God uh and man uh somehow either spiritually or even physically um tried tried to get power, the man tried to get power th through other means other than God. That's basically we we went over that some what in uh Genesis. That's a study you can spend some time on. Um I think I even gave you a uh John MacArthur uh uh link to that. So You can look up him. Uh he he he uh goes through that passage. Um after the flood man gathered together, uh build a tower to heaven to make a name for themselves. Now this These uh men of renown, uh if you see that there in in this uh sentence I have written down, uh i it's uh same. That's a Hebrew word. The only reason I gave it to you is because men of renown and name this is same word. Okay? It it's you're making a name for yourself. Uh uh you you're trying to do this uh uh on your own or or in the the flesh. Uh God uh is aware of that again we we saw that uh i in the Genesis passage. God is gonna make a name for Abram, not him making a name for himself. So the Lord's plan to restore mankind the The blessing is found in Genesis 12, 1 through 3, which lays the foundation for the essential nature of the blessing. The Lord will expand in detail the nature of the blessing throughout Scripture, but the essence or foundation of the blessing is the same. laid in this text. Again, the narrative's gone right the garden, the fell, the flood, tower of Babel, now he this is the this is his plan for redeeming. meaning mankind, right? Through Abraham, we know the New Testament. Uh you you kinda know some of the passages. I'm not gonna take you there right now, but uh through Abraham's seed, right, we're gonna ultimately be blessed. That's Gonna be Christ ultimately, right? This is the plan. This is uh this is uh the pattern that that he's gonna follow through here. So let's look at this a little bit. The first clause uh Abraham was told to leave his country, his relatives, and his father's house in Genesis uh ten five we're told God uh in God's word, uh the nation uh what what a nation is. So ten five five uh Genesis ten five. Uh from these the coastlands of the nations were separated into their lands, every one according to his language, according to their families, into their nations. Okay, he's given us a definition of uh right, what a land what a nation is. And we and we know this really. Uh really I think that's that's kind of our our issue right now is We talk about race and everything else. It's primarily our our it's always been. It's culture. Um e each of these persons has a culture. I mean, we uh you have a culture according to where you live and uh your environment. You have a culture according to your language, you have a culture according to your families, your traditions, right? Uh this is what really separates. This is the way we do w this is the way we do business, this is the way the way we work, right? Um any He's defined it for us here. And Abraham's told to leave his land, his family, and his father's house. He God wants him out of that. genealogy, right? Uh he gives you the genealogies and this is the things that are kind of difficult to work through. But he gives you the genealogies uh right there in ten and eleven uh uh uh so he's talking about the different And every one of the different nations they all got together and they rebelled against God. He's taken Abraham out of those nations and he's going to make him a nation, as Mel was saying. This is this is really radical. uh w uh c contemplate this a little bit. He's making him a special and he does, right? They become the Jewish nation. We can even identify you know, you think of That b is it profiling? We can look at a lot of people and go, that guy's Jewish. It's true, it's just the way God makes things. It it's it's according to uh all these things. But he did make him another nation. But it see and it the paradigm was this is going to be my nation. This is God's nation. And think about that with the land. I mean the land is really not the Hebrew's land. They're the stewards of the land. It's God's land. That's why there's so much turmoil. I'm I'm off track here, I know, but think about it, why do we have so much turmoil in Israel? It's not that great a place. Because God has said, This is my land. Satan knows that and he's going we gotta get rid of this. This is a problem. That's a battle that's going on. We see this. These are the w the war that's right, this is what we war against. It's the spiritual. thing. What's behind the scenes? No, I have him back now. So uh so I define what the nations are. By leaving Abraham is essentially leaving his nation, his association with Genesis ten, common ancestries with the basis of national identity. The Lord called Abram to renounce his identity to the nations who uh uh we're uh in rebellion uh with him. Abraham must leave his home and land in order for the Lord to fulfill his promise and bless him. And that's kinda what we talked about. And we're trust me, we're we're gonna kind of circle back on uh again the the kind of the grammar and and the flow of this passage. But that's what he's called him to do, to leave that. Abram's obedience to the Lord's command to leave his land would result And three blessings from God. First blessing would be Abraham would be called the father of a great nation. Alright, we talked about that. Abraham first had to renounce his identity with any of the other nations. surrounding him. Then God would bless him with a large population. Right? What did he say in Genesis? Again, I talked about that. Right? Be fruitful and multiply. I will I he blessed man, commanded them to be fruitful and multiply because God bless them. Uh God can we see it in the other passages if it comes to mind. God makes God can have people barren. He talks about that in a curse sometimes when Israel went astray. He goes, uh y you will be barren. Uh y your population will growth will will shrink um you uh let's see. And he's also getting them a territory, a large territory. Any says wise character. Um I'm not gonna take the time. You you I've I've written them out there for you. Wise character really can be drawn out of these these passages here. that's that's what uh Essex is referring to. Second, the Lord stated, I will bless you. He promised Abram to bless him personally. Uh and again I put here uh this is would result and uh fertility and prosperity. Uh Abraham became quite rich, didn't he? Right? He had so much that he and Lot had to separate. Um it came from God whether he wanted to recognize it or not. He went down to Egypt, he came back wealthy. He was just he you know, God bless that. God gives us prosperity. Um again uh we uh oftentimes w we may do the hard work uh but God blesses us. When we're successful, God did it. I T take credit in it. I worked hard and I and they I got that, didn't I? If you know everything comes from God what's he say? Uh uh I'll probably butcher it right now. It's in First Corinthians, but you know he says, What do you have that you did not receive and if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? Everything, think about it. Everything that I have is uh whether I breathe or not is from God. So God blessed him. He he made him rich. Third. to promise to make his name great. Uh God's provider of all the attributes, uh what Adam and Eve and subsequent generations sought on their own and did not obtain. Uh you know, I put the Genesis back And then uh Tower of Babel. Uh the Lord provided to Abram, right? Abram's name is great. Father Abram, the Jews talk about him all the time. He is the Father. The fourth phrase, ye shall be a blessing. To whom shall Abraham be a blessing is answered in verse 3. To those who bless you. So by recognition of his character and his faith he will be blessed. The wicked do not like the righteous. It's just kind of inherent. The wicked will not see the goodness of God residing in him. Those who curse you I will curse. Uh the final phrase of this verse, and you all the families of the earth will be blessed, is realized in the redemptive work of Christ, right? Uh and and even Israel was supposed to be a light for the nations, right? There were kings. kingdom of priests. They had the oracles of God, okay, and they was they were supposed to go out and be and be a light to the world. The world was supposed to look at 'em and go, Why is this nation so blessed? If they were obedient They would say, Why is it uh it happened for us for a nanosecond with Solomon. You know? People came to visit Solomon 'cause all his great wealth and everything else. And and they w it's a it's an opportunity. Well, why are you blessed? Opportunity to say, because God. And then you tell them about your God. So all the families uh will be blessed in you. Israelized redemptive work of Christ, all the families does not mean all all people, obviously. Uh those who curse Abraham will be cursed. Does it not speak to the fact uh it does speak to the fact that all people groups will be blessed, uh and they will be saved from all people groups. We see that in Revelation, right? Uh worthy is the Lamb, you are purchased with your blood every tongue, tribe, nation, people. All people groups. It's gonna be a s uh uh sma uh smattering from all people groups. It's what God word says. So what am I gonna do with the rest of the time? This is something that um I kinda came across and and I see this pattern. We can talk about this you know, it's funny, you can talk about these passages, uh again. Uh we could say this is uh uh on a theological basis this is a a dispensation, this is an error where God is dealing with people this way. And sometimes we m lose uh what's right in the passage. Um I see in this passage uh a pattern that I I I kind of stumbled across when um uh church we were at we used to do uh it was a good thing we used to do a uh when we did vacation uh bible school uh when the kids were meeting uh uh they would meet we also did an adult vacation bible school at the same time. 'Cause a lot of 'em, you know what I mean, they're job sh sh sh we drop and shop is what they used to say with the kids, you know. And we even have an adult um Bible study. We did grace one year. Uh it was too big a topic. Of course once you get into it, you're like, Wow, yeah, how are we gonna do this? But um so uh there would be several of us that would teach and we did grace uh one time, uh as a topic. What is grace? And as I was coming across it, I studied I I d I discerned a pattern and um that I want you to see. Let's look at this. The Lord said to Abram, Go forth from your land. land, right? And we talked about this. So we see in the land, Abraham is in the land. In in uh New Testament we say, well Abraham's in the land All these nations are sinful, he's in the world, right? It's the same same kind of a uh uh an analogy. Abraham's in the land, he's in a sinful land, he's in with a sinful people, he he's in the world, right? We all walk according to the course of this world, right, uh Ephesians two. We were dead in our trespasses in sin. He's he's in the world. He what's the Lord telling him? Go forth from your get out of the world. I'm gonna bring you out of the world. I'm gonna make you into another nation. Right? We could say it's repentance, right? You realize you got a problem, you're going, I can't live this way anymore. Um you you realize uh you're you're sinful, right? You gotta get out of that. You have to turn from it. That's what he's doing here. Abraham has to leave. Okay? From your relatives, from your father's house, from into the land uh I will show you. I will make you a great nation. Right? This is grace. God's going to give him grace here. I will. I'm going to make you a great nation. I'm going to bless you. you. This is the uh the gift, right? This is what we call grace. I am gonna make your name great. Look at the look at this verse here. This is what we need to think about. And and these are the the Sometimes the big things in the Bible, these little tiny words. And so you shall be. You shall be. It's the verb, right? It's I am. It's a I am, you are, she is. It's the the verb to be. You shall be. You are going to repent. You're faithful. Faith is gonna bring you out right, as God's giving the grace, and you are gonna be. And that's what happens to us when we get we get changed, we get born again. We are a new creation, we we are a new being. He's going to be a blessing. He is Abraham himself is not a blessing. God's going to make him a blessing. He's going to be a blessing. He's going to change him. I will bless those who bless you, and the one who slights you I will curse. Again, here's uh here's a a small word that it has a Big uh all the families of the earth shall be blessed in you. Okay? See you and this is what you find with uh He's fine as two in the Greek. I mean it's sometimes it's these little tiny words, prepositions, you have to think of of where what space is God moving people to? He's going to be, he's going to be changed. And he's and in the change is he's going to have Abraham, he is going to be a blessing. He is going to be a conduit now for blessing to other people. Why? Because of Abraham No, because God's blessing is working through him. Just like it's like it does with us. Okay? First Peter says in four ten, I mean what is it, uh uh uh manifold b uh do good to others what is it manifold grace of God, right? Um I'm gonna show you uh what I w uh while I'm turning there, turn to uh 1 Timothy chapter 1. I'm going to show you the same pattern as it happened to Paul. 1 Peter 4 10. As each one has received a gift. It says special gift, but that's they just added that. Um as each one has received a gift, employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. That's God working through us. It's not me. It's when we walk according to the Spirit. God can work through us. God uses us. We are instruments. That's God's plan all along. God's going to do all this. He knows his plan. Will we be willing instruments? And it and it it's gotta be God's instrument, right? And manifold grace. Grace is gonna work through us. Certainly in my grace. It's gotta be God's grace, right? We think about that. We're stewards of it. It's incredible. And that's what he d uh it's what he's done with Abram. It's the same salvation story. Over and over and over again. I was just thinking for Abraham when he was when the Lord asked him when God asked him to leave his country um to just go out. He didn't really tell where he was going. That took a lot of faith because it back in the day your relatives were the ones who kept you safe and they were also the ones where the prosperity, you know, your wealth was from It was a family thing, it wasn't just an individual thing. So he was leaving safety, security, and prosperity when he was called out. God told him he was gonna make him a great nation and God told him he would prosper him so to speak. But that didn't happen overnight. No way. It took several years, you know, for him to build up his wealth and um and then I I believe he had several servants who uh eventually became a really good fighting team for them because they went and rescued blocks. Right. But that did not happen overnight. I mean we had to that took a lot of faith, I wouldn't say. It took a lot of faith to leave your security, your your safety, you know, and and your prosperity. He you know, he wasn't guaranteed he was gonna inherit anything, so to speak. I mean it took a lot of faith on his part. I'm just saying just if if God did it to us, I mean just think about it You know I want you to go to Iran, so to speak, you know. You're not even gonna be able to necessarily get a job there, so to speak. I mean, as a American, you know what I mean? It it it took a lot of faith on his part to open God and that's why the Lord wants us to know him basically. Because he really wants us to have that kindness. Right. To follow him, to serve him. So it wasn't a little thing. And even all those blessings about I'm gonna make make you uh you know, a great nation. Right. I mean, oh my goodness. How much faith did that take? I mean, he was a hundred years old when he finally had his first child. Um I mean other than the one that was not the one that was to be I agree. years old and his wife is ninety I mean that that's an amazing amount of faith, that's all I have to say. I just no. You're right. I want to be like him. I mean I hope I can strive to keep girls and to be like him. I want to meet him in heaven. Yeah. I wanna meet him in heaven. I think we have some great stories when we get to heaven these that they're gonna share with us because I don't think it was easy for them. I think it was a day by day really relying on God and really and they're probably gonna tell us about that. You know what I mean? We're gonna have some great fellowship times at it. I agree. I mean we when we read the Bible, uh it's try and keep track of the time. Oftentimes uh we forget the time frame. the Bible's happening at. Because we're reading these stories like boom, boom, boom, boom. But if you if you're paying attention, like ten or fifteen years went by. Yeah, like you watch the grass grow for ten or fifteen you know what I mean? You go to your Normal life, you know, you're grinding out. I get up, I go to work, I come home. You know, yeah, they're doing that too. Abraham believed God and was credited to him as righteousness. We see that um all over, right? We see it in Romans, Galatians. James quotes it. When he did that, uh he what we I think we're talking at least ten to fifteen years before he had the child. And what he what he believed was God told him, Yeah, you're gonna have a child. said he goes, Well you blessed me with all this stuff, but what good is it? I don't have a son and he uh one of my slaves he goes, No, no, your slaves i is not gonna be your inheritance, uh you're gonna have a child But it was a year ten, fifteen years later. At least probably it's at least fifteen because Ishmael comes along. And Ishmael's probably fifteen by the time uh Sarah bore a child. So that's a law. I mean We read the story, boom, boom, right after the other, but there's fifteen years in there. You're right. And that's that's when the fate is hard. Uh you're right. And the other thing, like and that's what Mel pointed out he left his family. It's funny, um relationship you know, Laura and I uh are in families that really are non believers. I have one sister is a believer now Uh she came to faith late, um like I did, but even later than me. You know, and you have this desire to have his family, but you don't really they're non believers, we don't really get a w all of them. And it's kinda you and I've just thinking about that, he left his family, he may have gotten along with 'em. He may have liked 'em, I don't know. You know what I'm saying? Uh it's not easy believing that. You feel tied to 'em, like like you were saying. He left uh yeah. Yeah, exactly. Meditate on these things. 'Cause they g it's a little sentence or a little verse, you know, a couple it goes but if you don't meditate on this stuff, we we miss the whole But it was like his it wasn't just this great maybe relationships he had with his family. The the your family back in that day was who kept you safe. I mean they were like the police, you know, they were the ones that would come out with the swords and the shields to protect you if somebody tried to steal from you or took from you or um you know what I mean? That it was that kind of security. Um it was spacey. Safety for their for their own life, you know, for their own well being. But they left they left that in You know what I'm saying? They I mean to go to a foreign place where everybody wanted to basically harm you in the sense of they didn't have anything to do with you, they didn't have to take care of you. Those other people in the other lands, I mean that just took a lo an amazing amount of faith if you just If you think about it. And I think um missionaries may go through those that we send out kinda go through a little bit of that as well. A lot a lot of it. And so Yeah. You hear those stories all the time. for them for their safety and for their faith to stay strong and amazing faith. I can't yeah, and I can't tell you how many times you hear and uh I'll finish with this 'cause I I w I do want to get into this passage real quick to show you this, but uh Yeah, I mean and you hear of missionaries all the time with the stories about, you know, sometimes have troubles with the other missionaries. Um, it can be difficult, there's no question about it. It just uh yeah, there's a lot of tent there can be a lot of tension there. Look at First Timothy. This is what I f I I came across because um one of the things we decided um uh uh when we did grace is that we wanted to see, well I let's look at somebody whose life grace worked through. So you know, I immediately thought it plausible. Grace didn't work through Paul, it didn't work through anybody. And but I just want to show you this one passage and and before I do that, um, the word in and And I stressed it in this last passage in. Uh if you want to know it's it's a it's a theological word in some and not in it the word itself, but it's used. Look at Ephesians when you go to Ephesians one, all those blessings. In Christ, in heavenly places, in in in. It's a it's a sphere. What sphere are you operating in? Okay? Uh and Abraham came out of this sphere of the world, he's now uh he is going to b all the families are going to be blessed in him because he's in the sphere of Christ. A and you see it throughout you'll see it uh if you look and become aware of it. Look at all when you're reading, especially in the New Testament You're in this. The blessings in Christ. Most of the time it's in Christ, right? When we walk in the Spirit. Right? So, having said that, let's read this passage. Verse twelve. I thank Christ Jesus, our Lord, who has strengthened me because he considered me faithful, putting me into service, even though I was formerly a blasphemer, a persecutor, a violent aggressor, yet I I was showing mercy because I acted ignorantly in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord was more than abundant with the faith and love which are found in Christ Jesus. It is a trustworthy statement deserving full acceptance that Christ. Christ came into the world to save sinners, among whom I am foremost of all. Yet for this reason I found mercy so that in me as foremost Jesus Christ might demonstrate his perfect patience as an example for those who those who would believe in him for eternal life. And this was a pattern I saw as I went over and over and over this passage. Yeah, you look at the commentators that i i I can't tell you uh uh We're we're doing a uh uh for uh training. I I we're continuing training for teacher training. Pastor Gabe's doing it. We're used to going to a series, a guy named Pennington who used to work for Masters Seminary And he said the same thing which just he goes, Read the word, read the reader, reader, read the word. The last thing you do and he has a whole process, about f five things, right? You know, be be right with God, meditate, uh, pray. uh you know, study the word, unpack the word. And he goes, The commentaries come at the end. He goes, I can't tell you, guys get busy, they look at commentaries first. Can't tell you how often they do this. He goes, Don't do that. I had a guy at Capitol Seminary, Dr. Edgar, he was a riot. He'd go all the time. We'd go, God, what was it you know, they'd be in his Greek class and he'd go, Well what does this mean? We have some really bright guys and he'd be going his tongue, he'd go, Well what does it say? And he'd be like looking at the passage, right? 'Cause you know we're reading comments They're trying to analyze all this stuff. We and you first thing, what does it say? Then we'll worry about what it means. Can you regurgitate what it says? And even his comment was all the time he goes, Don't read these comments. Commentary. Some of these guys, these commentators, they're just plain commentators. You know, and and But his point was, read and really he taught me this l there's a lesson. So, as I was going through this I'm picking this out and I'm thinking, all right, so uh Paul's thankful in verse twelve, right, that the Christ used him. Right, he considered him faithful, even though he was formerly a blasphemer, a persecutor, a violent aggressor. Do not underestimate. If you look at Acts chapter twenty six, I I can't remember the verses offhand somewhere around. Mm. Anyway. If you look there, Paul's testimony, he'll tell you what a violent aggressor was. He was a rage a holic. He was over abundance in anger. Okay? He wasn't just religious in the wrong way. He had an anger problem. And he pretty much tells you that. Um he's a violent aggressor, he brings it up here. Yet I was shown mercy because I acted in unbelief. Okay, it's in again. He's in unbelief. Where are we when we're in unbelief? In the world. We're in Satan's domain. We're in. So here he was, he's in unbelief. And the grace of our Lord was more than a Abundant, and this is the this is the grace he was given, right? With the faith and love which are found where? In Christ Jesus. The same thing. He's in the world. God gives him the grace. Grace. Right? By grace we are saved through faith. It wasn't my faith. God gave me the grace through the faith. Right? In Christ. Now he he was in the world, now he's in Christ. Right? It's uh let's see. It's a trustworthy statement deserving full acceptance that Christ came into the world to save sinners, among whom I am foremost of all. For this reason I found mercy so that in me Right? He's changed. Now he's going to be a blessing. In me. Right? Uh as the foremost, Jesus Christ might demonstrate perfect uh patience. as an example for those who would believe on or in him for eternal life. So he was in the law, grace comes, now he's a conduit for Christ. And that's what you see over and over and you saw this, you see the same basic pattern in in uh in Genesis twelve with Abram. It's the same thing. Over it's salvation. So we see God's plan. This is what God's going to do. He's going to work with a a particular people, the Jewish nation. They are a particular people. And we're going to trace that out? Are we gonna see are they does uh as we move forward, are they a particular people now? Uh uh do they blend with the church? Uh w those are some of the things we'll look at. But he he had a nation, didn't he? And that nation was Hebrew, it was Jewish. It was Abraham's nation. It's God's nation that he's using. You can call what you want. It's really the true believers in Israel are God's nations, right? Just like The church, more people go to church, which the true church, right? All of us who uh spice in us.