So we're we're what we're doing is we're drawing a conclusions for this. This is a short term for your worshiping. And he's moved the Ark to Jerusalem. So would it be fair to say that in the Old Testament the Israelites had the law to force their conscience to write behavior apart like following salvation whereas Now we have the Holy Spirit to say. That was the one of the old food laws shel shelter. If you read through that chapter, he kinda tells you what he means between the oath. Mm-hmm. sacrificial system and you see, okay, obviously we're not doing this. uh a question that that people wrestle with all the time. Therefore, be re you know do not be conformed in this world, but uh be transformed by the renewing of your mind. It some people are like uh uh with these these new uh I don't even know these forms. Like there's no responsibility. He goes, you don't want sacrifices, a broken and contrite heart. Actually, God's going to do it, right? Israel. You wouldn't gossip about them, you would slander them. You know, even David, after he sinned in Psalm 51, he says, Don't take your spirit from me. Salvation. Holly. I I like this guy. Priesthood which came the law came from the priesthood. It talks about how each covenant is instituted with blood. historic or whatever those whatever those divisions are. uh they had a tough situation. And they're brutal. did rewill it but we didn't let that woman do film. Hey, thank you. for the ark, for taking down all the instruments, they were their the whole clan that was their training and he put it on a cart. Uh uh a lot of the other tribes, uh were you know, the other divisions of the A Aaron uh were given carts, but not the courts. The the utterance of my lips. Cut off all your enemies from before you, and I will make you a great name, like the names of the great men who are on the earth. They were being built, but even things are stabilizing here. And you know, what what is your lineage? This is this is uh a normal thing, but this is David's house. Where it's going back to the old covenant, being a shadow, that passing away, what's being passed away is ready to be abolished, something like that. Uh it seemed to be that that was the way you were taking it. Uh so I guess my my question was is that the I don't think that's the whole law, but are still under sin, right? Look, what you're doing is wrong. It's a later I mean, you know, it's funny. progressive uh dispensationalism or, you know, the open church and the open door and you know, it they'll come up with a new one as soon as you get this one, right? I was gonna be a pastor and then I uh I was just a brand new believer really still by the time I I made it to that point. And I realize I'm going, I'm not a head pastor, I mean you know, I'm comparing myself to an unsaved church I came of. But they a lot of 'em didn't look like they were safe. Someone's gonna do that only when they acknowledge their sin re and realize it. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. And so the Holy Spirit helps you by teaching you, by either convicting you go or by helping you to understand that you're doing Um you know, if you love love your brother, right, as God loves you so you don't murder. like he is holy, so you don't really get to escape. You can picture it, you know, covering you the cloak of Jesus Christ's righteousness. See it it's that's why uh a lot of people have the beauty of a seminary is you can go and look at about fifteen different commentaries, which is nice. actually goes into the explanation of what it meant with that last verse in chapter eight. And I'm gonna make a one of my little points here. thing is about. Think about it. Uh will he not indeed make it grow? uh gain his skills. disturbed again, nor will the wicked afflict them any more as formerly. uh a and forget, you know, w it was a long journey. The rest is associated with the land. I mean that's what he talks about in Hebrews. what h how he's gonna bless David and and what the covenant is to David while he's alive and what's going to come The Lord allowed David to move the Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem, which represents the Lord's authority and kingship over the land. And the people were to expand to be a blessing for the nations. The earthly king, he's representative. Well what are they looking for? The guarantee to David is sure, for the Lord will raise up the descendant. He has chosen my son Solomon to sit on the throne of the kingdom of the Lord over Israel. When I will raise up for David a righteous branch. There was never a king after that time. uh Ezekiel temple. So it's just that breaking up of aspects of it. The law in all aspects. Do we not have all kinds of passages in the New Testament of things not to do? stupid or a fool, y you can be condemned. The whole chapter is about the law. So look at what he says here. It's very important. And it it it has to do always, where do you ship the focus? But at the same time, again, we are responsible. We're we're not following the law but so w uh and it it's funny. scheme of things we want to see. Yeah, and isn't that the whole thing? And he did this for years and I learned so much for people what the battle was for salvation. that would that would come. And that's what w that's what we found with this jail ministry. I will not be angry forever. It's it's this. That you have transgressed against the Lord your God and have scattered your favors to the strangers under every green tree. There were kings that were good, but they never really got away from it. And turn away from your transgressions, so that your iniquity may not become a stumbling block to you. Light. Look at what he says here. Are saved, who say, oh, you know, I'm saved, I'm good, I'm I'm sanctified, I have no sin. Righteousness. If you want fellowship with God, you've got to walk in the light. MacArthur Study Bible, New Bible, commentary, and even if you look at commentaries, a lot of times you get to a point you go, Well you didn't answer this question, you know. And he deals a lot with the language, the Greek. got exposed to Greek. God's presence, his holiness. We'll pick it up in eleven, but thirteen and fourteen is what I want to focus on. not of this creation, and not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood he entered the holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls and ashes of a heifer, sprinkling those who had been defiled, sanctified for the cleansing of the flesh, Cathartic we use in uh uh English is our English version of it, right? Now look at the contrast here. that was to come. Well ceremonial, right? between the hims uh between the God and and man. uh Coas, he was one of the tribe. uh you had almost a civil war with Saul. David seeks to build a house for the Lord, but the uh the word of the Lord came to Nathan that it would not be David but his son who would uh build the temple. So 2 Samuel 7, 8. Uh this passage does not specifically call this a covenant. Scripture, scripture defines scripture, right? Uh 2 Samuel 7, 8, and 9. It's easy to think David David did discipline himself, did he not? God is saying, this is what's going to happen. Thus giving them security as well as establishing a place of permanence. is defined by arrest from all their enemies. uh that the Lord will make you a ha a house for you. He establishes David's house, which to which was to be the earthly king, who represented the kingship of God. person or location. The representative, even though he wasn't a priest, he was still uh he he had the governmental aspects, right? Do not depart from the law. Among the sons of my fathers, he took pleasure in me to make me king over all Israel. That he will establish his throne and kingdom forever. The provisions this is something that uh John Walbert wrote. But shall succeed him and establish his kingdom. I don't know why I lost the E there. Yes, it is he who will build the temple of the Lord, and he will bear the honor and sit and rule on his throne. And the council of peace will be with him, the two offices. They are waiting for their king. And they will all have one shepherd, and they will walk in my ordinances and keep my statutes and observe them. That I gave to Jacob, my servant, in which your fathers lived, and they will live on it, and they excuse me, and their sons and their sons' sons forever David, my servant, will be their prince forever. the king to come who will also be a priest after the order of the kills of it's mentioned that that's talked about in Hebrews as well. A somewhat undefinable thing. Uh Jessica, we're asking questions. Again, this is a lot of this is we're we're we're basing this on uh the scriptures, but uh the this course is kind of a theological Clearly they're not the apostles aren't quoting it arbitrarily, but trying to figure out that wisdom of how how to apply it now. Even in Galatians, w which we're gonna we're not gonna get into the whole chapter, but we I think if we look at the beginning of it, we'll see w what the difference is. Again, theologically, what we are saying with the covenants and even with the uh uh the patriarchs, right, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob What I'm saying is that the the law stated things specifically, and we kind of like that. They had to believe the only way they were going to even do uh a good portion of the law was to believe that God is who he is. you know, when you became uh saved. Right? And he was saying that these people th th this fellow, this pastor who was uh at uh Masters, uh was having an affair with a uh major league player and he was kind of throwing out I've got a problem. And make yourself a new heart and a new spirit. And in him there is no darkness at all. what the Lord wants. Um but like the holy w it's our memory verse and we have men's memory verse, but like the holy one who called you, be holy yourselves also in all your behavior, because it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. W we express it in different ways before the law, during the law, and after the law. where your theology is centered. to be our continuous priesthood. verse in chapter eight that the old covenant is fading away because of better sacrifice was made for us. And some of them came to faith, but it was like they were out of that community if if man you name the name of Jesus and poof you're out. Again, keep the big picture in mind. and grace. They were carrying it on a cart and uh uh Uzza, I think his name was. And not only was were they supposed to carry by poles, but even slater, uh, if you look at numbers when he talks about the I mean we you kinda had the judges and there were skirmishes, it seemed like uh Philistines and everybody else was attacking them all the time. So one will say, well, you know, is this a covenant, right? The Master Seminary, the theological journals. A place for the people. When your days are complete, you will lie down. We think of this, we we use it in non-biblical terms. Do you remember really what your question was so we can kind of segue again from that or just even similar? uh some of the verses what we're gonna go over. The aspects of the law, it's always been there. Um th this is not my gift. I am sick and tired of your sacrifices. blew up my relationship. I hate to use the word, but it is an age, an error, a time that God used it. There will be an end to that. their uh uh priests, right, or their i intermediates for them, they carried their sacrifices in. intermediary our our advocate is Christ in heaven. And the Lord had given him rest on every side from all his enemies. So again, it's that that tension we have to go with. A people, right? And we are in his rest, right? But our rest is in the Lord, right? to the Lord because we I mean none of us are are are filling fulfilling it totally, right? Uh even the people wanted them to make a king. Uh you know, so it's always anticipated that Israel would have a king, right? This is future. Okay? This temple that they rebuilt was never that that temple that that we saw in uh Ezekiel. The Herods. before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. It's always by faith. The moment we're saved, we're filled by the Spirit. Each according uh to his conduct, declares the Lord God. Because he hadn't written a lot what'll happen after, which we believe will be the millennial kingdom. The other is external, this is internal, it's huge. the availability of salvation much more much easier than it was under the law because the Jews kinda kept it to themselves. Yeah, yeah. David has the nation under control and the government centralized in Jerusalem. Um so I took you from the pasture, right? as he did to me when they were in the wilderness. And it's much like with David. The presence of God and His rule is the source of all rest, peace, and blessing for the nation. Uh so one, David is to have a child yet unborn. In chapter seven, we don't have to sin with Bathsheba yet. The throne will not be taken away from him, Solomon, even though his sins justify chastisement. Uh it's not like the whole law is gone clearly, because then you have other passages where they're quoting the law as authoritative. And and and that's what we're going to do to kind of do a quick tour and I'll show you the difference. We have listed of Romans 12. Uh you're not you you're not being saved, you're not fulfilling the law. Romans 8:9. He goes, you're not saved by my will, my doing, right? Big picture. W it just because it isn't packaged in in a con concise thing like Israel was, that's a different we are in a different and that's and that's the whole point. Totally different. You see what it is. Okay, the essence of it is the same throughout faith by grace and and Now get there. You can't I'm gonna skip uh well let's read real quick. And Solomon, no less, helped them do it, didn't he? But if we walk in the light, as he himself is in the light, we have fellowship or koinonia, which is common. If we say we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness as sanctification. If we say we have not sinned, we make him a liar and his word is not in it. He didn't say, I'm going to lose my salvation. So yeah, it doesn't go away. He's holy. So the so in in fact the Hebrews, the whole book of Hebrews, the idea behind the Hebrews is get out of the temple. In uh 2 Samuel 6, David had brought the ark back successfully. We're using that in a big word, big house. Uh so again, uh this is important and and I uh w I I think I fleshed this out, but So w we can uh so look at the promises that he has. I have quoted a lot from Kir Krisanti on this one. I took you from the pasture, following the sheep to rule over my people, Israel. uh a place for the people. You know, uh he made his name name great. Even from the day that I commanded Joseph to be over my people Israel, and I will give you rest from all your enemies, the Lord also declares you Promises that are realized after David. And things may not go as we want, but and that's the thing we can cling to when things are hard. Even from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and I will give uh rest from your enemies, the Lord declares. Uh that's huge. We uh Abraham was blessed to be a blessing. Um it can't just be just um himself and even his son. The seed. Does not replace the theoret theocratic kingdom, but is regarded as God's throne kingdom. Chose me from all the house of my fathers to be king over Israel forever. It it relates to the Messiah. I'd have to go back and look at that. So we see the thing of it is we like the law because we have rules. And you know what's the the thing of it is none of us acknowledge our iniquity because we're good people. Here is the essence, and I I think I'll stop here and we'll we'll see if you got any questions. It's his righteousness in us. We talk about a covering. Um cultures, cults, uh different and different times. We 2 Samuel 7 is uh the w when the Davidic covenant spelled out Um yet David was uh uh a warrior. So uh it that's what the house doesn't mean specifically. Right? That's huge. We have fellowship with him, with one another, and the blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sin. You know, David is given rest, right? Truly, is not my house so with God, for He has made an everlasting covenant with me, ordered in all things and secured for all my salvation and all my desire. His house has been suggested in 2 Samuel 6 as the theological foundation for the Davidic covenant in chapter 7. The Lord allowed it, which represents the Lord's authority. Now look at what uh I I kind of I branched off from this because branch is if you do a word study, uh it it's it's uh If you don't fulfill the law in all aspects, you have broken the law. It was always by faith. And the only way you can do that is the cloak like Pastor gave you I loved that illustration last week. He imputes it to us. And and I'm sure all of us have experienced that, if we're honest, okay? So I I think well a does that answer the question about what is the law? Uh do you remember where it was? We move, we have been cleansed ourselves. He didn't tell us everything. Put God up front. Repeats uh the statement uh uh through Nathan. Okay. Really, broad terms, it's my will, my effort, my doing. Okay, now I know what where we're going with this, but let's let's jump over this hurdle first. Love one. Highlighted that there. That's the stumbling block. Um but yeah Robert Grimackey is uh he's concise. Where's your hand too? Right? Again, the king is supposed to represent God. Then say to him, Thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, a man whose name is Branch, for he will branch out from where he is, and he will build the temple of the Lord. That's what got Saul into trouble. Faithless Israel, declares the Lord. with him. Yeah, I mean and this is look at verses um go ahead and turn there. But that's an artificial division. Remember, he says I did this. Yeah, we do and that's what we're looking for, fruit of the spirit. Old Testament, New Testament, same the same story. But you still don't get away from you know, Joel. A guy named Gromacky wrote one. I I I think the context in Hebrews i is that even though the law hasn't passed away, that that the priesthood is the old priesthood You it happens now. You had the judges and everything else. Right? Right? Look at what Jeremiah says. And I would argue again like you uh you're kind of leading towards we are brought to a higher standard than the law. And the law was written for Israel. Let's see if we can get the the idea of of what's going on here. Zechariah is saying there, he's going to sit on a throne and he's going to be a priest. There is there is not we they are in the time of the Gentiles and the what what the Bible says the time of the Gentiles has started with the uh deportation to Babylon. Okay, so you have to take yeah those terms. Uh I may look at the uh w uh real quick I did an ad uh a small addendum on the uh uh Or by hearing with faith. Okay, so there is both sides. It's a cult. There are certain aspects we go, well, yeah, we don't know all of God's plan. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. The world will know you by your love, right? You know what I'm saying? Because uh that's what Jesus said. We don't really on and really it's comprehending grace. Yeah, and I'm not gonna go through Galatians three, but read it on your own. The law cannot save you. Translators, he's yeah, he capitalized branch. If they were separate. I don't measure up. They were gonna not only be persecuted by the world, but they were gonna be they were gonna be ost be ostracized by their community. It's on you know. They're looking for somebody of some significance in their family. When your days are complete and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your descendant after you, who will come forth from you, and I will establish his kingdom. He's going to be the father from all the house of my father to be king over Israel forever. They it was voluntary, so the ones who wanted to come came to this uh jail ministry or, you know, our Bible study, they knew a lot of them knew a lot of uh scripture. It's written primarily to tell Jews. In his days Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely. So we can unpack that a little bit more next week. And I'll get to this. Again, you have three categories. Um Which I think maybe you were taking that as synonymous with saying that the law was obsolete You have a good do you have a commentary on it? I wouldn't call myself a Greek reader because they'll give a phrase and you gotta go look it up, you know, so it's uh heavy plowing Yeah, it's so uh w we don't s we we uh we're under grace. If we say we have no sin, we are deceiving ourselves. Faith. Um second Samuel seven ten I will also appoint a place for my people and I will plant them and they will live in their own place and not be His prosperity, his seed, right? Several scriptures bear this out. I mean, Zechariah, let's let's the data, right? Well wasn't wasn't he asking about Hebrews seven? You know, but Paul said, you know, I do this by the grace of God. David, uh the Davidic Empire gave Israel a secure place in which they uh could establish their identity as a nation, as referred to as their own place However, you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. God has us in a different program. But yeah, Galatians 3, the law was never intended. God. Professions of the Davidic Covenant. We cannot do it. Let's try and transition to the Davidic. Setting for the Davidic Covenant. Uh he killed the lions and the bears, right? The Lord promises David a seed to send it, right? Follow it in all the ways. Read it again. Having begun by the Spirit, salvation, are you now being perfected by the flesh? What does God say? And we saw that in we saw that in Acts, right? I know God will return to me, you know what I mean? Once I have sworn by my holiness I will not lie to David. Uh think about that. Ezekiel thirty seven, twenty-four, twenty-five. Look at this. We believe that. Study that, he said, by the law. Um pick it up. I mean so that's you're f falling under an umbrella of maybe uh uh a name that that goes back, a hereditary thing where people, you know, trace all that. They mean the law as a complete unit. You y I used to ask the young believers this a l all the time, um, when I was doing uh Sunday school at another church and I would say, Well, okay, so what's the one thing you got uh God opens a heart, right? What you can look at this and you can know this and you can practice this, but that doesn't mean you're close to God. Uh we have fellowship with him. I don't believe God covered sin. Which is what you decided we shouldn't do. And these guys would talk to 'em and they'd go and it was like the you wouldn't be no, you couldn't be seen with 'em. Where's the guy? Solomon is a descendant of uh descendant son, king, who will succeed David. And uh that's it. Zechariah is talking about his king. Uh how this prince is is pointed out um and it's forever. He could have used another as there. They did not have that. Sure. They moved into the tabernacle. 16, the Lord speaks to David through Nathan and reveals how the Lord will bless David in his lifetime and future blessings after his death. He gave raised up David. You gotta this is what it is. How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve a living God? It's always by faith though. He it's it's now the worship is gonna be we're we're looking at a centralized place. When we look at the covenant, what was the covenant with Abraham? But does the New Testament teach that? Only acknowledge your iniquity. And it's very, very quickly do we get back to me centered and don't realize it. He should have known better not to put on a cart. The rest is a result of David and the people following a form of obedience. This is a temporary situation, this world, regardless of w how we see it. No. You uh we had uh some missionaries that went up to witness to the Hasidim or the Hasidic in New York. It's it's more of this is the house, you know, we we we see this in um I don't know, one of the things I was thinking about, you know, people were big there for a while, coats of arms and Look at what uh Zechariah says. Well, you know, and I'd kind of like to revisit that because it is a big thing. Remember, we went back to that. It's always been the stumbling block. Cast away all your transgressions which you have committed and make yourselves a new heart, new spirit. God gives us the gift, right? Mm-hmm. We talk about that in James or and it's in other places too. The tutor, like you were just saying in Galatians three. And this is m this is my point. It's walking in the light. Like so like if you eat lobster a day and you don't feel convicted about it, that's the Holy Spirit saying that it's okay to do that today. Do we sacrifice? The promise of the Lord to make a house for David has to do with the dynasty, uh, posterity and the right to rule as king. Saul said, I'm gonna I'm gonna do the sacrifice. Uh so it's separate it's it's it's breaking so Are you so foolish, having begun by the Spirit, which is what? We in Romans 5. Uh and I know uh I don't remember what the verse was. Right. And some of our conclusions definitely can be, you know, are we coming up with the right conclusion? Yeah. And I wrote down some scriptures here. Um return. I mean that's all that's all the law though too. Yeah, that's the whole deal. Again, the real issue here, I'm a big picture kind of person, if you haven't figured it out by now, the real issue here is It was not written for anybody else. Things are starting to get stabilized here. I'm going to provide this. And our rest is really not a land or a nation or our rest is in Christ, regardless of our circumstances. Your house, your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Uh just to sh and it's just a quick thing just to show you the difference between that temple and and and all the other temples. Somebody want to read that, 2nd Samuel 7, uh verses 8 and 9. So he promises them a seed, he's going to establish his kingdom. Even Jesus was talking about how they they were interpreting the law, and what he was trying to show them was If you're dishonest, you'll practice the law, which is what the Pharisees did, and they did it quite well, but they weren't saved. I think that's the context in Hebrew. The throne of his kingdom shall be established forever How do you take how do you know when to take it, when to take the Okay, we're not going to go through the whole chapter, but uh uh really he's talking about the difference here. And that that but first we have to get over who's who drives who is really given the engine for change? The hard work is here. The New Testament do more than the Pharisees do. He said the joy of it. Uh they're concise. So I'm not a Greek reader even though I mean I'm a elementary It's impossible to keep the law. Uh Psalm 89, 34 and 35. This is uh this Brasanti who's who's written this. No, no. Think about all of it. It was if you look, if you do a word search and kind of follow it back, um, they were the ones that were responsible for Okay, it goes through all the doctrine, right? So but the one of the things that got open for us was uh we had a guy that came and we did jail ministration. These are all idols, alright? We we know uh uh I was just thinking of uh right what made Saul so angry when he came out to sing. Uh they they knew that God had promised that. So again, to look at the law as a unit and and it's in its um The priesthood passed away and now we have a new priesthood who that being Christ who ever ever liveth Tell it is. The law is the law. Which and we couldn't, right? Think of it, I mean, how can you have a nation if you don't really have a land? It's huge. Why didn't they why didn't he have a rest? So obviously this is for we're transitioning from Uh so what do we do with law? You have to lead them to a point. But um Paul says that and uh changed Corinthians, right? We're going to set you up. And it took a while, but most of them would find and get oh this Holy Spirit. Go to the scripture first. Rest. They didn't enter my rest because they didn't believe. It's both sides of of the of the argument. 1 Chronicles 28, 4 and 5. What I would say about the law is when they re refer to this and we're we're gonna get into some quick passages They're worthless to me. Well yeah, that's what um Paul says in uh Galatians three. They um I did a word study or somebody turned me on to this. He blessed him. Before God allows a house to be built for his worship, right? Uh the house of something, it means more than just that particular And when when when when uh They'll know your Christians by your love. I will not look upon you in anger, for I am gracious, declares the Lord. They couldn't the first altar was outside the tent. In Jerusalem, and the Lord has given him rest from his enemies. Uh this is important. And and he did the people realize that uh God used him to secure them in that land, to secure uh a place for them. This declaration of the one who will have a kingdom and a throne forever points to the Messiah, Jesus Christ. He's the king, he's the lord of righteousness. Do we just abandon the law? Ezekiel later says, right in the 36, I will give you a new heart. Um so look at the the promises the that are realized during David's time, right? Uh the provisions of the covenant are simply stated by John Walbert. His son, Solomon, shall build a temple instead of David. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another just as The truth is not in us. The last verse of Hebrews 8 is where it's saying the new covenant coming in made the first obsolete The blood of bull and goats cannot save you. The thing is they didn't do one thing they did wrong is they didn't bring the Uh but again, the the Bible comments on itself, doesn't it? This is not my home. Uh uh. If we say that we have fellowship with him, yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. When I I return to him, I confess my sins, but it separates us. And then we go to Romans six, we're not under law but we're under grace. It creeps it's just as. 'Cause I did um one of my blessings was um I went to seminary when I first went there I thought I can do uh I can recommend one. Do we stone people? David's house, kingdom, and throne would endure forever. The Spirit came upon them, and certain people were saved, and it's similar, but it's a different program. That's where I'm going to get to. You you gotta acknowledge your inequity So this covenant is stated in many other scriptures. Note Zechariah 6, 12 to 13, the description of the branch. Okay? You look at somebody, are they saved? Therefore, Ezekiel 1830, therefore I would judge you, O house of Israel We're we are transferred. I believe he cleansed sin. Now everybody has access to God. 7-1. We have the Holy Spirit dwelling inside of us. Okay? You still have to um live for the Lord. The new covenant was instituted with Christ's blood, which is better. Uh 2 Samuel 23, 5, the last word. Uh we tend to think of Israel as in Jerusalem. He made his house. It's it's not just him, it's it's the house that's gonna be will go forth and and uh we'll see this in and the fact that it's gonna be forever. Again. We'll we'll try and finish up with this. It it's funny how um Pastor Gabe kinda talked r in a way exactly what we're talking about. This is 312-13. You know what I'm obeying the law. Mm-hmm. Some people don't. So who do you have for a commentary on Galatians, do you know? Chapter nine. It's um it is. Um uh he did the journal article for the uh So it gives him rest. Uh memory seven one he says, Look, I give you rest. Uh an and God provided it for 'em. Genesis 15, 6. If you're in denial and we see it all through through life, we're denial about a lot of things. He really initiated this. There's probably people who say, Oh, you know, I've never sinned. So he killed him. It was again to bring us it with a tutor to make us recognize, like Debbie says, God is holy. And and they have think about also their situation And then Jesus wrote on the ground. He goes, you say you murder somebody, I'm telling you, if you believe in your heart or you call him, you know It's just that. I mean, we talk what he talks about that. Right. And God used was able to even to kill the lions. It's God establishing this. And he will reign as king and act wisely and do justice, righteousness, and justice and righteousness in the land. Jesus is the King priest. We've come back, they've been to Babylon, they come back, they're trying, he's exhorting them to rebuild the temple. Right. Th that's the essence of the law. You got three you could probably say you have three categories of people here. But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things to come, he entered through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say That was the whole gist He hadn't even uh done that, let alone um had a child, uh, Solomon, through Bathsheba, by Bathsheba. Uh Israel's has never been in a stable position since then. Follow the rules, I got it. Oh, where are we at? How will you be obedient to uh follow? We s we saw that before, we see it in Genesis. The king was to do the thing, he was to meditate on God's word. He brings off and talked about mind We act like because the New Testament doesn't have these. So, really, you're going to make yourself a new heart by becoming faithfully obedient to God The same heart. We get to go to the holy place, right? Uh Saul was going out and conquering the Philistines but you had this faction between him and David. Again, think about this. This is uh future too, is it not? If indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you, but if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. Paul says it's a tutor. This is where they set their idols up. That's the only thing that makes you righteous because cloak that Jesus Christ gives you his righteousness. Right. And he does say um that it it's fading away is past in that verse last God gave him the gift, the ability to be able to do that And the promised land. It's gotta be future My servant David will be a king over them. So I I found the difference uh i in the in Don't let these changes in God's plans, they're not that different. Repent. You don't lie, you don't steal from them, you don't lie to them, you don't murder them, you don't you don't do anything to harm anybody else that we Okay. Cha uh Hebrews nine. And you have not obeyed my voice, declares the Lord God. Again, how grace is God's gift. So anyway, they bring it back successfully. He was diligent to uh pastor the sheep. Notice how he has that uh this is from New American Standard. God. You will not despise. It cleansed. And when Christ came, he made the David had just brought the Ark of the Covenant back and established uh Jerusalem as a center for the Israelite worship. The Lord said, Ah, you shouldn't have done that. You mentioned the food laws, same same type of thing. The works of the law don't get you to faith Here's the thing we lose as believers. Being brutally honest with yourself, exposing yourself to the light. And if you don't have fellowship with and isn't that what happens with us? You probably know him too. David is um if we can find 2 Samuel we'll start referring to it. Uh this is a big transition from uh Romans 8. That was what uh uh my verses were. No, you're wrong. And he's just showing you the the different uh aspects of it there. Now it came about uh uh when the kings lived in the house. So it's the same old thing A lot of the people that disagree with with all this do not see that. But he cleansed each time he cleansed, but this way he cleansed the inner that's that's tot it's totally different. Remember, again, keep your focus. You all know Psalm 51. Well we sin and fall it you feel that separation, you're going, oh man, I'm just I have been with you wherever you have gone and have come Uh the Div boop boop The Davidic Covenant fulfilled two provisions for Av the of the Abrahamic covenant. But it was to be for a blessing for the people. Do we, you know, uh we see this? It does. But he says, don't he says, return to me the joy of myself. Christ. Uh first time they tried to do it, they did it the wrong way. And life is hard a lot of times. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. I mean it actually talks about the old and the new new covenant. He had a plan. You're not capable of it. It it it encompasses more than that Number one, I don't even think they were Jewish. The application starts in Romans 12. No. Right. That was Christ Jesus. Truly, uh, this is uh 2 Samuel 23, 5. He didn't bless Abraham just for him to be a blessing for himself. Remember when he's promising this, uh uh I mean and and most people I think Joel and and um I think this is the same word as return up here. That's what God demanded in the law. He's not going to fellowship when we're walking in the darkness. And I'm not so sure that God isn't going to use a modified law If you tell if you tell your wife you went to the grocery store you didn't, you're a liar. And in the Pentecost when the Spirit came down. Uh so he made his he made the Uh we read that uh the Lord has given David rest from his enemies. God is going to be there. Yet the Lord, the God of Israel This is the only thing I want to find out from you. It it goes off of God and it comes to me, me center Because he didn't believe. Um I I'm not gonna I I don't know where they are off the top of my head. We don't know for sure, but what do we we say it all the time? You gotta look at this and be honest and going, I got a problem. So what do you say in there? So Um these these uh uh let's Yes, God gifted me, now he wants me to use my effort, my will to discipline the gifts that he gave me I I want to get into um uh the new covenant. In Romans 5, he says, you know, look, even those who didn't sin in the lightness of Adam Um And he goes through all kinds of practices there. You still have to do It's easy to say, but man, I know when we're in it. Uh the kingdom which the Lord established um Um we'll end there. And then in the New Testament he says the holy Right, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees, right. And it it was really similar. Do we abandon the law? Right? Will be established. We never had a king Romans, right? You don't have to go into the temple to do it, so get out of there. It's not because of uh David or anybody that's going to succeed him. And a lot of these guys in the jail, especially in Prince George's County, the one a It's it's it's uh it's difficult. Uh Solomon will build the temple of the Lord and will be the first of the descendants of David who will rule. He cleansed the flesh Somebody read uh seven eleven for us. Think about this uh before we get into this. Go and proclaim these words towards the north and say, Return. You could translate it repent. The Lord allowed David to move that Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem. This is a message I have heard from him and announced to you that God is light. He goes, uh, we receive the gift of righteousness. I hadn't been saved that long. Somebody want to read verse 13. Um Yeah, I know we were talking about Hebrews 7. And this is the commentary right here. He has chosen Judah to be a leader, and in the house of Judah, my father's house. Again, he's he's gonna be uh Your throne shall be established forever. Now Zechariah is still operating under the Old Testament law. The law as it was for Israel, a specific people. And the wall, who dri who's who's driving the wall? David has established his house in Jerusalem Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. The problem it's i and here this this is what I'm trying to point out. That is the essence of it right there. He's gonna he's gonna have both. We believe that, right? Cast away from you all your transgressions which you have committed. My covenant I will not violate, nor will I alter my utterance The ultimate rest is in the Lord regardless of place or state of being. He establishes David's house. Before God allows a house to be built for His worship. If he's gonna rule and reign righteously, he's gonna have to follow God's law. And this is his name, which he will be called, the Lord our righteousness. Think about that. Because really, and it's our nature. That th this is the essence. Everybody knows Psalm 51, right? You don't do it. Nope, you're deceiving yourselves. God's the only one who gives us a heart. It's actually Hebrews eight. Caught in adultery, stone them. So let's read that verse so we don't just get away from the scripture. We could look at it. 2 Samuel 7:16. Anyone who does not have the Spirit is none of his. Well, you could say that's the royal law Fellowship with him and yet walk in the darkness. Uh I have one FS Bruce we studied, but Bruce is difficult, man. They cleanse the flesh so that they could approach That was only a picture of the fight He changed he he took that sin on himself. Uh w uh what a tremendous thought, really. So um So he has God even is defining this as a complete unit. They change so much. They never really went away from idol worship from Solomon. They had to go to that altar before they got inside the tent. You're not going anywhere if God's not there, right Of all my sons, for the Lord has given me many sons. You cannot make too big a deal of that. You walk in the light. It was a tutor. How can you say they they were kind of nomad uh nomadic, weren't they? End of chapter three. They will live on the land. It's sprinkled on the tabernacle in heaven for all of us. We get to go to the throne room of grace because our uh Right. And this is so important because it does set the the uh Right? And I said, Yeah. We you we perfect ourselves by walking in the spirit. Exactly the way I did it. Yeah, I could've pastored them because they didn't know anything, they didn't believe any of this. I'm good. Yeah. Remember we talked about that barit? He gave in his message about the cloak. The peace and state of permanence where David builds his house and plans to build a house for the Lord. Right? And that's that is the problem, because the law never saves. It's not uh I don't it's not really this I'm not kidding you But he did operate differently. Um Um be familiar with Hebrews three, he goes, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your heart. Right? I don't have it, but It's God centered. You want a commentary? All of sin to fall short of the glory of God. But the whole part about um We we don't see a lot of these things. What's driving this? I don't believe But uh We're only here for a while. Well, we pray is because things happen to us, happen to good people. So they're counting themselves as uh as a descendant of that. It's because God opened our heart to see it. I'm just gonna do a couple of verses 'cause I think he he he here's the comparison right here. So it is a s we don't control that, so we don't really comprehend it. Why will you die, O house of Israel? Then look at the transition he goes to we're gonna get into this a second. He was to be Mm-hmm. And if you read the Old Testament, what you say over and over, God said over and over again. You you immerse them as you can. And and of course the Holy Spirit is in you now. Y you were talking about the last verse in chapter eight and you you have to read all of chapter nine because it Because the Christ is better. Um Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord. Okay, yeah, and and that's kind of where and and I th and I think this is uh You don't perfect yourself by works. This is what this is my interpretation. Didn't wait on the Lord. Um You learn one He should have known better, he was a coatite. Psalm one hundred thirty two, eleven and twelve. And that's what he told Joshua. Or uh was was that one Herod Jewish? I guess just trying to figure out Predestination. Okay. This is Shoe, I believe it is. I'm not bad, right? But verse 13 looks beyond Solomon into the future when God's word says That's salvation, right? If you read the New Testament, you're honest. The result of walking in the light is cleansing. And now he wants us to be holy In chapter four he says, you need to enter my rest. So verse eleven. When how do you know Not the Holy Spirit, you're not saved. 1 John The church, we believe that uh the church is going to be taken away. Oh specifically Galatians? So he's gonna make him a great name. I think we we we see this, we see the house, we we we've seen this before Mm-hmm. Some places they will. Oh okay it's Hebrews. They weren't supposed to. He was diligent to uh Verse 12. Thus he will be a priest on his throne. What is the flesh? People who who uh God is holy. Right? We're looking for fruit. That's a good point. David's house, throne, and kingdom shall be established forever. David. This word here is cleanse. I will put my spirit inside of you. Isn't that what for uh uh first John says? Truth's not in us. As just as I have loathed you. And we saw the sp. I d and I and it's hard to pull the distinctions out what was the difference between the Old Testament but I should have it from my notes from last time. You know, they are comparing them still and If you break one of them, you break the law. Now therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David, thus saith the Lord of host. Right? Uh I'm just you know, drawing a plane. They would hate the other Jews. You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? Does anybody come to God on his own? These are different um What did he say to David? Who was driving that covenant? These and his word is not in them. It that's uh w the nation's kinda coming together here First Corinthians, second Corinthians, he talks about the people You get them interested in God's word. Remember Hebrews was written when the temple was still there Um I think we all wrestle with that a little bit, with the law. The cloak It took David a while to establish his kingdom. Yeah, he'll be forever. Study through that chapter. The king and the priest were. The Herods jump out. We lie and do not practice the truth. If I was doing this in the flesh, this would not work. Uh Saul killed his thousand, David his ten thousand. So Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law? And who is and who is driving that? So are we banning the law? So again we need to cling to that. They were supposed to be evangelists for God, but they didn't they didn't do it. You can see these other references if you want to look at this. So you say what's the and okay. Let's see, what do I have here? You've broken the law. Fruit of what? I mean I have Let's read that. It's God and the Holy Spirit. But it's it's always uh Uh again the Lord re uh Right. The old covenant It's it's um But uh Heavenly Father, Lord God The ha you wanna know what the hard part is? And he goes on. No, it's it's righteousness. Alright, he took D David from the pasture. And the Galatians says this, look. So this is where they break it up into moral He's broken down the dividing wall between He called it a covenant. It's all through there. Right? He kinda continued, right, because he said It was always faith. It's always been a problem. You know? It's catharizo. It's human responsibility. The spirit. We have something in common. They were in the wilderness. But it like um That's ultimately the rest. You understand that Whether it's more or That's the whole argument. But as I saw Christian believers I'm going, Okay, yeah. God's word gets them to a point where they're going And so it's written on your heart now. I mean again, uh And then again they had uh Well here's the contrast I think he might have That was his point. None is righteous. Debbie said it, First Peter It's tough reading, it's deep. But if we walk in the light, as he himself is You see what the different people say. No. Um I I uh obviously So this is what this whole this whole The spirit is changing our hearts. Um We're bringing it to a new level. These are probably unsaved people They were in Egypt. He he's got it under control now. No, not one. That's the whole It's not following the law. So that we don't So Galatians And that's the work. Uh Uh