All right, let me pray and we'll get started. Heavenly Father, we again are just grateful for today. We know that your mercies are new and fresh every morning Uh that you are holy, God, you are sovereign God, and so let us just rejoice in today. We are excited about our time of worship I'm excited about what you're going to teach us in this class. This is an important topic, a heavy topic, a self-inspection topic. And we need your wisdom and discernment, and we certainly need your indwelling of the Holy Spirit. So we give you all the glory today, and we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Um Pastor Gabe might have talked about this last week, but I would love to get your feedback. So anybody here go to the Ken Sandy conference we had last was it last weekend? Yeah. Yeah. All right, so a few. So Um give me some of your feedback. The good, the bad, the ugly, you can be transparent. Were there any nuggets that really stood out to you one way or the other? I was really um convicted it's the wrong word, maybe encouraged, admonished, um, how this central theme of the gospel kept coming back and the idea that we often I often thought of the gospel as That time when I'm saved, right? Someone shared the gospel with me. I heard the good news and I was saved. But how important that is for our sanctification. And I I think you're going to see it again and again today as we go through the lesson how important this idea of reminding ourselves of the gospel, right, in in the fundamental truths of the gospel and how that should drive our behavior day after day. Alright? So you're going to hear me bring that up again and again. But just a a central, central theme is the gospel. We are on lesson seven, page 43 in your your booklet. And We're on seven already and we really haven't talked about the other person, right? By design. So much of this has been on ourselves. And remember we talked about kind of those two core principles, right? We're looking at the heart in how we respond. That's the foundation of a lot of what we're doing. We talk about Matthew 7, examining the log in our own eyes. Right? That has to happen before you can even go and confront somebody. And then when we talk about confession, it started with what? A confession to God. Ultimately, our sin is first and foremost against God And then Pastor Gabe went through the seven A's of confession last week. And I'm curious, any of those jump out at you in your own personal lives Um as he went through those. Yes, Erica. No qualifiers, no and Isn't that a big one? Number two, avoid if, but, and maybe. Um, this is one that really jumped out to me. Well, let me pause. Eric, anything you want to pull on that or Yeah. Jen, you bring up a good point, right? The the butts of the maybes might actually be true. They they might be there, but that's not what you're doing here right when you're confessing, but it's so easy to fall into that trap. I mentioned Karina and I do a lot of counseling. That's often marriage counseling And what we're trying to draw them to at some point is to cultivate this spirit of asking for forgiveness. I mean, it's something that has to be brought back into their lives. Um and often we'll get to this point and we'll have them draft a letter of confession to each other. And we do that because by writing it out we get to look at it first. And and invariably when they we get the first draft the number twos are in there. You know, please forgive me for this, but if you wouldn't have said that and it's like stop. Right? It's so easy to fall into that trap. All right, anything else? For me it's um It's easier to no, I should I shouldn't say that. I it's harder for me to admit specifically. It's re it's I think is that prize, right? But the other thing is I accept easily the consequences because they have been really hard on me um for the things I Yeah. So I accepted it easily. Like this is what you get. You made this. But yet it's harder to admit Okay. Yep, that's good. Green, did you have something? I was just thinking about number one. Um I remember when the kids were little, it was so easy to just um sin against one of them in front of the whole group of them and um and I would have to ask every everybody's forgiveness for being angry or being harsh or whatever it was that I was front of the whole thing or embarrassing that child in front of everybody else especially. Yeah. Good. Yes, Randall. So related to two is number four. Um and I guess the the thing there is that Mr. Gabe said, acknowledge the reality of it without evaluating it, and it's really tempting to um say you shouldn't feel that way. Yeah. Or whatever. Yeah. It's really related to the two. Um to say, well, reality is Something I used to push back in the work world guess was perception is reality, but in this case it for that person it is very real. Yeah. So whether it should be or not is another question. But that really kind of spokes it up. Yeah, that's another great one where it requires a great deal of humility, right? Pridefully we might say, oh, you're just being too sensitive, right? Um but but that is their reality. Um six is an easy one, right? Right. It's a recognition of what you did, and and this is maybe the most important. What are you going to do specifically to alter your behavior, to repent to turn away from that sin. That needs to be part of the plan. So often in these letters we have people draft that needs to be part of it. You know, this is what I'm going to do differently Or please hold me accountable, right? When I speak this way to you, please let me know in a gentle way. Good. Alright, the seven A's. Anything else on the seven A's? Alright, so we're going to jump into our lesson today Um again this is about us. So the title, The Portrait of a Peacemaker. And I want you to think about about clothing yourself with this portrait. Right. We're going to talk through several attributes and I'll throttle it based on the timing of how quickly we go through those. And I would love as we go through if you have any specific examples of how this one might have impacted you or a case where you didn't do that well or you did it well, would love to hear that. I think that's the the benefit we'll get. But as we go through those, don't think of them as just a laundry list of character qualities Right, you're gonna see that these are m are important for the relationship, especially in the body, the church. Right? These are not just good internal qualities, these are things that are important for our relationships. But I want you to think about clothing yourself. with all of these attributes. Having looked at how to think about conflict and how to address our own contributions to conflict before we discuss confronting the other person there are some preliminary issues we need to understand. First among those is the reality that in order to respond in conflict in a way that glorifies God, remember that's our initial focus is to glorify God, we must be the kind of person that glorifies God. And we do that by clothing ourselves with the attributes that we're going to talk about today. If you have your Bible, either hard copy or on your phone, let's go to Colossians 3. Um two big chapter or verses we're going to be looking at is Colossians 3 and Ephesians 4. Colossians kind of a mini Ephesians 4. If you recall, Colossians and Ephesians were four of the what we call the prison Epistles written by Paul in his first imprisonment, which was really more of a house arrest. Uh what were the other two books? Starts with P. They start with P. Peter? Nope. Written by Paul. Philippians? Philemon. Right? So those four are are considered the uh little trivia. the prison epistles. Alright, let's go to Colossians 3. And you have it there up on the screen, but I think it's always good to be in the Word. Yeah, uh let's see what version I have up here, what translation. ESV. Oops. Put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience Bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other as the Lord has forgiven you, so that you also must forgive. Let me read a quote from uh the the resource that we're using here, pursuing peace. We will look at these Christ-like attitudes in this chapter, but before we do, let's see their overall connection to peacemaking. Paul continues, let the Peace of Christ rule in your hearts. This is in verse 15. Since as members of one body you were called to peace. So here Paul is making a reference to what? The body. So again, this is not just about internal qualities. This is about relationships in in the local church. In other words, the peace within the church envision in verse 15 flows from the grace attitudes pictured in verses 12-14. You see that Right, really important. But what does the peace in verse 15 involve? Based on the second part of the text, most commentators rightly see the peace as relational and corporate more than internal and individual That's what I really want you to take away from today's lesson, right? We can think of the qualities of an elder in uh 1 Timothy 3 and Titus 1 and in Those are qualities we all should be uh obtaining. But this list we're talking about is really to garner that peace in the local church. This is how we are to clothe ourselves, if you will. Another quote on 116. When we read lists of Christ-like qualities like Colossians 3, 12 to 14, it is vital to understand that these passages are not just inner character qualities or individual uh individualistic virtues, they are relational graces, part and parcel of what it means to live in relationship with others. In other words, they are not personal qualities per se But personal qualities display towards others. Okay? That's the theme I want you to get from today. Ephesians 4, let's just cover that real quick. Similarly, therefore, I, the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience. showing tolerances for one another in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. What is Ephesians 4, the main theme of Ephesians 4? Do you guys remember? It's unity in the body If you go and read it, that's the context. So again, this list is about producing unity, peace within the body, right? Again, relational. Alright, so here's the list of characteristics or attributes we're going to be talking about. And again, don't just think of them as character qualities, but more of actions. Verbs, things we should be doing. But before we get there, it's important to realize, take a look at how Paul begins these passages. So as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved. Ephesians four. Therefore I implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. Think about as you're clothing yourself, what's the first layer you're putting on? Salvation, you are a child of God, right? That's your starting point. That's the context. You are a child of God. Those words, be chosen of God Obviously not based on anything we have done, which allows us to absorb the mistreatment and injustice of others, because we are sealed, we are kept by God, chosen of God. Holy, what does it mean to be holy? Set apart. We are God's possession set apart for his good work and beloved, dearly loved, and nothing can separate us from the love of God. Where do we, what passage do we see that? Romans 8. Nothing can separate us from the love of God, right? This is the clothing you gotta start with. How Paul starts it. Who are you? Remember, I I often talk about we need to cultivate a really high view of God and a correct view of mankind, both in our sinful state, but But also as a child of God. Right? So that's how we're starting all of this. You know, in order to do any of these qualities we're going to talk about, you need the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. You cannot do that through your human strength. So that's the starting point. Far too often professing Christians have a works righteous theology in identity. While they say they are saved by grace, they live and think as though they are saved by works. They work to obtain God's favor, forgiveness, or sense of adequacy. We've all been there, I'm sure, right, where you start to drift. You start to drift to this works-pace mentality. And what I would encourage you, go back to the gospel. That's why we need the gospel in our lives each and every day. That's how we're going to clothe ourselves. Who are we in Christ? And you can see the list here. We have been rescued from Satan's kingdom. We have been redeemed from the penalty of sin, right? Justified before a holy God. We have been reconciled. That was the big um angst that we had. We were not we were separated from God and now we are reconciled. We have been recreated in holiness. We are new creatures. We have been reserved for heaven, sealed by the Holy Spirit, it says in Ephesians 1, and we have been recommissioned to serve Christ. We have a new mission, don't we, as new creatures? Right, these are wonderful truths that we need to remind ourselves each and every day. It is so easy to get bombarded by the world and what the world is telling us, right? What people around us, secular people are telling us And as Christians, as the body, we need to be encouraging people with these truths, right? Who we are in Christ. These are accomplished realities. They have happened These are what is true about us apart from anything we have done, are doing, or will do, and these are true about us no matter what others have or can do to us, in it out of these realities that the following qualities can be exhibited in our lives Even more specifically, we are to exhibit the following characteristics, not only because of what God has done for us, but because this is how God has treated us itself. That's an important message of the gospel, is it not? When we think of these attributes, we have to remember this is how God treats us. That's our starting point. Hard to do though, isn't it? Back to the gospel. All right, so let's jump into the list. Again, my goal is to we'll go through these Talk about 'em. I would love to hear if something pops out at at maybe a a circumstance or an experience that um you dealt with this um firsthand, would love to hear that. That'd be very, very helpful. Alright, so what Gabe did, um he uses this V DAG. It's a theological dictionary and it stands for some guy's name, I think. So that's what that is. But I I want to I guess flow that with some of the definitions that come from the book because I think they're good and reinforcing. So that's kind of the format we're going to use here Right, so uh compassion. According to one theological dictionary called the B Dag, compassion is a a display of concern over one another's misfortune. It is often translated mercy or pity. Compassion though is not just a feeling. It is a feeling that leads to action. The definition here in the book, compassion, is that inward, deeply felt emotional response of pity for a suffering person, coupled with a desire to alleviate that suffering. So what do we have here? Really, you you have an awareness, and that's step one. Just have an awareness that someone is suffering, right? You have pity on that person, and the third step is you actually act on it. How many of us in here are compassionate people? We all need to be, right? Um my precious wife, this is just a gift of hers. She can walk into a room and quickly discern when someone's not doing well. And and she gets pity and she acts on it Now me as her husband, I gotta throttle her back sometimes, right? But but it just comes natural to her. And it's just this keen awareness, like I said. Now, you may not be gifted in that way, but are we all called to act that way Absolutely. Absolutely. A couple verses there, Matthew 9, 13. But go and learn what this means. I desire compassion and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous but sinners So think about that. You know, God's saying, I don't want your sacrifices, I want your compassion. And that is not only having awareness, having pity, but acting down in Nehemiah 931, nonetheless In your great compassion you did not make an end of them or forsake them, for you are a gracious and compassionate God. Again, these are qualities of God our Father. You know, had had pity on us, he acted. Matthew four. When he went ashore he saw a large crowd and felt compassion for them And what did he do? And healed their sick. Right? Again, you see Jesus again and again acting on that compassion. So, what is remarkable about the compassion of God is that the sad condition of mankind did not come about because of circumstances outside their control. No, our sorry state is the direct result of our own sin and rebellion against God. And despite the severe personal offense we committed against him, God showed and continues to show compassion towards us. If they have sinned against God infinitely more than they have sinned against us, and he can show compassion on them, How can we not do the same? Right? So that goes uh again to this idea of clothing yourself with compassion and you're like, Lord, but do you know what they did to me? Do you know how they hurt me? How could I possibly show compassion to them? What's the gospel message? You were the same way in front of a holy God, and yet He showed compassion on you. Alright, any thoughts on compassion? That's the question I just asked. Okay Alright, let's go to kindness. Do what? Do you have a raised hand? Yes, please. Um yeah, now if you um 913, the word compassion, um, I try to replace the definition you gave into that verse It doesn't quite fit because it just doesn't quite fit. Can you help me make it make sense? Because it's sort of equating compassion with sinners. Lawrence give me the the verse again? Yeah, just uh Matthew nine thirteen. Matthew, hold on. And it said I desire compassion and it comes to sinners. So I'm trying to Oh I just read it, sorry That is a compassion and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners. So obviously he came to save the lost. Right? Um but I have to study I understand your question. Anyone want to help out with that, Kareem? Yeah. Um and they their righteousness, their standing before God was based on their works, he wanted their works to be works of mercy and compassion rather than bringing a lamb just bringing a lamb or a tithe to him. And so the righteous in this sense, the Pharisees versus sinners, people who like the text Collector and the Pharisees praying. That I think that's the kind of scenario we've got here where he's referring to the righteous as the Pharisees and the sinner as the penitent um sincere compassionate, showing true mercy, that's I think what he's referring to here. Yeah, that's that's that's perfect. Go back to verse 10. It says, and as Jesus reclined at the table in the house, behold many tax collectors and sinners came. and were reclining with Jesus and his disciples. And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? Right? They were being self-righteous. But when he heard it he said, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick, go and go and learn what this means. I desire mercy and not sacrifice. He was condemning their self-righteousness as Karin was saying. Right? And what I truly am after is not these acts of of self-righteous sacrifice, but true compassion, true mercy, and acting on that. Yes So this seems like the classic illustration of uh of like the heart versus the outward. Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. I don't know if you heard that. This is this is classical of what's going on in the heart, right? And that's what we talked about, foundational. He was condemning the Pharisees because their heart was self-righteous. And we we talked about it when we talked about Matthew 7. When Jesus says, do not judge, what he's getting after there is a critical self-righteous spirit. That's how the Pharisees were acting. Good. Alright, on to kindness. Kindness is one of the fruit of the Spirit, is uprightness in one's relations with others, the quality of being helpful or beneficial. Kindness is doing the right thing in the right way for the benefit of the other person. And then the definition in the book here. Kindness means showing mercy and doing good even to people who do not deserve it or who deserve the opposite. I think that's important. And it's easy, like I said, right, to to maybe have the opposite um attitude, if you will. That's the last time I do him a favor. Enough is enough This relationship is over. No one will do that to me again. After all I've done, this is the thanks I get. Right? That's our natural sinful secular attitude. that we are asked to counter with kindness. And again, it's usually against people who deserve quite the opposite. And it might be true that they treated you very, very wrongly. And yet we are to respond in kindness. Luke six But love your enemies and do good and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High For he himself is kind to ungrateful and evil men. I'll go back to uh some of the counseling we do. It's unfortunate But there are times when the spouses it it's like you're living with your enemy. And this is the counsel we have to give sometimes. Find ways to be kind, even in the midst of that trial and that tribulation, that hardship Find ways to be tenderhearted. You heard Ken Sandy say something very similar at the conference we had. I won't read all those passages, but all three of these passages explicitly say that God's kindness was expressed to sinful, evil, wicked sinners. Scripture does not say that God is kind to those who are kind, but his kindness is displayed in all its glory towards those who don't deserve it. What is that? It's the gospel message. Again We were not kind to God. We were hostile, it says in Romans 3, and yet he showed his kindness. To say that God is kind is to say that God comes to those least deserving. and meets their greatest need. If he has done that for us, we sh should we not meet the needs of those around us, regardless of whether they deserve it. Right? This is not about Your circumstances, this is not about how the other person is responding. It's kind of an unconditional response, isn't it? To act in kindness. Why? Because that's how our Heavenly Father acted towards us. The peacemaker is someone who, like their father, is kind to those with whom they are in conflict and meets real and practical needs. Romans 12. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him, and if he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in doing so you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome evil, but overcome evil with good Again, it's extremely unfortunate that sometimes relationships get to this state, especially in a marriage, that's supposed to represent Christ in the church. And yet, even in the midst of that We are to display kindness. Yeah, I don't know if you guys heard that. You know, 1 Peter 3 is is a verse we often take couples to, right? And it's specifically talking about how the wives can win over their husbands How? With words? No, with their behavior. Simply with their behavior. Um, I'm trying to think. So Ken Sandy, we had lunch, the elders had lunch with him during the conference, and he shared a story of an elder and a pastor that just got in this This terrible disagreement. Um and and they were, you know, uh not reconciled, they were split for for a long time. And this elder got some advice, I think it was from Ken, to just go do an act of kindness. And he felt the Lord was putting on his heart, go to the the pastor's house and wash his windows. He just got that again and again. Now, Ken will admit he's not like someone who You know, we hear things from the Lord, but sometimes we get that just that impression on our heart to go do something. And so he said, All right, I'm gonna go do it. So he showed up at the pastor's house and rang the doorbell and the pastor's like, What are you doing here? He says, the Lord told me to wash your windows. You wash my windows, I'm going to call the cops. And he's like, you do what you want, but I'm going to go wash your windows. So he starts washing his windows, you know, always looking over his shoulder, waiting for the cops to show up. Never did. And as he worked himself around the house he could see the pastor kind of following him along He got to the end out on the the back deck and the the pastor opened the door. He had a plate with sandwiches on there and a couple Cokes. They sat down at the table And that started a reconciliation process simply by just that act of kindness from that elder. Right? So don't under underestimate the power of our actions. Well he gave a similar example as well with him and another pastor friend who has ghosted him for a couple of years. That's right. And they're not able to reconcile and he said He found a piece of article about tax exempt or something using it and shared it. He said that's the only time he said thank you back, like a two-word. Yeah So and so that that that draw it's still in play, we don't know what's gonna happen. Maybe next time he'll have a resolution for that. You know, not to be manipulative, of course, but but the power of an act of kindness can really, you know, draw down the defenses that have been put up You know, we get gridlocked, we go to our corners, and nothing's gonna we need a catalyst to change that that scenario, and often it's an act of kindness. Good. Yes. So related to the enemy that God calls us to invest in our enemy. Right. So these these couple examples are examples of how we do it. They may not be specified in God's Word to do that, wash the windows, sure. information yeah right but these are things that we want to do and we're doing it out of the motivation of love. Right. To glorify God, right? Go back to the the main purpose. Yeah, that's a great um point, Brian, is that this is the practical application. It looks very different for every scenario Um, you know, let's go to the marriage relationship again. Unfortunate, right, if if you get to a situation where your spouse is is your enemy, and yet what's the Lord saying? Find that act of kindness that you can do, right? Searching your heart first. Always starting with your heart first. Good. Alright, humility. To be humble literally means to be low. There are many senses in context in which one can be humble, financial, social influence, servitude, etc. , as we relate to God, to be humble means to think of ourselves rightly from God's perspective. We are made in God's image and thus have inherent dignity and worth, but we are sinners, and thus there is no place for pride or haughtiness. Let me read the definition from the book. Humility means recognizing that all you have comes from God and that you are absolutely dependent on Him as both your creator and your Redeemer. God dwells with the humble, esteems And highly values the humble, walks with the humble, justifies and exalts the humble, and gives them grace. You see the passage there in James, but he gives a greater grace. Therefore it says God is opposed to the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord, and he will exalt you. So I I think I relayed in this class the the dishwasher story, right? Where where I got a little a little bit uptight because my my needs were not being met and talked very poorly to another person made in the image of God. Right? And I had to humble myself that this is a person made in the image of God and and this is a silly first world problem. Right? And had to ask for forgiveness. Any comments, questions on humility? There's nothing more humbling than having to apologize to yourself. Amen, Jessa. Um and yet what a great opportunity to present the gospel as well. Right? The these tender little hearts that are are being brought up in the ways of the Lord For the grown-up, the person they see as the standard, right, to humble themselves to say, you need to forgive mommy, you need to forgive daddy. So, so powerful. And yet it does take a great amount of humility. So great example. Good. As we relate to others, humility means to Think of others as more important than ourselves, regardless of the position we may hold relative to the other person. And this is where we see God exemplifying humility. You guys know the passage, Philippians 2 but so so powerful we go back to the example that Jesus always gives us. Do nothing from selfish or empty conceit, but with humility of mind. Regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests. That doesn't mean you have to give up all your personal interests, right? But first and foremost you're thinking of the other person. But also for the interests of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped. But emptied himself, taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. I can remember um teaching church history last quarter and you know we we go through these periods of history where people were struggling with um the full humanity of Christ. Yes, fully God and yet fully human. And this is that's important because this is the example he set. He was up there from eternity past with God. He was one of the three persons of the Trinity, equal in essence and being. And yet he humbled himself when he came down and took on fully man. This idea of emptying himself is really to just set aside some of his godly qualities for a time. Think of some of the omnis. Right? He didn't give them up, he was still fully God, but he set those aside to take on human form, all part of God's redemptive plans Again, all part of the gospel. Question for us since Jesus has done that for you, is there any level that you are unwilling to stoop to for the sake of a person you're in conflict with? I would love to hear if there are any examples that you guys can think of in your own life where you had to do this. Jesse, you brought up one, right, with parenting. It'd be easy to say, I am the parent Right? Even though I did wrong, I am the parent. No. Perfect example to humble yourself and show the gospel. So that's a great one. All right. Gentleness. Gentleness can also be translated meekness. It is not the idea of weakness or frailty. Gentleness in Scripture is exhibited by those with power, influence, and strength toward those who are weak, poor, and vulnerable. The focus of gentleness, meekness is the attitude and manner in which we interact with others Someone has uh oh let me read this uh Jesus was not a weak man, yet he said of himself, I am a gentle, I am gentle and humble in heart Someone has observed that this is the only place in the gospel records where Jesus describes his inner character. I thought that was interesting. I have not verified that, but I'll assume it's true. As I regularly remind men in our definition of manhood does not feature humility and gentleness as central, if it does not, then it is sub-Christian. That lesson doubles for men who are Christian leaders At his core, the greatest leader who walked this earth was gentle and humble. Precious. Think about this. When God interacts with us, he is not harsh, mean, overbearing, crushing, or sharp. He is gentle. This gets back to cultivating a really high view and a correct view of who God is, especially as his child. We all bring different experiences from our past. You know, fathers, we play a big role in demonstrating who God is. And some of you may have experiences that are not good. Maybe you had a harsh father, maybe you had an abusive father. You now have a loving, kind, gentle God that loves you. And even though you had that experience, the truth is that's the God that we have. Not harsh, mean, overbearing, crushing or sharp. You know, convicting again, bringing in the parenting. Um there were times when I was harsh. Right? You get tired, you get exhausted, you're getting selfish, and the way you speak to your children, it's just downright harsh. And just like you said, I gotta go back and I have to ask for forgiveness. Right? And hopefully over time the sanctifying process. But it goes back to, is that how the Lord treats me? Right? And can you speak without harshness? Absolutely. Why? Because we have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. I like the passage there in Isaiah forty two. Behold, my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry out or raise his voice, nor make his voice heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break In a dimly burning wick he will not extinguish. He will faithfully bring forth justice, he will not be disheartened or crushed until he has established justice in the earth. And the coastlands will be uh will wait expectantly for his law. So we obviously see Jesus in examples where Um he had to be uh harsh is probably the wrong word because he never sinned, but pretty pretty bold with the Pharisees, right, and some of those that were supposed to be leading these people, equipping these people, protecting these people Never sinning though, but towards his children. Yes, he disciplines us, he admonishes us, he reproves us, but it's in gentleness. The passage in Proverbs 15 ties to that. A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. Right, often you know in our conflicts and uh Kareem just said sometimes we get to those defensive postures and what can a gentle response do I can break those down and give you an opportunity to really reconcile, to really get at the heart of a matter. Um good question here for all of us. In what ways do you personally struggle with gentleness in the midst of conflict? Identify those areas, seek forgiveness, and be intentional about reversing those habits. I won't um ask you to share examples, but again, parenting, see that all the time. In the marriage relationship, all the time, our word should be one of gentleness, with all humility and gentleness, with patience. showing tolerance for one another in love. And that is our next category, patience. One of my strong suits. Patience, very simple, is the prolonged restraint of anger. And we'll compare and contrast uh the next one, forbearance here in a second. But um I think the The uh book here kind of contrasts them basically patience is kind of that short-term uh forbearance as a a longer term patience or um uh Um bearing up, if you will. Patience is prolonged restraint of anger. Several New Testament Greek terms can be translated as patience. One term connotates endurance under trial And perseverance amid hardship. But Colossians 3:12 uses a different term that primarily concerns relational patience, being long-suffering, long-fused, and long-tempered Towards those who irritate us. Right? That's the caveat here with this word patience. Those who irritate us And we all have those people in our lives. You might be that person to somebody else. Your quirkiness, your whatever it is, might just be irritating. Right? And we have to practice patience, that long suffering. God's patience towards us is seen in the fact that He does not rain down on us the just punishment for our sins the first time we sin, or the second time, or the third time, or the fourth, or the fifth, or the hundredth, or the thousandth. Right? Um that's how it could be But he doesn't do that. That's how we are supposed to act towards others. Um there's the great parable of the two slaves in Matthew eighteen, twenty one through thirty five. And you guys know all the story, right? You had the king and the slave comes uh to him, he's like The debt is due. And he owned ten thousand talents, I think it. And that is equivalent to millions, if not billions, of dollars in today's monetary system. Right, an enormous amount of money. And the slave pleads, give me more time. And what does the king do? He didn't just give him more time. He forgives the entire debt. You're done The slave goes out rejoicing, and his servant comes to him and owes him a hundred denarii, which is a few dollars relative. And what does he do? He throws them into prison. Obviously the parable there is that's what Jesus, that's what God did for us, and yet we turn around for something, the speck in our brother's eye, and we hold them accountable. Right? That's what's happening here That's the patience that we have to have. All right. Contrast that with forbearance. This idea encompasses a number of words, such as bearing with one another, putting up with others Enduring, putting up with others, enduring and tolerating. There is significant overlap between forbearance and patience, but the difference can be summed up as patience being more related to short-term and changeable situations, whereas forbearance is more related to long-term and fixed solutions. And this is where they brought up uh in the same way we are to tolerate the idiosyncrasies that people have. Social awkwardness, mannerisms, learning challenges, preferences, etc. Some people struggle to grasp biblical truth more than others. Some struggle to trust in the Lord when hard times hit. We should not get fed up with people in their weakness, but tolerate and bear with them. This is especially true in the local church, in the body of Christ. I hate to say it, but there are people in this church, right, that you deal with that that irritate you It happens. God has has made us just unique, each and every one of us, and yet we are to treat them with forbearance. And again, remember, you might be that irritant. You might be that socially awkward person. Well show yourself forbearance. It's all good. It's all good. Um love again the passage in Ephesians 4, with all humility and gentleness with patience. Showing tolerance for one another in love. Again, don't forget what we're doing here. We're clothing ourselves with these qualities, first and foremost, for unity in the body, how we are to treat each other in the body of Christ. All right, good. A forgiving spirit. Paul's preferred word for forgiveness comes from the same root word as grace. In the New Testament, it's the least common word for forgiveness, the most common being that word, which focuses on the releasing of the debt. Uh charizomai has more a focus on the character person or the nature of the act of forgiveness that arises out of a gracious heart and a gracious act. Unlike what some claim God didn't become a forgiving God in the two New Testament. So they're saying there that God didn't um he wasn't a harsh God in uh the Old Testament and then he became a forgiving God. He's always been a forgiving God Right again, cultivating a high view of God, understanding all of his attributes at one time. Yes, he is a just God, he is a righteous God, because he is a holy God And yet he is a loving and forgiving. We see in Exodus 34. Then the Lord passed by in front of him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord God, compassionate and gracious. slow to anger, and abounding in loving kindness and truth, who keeps loving kindness for thousands, who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin, yet he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished Visiting the iniquity of fathers on the children and on the grandchildren to the third and fourth generation. So again, yes, just, righteous. His wrath must be um appeased, if you will. And again, that is the gospel message. Psalm 130, if you Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But there is forgiveness with you that you may be feared. Again, Old Testament passages of a forgiving God, all part of his redemptive plan. And the parable we just talked about of the two slaves, right, in Matthew 18. That's what this is all about, right? That parable of how God forgave us is uh the example we should be setting. Right, let's move on to the last one. Love. Love wraps it all up, doesn't it? Right? It's the the quality that will uh hope, faith, and love, and what remains is love. Right, when we get to glory. Love is the commitment to use your energy, your time, your resources and abilities for the benefit of another person. It is not primarily a feeling, though it involves feeling. It is not primarily romantic, though it can involve romance. Love is others-centered, not self-centered. Go with me. You are familiar with the passage, but let's go there. 1 Corinthians 13. Starting in verse 4. 1 Corinthians 13, starting in verse 4. Love is patient and kind. Love does not envy or boast. It is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way. It is not irritable or resentful. It does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. We had a couple that we were counseling, and the husband said I do not love my wife in front of the wife. Can you imagine hearing those words? I do not love my wife. What he was saying though is I don't have these feel I don't have those romantic feelings for my wife Tragic, but what do we have to do? You gotta bring them back. What is the biblical definition of love? I just read it to you. 1 Corinthians 13, 4 through 7. It's not primarily feelings, it's not primarily romantic, it's actions. And so we talked a lot about that. And what you're doing is trying to cultivate this biblical definition of love. And what we were able to show them both is they were often displaying love to each other in their actions and in their behavior, in their words. Yes, there were things that needed to be worked on. There was lots of sin going on, but they were loving each other. And so we use that as an encouragement. Again, you're trying to cultivate that So that by practicing that, then the feelings come, then the romance come. But that's not primarily the foundation of love in the Bible. Does that make sense? That's a really important point. 1 Corinthians 13. John 3. 16, right familiar, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. This love, this agape kind of love is an unconditional, it's an act. It's not because God had He was just He loved us so much and He had this tender feeling for us, right? He was acting For his glory, but it was the kind of love I just talked about in 1 Corinthians 13. That's the kind of love we need to start with. I think I've read all that. All right, we'll bring this to a conclusion. All right, so we talked about eight character traits of peacemakers. And again, this is if you want to be a peacemaker, and we are all called to be peacemakers In our families, in our relationships, but especially in the church, we need to be clothed with these qualities: compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience, forbearance, forgiving spirit, and love. Some of these are listed in Galatians 5, 22, 23, where we have the fruit of the Spirit. But all of these are the character of God which He produces in our life as we seek Him. So the the question is when you look at that list, um let me go back to the list as we bring this to a close and and maybe have a discussion here. When you look at the this list, are there any that pop out to you that boy I really need to work on this one? Right? And I'm sure we all have a couple on that list Some, like I mentioned, some people I think just have a gifting in some of these areas to show compassion or kindness or love even. Some it may be harder. This is all part of the sanctifying process though, isn't it? Right? Again Clothe as a child of God. That's the first layer you're putting on. And we need the Holy Spirit to help walk us through to grow in these attributes. And so let's talk about, you know, Colossians talk about this and Ephesians 4 does too. This kind of formula, if you will, to put off the old self, renew your mind, and put on the new self. Remember we talked about you are new creatures in Christ Jesus Right? This is how we're supposed to be acting. We're supposed to put off that old self. And that happens overnight, right? It's a lifelong journey. But hopefully, what you're seeing is progression. You need to be examining yourselves as a child of God Because you want to be progressing more and more into the image of Christ. That's what sanctification does, right? So we need to be growing. Use your spouse To hold you accountable. How am I doing in these areas? Right? I I mentioned just the harshness I would have sometimes toward our children. And just the graciousness of prayer and being held accountable and the sanctification right of of that lessening and lessening over time, asking for forgiveness, humbling ourselves. Any thoughts on this? Can I share something? Yes, please. This is also a practice for me sharing my testimony which I will be having to do in Colombia, I'm sure. One of the hardest things here keeps coming up is uh forgiveness. I know I've talked about it some of you that know me pretty well No, I struggled with that area and I was really bitter for a long time. And, you know, I felt like vi a victim of what happened. And I kept asking and searching and pleading with God to take that pain and give me that forgiveness and I just couldn't read enough about forgiveness. I remember when I came to this church asking Pastor Gaby one of the classes, but when am I gonna feel it? When is that going to like poof Yeah and feel it. And I can't remember what he said, but I kept reading materials and praying really hard to God and saying, Father, I forgive this person. I forgive this person. I kept saying it when I woke up when ideas came to my head and because I would flip. One day I'd be really happy and said I'd forgive it, and other days I'd be like, uh right when the memories would would flutter. So my point is this I really did forgive. I don't have bitterness, I don't have that purpose. Amen. And what I I think what I really wanted was that asking for that forgiveness. I think what I was really pleading is for this person to come to me on their knees and say, Forgive me. That you know, it's been six years. It hasn't happened. It probably never happened. But I forgive him. And sometimes I say, you know, if th I get that opportunity I'll say, I forgave you a long time ago. Yeah. But again There's other things on this list that I'm working on, like patience and gentleness. And that applies to my parents, specifically to my mama. So And you know, I have to l and I've learning to just shut my mouth is very hard to just dip it. Yeah. And that's not that's not the old Guadalupe would Yep No, it's it's really hard, but I feel good after if that makes sense. Absolutely. You did good, I know that was hard. You have an up another opportunity to talk to mom and bring your point. Yep With low tones. Yep. Great examples. Great, great examples. We're gonna talk next week about forgiveness. Um in Guadalupe like you're talking about, just it's a it's a state It's really uh it's an action versus a feeling first and foremost, and we'll talk through what that looks like. But great, great examples. Good. Love it. What else? When when Lords when you are without sin And you can get angry without sinning. Remember the heart and the response. It's the response I'm worried about. Back to the heart. So man, if you get to that point, let me know. Let me let me close with this. I I have some homework for you and I get to teach next week, so I get to follow up on it. Um in that vein, Sean, remember how we started this, yes, these are internal qualities that we should continue to excel in. But the benefit, the purpose is for the relationship, especially in our church. We should be different Our community should see something different when they look at Hope Bible Church. So I want you to answer this question. Think of your local church or your small group, which of the qualities discussed above on the chart here Does your church or group as a whole tend to demonstrate well? And which ones not so well? I'll look for your feedback next week. Let's pray. Father, we love you. We thank you. What wonderful, wonderful truths This is hard to do, though, Lord. And yet we rest in you. We rest in the peace of Jesus Christ that surpasses understanding. His yoke is easy and his burden is light. Let us just be filled with the Holy Spirit, controlled, yielding to the Holy Spirit Growing, being sanctified more and more in the image of Christ. I pray for everyone here. I pray for our local church here that we would continue to grow and be peacemakers that we would grow and excel still more in our relationships with one another, and that you would be glorified. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.