Oh Heavenly Father, we are excited to be here this morning simply because your mercies are new and fresh every morning, because you're a holy God, you're a sovereign God. We are made in your image, and because of that we are relational beings. You've created us that way And yet because we live in a fallen world and and we uh move towards a propensity of sin, uh oftentimes those relationships are are broken by conflict and other issues. And so we're excited to understand your biblical framework for relationships and how to pursue peace and joy, ultimately bringing you all the glory. So we pray for wisdom, discernment. Uh maybe you're going to share some things with us this morning that we have never really thought of, Lord. So I pray that we would have teachable hearts, because again our goal is to glorify a holy God. We thank you and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, I snuck in um a couple slides. These are Gabe's uh slides, but I had to sneak in the family photo just because I love to show the family photo. Um for those so for those who don't know me, Christopher Green, my wife Green is in the back there, but we have seven children, six girls, and the last one was a boy, and it just turned out that way. We weren't trying for a boy Um you'll see another man in there, that's my son-in-law. So this uh picture is taken from a couple years ago, a wedding. My second oldest daughter, Erin, got married out in California, and that's what this pictures from. We were a military family, so we moved all over the country, um the world even, deployed to uh or or stationed in Germany for a short time. So we've had quite an adventure and it's been just a ton, ton, ton of fun. I I show you this picture, number one, just to introduce, two because I love to show my family. And and three, um we are talking this whole concept about relationships, about conflict resolution. When you put nine people together in a family, what could go wrong? What could go wrong? Right? These are these are all individual people that by God's grace have been saved and yet we still sin. And so working through those conflicts, um those relationships, I mean is just a sanctifying um environment for the Green family. Now, having said that, I I would say this. Uh I would characterize this not as a contention. Family. I can say that boldly by the grace of God. Does conflict happen? Absolutely. Absolutely. Right? So I highlight this because this is a really important part of my life And my sanctification process. I often joke that marriage and children are the great sanctifiers. But it's true, right? We we are asked, um, especially the marriage relationship, two individuals to come together as one with different backgrounds and opinions and desires and to try to per pursue peace and joy Right? That is a sanctifying event that happens each and every day. But it's a glorious one. I I say this and I'll say it again. I am the man I am today because of this sanctification And that's a blessing. I say that as a blessing. So grateful. Alright? So very important part of my life. The other thing I want to share Little story is uh let me ask this. How how many of you are counselors in the room? Raise your hand. Trick questions Everyone, raise your hand. You are all counselors. Why? Because you have the capability, the command to minister God's word. God's sufficient inspired word. We get that from 2 Timothy, don't we? So this whole idea though of there are things you can do to pursue I'll call it more certified biblical counseling, right? Through ACBC we have that process here. And what I would say it's not about the certificate, it's about the equipping that happens Now, I will share this with you. My wife Corinne has had this passion vision of being a biblical counselor since the kids were two or three. Right? But the season of life is just never allowed the opportunity to pursue that from a certification standpoint. Like I said, we're always counselors. And you guys gotta think about yourselves as that way. You have the Bible, you've been equipped to minister God's word for people's life issues, for conflict resolution. Right? You've been empowered to do that. But anyway, so she's had this vision for a long, long, long, long time. And I was always like There's no way I can do that. Right? I'm not empathetic enough to really deal with people's issues. That was my pro my thought process So season life goes by, the children are adults, we end up moving here, and guess what? We have a a church that that um is very involved in ACBC and puts on training for it to start that process, right? And we're like Wow, this is great. This is an answer from the Lord. So Crean obviously very excited to start to pursue that. She has the time now. So we start with the fundamentals class, which is going on right now, four weekends I encourage you all to take that if you haven't, because it's applicable to everybody. But so I said, hey, I'm going to take that with her because It's good, right? Everyone is equipped, everyone is edified by taking these classes. And man, I just got the hook in me. Right? I am so passionate about it now. Um and I'll tell you why in a second But the the real blessing is I get to do that with my wife now. So it's a season of life where we have often done ministry, but it's it's yes we serve as a family, but we're often off doing different things, you know Um but this season of life now we get to do that together and it is a huge, huge blessing. But here's the difference. Here's what changed in my mind. Biblical counseling, it's not about, yes, there's empathy involved, but that's not the root of it Right? It's ministering God's word. And when you see lives change because you are ministering the power of God's word. How can you not be affected by that? I mean, that's why I'm so passionate about it because I've seen lives being transformed. Okay? So just wanted to share that. That's a big part of who I am, and I love my family And of course love my wife. Alright, another um group that I am heavily involved with is the elders, the pastors. And I share this group with you because throughout the class when I'm here I will probably be sharing examples from my family and this group of hoodlums up here. Now let me Let me tell you, it is um an absolute blessing um to serve alongside these men, to be called and have this incredible heavy responsibility to to be a shepherd over this flock to to equip you all, to feed you, to be fed by you, and to protect you. Um but these are all men that come from different backgrounds, we have different opinions, we are doctrinally aligned, but we are pursuing unity in how we shepherd the flock. And and there can be tension with that. You'll hear me talk about this. My wife laughs at me. I call it healthy tension. Sometimes it's good to have a little bit of tension to really solve out and nug out problems Okay, we'll talk a little bit more about that. But to be a part of a group that that recognizes our sinful nature and yet is purposeful about trying to be unified, how does this best glorify God? Right, that's a big part of my life now. Spend a lot of time with these guys. On Thursday mor Thursday um evening, once a month, we get together and have our elders meeting. We just had that past Thursday. We start at six o'clock, we have dinner together and it's just kind of a time of fellowship and then we jump into the meeting at seven and we can be there till eleven. And you're thinking, good golly, that doesn't sound like fun at all. None of us like the meeting, but I get so jazzed up getting ready to go to this elders meeting because I I am with Godly, God-fearing men that want the best for this flock, they want the best on how to glorify God. That is a blessing. To be a part of that group and making decisions for the church in that regard. So I wanted to share this group, number one, because I love them, they're my brothers, but it's a big part of who I am, and I will probably share some examples throughout of course on things that we work through as we work through um this material. That makes sense? Okay. All right, enough introductions. Good golly. All right, we are on page eleven in your book. It's week number two. And let me start with so so what Gabe Pastor Gabe did last week was a lot of preparatory, right, a lot of definitions. And I I wanted to bring these back up because I think it's important to go back to kind of foundationally what's happening. And here's what I would tell you. The first several um lessons are all about building a foundation, a framework on how we think about conflict. specifically conflict today, that's what we're going to be talking about. How do we frame it? How do we think about it? So, so important to change our thinking from a worldview to a biblical view, right? And you might be shocked by some of the things we talk about, but I think it's going to be extremely helpful. And obviously it starts with some definitions. What do we mean when we say peace, conflict, and reconciliation? So peace, again, a state of well-being, harmony, and love, driven by unity in desires, goals, and purposes. Again, we see this common theme of desires, goals, and purposes. So conflict then is a state of impaired thinking and relationships. Yes, you're going to have a difference of opinion. I showed the elder group, right? We have differences of opinion because we come from different backgrounds, we have different ideas The idea here, though, is this impaired thinking or impaired relationships because those desires, goals, purposes don't align Okay? That that's really key here. Peace is having um relative unity, I'll call it. There are times when as elders we don't necessarily agree a hundred percent, but it's not enough to cause us to say stop. It's I'm okay with that, right? There's still unity. So we'll walk through some of that because that's important in all of our relationship. Okay, so any thoughts about definitions that you covered last week from from Pastor Gate? That is in your notebook. I think it's page four if we need to go back to that. But understanding those differences is really important, right? Unity or preference, if you will, towards the other person versus conflict, where you have this impaired thinking. Or impaired relationships. That's the key there. So really what we want to do today is is think differently about conflict, or really reframe our minds about what we think about conflict So what I was trying to say is the first couple lessons are really building a foundation. You see Paul do this often in the epistles. He will um start the first half of the epistles as more about doctrine. Here's what God's truth says Then what does he shift to? The second half of the epistle is how do we apply it? How do we take God's truth and now apply it to our life? This is a class that is just perfect to walk through practical application. So I'm hoping we will have some discussion throughout throughout the the quarter, if you will. Pastor Gabe mentioned though, let's be very gracious and and um alert, if you will, about sharing some of those examples. We want to be very gracious, we don't want to shame anybody, embarrass anybody. So most of the examples from my family will be things that I did wrong um or if I get uh permission from someone to share something else. But we we just want to be very careful of that. That is not the intent here. But I do encourage conversation because the practical application can be so helpful to hear from from others. Alright, so we're going to start with what causes conflicts. And if if you guys can take anything away from this class today Two major points is I want you to rethink when when conflict happens, I want you to immediately build a discipline in yourself to think think through it. Why am I feeling this way? What causes what is causing that conflict? Right? So instead of reacting to it, your reaction is first to think, okay, let's what's going on here? What's going on? And it's two pieces, in your heart and in your response. You're gonna hear me say that again and again and again. That is foundational. What's going on in the heart and how are you responding? Okay So what causes conflicts and then how I should think about a conflict we'll go through these um in more detail and then some questions at the end And if um if I'm not keeping up with uh the slides here, you guys just let me know because there's a there's a lot of stuff here Alright, so what causes a conflict? That's where we're at right now. And you see the four listed here. So let's just go through some of those. Doctrinal differences. So you guys remember the the incident in Acts fifteen. Some men came down from Judea and began teaching the brethren, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses you cannot be saved. And when Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them, the brethren determined that Paul and Barnabas and some others of them should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and elders concerning this issue So what was happening was Paul and Barnabas were actually up in Antioch, so um to to come down, right? They were coming down to Jerusalem to meet with uh the rest of the elders at this time because what was happening? What was happening to the purity of the gospel message? It was being distorted, wasn't it? They were trying to add to it. They were trying to add circumcision to it. And Paul and Barnabas said, No, no, no, no, no, no, no Right? They they initiated a confrontation. They had to. Sometimes confrontation is necessary. They needed to have this debate. And so they went up uh or went down to Jerusalem, met with all of the um the elders at the time. James, um the brother of Jesus, was basically the senior pastor of the church at Jerusalem. They had the Jerusalem Council, and that's when they s um Sent out a statement affirming the purity of the gospel message. Christ alone. Okay? Now I will tell you, um, again, we have our new membership class going on right now. We moving around as much as we did, we've been to many, many different churches. And and I can tell you this is probably the most exhaustive um detailed membership class that I have ever been a part of. And we start with lesson zero last week with why? Why do we even have a membership class? And there are three purposes. One, why the importance of being a member of a church But number two, number three is so the elders can get to know them, they can get to know us, but number two is what? Give them a good, good understanding of what we teach. what our doctrines are, all right? So that they can make a decision, is this the church that you want to be a part of, that you want to be accountable to? Okay. If you don't believe in the deity of Jesus Christ, this is probably not a good church for you. But one way we mitigate um confrontation from a doctrinal standpoint is we do a very thorough explanation up front of what we teach. Does that make sense? Right? So you right away you start to mitigate confrontation in the church by making sure there's doctrinal alignment. Um same thing when when we look for elders to lead the church, right? There has to be doctrinal alignment so that you aren't seeing confrontation from a doctrinal standpoint I will tell you, you know, that Thursday night meeting for five or six hours that we have, 99. 9% of it has nothing to do with doctrine, right? We aren't debating doctrine. We're all lying there. It's how do we apply it Right, that's where we have to debate and and figure out what is best for our church and for the glory of God. Alright, so doctrinal differences. Now When you are uh potentially evangelizing, you're sharing the gospel, right, you're going to meet people that have very different views than you do. So you have to go back to what? Your heart attitude and your response Are you gonna start clubbing them overhead with the Bible? Are you gonna get uh frustrated and irritated? Right, that's not the gospel message. So there is going to be doctrinal conflict. Why? The gospel offends The gospel offense. We know that. But how we how we approach that is what's important. So again, looking at your heart and how you respond. Alright, second one is competition of limited resources Galatians thirteen Now Lot who went with Abram also had flocks and herds and tents, and the land could not sustain them while dwelling together, for their possessions were so great that they were not able to remain together, and there was strife between the herdsmen of Abraham's livestock. in herdsmans of lots livestock. So I won't go through all those other than to say we see oftentimes the global conflict that we have is what? Driven by limited resources. um um special minerals, uh land, water, energy, money. And from an individual standpoint, what is the the um the command that we have, one of the commands in the Ten Commandments. Thou shalt not covet, right? You want what your neighbor has, right? Keeping up with the Joneses. They have this beautiful house. They have this R V You know, their wife, whatever. Do not covet. That's what this is getting at. I think related, but but a little bit more extensive is the third one there. Differences in values, goals, gifts, priorities, expectations, interests. And so you look at f you guys are familiar with 1 Corinthians 12. And the eye cannot say to the hand, I have no need of you, or again the head On the contrary, it is much truer that the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary, and those members of the body which we deem less honorable and those we bestore more abundant honor, and our less presentable members become much more presentable, whereas our more presentable members have no need of it. But God has so composed the body Giving more abundant honor to that member which is lacked, so that there be no division in the body, but that their members may have the same care for one another. What what's Paul talking about here? Say it loud. The church body, right? And and what he's saying is we are each given spiritual gifts, talents, skills that are be to to be used to build up the body. Nobody has all of those, right? And yet what what do we tend to do? We covet maybe a gift or a skill that somebody else has. We covet the the person that's up at the pulpit all the time or getting the glane of the the fame, thank you. The glory. I I combine those two. Um, right? Doesn't that make sense? And yet we have to have uh assurance in what God has given us. And to use it faithfully. But you can see attitudes that differ there, opinions, gifts, those differences can start to cause confrontation. The fourth one though is is probably the most important and uh most likely that we um confront and what's that sinful attitudes and desires that lead to This is probably the most prominent of the four that we're covering. You guys are all familiar with James 4. 12 What is the source of quarrels and conflicts among you? Is not the source your pleasures that wage war in your members? You lust and do not have, so you commit murder. You're envious and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask. Why do we quarrel? Because we want what we want. Plain and simple. Right? We're we're Like I said, sinful beings that that fight against sin, even as Christians. We want what we want. Often, um when we're in counseling, when we see um married couples, often they're coming to us, um it's a nine one one crisis, right? They're they're at the last rope um last hope if you will to try and and save their marriage. And often what's happening is they come in with with this kind of attitude. If if you could fix my husband, man, we're good. We're golden. And he's thinking the same thing, right? If you could just fix my wife, and what we often see um today in this environment is some of the secular labeling that is put on people You know this this person that he has a personality disorder. If you can just fix that, we're good. She's a narcissist. If you can just fix that, we're good Right, looking at the other person, quarreling because they want what they want, okay, versus looking at themselves. So often the initial strategy um when we have this type of situation is to do what? To get people to look vertically to God, what is my God-given role and responsibility in the marriage relationship? Right? You go to Ephesians 5, it's really clear. 1 Peter 3, it's really clear. Are those guidelines or commands? Commands. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. How did he do that? He died for the church. Okay? Is that conditional or unconditional? Unconditional. It has nothing to do with how the wife responds to all that. That is the command of faithfulness that we have to have as husbands. to love our wives as Christ loved the church. Okay. Alright, so these are the the four primary causes, but again I think most of us in our relationship, it's that last one that we're really struggling with. So how do we reframe how we think about um conflict? Was there a question? Nope. Okay. All right, number one, realize that conflicts are inevitable. You know, I said it earlier, right? We're all made in the image of God, which means what? We are relational beings, right? We need to be in relationships. We crave relationships. And so because of that though, because of the fall, that has been distorted. How we do that has been distorted. So there's going to be confrontation. There's going to be conflict. It is inevitable. Therefore, what? Expect them. Don't be surprised when they happen. They're going to happen. When you think about the many varieties of conflicts and the innumerable circumstances in which conflicts arise There is no way to avoid conflict. We should never be surprised by conflicts. They're going to happen. Expecting conflicts, however, doesn't mean we should assume the worst in others Right, I go back to the picture of my family. I shouldn't be surprised that conflicts are going to happen, but I'm not thinking the worst of my children or my wife. I just know that conflicts are going to happen. Again, because of the curse of sin, when two people have legitimate motives, again, legitimate motives, opinions, and expectations conflicts will take place because of competing desires as well as miscommunication. The mere existence of a conflict should not anger or frustrate us, it should motivate us to take action. So let me pause there And let me ask you guys, just throw them out. When when you think of conflict, what jumps in your mind? And don't overthink this, don't look for the book answer. Just what do you think of when you hear conflict? Disagreement, okay? Arguing. Arguing. Fighting. Withdraw. Withdraw. Selfish Selfishness, hard-hearted, anger, bitterness. I mean, these are all the things that immediately flood you when often when we have a a conflict or a confrontation. And the whole idea of what we're doing with this class is to try and get you to build a discipline in yourself where you're rethinking conflict. All right, that's what's happening here. And again, the first one is it's inevitable. It's going to be happening So be thinking about it ahead of time, right? How am I going to approach conflict when it happens? That's what we're trying to retrain here. How we think about it, how we frame it. All right, there was a question last week. I listened to the audio about are conflicts sinful? Here you see a direct statement, realize that conflicts are sinful Again, go back to the definition that we had of conflict. Those impaired thinking, impaired relationships, in that context Conflicts are sinful, right? Therefore, resolve them. However, I like how it says here, not all disagreements are conflicts. I talked about the elder meeting We have disagreements all the time. We have differences of opinion. But our desire is how do we take and I'm please don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying we're all angelic in the elder meetings, right? But we are purposely trying to pursue um God's will in a situation. And I know that of my brothers, that's what they're after. Right? That doesn't mean we don't have some healthy tension. That's okay. But we are striving towards the same thing, and I have confidence in that. And I would I have the same confidence with my wife, Corrine. Does that mean we don't have conflicts sometimes? Absolutely. Sinful conflicts? Absolutely. Okay? I like this. Conflicts are defined, again, the definition by impaired thinking and relationships, which means that God is not being honored. That's the key here. God is not being honored in this relationship during a conflict. Why? Because of our thoughts and how we're responding. So again, back to the heart attitude in how we're responding. While we may not have overtly sinned in a conflict, there are likely ways we could have handled the situation differently. That gets to the response piece. So maybe your heart's in the right place, but you're not responding the right way Sin creeps in so easily. So easily. Right? So what I would tell you is don't get caught up in Boy, was that argument sinful? Was that conflict sinful? Most likely you're sinning. The idea is start to search your heart and examine how you're responding. That should be our immediate response Sin is a lack of conformity to Jesus. Now, I think someone brought it up last week. Jesus was in constant conflict. Right? He is the gospel. There's going to be confrontation there. It offends. The difference is he was always doing the will of his father. He always had the purpose of God the Father in mind, whatever he did. He always handled them perfectly, even turning over the tables right in the temple. He handled that perfectly. He was without sin. I would suggest we rarely are in that state of mind. Right. It says, In your anger do not sin, which which gives us latitude to be angry, but how often can you get angry and then quickly respond the wrong way in sin. It happens all the time. Sometimes our role in a conflict is passivity. Like Adam, sometimes we find ourselves in a conflict because of what we didn't do, whether we played an active or passive role in a conflict. The presence of a conflict means that sin is present in one or both parties and is usually both. I I would say this for me in the marriage relationship This is often where I have failed, where I am to lead my family. I am to be the spiritual leader, and I don't do what I'm supposed to be doing, right? And that's when conflicts can happen But you learn from 'em, you repent, you seek forgiveness, you are sanctified, right? I gotta I gotta say this I'll say it a thousand times, Romans 8:1, right? If you are a believer, you are no longer under condemnation. So, yes, are we to examine ourselves? Matthew 7, Psalm 139. Yes. But it's not in the context of condemnation. It's as a child of God. So we are always supposed to be examining ourselves. We will talk later about confrontation and basically the spectrum of confrontation and it could go from um where you just overlook an offense. And who bears the burden of overlooking an offense? The offended person, right, has to kill is going to accept that offense, if you will. Um all the way to no, you need to confront, and often a good frame of reference is because it's been it's destructive and repetitive So if if someone is confronting you in a way that is and it could be in the home where it's um destructive to the family, to the spiritual walk, um and it's repetitive, that may need to be confronted. But how do you do that Right, how do you do that with grace in the right attitude and the right response? We're going to talk about that's the application piece of what we're going to do in this class. Wherever sin is recognized in thought, word, action, or inaction, it must be repented of. So I just talked about that. I think I went through all of this, realized conflicts are sinful, therefore resolve them. We talked through some of this. Alright, this is a big one, guys. Realize that conflicts are opportunities, therefore seize them. Really? Opportunities I remember um Pastor Gabe taught this class maybe a year and a half ago, two years. It was one of the first classes that um Crean and I took together when we first came to the church and and this one hit me. This is the this is the one that I remember from the class. Right? Conflict is an opportunity. How many of you think that way? Be honest. Okay? We got one. Yeah, we don't think that way. And yes, that's the biblical framework that God wants us to think. Alright, so let's talk about how these are opportunities. Boy, that's just a game changer, guys. Think of conflicts as opportunities. There are a couple ways that people respond several ways, but um when you think of the spectrum of how people respond to conflicts, what what are what are a couple ways? What do some people do anytime they have a conflict or a confrontation? Say again? Lash out. They attack. Right? You kind of have this fight mentality. Back to James, right? You quarrel because you want what you want. You gotta fight for your rights. Some people they love a confrontation. Okay. What do some other people do on the other spectrum, cream? Um withdraw. Withdraw? Brush it under the rug. They might deny it Or withdraw. Alright, that's the safe place. Now, let me say this and be careful with what I'm about to say. Some of how we respond, I think, is driven by how God has made us Right? Some of it is maybe our past experiences. I know of of some people that they grew up in a very contentious home. You know, parents were arguing all the time. And it was easier to just go someplace to a quiet place, to your safe place. And that can carry over right into adult life Um others have learned to just fight for your right. You've got to fight, fight, fight. The the right answer is probably somewhere in the middle of all that Right. And if you have a tendency on one of those extremes, what we want to teach you here is to is to again that's not necessarily wrong, some of that is your personality But how do you bring that more in center to have a good frame to say, no, I'm going to overlook this one. I'm going to bear the burden of that one. No, I need to confront this. This will most glorify God. I need to confront this. Right? To live in the extremes is not the right place to be, because not every situation requires the extremes. Does that make sense? Okay Alright, so we're going to talk through a couple principles here. How is conflict an opportunity? Conflicts are opportunities to know, trust, and glorify God. Psalm 9 The Lord also will be a stronghold for the oppressed, stronghold in times of trouble, and those who know your name will put their trust in you. Psalm 55 In God I've m put my trust. Psalm 140. I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted. I don't know too many people that like conflict, even the attackers Right? And yet it's an opportunity to step back and say, Lord, I'm going to trust you through this situation. Right? I'm going to stop fighting. I'm going to again that's causing us to step back and build discipline. in how we think about confrontation. Lord, I'm going to trust you. You are a sovereign God. You use all things, right, for your purposes, for your glory. I'm going to trust you in this situation. And again, as we go throughout this, if you guys have um practical examples you want to bring to bear, please I think those are very helpful um to share Second, conflicts are opportunities to become like Christ. Is that not the goal of all of us here as Christians on this earth? is to be conformed into the image of Christ. God uses conflicts to do that. That's the opportunity. God uses um failures to do that. Trusting in the Lord and in our eyes on These sanctifying moments. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children and walk in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us. An offering and a sacrifice to God is a fragrant aroma. But immorality of any impurity or greed must not even be named among you as is proper among I love the passage in uh Philippians two. Do nothing from selfish or empty conceit, but with humility of mind regard one another as more important than yourself. Do not merely look out for your own personal interest, but also for the interests of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus. So it doesn't say you you always give up your own personal interests, but consider others first. Right? This is a extremely humbling attitude that we need to sanctify in our own lives. We all need to grow in this respect. Humility. First Peter 2, for you have been called for this purpose since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in his steps. While being reviled he did not revile in return, while suffering he uttered no threats, but kept entrusting himself to him who judges righteously. Do you see who he trusts in there? The one who judges righteously, God the Father. Okay? This is um these are important concepts. Again, I go back to often when we are counseling married couples. They come in, right, with one of these With a real fighting attitude and to get them to rethink this vertical relationship, their personal relationship with Christ to have this this attitude of humility. There may be times to overlook, right? To have this humble attitude. To start with How am I doing against the roles and responsibility that God has given me? Right? Instead of looking at the what the beam or the log in in your other the other person's eyes, or the speck, sorry, the speck in their eyes Look at the beam, the log in your house. So getting them to try and draw their attention to how are you doing in carrying out your biblical roles and responsibilities. Yes, please. So I can get a drink. I I believe that What's the lesson in all that? Negative negativity. Right. It's gotta be a so I always I try to ask God, either case, so what's the lesson here? What do you want me to learn from this adding it to this concept or whatever it is. Yeah. Um because all code comes out with with concept. That's it. That's it. Yeah. Our our natural tendency is not to do that though, right? And in our sinful nature, as we're all born in a sinful nature, that is our not our natural tendency, right? We need the Holy Spirit to have that kind of framework to be able to think that way. So excellent. Good. Erica. I I um and yeah, an example. Um when my when our oldest was in um a senior in high school. She worked by school. And she was um up the three kids. She was the night owl, so she would be up late. Yeah. And not able to get up. And so I every morning It was that okay, time to get up and go to school, you miss the butt, I don't want to have to drive you to school. Yeah. And um Um this went on for most of the uh her senior year and it was really a conflict for me. I would it's and every morning I'd be like, okay, I'm I'd get out of it. I'm gonna be I'm gonna respond the right way this morning. Yeah And then she would be up. And um she was gonna be going to college in um locally So that Noah's knowledge that we were working on her getting her license so she could drive herself to school and mom wouldn't be the one driving and um thought we had all that lined up as her car um ended up being a lemon, ended up being the shop for lots. So guess who had to drive for several months. Sure. And that's like an hour drive. Yeah. Yeah. But you know what? Um that time became very precious because here we had an hour every morning and whenever I picked her up of time to talk and um where there had been conflict It between us as as far as communication now it was like and I wouldn't say it was a captive thing, it was more of a oh we have all this time, yeah. Um we're gonna be talking about. And so the Lord really taught me that I needed to see this as a blessing rather than something that I was gonna fight against. Yeah. Erica, do you recognize that now or did you recognize that, you know, was there a turning point then that you recognized it? Yeah, okay. Precious. It was. Yeah. Yeah. And also it we have external communication now. Yeah. She's twenty eight years old, she's married, and we've talked multiple times a week before. I mean, we talk more now than we ever did when she was listening Sure, yeah. So and but I do think that that was what the Lord used to begin to to build some of that communication. Love it. Love it. That that is a great example, right, of conflict being an opportunity. Right. You had to die to some of your rights, um your time in the morning or whatever that looked like and yet God presented a very precious opportunity for you to have good communication with your daughter. Yes, Amy. I just like the point of that that it took time. Yes. Sometimes resolutions right now and if I miss it it's like we have conflict within ourselves that we want it resolved right away. And sometimes God doesn't have that. And it I you know sometimes Oftentimes it doesn't work that way where it's like that. That's a great, great point, right? There is a a bit of perseverance that needs to happen here. And it's You may need to have to repent of the sin that you're doing a a thousand times, right, before you start to see um that change. And even when we're we're counseling, um the married couples that I talk about, it takes time. It takes several lessons to start to to kind of build in this rethinking. It's a discipline, right? It it really is. It's a discipline that we have to cultivate in our minds. That's a great example, though. Thank you All right. Conflict reminds us of our need for Christ. It kind of gets back to we can't do this through our own strength, can we? We need the Holy Spirit. We need Christ. Second Corinthians Because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, for this reason, to keep me from exalting myself, there was given me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to torment me. To keep me from exalting myself. Therefore I am well content with weakness, with insults, with distresses, with persecutions, with difficulties For Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then I am strong. You're all familiar, this is Paul who was given um either access or vision to the heavenly realms and to prevent him from boasting the Lord gave him a thorn in the side, right? To be that reminder, to keep him humble. And and nobody knows for sure exactly what that was. There's some speculation. But the point is, is, you know, he needed to be reminded um of his weakness, his need for Christ. Yes. This is something that Joel and I have been really deep into it. We had a huge issue this week. We had a kid that had a great day and then as soon as we went to her friend's house it was like completely a different channel. I was So mad. Yeah. So I'm like, where's from people? Whose child are you? And now after being rude, yeah. And I'm just angry. Yeah. I'm ready to kill these kids. Yeah. And we get home and she's realizing she's dead. And I'm I'm mean me. I'm over it. Like and in my heart of being after all of this time, I was basically discipline. And I'm so mad and I even moved to him, I was like, You should be ashamed of how you see it. And I'm just super mad. And then Joel, who is um our free other sleepers, came over and he literally used this example in scripture Pull this child aside. Like, you can't do this, can you? What who can help you? And like gave him the gospel. in a delicate way where he's like saying, Okay, you're too and just like really just trying to open his eyes to his sin and his meeting. for Christ. Love it. And so this has been very needed. Yeah. And also I just wanted to speak to the fact that when I'm failing in a conflict, God has given me someone who can like come alongside and be like Amen. Amen. Boy, great, great example. I love it. Um, Crean and I also teach the parenting class, and that's one of the principles that we teach. Is is you're gonna have conflict, right? That that fifth year of seven kids up there, right? It's going to happen, but these are opportunities to share the gospel Right, and so yes there is a process we work through to to deal with that conflict, but at the end of it is an opportunity to share the gospel It's true of the conflicts you will have with grown-ups, right? So look at it as an opportunity. And I think if you walk away with that to just reaffirm the gospel, anytime you're in that conflict, that's a good mindset to have So good. Good great examples, thank you. Um conflicts help us to see blind spots in our attitudes and habits. Again, a very sanctifying moment. We think all's good. We think we're We're on top, right? We've achieved perfection. And then God gives us some opportunities to show us our blind spots where we still have gaps, where we still need to be sanctified A continual process. Conflict helps us to practice self-denial. We talked about that in Philippians for sure, but first Timothy. But having nothing to do with worldly fables only for old women On the other hand, discipline yourselves for the purpose of godliness. Self-denial comes naturally, doesn't it? Of course not. It's a discipline. A lot of what we're going to be talking about are commands or discipline, disciplining ourselves. Reframing how we think and cultivating these disciplines in our life. And that takes time. That takes a lot of practice. And it takes the Holy Spirit. Conflicts are opportunities to minister to others, those in conflict with us and those observing. Um here's the Matthew seven passage that you're all familiar with. Do not judge, so that you will not be judged, but for in the way you judge you will be judged. And by your standard of measure, it will be measured to you. Why do you look at the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brothers, Let me take that speck out of your eye, and behold the log is in your eye. You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye And then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye. I would give you this passage too, Psalm 139. Which I really like. Take some time to read that. At the end of that you'll see verses that talk about um the psalmist crying out to the Lord, Search me, O Lord, and show me any grievous way in me However, the beginning of the psalm, what I really want to point out is this is somebody who is protected by God. It talks about being hemmed in. It talks about the days being ordained before they were even born This is someone who is protected by God and yet examining themselves. Show me, Lord. That's a spirit of humility before the Lord. Show me any grievous way. And like I mentioned often again in marriage counseling, it's getting them back to, hey, stop looking at your spouse, your partner And let's focus on self. Let's focus on what the Lord says you're supposed to be doing. How are you doing in that regard? Okay? Now, that doesn't mean I I like this kind of frame of reference I got from my counseling supervisor. Let's say in a situation Um and this is just generically, the wife is doing about two percent of the problem and the husband's ninety-eight percent. What we're asking of the wife Own your 2% 100%, right? Own the piece you own 100%. Work hard at achieving that. We're going to help you with the conflict piece. We're going to equip you on how to do that, but work on your piece. Albert, did you have a comment? Yeah, I just want to say as as someone who is in a very abusive marriage uh that I I hear you, but I I'm thinking like that applies in a health marriage, right? Because like m those things just not really apply when you're in abusive marriage. Where the the other person just used everything to manipulate into abuse and like if the even the Bible can turn the Bible off to manipulate and and mistreat or or whatever. So I'm just having a hard time like sitting here listening to all this and it's like, oh that doesn't really apply in some city. So would you agree that none of this would really work When you say you also say, I don't want anybody I don't know anybody that likes fighting. I actually know someone who loves to f who loves to fight and who will do anything to start a fight and everything to continue that fight for hours. So so would you agree that n I would not. Okay. So let me explain now but Um every context is different. So let me say that up front, right? Um you know, it it's they're all very complex. Here's here's what I would tell you, you know, we are not ever saying someone needs to stay in an abusive situation. And again, there's context to that, right? So let's be careful of that. What I'm trying to say, though, is can God use that as an opportunity in your life? to minister to you, to sanctify you? The answer is absolutely yes. Go back to the two percent. Let's say the abuse is happening, how your hearted attitude and how you are responding is still legitimate, is still on you. Right? That's what I want you to take away from this. Um I I'm not again there's so much complexity to those dynamics and situations Um but what I'm trying to get you to think about is what is your responsibility in all of this? How are you to respond? What is your heart or attitude supposed to be? We are all called, uh we all have the same biblical foundation for what that looks like Okay? So we can talk offline. I I want to make sure I under that you hear me clearly, but what I'm trying to get at is we are all responsible on how we respond to conflict And again, the point here is God uses that as an opportunity. Okay? So every situation has its own dynamics, it's very complex, but But most important is what's happening in our heart. How are we responding to that? Right? Are we seeking the Lord? Are we seeking to glorify the Lord That doesn't mean we don't take, you know, that we don't confront, that the a relationship might end up in separation or divorce, God forbid. Right? That can happen, but what's happening in your heart? How are you responding? Right, that's what we want to get after here. So yes, I would disagree with what you're saying, um, adamantly for that reason. Okay? And we can talk offline if you need to. Yes, yes. And what's going on in the heart. Yeah. Usually I mean how I s uh the guy that brought this to my attention in the last year, I mean um It when you're arguing with somebody that's something, it could be just because you're in a band or the trackers or whatever. And when you're arguing with somebody you just happen to love one or or somebody too close to Really has something to do with what you're arguing there, because everything you do is fooling your heart, whether it be that person or or or yourself. Um So there's m it's a little gauge a little deeper as to what what the conflict really is. It's not about the guy cuts you off the traffic. It it might have been about your daughter, they gave you a hard time this morning or Well you probably don't want to do what you want it to do or whatever it is. Except stuff it's un saladed by your time. Yeah. Yep, yep, for sure. Um I'll share a story, not now, but maybe in a few weeks. But you know, it all starts with what? What I started with. We are all made in the image of God. So that in and of itself should dictate how we treat other people, other human beings. We are unique. Of all creation, we are unique human beings and the fact that we are made in the image of God. He doesn't say that to the cows, the horses, he doesn't say that to the angels, right? So that that is a differentiator right there on how we treat other people. We are all image bearers. Even in this fallen world, we are all image bearers. All right, let's keep going. Alright, so with opportunity, there is stewardship. With such significant opportunities comes responsibility, and with responsibility comes stewardship. So again, this is about what we own. Stewards view conflicts not as intrusions, but as opportunities to worship Right, we heard a couple of those examples this morning where maybe they started out as intrusions, but they ended up being opportunities to worship Uh Romans twelve one. Therefore I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice, acceptable to God which is your spiritual service of worship. Never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Respect what is right in the sight of all men. If possible, so far as it depends on you Be at peace with all men. Who's the responsibility fall on here? We as individuals, right? As much as it depends on you, be at peace. Stewards view conflicts not in terms of personal offenses, but in terms of divine priorities. Brazil for your house has consumed me. And the reproaches of those who reproach your name have fallen on me. Psalm 69. Stewards trust in God's sovereign purposes. Again, we trust that God is sovereign. That he works all things together for our good for those who are in Christ Jesus. Romans 8. I just read that. That's hard principle, though, isn't it? Especially when you're going through the conflict And that's why it's important to be in the Word each and every day, to be memorizing, meditating on Scripture. Right? That's the strength, the foundation, and the time of conflict to be able to go back to these verses And remember God's promises for us. That's why I I love, love, love Romans 8, because of um the truths, the promises of who we are as a child of God. Sewards know that God is for them. Romans 8. 31. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? Right to go back to Romans 8. 1. There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. The later part of Romans, nothing can separate us from the love of God, even ourselves. Even our doubt, even our sin, nothing can separate us. That's the God that we serve. Stewards don't focus on results They focus on faithfulness. This is a really big one. Again, I go back to some of these principles in marriage counseling. We take the husbands back to what does God say in Ephesians 5? How are you supposed to treat your wife? Right? These are commands. These are unconditional commands. It's not dependent on how your wife responds. Your wife may never respond to you loving her as Christ loved the church. And here's what I have often have to do. What are they talking about? Feeling. I don't feel like I love her. And what do we do? We take them, what is the biblical definition of love? So we take them to 1 Corinthians 13. Love is gentle, love is right. Those are commands. Those are willful actions. That's what love is. That's what biblical love is. And you do that regardless of how your wife responds to that In fact, you know, Amy, you talk about this is a process. They're probably not going to trust that at first, right? When you open the door for them, when you start doing the dishes, when you start exhibiting love, they're probably not going to trust that at first It's going to take time. You simply have to be faithful to what the Lord has asked you to do in these situations. Right? We go back to our personal heart attitude and our responses. Be faithful to what the Lord has called you to do. It's not dependent on the reaction of others. And then remember the ABCs of conflict. Adversity builds character. Back to James 1. Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials, knowing that the testimony of your faith produces endurance, and let endurance have its perfect result so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. I also like um another favorite passage of mine is Philippians 4, where it talks about rejoice, rejoice always, right? But it goes on to say um when you're praying what do it with thanksgiving and what is the result the peace of God that what surpasses understanding will guard your hearts and your minds. What's cultivated there though is a spirit of thanksgiving. And and my wife reminded me um a couple weeks ago What that means is you are trusting in the Lord to say, Lord, I'm going to thank you in this situation. I'm going to thank you for this opportunity. Thank you, Lord. I'm so thankful what you're gonna do in this opportunity. You are now saying, I trust you with this. I don't understand it. I'm battling bitterness and anger, but I'm going to trust you. That's what cultivates a spirit of thanksgiving. And I love the result, peace. You know, Pastor Gabe talked about it last week. There's that vertical peace that comes with salvation, right? That reconciliation. But how do you obtain this inner peace now, day-to-day? It's a s it's praying with a spirit of thanksgiving, right? That that's what it says. All right, a few questions and we'll end up here. So again, what we're doing here is building a foundation, reframing how you guys are thinking about conflict and confrontation. And we started with some uh definitions And then really today was all about kind of rethinking this whole idea of conflict and how God is using it in your life. And if you could walk away with anything, walk away with it is an opportunity. Alright? And here's some things to help you be thinking through. First, go back to what's causing this. Remember we talked about the four different topics of there could be a doctrinal dispute, limited resources, but the most prominent one is we want what we want, right? James 4, that sinful action. Build discipline in your life to stop and think. You know, I you know when you start it's starting to boil, right? You can start to feel the anger start to boil up. Force yourself to pause and say, what's going on here? Why am I thinking this way? Right? Identify what's going on so you can address it. And then you can start responding the right way. Thinking of it as an opportunity. But here's some good questions. How have I contributed to this conflict by wrong thinking, speaking, acting, or not acting, the response feature What is this doing though? It's putting the focus on yourself. That's the idea here. You're turning it back. You're looking at the log in your own eye. That doesn't mean that the other person's not sinning. Most likely they are, but you're taking responsibility for what you control And our ultimate goal in all of this is always to glorify God. How can I please and honor the Lord in this conflict? Sometimes that might mean overlooking an offense. Other times it might mean you need to confront the situation because it's destructive and it's repetitive. And then how can I be a witness of what Christ has done for me? How can this become part of your testimony? You know, there were a couple shared this morning that were great, great examples of how the Lord used that as an opportunity in their life. All right. Any comments, questions, concerns? Sorry. Seth, just I really like how we talk about concepts and how it's something where he even sees it. Just like the quickest example with Abby. There was a time that I was working way more than normal. I worked like 70 hours or so And uh it's always been something about marriage that Abby loves to have time. She would probably find herself maybe a bit on the clean side. And I love it. It's beautiful. And this is just one time in the marriage in like a whole six years that it was a time where I would probably only spend like an hour with her or something like that. And just rather like here, um just how we can see We view conflicts sorry. We trust in God's sovereign purpose. And the advocate of gone with fear and just be like, oh my goodness, my husband, he knows this is so important. Yeah. So on and so forth, but she responded It was probably like uh two weeks of me just not spending enough time with her. She came with such tenderness, love and very just very gentle. Yeah. And uh it was one of the most Uh just powerful things where she sees the opportunity sees conflict. Where she could have been angry and said, You know this is important to me Sure. But she just responded with such love where it just it in a good way broke me. Yep. And it it just shows that you can use conflict and you can seize it to Become one of the best examples for just a few more minutes. Extra points. Oh good. No, it is. And that's that's uh I love You sharing that example and um Abby, you know that there will be times when you'll get to council and minister other women and and you'll be able to minister this way. So love it. Yes, quadrilup. Um something you said uh during this session here and it a light bulb went off and I've always struggled I've always been a fighter since a child. I'm loud, I'm in your face, I will punch you. I'm kidding. You know, because you're Latina, you're whatever. So and I've always even, you know, growing up come into this country and kind of had to fight for things anyway As you get older, I will always think, God, why am I like this? Why do I always need to um have this attitude and you know change me, whatever? But you said something that God made me this way. And so as I'm trying to walk more to the right and not be so in the middle of things. Quick just a quick thing example. One of the things I with my mother all the time and I walk away or I yell and I say things. So one of the things God put in my heart, he said, you need to honor, respect your parents. Amen. And I want you to shut your mouth. And that was the hardest thing for me to do. Because I you know and she's got her I can't change my mother. I'm quiet. Yeah. And you know it's made a difference. Yeah And it's humbling. Yeah. Because I'm honoring my mother. Amen. God knows that I really want to do the right even though inside I'm like Yeah. I you know, angry, I want to walk away but I can't. That's a great, great example. And you said it's our attitude. Yeah, it is. Um and I'll share this, you know, I I had the blessing of teaching uh church history last quarter and there are faithful men and women that had to fight. They had to defend the faith. Right? So so that's not a negative thing, it's just how the manner in which we do that. So that's a beautiful example of of the Lord working in your life and sanctifying you, Guadalupe. I love it. All right, great, great examples, guys. That's exactly what I'm looking for. And Pastor Gate as well. So perfect. Alright, let me pray and we'll wrap things up. Father, you are holy, holy, holy. We love your word Um we want to please you in all that we do, and yet we live in a fallen world, and even as your children, we still struggle with sin. Paul reminds us of that in Romans 7, that that's going to happen. And and yet you give us the indwelling of the Holy Spirit to help overcome, to help respond with the right attitude and the right response in times of conflict. So I pray that this would be a game changer for us to be thinking of conflict as opportunities to glorify you, to pursue peace, to pursue joy, help us cultivate those disciplines in our life, a spirit of thanksgiving. Because we know you work all things for our good. We love you. We thank you. We pray for your blessing over our worship service this morning and especially the preaching of Pastor Gabe. We love you, and in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.