So let's go ahead and begin with a word of prayer and then we will jump right in. Father, thank you so much for this day, and we thank you for this topic that we are able to cover in this quarter We thank you that Lord you have made it very clear what a man is, what a woman is, and how we can be joyful in your perfect creation. And Lord, we thank you for all that you teach us with regards to what it means to be a man, to be a woman. and to understand your purpose in life, in marriage, in work, in uh relationships, etc. And we just thank you, Lord, for the joy that your again, your creation is perfect. Uh we thank you too that even in the midst of the fall, in the curse of sin Christ Jesus has provided redemption and we again can marvel in the fact that, Lord, what you have done is truly, truly amazing. So, Father, we thank you for this class. We ask your blessing on it, and we just ask that you would guide the discussion, and we pray that all that we say and do would give you glory. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen. Alright. Um when I left you guys last time Um we were talking about the biblical role of I think it was the differences in marriage. Yeah, roles in marriage on page uh 19 Um when I left I was I was all geared up for uh talking about lesson five, which was uh answers to two common egalitarian objections to male headship in marriage, and I all of a sudden realized that I was teaching the new members class. So uh I had to quickly shift gears and throw it at uh I Isaac and I told him you go ahead and take where you want to go and and run with it and uh when we come back maybe I'll cover these two uh issues. Um I'm going to try to cover these two issues this morning, but I'm going to do it in a rapid fashion. You've got all that you need in Alan's notes here, so I would encourage you to read it. I have a bunch of slides that I'm just going to power through this morning because it's really um these are just two major uh objections that have come at Christianity, at complementarianism, from the perspective of there's a misunderstanding about differences in roles. And I want to try to address those this morning and I'll be basically covering what Alan covers in his notes, but I want to do it again in rapid fire progression here this morning. So as I was thinking about how to introduce this topic, Uh let me introduce it this way, that when it comes to the differences between man and woman, there are theological issues. Obviously, when we go back to God's creation and we start to talk about what manhood and womanhood is from a biblical perspective But there's also these theological arguments that sometimes the e egalitarians will present that will uh put you into a position of not knowing how to really respond to it And the two objections that I want to look at this morning are, first of all, the word um head, kephilae in Greek. is a word that theologically a lot of egalitarians will say it doesn't speak to the differences between men and women it m it more so is a word that just generally speaking just means source. So with regards to our source as men and women We're created in the image of God, and that's it. It doesn't display any type of uh differences. But So with regards to the word kephila, our head, there is an argument theologically for that. The second one comes in Ephesians 5, verse 21. Where Paul says, submit to one another, or more specifically, be subject to one another in the fear of Christ So egalitarians would come back and they would say, Hey, right there in Ephesians 5. 21, it tells us that there is mutual submission, that each one of us needs to submit to each other. So there is no there is no um difference in terms of uh headship, submission, etc. in the Bible So my response to that is number one, they're wrong with regards to kephilae or um the theological word for head. It literally means having authority over And then with regards to the mutual submission, Paul outlines how people are to be submitted. So first of all, he starts off with the husband saying the husband is to love the wi love his wife And then the wife is to be subject to her husband. Then it goes on to the parents and children, you are to be subject to your parents. Then it goes on to the masters and slaves. Slaves, you are to be subject to your to your masters. There is no mutual submission. So that's lesson five. So we can move on, okay? That's the short version of it. Now um I did open these slides to that. Um You want me to go through these slides real quick? Sure. Okay. I'm just gonna go through this really quick. Um because again, this is just a helpful information, but Objection number one, the word head in 1 Corinthians 11. 3 and Ephesians 5. 23 means source, not authority over. If you look at the passage there, both in 1 Corinthians 11. 3 and Ephesians 5. 23, you have this word head that's used. But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of woman, and God is the head of Christ. The problem with saying that it just means source is that it leads you to believe that when Paul makes this statement in 1 Corinthians 11, 3, that God is the head of Christ It leads you to believe that Christ is somehow created from the Father. And that's not true biblically, so then we have to take that back to the husband and wife and say literally even though woman was created out of the side of Adam, the issue is is that this word has much more of a specific meaning to it And so if you look at it theologically, it really speaks to the issue of authority. And so The response to this is if you look at all the Greek lexicons, and a lexicon is just a dictionary, a Greek dictionary, uniformly define the Greek word kephilae as head Um it is usually defined literally to refer to a physical head, but it can also be defined metaphorically to refer to something supreme, chief or an authority over. And so we when you ha when you look at this word in Mark chapter twelve, verse ten, Ephesians chapter one, verse twenty-two Colossians 118 and 210, the context really dictates the meaning of this word. And so the response is if Kephila means source, then Paul is basically saying that God is the Father. God the Father is the source of Christ, suggesting that Christ is a created being. This comes back to an ancient Aryan heresy back in the 300s Which the early church addressed very directly saying no. Christ is not a created being, he is God incarnate And so if you trace it back to this he this word head, it has to have some other meaning than source. And so basically it means not source but authority over. So here's the third response. This is problematic because the same Greek word kephalae is used in, again, 1 Corinthians 11, 10. Which follows verse 3, and the custom of the wife wearing a head covering was a symbol or sign uh to other men that she was under her husband's authority. So that's the context of 1 Corinthians 11 when Paul's talking about this issue of headship So the reason why women were to cover their heads uh culturally back then was because they were telling every other man that I have a husband. I am not available. And so therefore my husband has authority over me. So married women who uncovered their heads in the church, gave a sign to other men that they were single and available and therefore thereby shaming their husbands. Now again, this whole issue of headship speaks to this because to define Kephila's source virtually has no support in any other Greek literature or lexicon. And so the bottom line is this word literally means authority over, and it's the best definition that we have in a Greek dictionary. So I just want to kind of address that right away because this issue of headship, oftentimes the egalitarians will say it speaks to no difference between a husband and wife, where if you look at the context in which the word is used in the Bible very clearly it's saying that there is a difference between a man and a woman. And in the context of marriage, it means that the husband has headship or authority over his wife Now it doesn't mean that he has authority over every other wife or every other woman. It just means that in the context here, very clearly, it's showing that there is this authority. uh g uh given to man over his own his own wife. So it's a weak argument to say just because we're translating it as source, um, which is not a good definition Therefore there's no difference in roles between husbands and wife. Now the second issue is this objection uh number two, which is Ephesians 521. Which Paul exhorts all believers to submit to one another. Therefore, husbands and wives must submit to each other equally. That's the argument against the rule against there being no differences. Um or that there are differences. So how do we address that? And I just gave you the answer before. Paul says in Ephesians 5. 21, be subject to one another in the fear of Christ. How are we to understand this? We're to understand it that the context of the immediate passage reads this way. So, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit, speaking to one another in Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. singing and making melody in your heart to God to the Lord, always giving thanks for all things in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ to God, even the Father and being subject to one another in the fear of Christ. So the question is, okay, what does it mean to be subject to one another? This command to be filled with the Spirit is really the command that that is supported by these four participles that are being given that follow, and they tell us how to be filled with the Spirit But the question is, is, okay, when it comes to being submitted to one another, what does that look like? That's the question that ultimately is being asked here. So you have speaking to one another, you have singing and making melody in your hearts, you have giving thanks, and then you have the participle of being subject to one another. Okay, what does it mean to be subject to one another? It means And let me just again here say that the extended context explains how submission is to be worked out in practice. Wives are to be subject to their husbands. That's how you are to be filled with the Spirit. By being subject to your husband. Likewise, children, how are you to walk in the Spirit? How are you to be filled with the Spirit if you're a Christian? You are to be subject to your parents in the Lord. Be submissive to them. And then likewise, slaves, if you are wanting to give a a testimony, a witness to your master that you are a fully devoted Christian walking in the Spirit, how you do that best is by submitting uh to again your masters in the Lord. Now oftentimes this passage, because of the context in the first century, there were slaves and masters, but we liken this today to employ uh employer employee relationships. And so in a sense, how can you be the best employee by being submitted to your employer and doing it in such a way that you are exemplifying what it means to be filled with the Spirit. So those are the ways in which these arguments are countered. Again, Ephesians 5. 21 does not mean that the husband is to be submissive to the wife and the wife is to be submissive to the husband. That's not what it's saying Um, husbands, what are you to do? You're to love your wife. How? As Christ loved the church. Tell me, is that an easy thing to do? Absolutely not. But again it speaks that's the role of the husband in the relationship. So when it comes to the wife, the best way that you can demonstrate being filled with the Spirit is being submissive to your husband as unto the Lord. Now again, that doesn't mean you be submissive to the things that perhaps would be sinful or lead to sin. There's just there's distinctions and discernment that needs to be made, but by and large What Paul is saying is, writing to the church, is saying this is how you are to be filled with the Spirit. And if you do this, then you are giving a good testimony to God of your walk with Christ. So that's these are basically the objections that are um these are the answers to the objections that are being raised. So in Ephesians five twenty-one, Paul exhorts all believers to submit to one another. And again, the objection is husbands and wiv or the But yeah, the objection from the egalitarians is husbands and wives, Paul says you're supposed to submit to each other. Here's another response to this. Submission is one way. However, husbands again are to love their wives as Christ loved the church and as their own bodies. Fathers are not to provoke their children to anger but must bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Masters are to treat their slaves with goodness as unto the Lord without threatening. These are ways that, again, masters, husbands and fathers can demonstrate what it means to be spirit-filled. And this is the testimony that they need to give for Christ. Response number four, the Greek word here for being subject to in Ephesians 5. 21 is hopitaso. It means to subordinate, to be subject to, to submit, to obey. It always refers to a one-way submission. It's never a mutual submission in the scriptures. So when you look at this word in its context, there's never an argument in the New Testament for the use of this word in a mutual way. Someone is always doing something and the other person is submitting to it. So this is how we are to understand this word in its context. And For example, the idea of mutual submission is actually foreign to the use of hopotasso in these various passages, Luke 10, Romans 13, Ephesians 1 And 5, Titus 3, James 4, and 1 Peter 2 and 3. And if you look at the context of these verses, which these verses are in your notes, but if you look all these up Um, this doesn't speak to mutual submission. Um, there very clearly is a relational dynamic that's going on here Objection number, well response number five, the Greek word for one another. Aleilone. I love this word because it generally means one another, but it can be used in two distinct ways. Everyone to everyone, and there's passages to illustrate that. Or it could be understood as some to others. And then, since context actually dictates the meaning of this word Alone, clearly submission in 5. 21, Ephesians 5. 21 is one-directional. And it here must be interpreted uh under the framework of some to others. Now, you've got all of this in your notes, but Just want to highlight it for you. And response number six, given the context, perhaps a clearer translation of Ephesians 5. 21 would be submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. If you translate it that way, this word Alone uh as one to another, then it gives you a little bit more of an insight of what's being talked about here. So in a sense, as husbands are to love their wives Wives, how are you to submit to your husbands? Here it is, Paul says. Likewise, children, here it is in how you are to submit to your parents And again, slaves, here it is, how you are to submit to your masters. So again, context dictates how this word ought to be translated. But if you see it, if you know these words and you see it in the original language, it's so clear. But the problem is that our English translations, which are in a sense, interpretations, authors are or the translators are trying to use the best words for here One another is a perfectly good word, a perfectly good translation of this word all alone. However, in the context you see very clearly that there is a relationship dynamic that is going on here. And so it's not mutual submission. In fact, mutual submission I might go as far as to say is a myth Uh it doesn't exist. And especially as as you look at it in the Bible. The King James Version here makes Alailone more clear and preserves the sum to others meaning. So it's just they did a good job of translating that word there. Objection, well, response number seven. Husbands are never told in Scripture to be subject to their wives. Though wives are told several times they need to be s uh need to submit to their husbands without any hit hint of mutual submission. Very clearly in the New Testament uh this is made clear. And then response number eight, Ephesians 5. 22, specifies the manner in which wives are to submit to their husbands as to the Lord. As the church is subject to Christ. This is the example that you guys are setting. And then ultimately with respect. Now again, this speaks of the issue of the wonderful dynamic that God has made in marriage and how a husband can love his wife. And how a wife can love her husband. Um but the issue here is there's because we live in a fallen world, we live in a sin cursed world, um It doesn't often it's not often that easy to do. And so this is where discernment and submission to Christ ultimately must be premier. So uh ladies as if you're married and you are wanting to really learn what it means to be spirit filled This is how you are to submit to your husband. And to do it in a way that genuinely reflects your love for Christ as the most important object of your faith. So here again, this is how it ought to be done. And then no similar command is given to husbands to rev uh reverence their wives in this way. No, we are simply told to love our wives as Christ loved the church. So, husbands, you guys sitting here, don't stop and just love your wife, okay? That's not enough. The issue is how are you to love your wife? You are to love your wife as Christ loved the church. Giving himself up for the church. This is sacrificial love that goes way beyond just this feeling or affection that you have for your for your spouse. So just remind yourself of that, okay? Even though you're not told to submit No, you're told to love your wife as Christ loved the church. That's huge. It's massive. And then response number nine, take into account all of the previous reasons Clearer passage must control the interpretation of the less clear passages, and since no clearer passage uh passages teach mutual submission, the idea of mutual submission has no sound biblical basis in a five- Ephesians chapter 5, verse 21. Alright, so those are my notes on lesson five that I wanted to cover last week and didn't. So So let's jump into the lesson that Isaac began this last week. And I'm going to pick up basically a little bit where he left off. I just want to cover a couple of things. I really appreciated him taking the time to dig in especially to this first verse, um which is Ephesians chapter uh I mean uh first Timothy two um because this is a huge, huge issue. When we talk about the roles of men and women in the church. We need to we need to grapple with, okay, how do we minister within our God designed gender giving honor to the Lord, but understanding that there's role differences. How do we do that in the church? And again, the issue here is one of how do we maximize our opportunities as believers in Christ to do what God has called us to do and what He has ski given us skill-wise and also again being who we are, the specific role that we have in the church. And I know that Isaac covered this last week, but just again, just to Go really quickly. Let's begin, first of all, with regards to our role differences in the church. Let's begin with what we know to be a very distinct positive and not that the others are negative, it's just that what is clearly given to us in Scripture about our roles in the church. Number one Um the issue of equality with men and women. We are of the same value, the same dignity, etc. God has not made a man superior to a woman in the church nor the woman inferior to the man in the church. The issue is how do we function, given the gender that we are, how do we function in a way that gives glory to God? And the first thing that we need to remind ourselves is, is that we're all equal in Christ. There is neither slave nor, I'm going to butcher this passage, but neither male nor female, we are all one in Christ. That is clear from Scripture. And so once again, we need to start with this issue of reminding ourselves of the equality that we have. Bulls share equally in being created in the image of God. We are both created in the image of God. And again, that's the beauty of how God has brought us together to function together in such a way as to glorify Him in the church by bringing a fullness to the church. And again, marriage ought to be the picture of what the type of relationship ought to be in the church, but when you bring men and women together in the body of Christ to serve one another, there is great joy in that because we get to see how the differences between male and female are worked out in such a way as to glorify God in his body. So once again, this is a positive thing here that both share equally in being created in the image of God. The Holy Spirit has been poured out on us both You all, we all, male or female, have everything we need for life and godliness in Christ Jesus. Amen? I mean that's a that's a beautiful thing in the church. And that's why, if you're a believer sitting here today, God has gifted you to be able to minister the gospel in the context of the church and outside of the church as well. So please don't minimize that because you are a certain gender that you can't do certain things. You can do these things in Christ. Guys, you can serve in the children's ministry Don't shy away from that. They're they're not that bad. Okay? Um this is a great thing. And likewise, women, you can be leading other women and children in the in the context of the church. And again shepherding them in a in a in a certain capacity. But the issue here is that When it comes to the Holy Spirit, don't think because you're a certain gender that maybe you don't have the Spirit in these particular areas. If you're a believer in Christ, the issue is how has God gifted you? And each one of us has a spiritual gift. And I would just challenge you, please search that out. Discover what your spiritual gift is, and then use it to the full capacity that you can as a woman or a man. But again, the Holy Spirit, this is a wonderful truth that He's been poured out fully on all of us. You have The fullness of the Spirit of Christ living within you. The fullness of it. And the Holy Spirit gives then spiritual gifts to each of us in service for the church. Both of us are baptized as an outward sign of our new life in Christ. Both male and female are baptized. And so publicly we are baptized to give a testimony of our participation in the Spirit baptism that takes place as we become a believer in Christ. And then letter E, we are all one in Christ, male or female, having equal standing before God in Christ. So these are things that, again, you covered last time, but they are beautiful and wonderful to acknowledge and again to hold on to, especially in the role that you have in the church. Now the biblical limitations. There are limitations for women in the church, and this word limitations is kind of a poor word. It's accurate Um, and I don't want to disparage Alan's notes here. It's just that this is the word I would use as well. It's just I wish I could find a better word that would accentuate that there are differences between men and women And one of the ways that women are limited in the church is that clearly, 1 Timothy 2, 11 through 15 tells us that In the context of the local church, Paul says, I do not allow a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. That is one of the limitations that's given clearly in Scripture. And there's a reason for that. A very clear reason The second one is in 1 Timothy 3 that the qualifications for elders and then for deacons and then for women Show the differences in the church. Very clearly in First Timothy three and Titus one, there is no in the context of eldership in the church There is no qualification for a woman. And so that would limit the office of elder to that of being men. And we say that because very clearly Paul points that out. And we'll talk a little bit about that this morning. So with regards to 1 Timothy 2, uh, verses 9 through 15, I want to give you the passage And then I want to talk through this a little bit. You have Alan's notes there to go over, and then again just to uh compliment, I love the word compliment, to compliment what Isaac did last week, I'm going to go over and just give you some of my own notes on this. Once again, just to give you the passage in its context in this paragraph that Paul writes, he says to Timothy, Likewise I want women to adorn themselves with proper clothing, with modesty and self-restraint, not with braided hair and gold and pearls and costly clothing. but rather by means of good works, as is proper for women professing godliness. A woman must learn in quietness in all submission, but I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. For it and here's the reason, for it was Adam who was formed first and then Eve. And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman being deceived fell into trespass. But she will be saved through the bearing of children if they continue in faith and love and sanctification and with self-restraint. That passage is so clear, isn't it? There's trouble. There's so much um there's so many different interpretations over this passage that I jokingly say that because um it is clear in its context Once you start to understand and unpack what Paul is saying here, but the problem is is that um oftentimes the egalitarians will come and say, well Yeah, Paul was speaking in the first century, he was speaking to uh the church in Ephesus, and back then, during that time, this was just a cultural thing. And uh the problem with it is that very clearly inside the text We're told that it's not a cultural thing. This goes actually back to creation. So let me unpack this a little bit for you This passage is written primarily in the context of the assembled church. If you understand that, then you get the context of this passage. This is not talking about government or employment or family or some other venue. This is the context of the church. So very clearly that limits Paul's definition here of what he's talking about. This passage clearly limits women from teaching and exercising authority over a man in the context of the assembled church. And how do we know that? Because there's indicators here that Paul says as is proper for women professing godliness. Professing godliness where? In the context of the church. If you take it back to the um the beginning of Titus or beginning of Timothy Verse eleven, learn in quietness in all submission. Back in the this is revolutionary in one respect because back in uh the ear the first century, both in Jewish uh culture but also in Greco-Roman culture, women were really looked down on and they were disparaged from learning in any sort of way. So when Paul says a woman is to learn in quietness, he is actually introducing here a revolutionary thought in the context of the church. Women just like men should be learning together the gospel. They should be learning biblical truth. And so please, women, don't think that you're not supposed to learn at all. But this is in the context of the church. And then again he says, I don't allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over man, but to remain quiet. Where? In the context of the church. That's what he's talking about here. And then he goes on to explain it. The authority that Paul makes reference to concerning a man involves pastoral leadership. That's what he's talking about here in the context of the church. So the pastor Elder Overseer, and let me emphasize this very clearly here. This is talking about the same person in the context of leadership in the church. So when you see a pastor, that pastor is also an elder, and that pastor is also an overseer So you can call him, you can call me Pastor Mike, you can call me Elder Mike, you can call me Overseer Mike, or as I like to say, just call me Brother Mike or Mike. Okay? Um I don't mind being called Pastor Mike at all. The problem is is that a lot of people distinguish that in other churches that you've got the pastor over here who's the paid guy and then the other guys who aren't paid, they're the elders. Please erase that distinction. Any man who is in leadership in the church is a pastor, elder, overseer And these three words are very distinctly made of the leader, the elder, overseer, pastor in the church. And so Please think of these as synonymous terms. They each have their own definition and meaning, but clearly in the context of context of the church, when you're talking about the pastor, elder, overseer, you're talking about the guy who is leading the church, or in the plurality of a church, which we affirm from the scriptures, it would be multiple men leading the church, all bearing the same title, the same um role the same uh distinction pastor elder overseer. That's why we call Pastor Christopher, Pastor Alan, Pastor Rob the same as Pastor Gabe and the same as me. Because again, we all share in a plurality of leading the church and God has given us this distinct role. So they refer to the same person who represent Christ's authority in the church, namely certain qu qualified men. So when we talk about qualified men leading the church, that's what Paul is making reference to when he says, I do not allow a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man. What man? The band who is leading the church. That's the context here. So once again, this is the context of this particular passage. Now according to verse 11, the context is the corporate gathering of the church, and so a woman was to learn in quietness in all submission. And again, this was revolutionary because this was something that wasn't happening in the first century. Women were not to be shut out of the learning process. Quietness and submission here were to characterize the role of a woman as a learner in the context of the local church. So when she demonstrated submission to the leadership of the church. She was doing what God had commanded and and ordained the church to be and to do So once again, this is huge when you look at it in the context of the local church. Now according to verse 12, the word for allow here, epitrepo um refers to permitting someone uh to do what they desire. And here Paul forbids women from exercising any type of authority over the leadership of the church assembled since that role was given to the pastor, elder, overseer, and he was the one who was to represent Christ's authority. So when a person who was not designated to represent Christ's authority starts to usurp that authority, what are they doing They are usurping and disobeying they're usurping the authority that God has given to certain qualified men, but even more so, they are actually disobeying Christ. And that's the issue. They are sinning by disobeying. And again, this is the context that Paul is talking about. This representative authority was to be limited to certain qualified men. And how do we know that? Well, if you just go one chapter over from 1 Timothy 2 to 1 Timothy 3, you then see what the qualifications are and who those qualifications apply to. So women are to were to be quiet by not teaching. They were to demonstrate submission by not usurping the authority of the pastor, elder, overseer And in light of Titus chapter 2, verses 3 and 4, Paul was here not prohibiting women from teaching and other appropriate Conditions or circumstances in the church. It's just that here he forbade women from usurping The office and role of the pastor, elder, overseer in the church, which was limited to qualified men Is that helping to unpack a little bit of this for you? Once again, this is huge. And so in verse 13, the reason for this limitation is because of God's created order. At creation, God gave headship to the man. He made the woman a suitable helper. So you have the head, which is the man, and the helper of the woman. And by nature and design, Eve was not created to assume the position of ultimate responsibility and accountability before God And so in the context of marriage, that authority and headship was the husband's. And the submission part of it belonged to the wife. In the context of the church, that headship belongs to certain qualified men, and others are to submit to that. So once again, if you see the context here, it helps you to understand more carefully why Paul is saying and giving the limitations that he is. So according to verse 14 When Eve left Adam's protection and acted independent of his headship, she made herself vulnerable to temptation and then was deceived. She confirmed how important it was for her to stay under the protection and headship of her husband, Adam. On the other hand, and because she didn't, she then violated his leadership by or Adam actually violated his leadership by then following Eve into her sin. And so when you see a woman step up into the role of elder, pastor, elder, overship or overseership in the church You are seeing the curse lived out back in Genesis chapter 3. Do you get that? That's what you're seeing. That's why Paul is saying I don't permit, I don't allow a woman to teach. Because if you see this, you're going back to exactly what threw the whole human race into into the fall and into sin. And again, it's it's not living within the bounds of the roles that God has created for us And they're perfect. They're perfect. But we somehow think that we can do better. So Because of Adam's disobedience to God and the entire the entire human race was plunged into sin, we see that from Romans chapter 5. Both Adam and Eve violated God's ordained rules for men and women. Ultimately the responsibility for the fall rests on Adam, since he chose to disobey God apart from being deceived. This is really interesting here because Paul says You know, in verse 14, well verse 13, he says, for it was Adam who was for first formed and then Eve, and that speaks of the role differences. Um but then look at verse fourteen, and it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman being deceived fell into tran into trespass. So Eve came out from under her husband's protection, gave in to the temptation and the deception, she ate, and she therefore sinned. What did Adam do? He just took the the fruit from the woman and ate it. He wasn't even tempted. Shame on us men This is crazy that again we would deliberately disobey, that we don't even need temptation to disobey. Now again, I'm I'm saying that in a sense of just to accentuate how bad it was for Adam Adam should have known better. He knew God's word. He knew God's law. And yet he followed his wife. And that shows the role reversal that led the whole human race into sin. And so once again, this is a shame that this happened But again, it just accentuates why it is that in the context of the church when God has gifted qualified men to serve as pastor, elder, overseers of the church, why Everybody else ought to submit. And in particular, a woman ought to submit. Why? Because she's demonstrating what it means for all of us to submit to the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what we need to do Now, at the end of this verse 14, he then goes on into f verse fifteen, and and there's hope here, uh Paul says. For the woman, he says, according to verse 15, the woman will be saved through the bearing of children. Isn't that wonderful? That women can be saved by having babies. Please say no, Mike. You are you are in left field, you are totally wrong. Because I am. I am this is horrible. But this is somehow this is the way some people interpret this verse. Again, this is it's very helpful for us to get an understanding to unpack this so that we know what he's what Paul is talking about here. This word save Sodzo, it's a it's a great verb. Um it's a verb that can be translated to save, to keep from harm, to preserve, and to rescue. It's some it's semantic domain is not real large, but it's large enough to encompass not only eternal salvation, which is spiritual, but it can also be used to s to talk about saving from some disaster or peril. So, but this is a wonderful word here. Context dictates its meaning though. Again, you can't say it means this and then just impose that on the text. The context helps you to understand how to interpret this word. So here, um Paul is not teaching that a woman is saved eternally from sin through childbearing or that they maintain their salvation by having babies. Okay? So we need to dispel that right away. That is not what Paul is talking about here. This is this is the reason why this is Not the case is because it would directly violate what Paul says in Ephesians chapter 2, 8 and 9, about what is salvation. We are saved by what Grace through faith in Christ. And because we're celebrating the Reformation here this week, we want to add the word alone. Okay, so it's by grace alone, through faith alone, in Jesus Christ alone, to the glory of God alone. So the issue here is that this is not what Paul is saying that Because you know Adam was deceived and the woman being deceived fell into trespass, that now the way that she can be saved eternally is by having babies or maintaining children. That is not what Paul is saying here. So, he is teaching that even though a woman bears the stigma of being the initial instrument which led the human race into sin, it is by God's design that all women may be preserved or freed from that stigma by raising up a generation that is godly. And let me tell you, in the context of the local church, women who are teaching children are contributing to eliminating this stigma. And what a joy that is. Uh again, this is what you know, you women have to look back on. Eve being the one who was first deceived. and fell into sin. Us guys we have to look back to Adam and saying Adam is the one. Ultimately it was Adam's sin that plunged the whole human race into sin. But the issue is that there's this stigma that's attached to Eve now, that she was the one who was deceived. And that then stigma carries along with other women. Um Paul is saying, you need to understand that by God's design, by God's uh God's um wonderful uh pre-gospel proclamation that that sin curse can be removed and the stigma of that curse can be removed And how so? By raising another generation that would then uh be godly and again give God glory. I I'm sure that Eve, when when she had Seth, it was such a beautiful thing. because he was such a godly man. But the issue here is once again this is talking about our influence on the next generation. So it doesn't have to be with bearing children, although here In the context, Paul is saying that she will be shi she will be saved through bearing of children. It's the idea that that you as a woman, if you give birth to a child It's not the giving birth that saves you or that somehow removes the stigma because that was given to every woman. Um the issue here is that you can remove the stigma of the curse of what Eve uh express or what she experienced in the fall by raising your child to be a godly a godly person. And that's the joy here of it. And likewise in the context of the church you women that are involved in children's ministries or young ministries, um, youth ministries, you have a wonderful, wonderful opportunity of being able to influence the next generation. And I love the fact that this is um This is said here because if you think about the role differences, even in the home, women spend more time nurturing their children than men do. And that is such a tremendous opportunity to give the gospel to the next generation of children So that they can be raised in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. Doesn't remove the husband from participating in that. It's just a fact that because the woman spends more time nurturing the children, you have such a god uh uh an opportune moment before you to preach, teach, live the gospel of Jesus Christ and to transform a generation. uh from what you from the sin that's all that is taking place. So, in the context here, the promise of preservation is l is leading the next generation out of sin and into godliness. And because of the role God has gifted to women, again, they have a far greater influence on rearing godly children than men do. This influence is based on a condition that went that godly women and look at the end of verse fifteen. If they continue in faith and love and sanctification and self-restraint If you've got a godly woman, whether it be in the family or in the church, impacting the next generation If they continue in the faith, if they continue in the love of Christ, if they continue to grow in sanctification, and they have self-restraint Self restraint meaning they know their roles and they submit to that gladly, joyfully, and with with um thankfulness to God If they do that, what an impact that would make on the next generation. I mean just think about it in the context of our church. We would be raising, excuse me, a bunch of children to know the Lord. And again, if they were saved to then nurturing this next generation that can be raised up to reach the world for Christ. So please don't minimize your your role, women, in the family or in the church. Don't minimize it at all. You have a tremendous responsibility. And this is the role that God has given to women. The bottom line here is that the reason women are not allowed to teach and to exercise authority over men in the church is because God has ordained it this way from the moment of creation. Men are to exercise headship and authority, women are to submit. The spiritual leadership that God has given to qualified men. I'm sorry. The spiritual leadership in the church belongs to qualified men. Women are commanded not to usurp that authority that God has given to qualified men. This has nothing to do with culture, it has nothing to do with skill, has nothing to do with giftedness. It is simply because of God's design. And that's it alone. So again, if you're seeing a church that has a a woman as a pastor leading in this role that has been designated for qualified men, then you are seeing Genesis 3 all lived out all over again. And that's what needs to be stopped. Men were created to lead and therefore given headship. Women were created to submit and therefore made suitable helpers. The context of 1 Timothy Chapter 2, verses 11 and 12 is that leadership is this leadership in the church, and the reason women were not to teach or to exercise authority over the man in the context of the church is because God has delegated that representative authority to qualified men. Women who usurp that authority are acting like Eve. when she was deceived and fell into sin. Now here's the application. The application of this passage today is that if any woman who assumes the role of pastor, elder, overseer in the church is directly disobeying God's explicit command regarding the role of leadership and headship given to man in the context of the local church. A church which affirms women pastors and practices female leadership in the church is living in disobedience to God's will. That's a pretty bold statement, isn't it? Especially the culture we live in today. But this is what God's Word teaches. This is what God's Word says. And so again, the argument's not with me. It's with God. So and I Yes. So where's the confusion then and why do women um lead churches and try to make you believe that it's it is in the Bible that is that it is okay, because I know a few Um so my I just I follow you, I just don't understand how they're not understanding the scripture. Where do they muddle the word? Primarily primarily as I have looked at it because I've asked that same question, it's it is an exegetical interpretive problem. They're not interpreting it correctly. But I would say it goes back to the argument of culture. This was in the first century. We don't live in the first century anymore. We don't live in a culture that suppresses women. We're now living in a culture where there is liberation. So therefore the liberation must not just extend to society, it must extend to the church. And when it starts infiltrating the church and directly contradicting Scripture, you know there's a problem. But it's primarily culture. It's a great question to ask because again, this is the this is the argument ultimately if you were to sit down and talk with an egalitarian or somebody who believes in pastoral leadership for women in the church. It just goes back to culture. Oh yeah. Yeah. Okay, that makes sense. Definitely. Now here's the any other statements or comments? Sure. But not on the previous topics, but on verse 15. Yes. So there's really one commentator this week who was saying that uh One another like his offer interpretation of saying like should be saved in spite of bearing children, um because the curse was to bear children. So like in the peril and danger of childbirth she would be saved in spite of that and compared it to First Corinthians three when it talks about like uh what each man would build, right, and then he himself would be saved as through fire and saying like construction of the language is similar. Yeah. So he's not in First Corinthians he's not saved because of the fire, he's saved in spite of it. And in this way he's she saved in spite of childbirth. The problem is that In the Greek, it doesn't say that. That's importing into the text words that aren't there. So it doesn't say that. Asking the question of what does SODSO mean? What does saved mean? That's the best way to go. Here's another problem. Adam and Eve, when they were created, they were created to be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth. The sin is not bearing children. The sin is what? Or the curse is what? Pain. Pain. Yeah. So can you imagine birth not having any pain? Oh yeah yeah. I can't. I mean I I'll just put it out there, but um I You know, just talking with my wife and, you know, other women. It's like I can't imagine what you guys have to go through. Um but it's the curse of is the pain. Um so it's it's hard when commentators do that because they're importing, I believe, a a pre um What is what does it mean? They're having trouble I I think I know because I think I've read that same commentary. Um but I think the issue for them is they're not knowing how clearly to communicate verse fifteen. Isolated from the rest of the passage. Because if you look at the rest of the passage of the context being the church, and you look at the role of what Paul is describing here between qualified certain men to lead the church and women who are trying to usurp that role in the church The question then becomes, well, how are women then redeemed in some way from that that that uh desire to want to usurp that authority And so what they end up doing is they end up pulling verse 15 out of its context and trying to interpret that within that just that verse itself. And what ends up happening is they stumble over the words like saved. And then the issues of what is Paul talking about here with bearing children. Um, because I've heard some even, you know, take it beyond the bearing children to how it is that birth takes place. And it's just the text just doesn't support any of those ideas. Um but that's where we need to be discerning. And I appreciate you bringing it up because it is a it's a question and when I came across that commentary I and I read that I thought, oh, am I missing something here And then I started to study the greater context and realized, uh, this doesn't this doesn't jive. And so once again, commentators are They have a leaning, they have an interpretation, they have a they have an agenda, and so you just have to be careful and mindful of that when you're reading them. And uh so th those would be my two problems is inserting words that aren't there or meanings that aren't there, but also the issue was it in the same commentary that he talked about um that the curse was the child bearing Um and that they needed to be redeemed from the giving birth of children. Well just simply the deem you know when when birth could end up in death. Like being preserved. In spite of like the you know, process of bearing a child. Yeah. Um save physically. Saved physically, yeah. Um and can and then the women themselves continued in space flow. Yeah. I think very clearly it has to do with the stigma, but go ahead Isaac. I think one of the things I like most about, even though the save part may seem like salvation, that's kind of where I'm lying Ten to go. It does. Um because we're so connected to Christ and salvation. But I like the Alan has something in um And there's notes here. Should be restored. Yeah. And so it's like it it it seemed like like you mentioned before the blight of a woman is like everyone looking back in history and said Because of you. Exactly. Her original her her original dis you know design by God was to have her lifted up. Yeah. So the restoration to her would be bearing children. Not so much the pain, the pain scurt, but It's it just kind of brings beauty to, you know, E even though she's yeah, you know. But not just bearing children It's the opportunity of being able to influence that child for you know, for God. Yeah, the next generation. But I've been thinking about it, I thought uh but it seems like and and you you know, let me know what you think. But my thought was Connected to the pain of childbearing, we're looking at the physical aspects, like going through labor and all that stuff. But there's also something else that Eve did in producing children. She also produced cane and his whole forward of nation that were evil. So it's like part of the pain of raising children from a parent's perspective is kind of watching, you know, a mother watching her children kind of grow up and having the pain of that. So I'm trying to connect that. I don't want to overly connect it, but I want to get like proud because is this part of it also? I would say based on the end, the um the last clause, um if they continue in faith and love and sanctification and self-restraint, speaks more to the woman than the child or what the child ends up doing. The issue is that women in the church, rather than usurping the authority of gifted, qualified pastor, elder, overseers in the church Look at what you ha what opportunity you have right in front of you if you're married and have children at home or if it's in the church. Look at the opportunity that you have that with your godliness, with your your um Your own redemption and sanctification, look what you have the opportunity to do. Is to I got a bunch of women raising their hands. Oh, good morning. Oh yeah. Mother and his grandmother, Lois and Eunice their face. He Paul talked about Timmy's face, he said it was in your mother and your grandmother's first Yep. So that's a beautiful thing. So yeah, so I would say it speaks more to the woman than it does to the child and what happens with the child. It's just that again the opportunity here is You don't have to be those women who try to usurp the authority. You can be those godly, submissive women that can impact a generation of godly people. So, but yeah, good thoughts. Let me also say this, that women can participate. This is another application, but women can participate in many opportunities in the church so long as they do so affirming and putting into practice God's creation design. And again, one of the greatest opportunities for women in the church is to teach and to influence the next generation of boys and girls to forsake their sin, to put their faith in Jesus Christ alone for their salvation. Um this commitment to Christ and God's design for women will remove the stigma of following in the footsteps of Eve, who was deceived and fell into sin. It will honor the Lord Jesus, who is the supreme head of the church. And it will bring glory to God. So if we understand what the role differences are in the in the church, that should really free us up. to live a godly life in the church and to impact a generation for Christ. Um it's just that once again In the first century as well as today, there's women out there who want to usurp the role of their husbands, they want to usurp the role of pastor, elder, overseers in the church, they want to usurp their authority in ways that are ungodly And we need to be careful about that. Likewise, men are not doing what they're supposed to do. They're not leading. They're not providing headship. They're not being accountable. for their actions and their choices. Even though that's the way God designed it. And again, if if we are living for ourselves wanting to do things the way we want them we want them to do it or we want to do it then the issue is we are living in in um contradiction to the scriptures We're living in rebellion against Christ, the who is the head of the church. I was just thinking about us we're all humans, but none of us are perfect, and so there are new men who aren't perfect leaders But God has ordained that they be the leaders and so for women who say, He's not doing it right, I can do it better That's the same as my original lie of does that really setting? I mean it's really it's just repeating that over again too. Because we think we know better if we see a deficient male meter Yeah. But we don't know better. God is working that sufficient male here and God's working here and working through him. Yeah. Yeah. And the reason for the temptation is because we're all We're all cursed with sin. We're all part of the fall. And so this is the way humanity is going to be worked out until God redeems us. Um but the issue is is that men we need to come alongside each other and remind ourselves that um you you um I'm trying to think the right term. Wimp comes to mind. If you're a wimp and you don't take leadership and you don't take that respon that accountability, um Seriously, then what you were doing is you're doing exactly you're you're emphasizing what the curse of sin and the fall has contributed to humanity. Um you are not going back to God's original creation and looking at how Adam and Eve were created in the garden. Perfect and able to function in the designed roles that God has given them until they aid from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And so the issue is that we we need to remind ourselves that we need as redeemed individuals, as saved individuals, by the mercy of God, we need to remind ourselves that we have an opportunity to live the way Adam and Eve lived in demonstrating the our God ordained roles. So a man, if you're not leading, other men ought to come along and say, let me encourage you, take the leadership in this position. Again, remember your headship here. Also women. Women come along other women and saying, you're not submitting in this area. Let me encourage you, submit as unto the Lord. But just to give that kind of encouragement is huge in our especially in the church because this is what is going to impact uh the world for Christ because we're going to live so differently than the world. And uh and we'll be in God's will. Okay, don't have a whole lot of time, but let me go over the second passage, which is 1 Timothy chapter 3, verses 1 through 7 This is actually I broke this up into into two slides here, but this first one has to do with the qualifications of an overseer. Paul says it's a trustworthy saying, if any man aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a good work. An overseer then must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, sensible, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not addicted to wine or pugnacious but considerate, peaceable, free from the love of money, leading his own household well, having his children in submission with all dignity But if a man does not know how to lead his own household, how will he take care of the church of God and not a new convert? So that he will not become conceited and fall into the condemnation of the devil? and he must have a good reputation with those outside the church so that he will not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. This is the qualification for an overseer, pastor, elder, overseer in the church. So if a woman is coming along and wanting to usurp that role, that authority, um of a s of a qualified man, In this position, she is going against all that God has said about what a qualified men man has to be here. Now again, um the references to home, the references to um household and children. This doesn't mean that an elder must be married and have a wife and have children. Um it's just that those who did, this is the kind of um qualification that was meant to be here. But any man needed to look at this these qualifications and say, this is the godly person that I want to be. And it would be elders in the church who would come along and say We would ask you, do you aspire to the office of elder? And if you do, then let us examine your life very detailed and then see if this measures up with your life, and it is then we would like to call be an extension of God's call on your life and say, consider leading the church. Consider stepping into that role. Um so this is the qualified man, and it is for the office of pastor, elder, overseer in the church. And We men who are currently leading Hope Bible Church take these verses very seriously. This is huge. Huge. So we don't ever want to minimize what is being said here because the moment we start softening and minimizing this, that's the moment that the le that the church congregation starts to slip and fall into sin as well. As the leaders go, so goes the people. So very seriously here. Now the next passage is um the rest of the verses that deal with deacons, deacons likewise must be dignified, not double-tongued, not indulging in much wine, not fond of dishonest gain, not holding to the mystery of faith with a clear conscience And these men must also first be tested, then let them serve as deacons if they are beyond reproach. Women must likewise be dignified, not malicious gossips, but temperate Faithful in all things. Deacons must be husbands of only one wife, leading their children and their own households well. Those for those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a high standing and a gr and great boldness in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. Once again clear qualifications regarding um deacons here. Now the context of these verses speak of leadership in the church That's why going back to 1 Timothy 2 is so clear with regards to Paul not permitting a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man. And let me say this, the teaching aspect that Paul is talking about in First Timothy two has to do with teaching the whole church. Has to do with being qualified and apt to teach. She may be skilled in being able to teach and so therefore we don't want to limit that role that opportunity of being able to teach. But when you're talking about leading and teaching the whole congregation, men and women together, that has specifically been designated for qualified men. So I just want to make that very clear. But the position here, like deacons, or deacons, like the pastor, elder, overseer, both of them These are restricted to men. Now, I want to be careful here when I say this because the role of deacon being limited to men in some contexts In this context, can be interpreted differently. It can either refer to women deacons that Paul is talking about here, deaconesses. Or it could be that Paul is talking here about the wives of deacons. There's two ways of interpreting this passage. The interpretation of verse 11, which is women must likewise be dignified, not malicious gossips, but temperate, faithful in all things. Again, hinges on whether Paul is talking here about deacons' wives or a third category of servants in the church, which would be deaconesses. Let me give you what our position is here at Hope Bible Church. At Hope Bible Church, we affirm that the official office of deacon is reserved for men only. Women can serve They can in the words of Paul uh I was I'm trying to think of the verb, um, but dioconate um the s the church, they can serve the church. Deacon just means serve. Women can do that. But again, it depends on how you interpret these verses to understand this third category. We see it as an official office here, so women can serve the local church, but they can't assume the office or title of deacon. And so that's kind of where we've landed. Um but again there's equal uh position to the idea that this could be a s a third category of a deaconess in the church. I'm going to leave it to you guys to search that out and to land where you want to land on that, but this is where we land as a church here. Can women serve in ministry? Absolutely. The qualifications for women serving in the church is outlined in verse 11. Again, serving dignified, being dignified, not malicious gossips, but temperate, faithful in all things. In terms of pastor-elder overseer, the role of leadership in the church is reserved for qualified men only. And this is based on several factors. The aspiration of the let me go back to that slide. The aspiration of the office of overseer refers to any man, Paul says here, not women. The interrogative pronoun here used in verse 1 is clarified by the masculine personal pronouns that follow in there so you see any man, he desires a good work, and then you go down to uh verse uh four, his children Um and then again any man if a man. So we see very clearly it's limited to men. And then also the use of the personal pronouns inverse um well in verse um One through seven also refer to men as well. Only men can be the husbands of one wife. Clearly, a man Only men were referred to as leaders in their homes. And again, that goes actually back to creation for that. Women were never referred to as the heads of their households These qualifications distinguish those who represent Christ's authority in the church. Leadership, accountability, oversight are always delegated to men in Scripture. Men bore this res this kind of responsibility and accountability in the home and in society, and especially in the church And then also understanding the context and reasons why women were not to teach or exercise authority over men limits the office to that being of qualified men only in the church. And the primary leadership role and accountability in the church is clearly designated from God to qualified men only. So if women are limited in terms of their authority in the church, the question then becomes what is, what are the opportunities that they can serve in the church? Let me just tell you, leadership in the church Teaching the church. That's just one aspect of the church ministry, okay? It's it's a very important aspect, but it's one aspect. When you look at the opportunities for women to teach Um Allen has given examples of this. You have Priscilla helping her husband to teach Apollos. And it's interesting because it got to the point where Priscilla was so close to Apollos that she began and even by Luke And Paul was called Prisca because she had such an intimate relationship with her husband to teach and to help further the ministry. Now a woman can help her husband by leading uh help her husband lead a small group by being supportive there and again contributing As Sharon has contributed during our time here, it's always helpful. Her insights are are clearly wanted and needed by me. Um, Titus chapter two, older women can teach younger women very clearly. Women's ministry, discipling other women. Um, first Corinthians eleven, praying and prophesying. It's not prophesying by giving new revelation here, it's proclaiming God's word. that's already been revealed here, but public and private prayer, reading the scripture in a group setting. She can do that. Ephesians 5 and Colossians 3, singing, giving thanks, admonishing one another choir, special music, accompaniment, public testimonies. Um 1 Timothy two and five, good works, hospitality, serving And assisting, care ministry, hospitality, administration, helps. I mean those are all gifts that God has given us. And so as they're expressed in women, this is how you can serve Likewise, in Acts chapter 1, Mary and other women prayed with the men. Corporate prayer Um, I love that during the morning. I don't know if all of you know this, but we have a time of corporate prayer where we meet in the the choir, the Luther Room, right off of the main auditorium That is an opportunity for all of you to come. In fact, let me encourage you. All of you come to that 9 o'clock hour and for the 20 minutes that we pray, just saturate that room. Because we'll m that will just force us to get a bigger room. So but you go all need to come and be a part of that corporate prayer time. Acts 9. Tabitha abounded in Acts of Kindness and Charity, care ministry. Philippians 4, Yodia and Syntheci shared in spreading the gospel. Evangelism helps Uh Romans 16, Phoebe uh served as uh in the church, and she's actually called a deacon in there, and so she's a servant of the church Um and she could serve in any one of the above ministries. And then 1 Peter 4, 1 Corinthians 12, and Romans 12. Each one should be a good steward of his own his or her own spiritual gifts All of the ministering gifts that operate today, can that are operative today can be employed in various ways by m um the Minist Ministry of Women in the Church Okay? Alright, we've got a minute over. So I know this was blasting you with like a fire hydrant, but um But we'll continue with this in part two. So let's pray. Father, thank you so much for this time and we just ask that you would bless your word and we thank you for how clear it is And just helping us to understand it. Lord, we give you great give you thanks and praise. And now as we go to corporate worship, Lord, receive our praise with gladness and joy. And we thank you in Christ's name. Amen.