We're gonna hopefully finish this uh this outline. I think Hong said that she would bring copies uh but she's not here yet, so I'm sorry I don't have any uh any extra copies for people. But um You know, hopefully soon. So we started off a few weeks ago in this unit by asking what is the meaning of this of manhood and womanhood. You know, what is biblical manhood and womanhood? And so we spent a lot of time talking about, you know, those definitions, you know, and what what makes what makes um what is central to masculinity and what's central to femininity. Um and I think at this in the in topics like this, especially this topic, um, the temptation is really to get to is to really to jump to specific applications and say like, oh, you know, this is what a man looks like, these are the activities a man does, or this is what a woman looks like, and this is what the activities a woman does. And Um, we really, really need to stay at the level that Scripture stays at, which is principles, right? Scripture gives us principles um gives us sort of the the heart disposition of men and women that we then take and we use discernment and wisdom to apply to our various life situations. Right. But um you know, so I I just I wanted to um start off by saying, you know, last last week uh we were making the point that like um girls and boys uh look different even from a very young age, you know, in terms of like what they like to play with and stuff. And I think um you know, th there was an example brought up of of like um uh a girl, maybe it was your sister, who um uh didn't really want to play with typically feminine uh toys or whatever. Um But, you know, I just wanted to clarify that that doesn't mean that she wasn't feminine, right? Um so because biblical femininity is not about like playing with dolls or being into glitter or whatever, right? It's it's a heart disposition Uh it's a heart disposition of of nurturing helpership. And um, you know, a w a woman can cultivate that without ever being into m you know, Barbie or whatever. Uh so so I just wanted to make that that clear. You know, because I don't just because it's such a temptation for us to get into like, oh, this is these are the external things that mark a man or a woman But it's not about the external adornment, right? It's about it's about the inward disposition that works itself out in in various applications that depend a lot on your specific situation. Um yeah, so uh we went over sort of the the core, the meaning of manhood and womanhood first, and then last time we asked how has sin changed manhood and womanhood. Right? And the answer basically is that sin has distorted but not invalidated God's design Right. God's uh very good design still includes um profound differences between men and women uh you know, essential equality and also profound difference. And and sin hasn't erased those and hasn't made it so that we can ignore the distinctions between men and women. Uh rather it's taken the relationship that should have been marked by harmony and joy and turned it, more often than not, into a relationship marked by conflict. Just like it did for work and childbearing, which were two things that two good things that existed before the fall that sin took and twisted and made into painful things Alright, so that's why the relationship between men and women um these days is so marked by conflict. Um it's not because of the differences necessarily, it's because of sin. And we shouldn't ignore and throw out the differences. We should uh learn to respond to and and embrace the differences in God honoring ways. So that's what we're going to talk about today is how should we live as men and women N given that we can't go back to the Garden of Eden, we can't go back to God's very good world before the fall, uh, we live in a fallen world with sin But how should we live as men and women who are believers, right? Who are redeemed of the Lord? And again, we're going to stay at the level of principles today Alright, we're we're gonna look at selected scriptures that talk to men and women or talk about men and women, and we're gonna um take out principles from those scriptures. And the application of those principles, um, you know, is something that that uh like if you have a question about how to apply these things. Hey Lily If you have questions about how to apply these principles to your life, then yeah, feel definitely feel free to ask those questions here. But I'm what you'll not find me doing is is giving lists of like, oh, you know, these are exactly the the things that um a man should do or the activities that a woman should do, right? Uh that's because that's not generally what the Bible does. Okay, so um how should we live as Christians in A world um that is marred by sin. Well, we must live out a redeemed masculinity and femininity Okay, so here are just I'm I picked out four scriptures or you know four scriptural themes uh each for men and for women. And we're gonna take men first. Here are four scriptural themes that sort of describe the shape of redeemed masculinity for for believers. So by the grace of Christ And I include this phrase because this is what we need to depend on as men who are living out biblical masculinity in a fallen world. By the grace of Christ, men should use their masculinity in these four ways. This is not an exhaustive list. There are other ways that we can and should use our masculinity, but at least these four. So the first scripture is 1 Corinthians 16-13 Which says, be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong. So that that command um it's actually given not just to men, it's given to the entire church, right? So Paul is telling the entire Corinthian church, men and women Um, stand firm in the faith, act like men in this specific regard, be strong. But he's using masculinity as the model for something Right? He's using the masculinity as the model for standing firm and enduring. And you know, so much of the Christian life is about standing firm and enduring. Uh you know, it's it's amazing how much how often the New Testament talks about trials, right? Trials characterize the Christian life. I think one of our our guest pastors recently said, you know, as a Christ if you're a Christian, you're either going through a trial, coming out of a trial, or about to go through a trial. Right, that's how life is as a Christian. And um that's why the New Testament has these exhortations to stand firm and endure. Or or like Galatians six nine where it says, um, let us not lose heart in doing good. And uh you know, so there's so much of the Bible is about like keep running the race, keep going, keep enduring through trials and hardships and suffering. And Uh so when Paul here says, act like men, be strong, he's saying um he's speaking to both men and women, but as men particularly, since masculinity here is what he's using as the model of steadfast endurance, we should be careful to set an example with our masculinity of standing firm and enduring in difficult trials. Right? When the going gets tough, we should not quit. We should act like men, be strong. Um you know that's that's the implication here uh for for mature masculinity So that's that's number one, that's one way number one that men can use their masculinity, uh endure hardship for the Lord. Uh number two Guard the church against false teaching as pastors and elders and teachers. So there are passages in in the New Testament that speak about the qualifications of elders and and leaders in the church. And um the in those passages it makes it clear that um those positions of authority, uh God intends for men to fill those uh because because of the nature of masculinity. So turn to Titus chapter one, if you got your Bibles with you. That's one of the Uh passages in Scripture that outlines the qualifications of godly elders Um so let's read um Titus I And let's read verses seven through eleven. Uh who wants to read Titus one seven through eleven Okay, Aaron. Overseer must be beyond approaching best consumers, uh self will temper. Not overindulging in wine, not a fully not pretty muddy, but hospitable. Loving what is good, self-control, righteous holy, holding firmly to faith faithful word which is in accordance with the teaching, so that he will be able to do both to exhort the self-doctrine and to refute those who contradict it. Many rebellious people, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision, who must be silenced because they are upsetting whole families, teaching things they should not teach in a safe of dishonesty. What is the job of these men who are called to be overseers, as it says in the text? Why are they there? It says they have to be able to exhort in sound doctrine and refute those who contradict. And then verses ten and eleven give the reason. Why is it necessary to have men like this? Yeah. Right, exactly, to preserve the church against those who would pull it apart. Right? Satan has a lot of um strategies, you know, uh um and they all boil down mostly to false teaching that He sets up over here, you know, here's a false teaching over here that he tries to drive a wedge into the church with. And then here's another one over here and over here. And So Satan has these attacks that come in the form of false teaching, and um God has commanded uh the church to have men. in positions of authority who can teach, right? That is the qualification. That's one of the main qualifications for men in this position is that they be able to teach so that they can um exhort in sound doctrine and refute those who contradict, refute those false teachers who are coming in and attacking the church Alright, so that's that's another sort of um principle or or you know one of the one of these scriptural themes that gives us the shape of a redeemed masculinity. Right? Is is using um that that God given uh desire and and inclination to lead in order to to teach and guard the church Right, uh so okay, so that's number two. Um number three, you know, in addition to standing firm and enduring hardship for the Lord, in addition to guarding the church against false teaching, um redeemed masculinity, uh men who who have a redeemed masculinity will be in control of their strength for the good of others. So This is loving self-control. Look again at Titus, this time in chapter 2. I'll read verses 2 and 6. Paul says to Titus, older men are to be temperate, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, in perseverance. And then likewise urge the younger men to be sensible. So there's all the the adjectives in this list uh that applies to older and younger men, uh they all have to do with tempering and sort of restraining the the natural um sort of sense of of uh of go-getterness or strength or or impulsiveness that uh that sometimes characterizes masculinity, right? As men we have this desire to go out and take the hill, you know, go do the thing. Um But we need the the wisdom of God in order to temper and control and and sort of um put appropriate boundaries on that on that kind of strength and that that strong initiative. Um and we need to use our strength for the good of others. Right. Here it says urge young men to be sensible. And that that adjective sensible has to do with wisdom, right? Knowing knowing the right way in which to use uh your strengths and your abilities Uh not just rushing off and doing whatever seems good in the moment. Yeah, but subordinating your actions to the law of God which is aimed at the good of other people, uh especially those in the church and around you. And then finally, fourth uh on on my list, again, not exhaustive, right? There are more there's more to redeemed masculinity than just these four points. Um But another theme in Scripture is that men, uh, godly men are to provide for their households So in first Timothy five eight, uh it says, But if anyone does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever Um and so there are other a lot of other scriptures that that either implicitly or explicitly talk about uh the need for um a man to take this responsibility, to see that his household is is provided for. Um And, you know, we we shouldn't uh read more into the Bible than what it actually says. You know, s I imagine some men have taken this scripture and said, well, okay, this is why I need to go spend eighty hours a week at work and climb the corporate ladder because the Bible says I have to provide for my family. Um but the Bible here is not saying God's not saying you need to go make as much money as you possibly can, uh so that you can provide like all the luxuries that your family could ever want. No, it's talking about basic needs, right? It's talking about shelter and food and clothing and warmth um the kinds of things that that are necessary uh to to keep your family healthy and and to bring up your children in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. So it's you know, it's not a license to go be a workaholic, but it's also an exhortation as men that you know to take this responsibility seriously of providing uh for those who are in your household Okay, so those are those are four scriptures and and scriptural threads that give us a shape. of what um redeemed masculinity can look like as we live it out as as believers in the world. Any any questions there or additions, you know, maybe uh questions about like how to apply it? To to your specific situation, Women can ask questions too about masculinity. This is the first day in a long time when when the women outnumber the men in the class. Don't worry, my characters won away and mom just left the Oh okay. Wow. Oh no. Oh yeah. I mean like so like so obviously like Titus refers to I don't want to make generalizations, but in general the audience appear is like those with like families who have a reputation. Some sort of like track record you can verify So the question is like as a young man who is not in the position to necessarily come elder at the right age of eighteen. What is their role, I guess, um with regards to being That's a great question. And you know, we know that that um the requirements around uh like families, you know, uh when it when it says um The husband of one wife, having children who believe, right? That Paul didn't even meet that requirement. He wasn't married. He was single Um so this the list is not designed to rule out single people or like require that you have to have children. in order to be an elder. It just sort of takes that as the general pattern that that men would follow in this society, right? Generally Most men were married and most most married couples had children here. And so if the man is married and has children, you gotta look at how he treats his wife and his children. You know, is he Is he a ladies man? If so, like he's not an elder candidate, right? That's not that's not the kind of man you want to be an elder. Um or you know, are his children out of control and unruly? Um so it's not but it's not meant to rule out um single people uh doing ministry and serving in positions of leadership, right, as Paul himself did. Later or other at other places in scripture Paul commended the single life and he said, you know, being single is a great way to serve the Lord because you can give him your undivided attention. Uh and we'll cover that more when we go over God's design for marriage and singleness and um which is coming up next. But um the the short answer is that like Um yeah, single people absolutely uh can aspire to single men can aspire to serve in these positions of leadership and they should try to cultivate the same kind of character that um that Paul is talking about here for for married men. You know, because even in even when you're single, you still have relationships, right? You can still prove to all that you're not you're not a ladies man, you know just playing with women's affections, uh you know, which which should be true of you if you are a single man aspiring to leadership in the church. Um you can you can show by the way you disciple younger men that um you know essentially like how you handle your spiritual children in the faith uh as as Paul said that he had all these spiritual children um that he raised up in the faith. You can show that you're that you meet those same qualifications um that Paul lists here for married men Um yeah, and I think that we always have to keep in mind remember what uh Paul said to Timothy, don't let anyone look down on you because you are young, but set an example for the believers In speech, in life, in faith, in uh I'm forgetting the rest, but it's Yeah, in faith and in purity. Yeah. Yeah, there's no purity and faith. Speech, life, love, faith, purity. Yeah. So so You know, even as young men um who aren't married, you should be setting an example, right? Not letting people look down on you because you're young, but setting an example that you're the kind of man who can be a spiritual leader. Right? Whether God calls you to marriage or not. That's a great point. Any other questions about yeah, masculinity, redeemed masculinity. We're just scratching the surface. I mean there's there's a million different applications of these principles and others. All right, let's move on. Let's go. Let's look at uh some principles that characterize um redeemed femininity So again, by the grace of Christ, not in our own strength, but by the grace that that God supplies through Christ. Christian women should use their femininity to do um and I've got four general principles here. Uh number one, worship the Lord in feminine ways. And in ways that that uh that you might say are uniquely feminine. Um so I'm thinking here, for example, of when Mary Magdalene um worshipped Jesus and and washed his feet. Actually let's turn there. Luke six, turn to Luke um sorry, Luke seven Luke seven and let's read verses thirty-six through thirty-eight. Who wants to read Oh thanks. One of the Pharisees asked him to eat drinking and the Pharisees was fine at the table. And behold a woman of the city who was When she learned that he was residing at the table in her house, brought an alabaster flack flack of wicked. And standing behind him at his feet, he when she began to wet his feet and wake her tears and wiping her hair and her head and kissing her feet. Yeah, so this woman who I think elsewhere is identified as Mary Magdalene comes and worships Jesus in this in this way. So what about her worship here is distinctly feminine? Her hair, yeah, she's using her long hair to to wash Jesus' feet, right? That's long hair, even in that culture, especially in that culture, was associated with femininity. Um so she's using you know, an aspect of of of her femaleness to as in worship of Jesus. What else? The perfume, yeah, exactly. So she's bringing perfume, probably something that a man wouldn't have owned. Um and and many scholars speculate that this um vial of perfume was her dowry Right. It was uh something probably that was handed down uh through her family and would have been very costly, right? Like um like a luxury car roughly the equivalent of that. Um and so it's something that that she had as a woman and it was it was an article of her femininity that she was using and pouring out and sacrificing in order to worship Jesus. Um Yeah, and now it's not like it's not like um falling down at Jesus' feet is is distinctly feminine, like tons of men uh throughout the New Testament fell down at Jesus' feet and worshipped him. Right. So it's not it's not so much the fact that she is falling at his feet. It's not like her posture. It's the it's the using the perfume and using her hair and um you know, and and her tears to wipe Jesus' feet. And that's um so that's why th this strikes me as a uniquely feminine kind of worship. And I think we can carry this principle, not just women but also men can carry this principle into worship. You know, we should worship God with the the good God-given differences that He's created us with. You see this principle at work also in Revelation. Like when Revelation describes the multitude of believers around the throne worshiping God. It's people from what? Yeah, every tribe, tongue, and nation. And tongue there means language. Right? Tongue tongue means language. And so The implication there is that in heaven when people are standing around the throne room worshiping God, they're gonna be worshiping in their native languages. Right? So the uh and and remember God is the is the origin of those languages. At at Babel he confused the the speech of everyone and gave them different languages. So um The principle there is that uh these groups of people are using their God-given differences in order to worship him in a way that glorifies him more than if everyone spoke the same language. Right. And I think the same principle applies to masculinity and femininity. When we come together to worship, we shouldn't like ignore or minimize the differences between men and women. We should use those differences to express worship uh in a in a God-glorifying way. Like I love it when we sing songs in worship that have different parts for men and women I actually really like that. Some people don't like that, but I really do because it's just um it's wonderful to hear to hear the juxtaposition, to hear the the contrast and the complement of the men's voices and the women's voices, I think. Uh yeah, and I think we could use more of that. I think that's glorifying to God. So worshiping the Lord in in in feminine ways, in distinctively feminine ways. Number two, um a w women Christian women can use a redeemed femininity to adorn their hearts for the Lord. Um And so look at 1 Peter 3, 3 and 4. And that verse, those couple of verses, uh Peter's talking two wives, and he says, Your adornment must not be merely the external, braiding the hair, wearing gold jewelry, or putting on apparel, but it should be the hidden person of the heart, with the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit. Which is precious in the sight of God. Um so here he's addressing women, Peter is, and he's saying, you know, he's sort of acknowledging that uh that in in the culture and probably in most cultures, um, there there is an inclination for women to adorn themselves externally with with uh braided hair and jewelry and things like that. And he's saying that's not wrong, you know, that's not bad. Uh but it's less important to do that outward adornment than it is to pursue the inward adornment of the heart. And what is that inward adornment of the heart? It's the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit And so a little bit needs to be said about those two adjectives, gentle and quiet. Um so gentle, uh It does not mean weak, uh it doesn't mean without strength. It actually means strength that is that is controlled. Uh or or um perhaps hidden in some way. Uh it's actually the word is used uh in contemporary Greek literature of a king who instead of um instead of punishing and executing vengeance on his adversaries, shows them mercy. Right? So so the idea is of someone who has power, who has the ability to do something but holds themselves back uh from from doing that thing. So that's what's meant by gentle in that in that uh pair of adjectives and then quiet, that adjective quiet, that's not the same word as silence or silent. You know, it so it doesn't mean It doesn't mean silent or not speaking. It uh just means tranquil and having a a peace of the spirit, right? An inner peace. Um Uh gentle and quiet, I think when we understand those two words more, it becomes we get a fuller picture of what kind of adornment the Lord is calling uh women, godly women to have. And this is why this is the verse that I pray over uh our daughter Nora every every night before we uh put her to bed. Yeah. And Uh you know, 'cause toddlers are toddlers. They're not generally gentle and quiet. Um Jeff, did you have to I was just gonna say uh probably the greatest example of gentle and quiet spirit would be Christ himself, right? Mm-hmm. Gentle in control of you know these other power explode the entire earth if you wanted. Yeah to not do it. Just being very just kind of at ease even going up to the house. Yeah he said, Come to me, you who are weary and heavy laden, for I am gentle, same work, and lowly of heart. So yeah, so it's not so Again, this touches on that point that we made a few weeks ago. Biblical femininity finds its root in God's character, just like masculinity. Right, so so Jesus um is often the model for for feminine characteristics as well as masculine characteristics. Now he was a man, uh unapologetically so, um, and yet he He modeled feminine characteristics like when he spoke over Jerusalem and said, Oh Jerusalem, I've longed to gather you to myself like a mother hen gathers her chicks. Right? That's that he's using a feminine metaphor. I would give it to just that. I would just say that he's elevated these characteristics to some level. Yeah, absolutely. True. I like I like what you mentioned. It's important to find biblical That's one thing that's going to find that. Yeah. And also often I've heard people say like, Oh, doesn't your Bible say like the mention to shut up or something like that? Isn't that inherently? But the type of it's not silence and this type of quietness is not the quietness we're talking about. Right, yeah. Yeah, exactly. I mean it's good yeah, we have to keep that in mind both for people outside the church who misunderstand scripture so that we can help them better understand and for people inside the church who misunderstand scripture. Because there's plenty of people who have misunderstood from within the church these kind of passages on women and have forbidden women to speak uh at all in church. And um so, you know, w th there can be um errors on both sides that we need to guard against Yeah, that's why good teaching is so important. Um and all right, so um that was number two. So uh Worshiping the Lord in in distinctively feminine ways, adorning your hearts for the Lord, um biblical or godly women can use a redeemed femininity to nurture and disciple others in relationships. Um and this is this is point number three. So look again at Titus two, uh verses three through five. Um I will read it. Uh older women likewise are to be reverent in their behavior, not malicious gossips, or nor enslaved to much wine, teaching what is good so that they may encourage the young women to love their husbands, to love their children, to be sensible, pure, workers at home, kind, being subject to their own husbands, so that the Word of God will not be dishonored. So these three verses, they sit kind of in the middle of Paul's instructions for men, which we read a a minute ago, right? Uh the the verses about older men and younger men. These verses about women sit right in the middle, sandwiched between them. And It's interesting when you compare uh the two parts against each other, just how relational the section on women is. Right. I if you look in in these verses, um, verses three through five, notice how many relationships are mentioned. Uh older women Um encouraging younger women, that's a relationship. Younger women loving their husbands relationship, loving their children, um being subject to their own husbands. That That kind of thing. So I think that there's a recognition here of the fact that God has made women to be more relationally oriented than men are Um and that is that is so good and so necessary. Uh I think you know if I if I were just you know if if my family uh didn't have my wife like we wouldn't really have connections with anybody. Yeah. I would I would be serving and and teaching and probably like doing stuff But um we wouldn't have relationships with other families in in our small group, for example, um, or in the church. I think a lot of the relationships that our family has comes from my wife's um sort of giftedness at uh at making those relationships and and keeping up with them. And so that's good. That's a good tendency um that God has built into femininity. And these verses um give instruction on how to how to use that that relational bent or relational um drive to glorify God. Right? It put by putting adjectives and um and showing what those relationships should look like. So older women encouraging younger women, younger women loving their husbands and loving children. Now if you're not married, um this this still applies to you, right? Uh you can cultivate um cultivate these godly habits that uh allow you to love um love others in s in the church and give you like a good foundation of habits and and attitudes to build on if God does call you to marriage Uh but even if God calls you to singleness, um his main command to us in the church is to love one another as Christ uh loved us So, you know, the the the command or the or practicing the godly habits of loving one another is useful for those called to lifelong singleness as well as those called to marriage. Yes. And I would say the time to figure out what is character characterizes a good husband or a good wife isn't to wait until you're married, like, oh now I'm going to try to figure out why I'm going to No. Do it now before you're married. Yeah. You've already got a solid update to look at. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Exactly. Now is the time. Um Yeah. When you're evaluating potential yeah. Potential spouse. Uh-huh. Yeah, think about how they are showing um these kind of characteristics that that God commands in places like Titus II Um and then fourth here, um let's see, oh uh Hong, did you happen to make copies of um be right back Okay, thank you. Um So the uh the third so that was the number three, theme number three. Theme number four, principle number four, is um Redeemed femininity can be used in a biblical way to draw out and encourage appropriate male leadership. Alright, so I'll say that again. Uh redeemed femininity can be used in a biblical way to draw out and encourage appropriate male leadership. Um so so women have a role to play in in that as well. Uh and I think of many scriptural examples. Here are four. Um Deborah, the judge in in the Old Testament, um, you can read about her in Judges four and five, uh, which I would encourage you to go do. Um, but in brief She was the only female judge of the twelve judges uh that were called by God to judge Israel. And um you know, so it's much has been made of of Deborah as a judge, uh, and and we're not gonna get into that now. Um but she was a judge in a uniquely feminine way. Uh and I I say that because all the other eleven judges who were men, they led Israel in the same basic way. They were military leaders who delivered Israel from um the occupation of the surrounding nations. Right. So they they exercised this sort of military leadership. Deborah was not a military leader, she exercised spiritual leadership and she went and and sort of half rebuked, half exhorted this guy named Barak to who was who was kind of too chicken to take up the sword and and deliver Israel militarily. She kinda drew him out of his of his shell and of of his um you know mm maybe uh hesitancy and uh convinced him to co to go be the military leader that who delivered Israel from their enemies. So her uh experience in her action was one of drawing out the male the appropriately male n leadership that uh Israel needed at the time, while also serving as the the spiritual leader and judge in Israel, turning turning the people's hearts back to the Lord. So that's one example of of a godly woman drawing out appropriate male leadership. Another one would be um, you know the story of Ruth and Boaz? This is found in the book of Ruth. So just real quick, Ruth was a Moabites, so not of the people of God. But she learned to love the Lord from her mother-in-law Naomi. And when her husband and father-in-law died, um her father died. Uh she went back with Naomi to Israel and where she met Boaz, who was sort of her uh next of kin, who had um the well, he was almost her next of kin, right? He was second in line to be what's called the kinsman redeemer who would um marry her and keep the the land and the family line together. Uh so but He needed some encouraging, right? The story of Ruth, in in that story, Ruth went and ha and drew him out, sort of um encouraged him to step into that role of being the kinsman redeemer Um or take the life of Jesus. There were a couple of women in Jesus' life who who actually drew out his leadership. Um I'm thinking of uh the Syrophoenician woman when Jesus was up in the region of Tyre and Sidon. Uh he was traveling around with his disciples in this in this heavily Gentile area And this woman kept following them and saying, Lord, heal my son, heal my son And his disciples were getting fed up with her and his disciples were saying, You know, Lord, send this woman away, get her off our backs. She's totally interrupting us. Um And Jesus turns to her and says, What? Who remembers what he said to her at first? It's kinda harsh. Well it appeared harsh. Appears harsh to our our ears. It's not right to take the children's food and give it to the dogs Alright, that's what he said. Which the children means um Israel, the the God's chosen people, and the dogs were the Gentiles. So that's what he said to the woman and you know you she could have been like, oh ouch, you know, she could have gone away like angry and discouraged. Um but what did she do? How did she respond? Anyone know? Yeah. She responded with wit and with with sort of a a humble but persistent faith where she said Uh yes, Lord, but even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their master's table, or from the children's table. So so she She placed herself under God's authority and said, Yes, your your plan, your ordering of of Israel above the Gentiles is correct. I need you. You know, like uh so she she demonstrated a humble kind of faith. But really what she was doing in an in another sense was drawing Jesus out, right? Drawing out um his his provision and his healing for her son. Um and I think you know that that fits with this this pattern of biblical femininity drawing appropriate male leadership out Um or my last example here is at the the wedding at Cana when when Jesus and his disciples and his mother went to this wedding at Cana, uh remember they were running out of wine? Um who pointed that out? To Jesus. His mother, yes. Yeah. Mary leaned over and said, They're running out of wine. And he said to her um all that's recorded in John is he said to her, uh, what does that have to do with me? You know, like it w my it's not my time. Right. So there's a lot that probably went on in that conversation that we don't have recorded. But it seems like Mary Well, so eventually Jesus ended up doing the miracle, right? And that was his first public miracle where he turned water into wine. So what seems like happened is that his mother, Mary, drew that miracle out of Jesus she encouraged him to do um his first public miracle and and you know sort of inaugurate the presentation of himself as the Messiah of Israel. So that was that was a a biblical godly woman um you know acting in a feminine way to draw out appropriate male leadership from Jesus. Um so I think this is a a really uh strong theme in scripture and um You know, I think I think it's it's a very important dynamic that uh that needs to exist in our church. Um you know, 'cause 'cause like we talk about men occupying positions of leadership and authority, but it's not like we are um y you know, it's not like we have the the the perfection and godliness to to just do that on our own. Like we need we need the help. We need the drawing out of godly women. Um and and it's It's more it's like a dance, right? A dance requires two partners. Uh if you just have a leader, if you just have one person dancing, it's it's a different kind of thing. It's not um it's not a dance. We need Yeah, so I think this is this is one of these things where um I think the church needs to kind of recover this. Um But I don't know. I'm curious if your thoughts uh on, especially from the women, on these on these four sort of threads or principles that uh that describe the shape of a redeemed femininity Anything you would add to this or or um maybe apply differently? jump up and down it throws what can you say the four yet? Oh yeah, the four were um Worship the Lord in distinctively feminine ways. Adorn your hearts for the Lord. Nurture and disciple others in relationships, and draw out and encourage appropriate male leadership. Not an exhaustive list, by the way. You'll notice there's nothing on here about that's explicitly about um raising children. And that's by design, right? Because not all women are called to marriage um And and you know, so and but yet we're created male and female. So there must be something about masculinity and femininity that transcends um just you know, the marriage relationship and the parenting relationship. So Yeah, we're on number number sorry, number three, big big point number three, but we're near the end of it. So three dot b dot Roma numeral four. Yeah Oh I asked you anything to to add or or questions about redeemed femininity, um things to add to these principles or or specific questions about application of them disagreements with how I presented it. Um Aaron? So I I can tie this to five yeah women should be sensitive workers at home. And I've also heard that school brought up a lot in counter arguments like Oh the Bible is saying women can't be scriptures, like women can't be doctors and whatever, whatever. 'Cause they have to work at home. And like I know like a proper response would be to talk about like femininity and prioritization of God in your life. But obviously talking to a unbeliever that wouldn't make a whole lot of sense to them. So I'm wondering if there's an alternate way to explain this thing without detracting me. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. So I think um again it goes back to the heart, right? You know um The the Bible is not so much a list of do's and don'ts as it is a list of not a list, a a a picture of what it looks like to be a godly man or a godly woman. And God cares much more about what's what's in your heart about than about um you know what particular outward actions you do. So so there's a difference between um You know, w when Jen and I discuss these things we like to talk about root versus fruit. Right. So so especially in the area of of manhood and womanhood Um but in a lot of other areas too, it's really tempting to go after the fruit, right? To say like this is what um this is what I should be doing and if I check these boxes I'm I'm good, you know, like I'm a good man or I'm a good woman or uh or I'm a godly godly person. But you can't just you can't pursue the fruit without having the kind of heart that God says you need to have in Scripture before you get there. Yeah, otherwise it's legalism. And now is a good time to to talk about this. So there's there's sort of three There's three kinds of attitudes that we can have towards ethics, right? Towards how we should live our lives as Christians. And two are wrong and one is right. And you can probably tell by the way I've written it. Which one is right? But on the one hand there's well let's start with licentiousness because that's easiest to talk about. On the one hand there's licentiousness, which just means like doing whatever you want, essentially having no having no epic. Uh there are some Christians who say, hey, I have freedom in Christ. I can go do whatever I want. And That's not true, uh, because the freedom that we have in Christ is the freedom to do what God commands us to do Right. If we are truly saved, if we're truly redeemed by the Lord, then we'll have a heart that desires what he desires and that hates what he hates. And so if we're truly redeemed, then what we want to do is what he wants us to do. Um So licentiousness is is out. It's pretty easy to rule out. But the other error that's probably more common in a church like ours Um, not because it's taught here, but because this is the tendency of the human heart, is legalism. So who can define legalism Is the law or is the act? Oh, yeah. Yeah, it's the law or it's the act? That's a good that's a good way. Uh-huh. But but didn't God give a law? He gave the Ten Commandments and he gave the six hundred and thirteen So what what's the difference between legalism and God's law, God's standard? Doesn't that have to do with like the nature of the law? Kind of Yeah. Isn't legalism purely like judicially oriented Well Yeah, it's sort of so legalism I would say is any time the traditions and commandments of men take the place of the law of God Right, so that's what the Pharisees were doing in Jesus' day. They had made up all these regulations about um keeping the Sabbath and things like that. Maybe may have been well intended when they were originally made up, right? They they they were originally created to keep the people from violating um God's law in the ways that had led to the Babylonian exile. So they were well intended hundreds of years before, but then they had become this thing that was taking the place of God's law. Um people were judged and the Pharisees judged people on the basis of whether they kept the traditions of men and the commandments of the Pharisees, rather than whether they conformed to God's standard. So that's legalism. Legalism is when the commandments of men and the traditions of men take the place of God's law. So that's why I'm being so careful about not setting out like checklists of what biblical masculinity and femininity looks like in terms of concrete actions and stuff because I don't want this class to give anybody anything they could turn into legalism Right. I don't want to give any sort of commandment or tradition of man that could be used as this checklist to say, oh, in place of the the law of God, to say, oh, okay, I'm doing I'm doing the right thing. I'm doing what God wants me to do. So legalism also has this this uh tendency of focusing on the fruit rather than the root, on the outward behavior, the externals, rather than the heart. That's the That is the error at the heart of legalism. So um I all this is a huge, you know, way too long response to your question about, you know, women should be uh keepers at home um lovers of husband lovers of husbands and children, etcetera. The point there though is that we have to look at the heart, right? We can't um we have to resist the the tendency to turn things into checklists, like saying, um, okay, if if a woman's at home, she's a godly woman, or if she's in the workplace, she's not godly. Um, we have to look at the heart. And what what heart is this verse trying to communicate about young women? What heart should they have in in light of Titus ch uh two verse four and five? Honor, yeah. Honoring honoring who? Love others more importantly than yourself. Yeah, loving others. Yeah. Yeah, because you love God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. Uhhuh. That's why you can do all this because you you love other ones only yourself. Right. Honoring God, loving others, and especially all these relationships here well most of the relationships here are within the family. Right? So the command here is that Young women, the heart, the heart that that this text is going after is that young women should be oriented towards their families You know, if assuming they have them, right? This is this is obviously for women who are married, have husbands, and have children. Um But that's the heart is um And and so that's the test that that a a woman who is married and has children needs to apply to her own heart. Am I oriented towards my family? Right. Now, it's possible to be um working in a job outside the home and be oriented to your family. That is possible. It's possible to be at home and despise your family. Right? You so you see how this this is not this can't be legalistic, right? It has to be about the heart. It has to be um you cultivating the heart attitude that Scripture commands you to have. Um And not trying to apply this sort of checklist of behaviors