Thus says the Lord God, Enough, you princes of Israel, put away violence and destruction, and practice justice and righteousness. And God says, stop it. But these are just kind of helpful categories for us to think about the different ways in which Scripture talks about justice. So he gives him the second half, the the ask the the the section of the Ten Commandments that relate to our relationships with others. Distributive justice is defined here as impartially rendering judgment, righting wrongs, and meeting out punishment for lawbreaking. I'm not rendering a judgment of who's guilty in of the crime and you know whether the police officers were right or you know the whole criminal justice system or a lot of I'm not talking about though that that level of things I'm just giving specific examples of how, especially in our society, we have been unjust even in thinking about the issues. We see death threats and experience other forms of aggression that seek to manipulate the outcome. And then you get the other lawyer, the prosecutor in this made-up scenario, who asks his set of questions like, oh, okay, well, maybe it's not what I thought before. And as John MacArthur says, you don't use swords to spank. you know, went out from the police call is because prior to this particular situation, there was already a warrant out for his arrest uh based on charges of sexual assault. Right. That's not always the case. You know, from what I pers from my perspective, what is true is true, but what's true is different from your perspective. What he does is he limits it, he says, you know the commandments, do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor your father and mother. And do not join your hand with a wicked man to be malicious, a malicious witness. in talking about um uh a a a situation. their accusation, they remove their charge for whatever reason, then there's a likelihood that justice is going to be obstructed. Whatever it is, it's really an effort by the parties involved, whoever's subverting the truth, to manipulate, intimidate, or control others. They know all the true reports that have been made, and they know all the false reports that have been made, and uh the you know, who who knows how that's happening? And they follow carefully designed processes to investigate and interview and collaborate, you know, various witness testimonies and look at the evidence that is available to them. And what are the articles where they don't? You know, Black Lives Matter movement are based on false witness information. I d I don't have time for that. You know, she was in bed, no, she wasn't in bed, you know, this happened, no, that happened. uh officers and whatnot. There's got to be, I just assume there's got to be within small circles, you know, whether it's law enforcement or or whatever whatever, uh processes that are followed or statements that are made that are meant to protect. You know, if you don't watch that video of George Floyd and you don't all of a sudden get out on the streets, you're part of the problem. Hey, you have something to say? you know, twenty police cars and a helicopter. Hey, if you don't protect this person, you know, we're gonna we're gonna harm your family or we're gonna destroy your life, whatever it might be. It could be the characteristic of their economic status. Now we know what a bribe is. you know, everybody should be given citizenship. pay them you know far below minimum wage. You know, at the moment of trying to decide, okay, is this person w uh worthy to take this position? Thus the one who kills an animal shall make it good, but the one who kills a man shall be put to death. You know, come here, you know, we're gonna fracture your arm. Subsequent to that, you know, once everything was investigated and confirmed. their crime, not that they were actually put to death, but they that's what the the jury and the judge handed down as the penalty. I said in the last 10 years, 14 to 17,000 murders each year. Of those about 62 cases, only five prisoners were executed. is a misdemeanor and is punishable by up to four years in prison and a fine of up to $25,000, depending on the particular charge and the criminal history of the person. There there's a lot of questions in my mind about where how does the punishment fit the crime there? He says, Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do, since Abraham will surely become a great and mighty nation, and in him all the nations of the earth will be blessed? The Trinity, it seems, you know, those those manifestations of the Lord as the Lord came to Abraham, spent some time with him before again going down to Sodom and Gomorrah. Alright, remember that last week we said that righteousness is the standard of all that is true, good, and right, and justice is the upholding of that standard. And we saw as we looked at the God of justice that justice and righteousness are often brought together. And then even in this next one. So we've looked at Abraham, who, again, not only him but his descendants, David, Solomon, princes of Israel, Pharisees, so more or less these are leaders, right? to pursue justice. and deliver the one who has been robbed from the power of his oppressor. So that's verse 3. But in terms of our personal relationships and doing what's right, and we'll we'll talk more about that here in a little bit. to treat others, whether it's their neighbor, their friend, their employees, the people that they hire for doing work around the house, like building the house. You know, the definition I gave you last week was upholding the standard of righteousness impartially. Love your neighbor as yourself. and conflicts and relationships. Love your neighbor neighbor as yourself. Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? things that are for their good, how to show kindness and care and protection and be honest and truthful, then we will be fulfilling the law. concept of the royal law. So again, parents in the home, civil authorities in the state, elders in the church, you know, in our day and age, teachers in the school. And I just really need to say this. We are all given the opportunity and invited to render judgment, and many people take it upon themselves to meet out punishment in some way. and Jake Blake's shooting and and whatnot, those kinds of situations. what could have been done better and all of those kinds of things. Sometimes when uh the Ten Commandments are quoted, people say, don't lie, and that's certainly true, but the emphasis of this command, both in the Ten Commandments and here uh some crimes are adjudicated in the court of public opinion long before they land in the courtroom, right? be validated as truth or error. uh in some cases a p a police shooting because they want to try and sway the public opinion on a matter. When all we have this video little little video clip. until much later when there could be a careful investigation. I want justice. Because you got the five freeway, which is just an incredibly long freeway, and uh people just insanely think they're gonna be able to outrun Sometimes they're motivated by prejudice against the victims. You know, they're they're being pressured either by that wicked man to join in with them in obstructing justice, or they're pressured by some outside group. Uh and thus forced charges to be dropped. Was she trying to avoid her name being put on the national screen? trying to get uh our friends and and those who follow us to uh to change their opinions to follow what the public thinks. There needs to be impartiality. Uh, not everything you read on the internet is true, right? to make sure that we're not listening to a false charge. Or someone has spent 40, 50 years in prison and because of DNA, it's, you know, the essential evidence of is proven that, nope, they were innocent. People are in prison or have had their lives destroyed or even taken and flipped to the other side. But it can also include threats, right? And they're a foreigner, uh, they should be tried for that crime, even if that crime is illegal entry into the country. That's why I don't like to counsel spouses individually because it's I I learn a lot from body language. Thus you shall purge the evil from among you. And uh a lot of folks are saying that the cost if it's if it's proven false ought to born by the one who brings the lawsuit. and making them capitulate to uh whatever they want them to do. If a man takes the life of any human being, he shall be put to death. If a man injures his neighbor, just as he has done, so it shall be done to him. This is known in Latin as Lex Telionis, eye for eye. Blood shall be shed. taxpayers about $700,000 for you know feeding, taking care of it, medical costs, you know, all of those kinds of things. uh African Americans. I thought I had specific examples with specific drugs, but you know, if you have in some cases a certain number of grams, I think it's like 23 grams of cocaine. conviction is five years in prison up to twenty years, again depending on your history, for for some subsets, some c cocaine. Lord, help us to not follow the masses, to not follow the cultural standards of perceived justice, but to uphold what is righteous and just from your perspective. up to four years in prison, so on so forth. I don't necessarily have the answer to that, but I think it's an example of potential injustice in our system. Today the end justifies the means, so if false witness information accomplishes the desired end, then that's okay. to not following the world, but instead following you. And the section of the notes that we didn't cover was the fact that we are image bearers of God, and therefore we are to promote justice as well. You don't have to dig out your notes from na last week. So when we think about what's going on and what role do we play, we have to acknowledge the fact that as believers in Jesus Christ For I have chosen him, so that he may command his children and his household after him to keep the ways of the Lord by doing righteousness and justice. in you to set you on the throne of Israel because the Lord loved Israel forever, therefore he made you king to do justice and righteousness. For you tithe mint and dill and cumin and have neglected the weightier provisions of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness. that you may live and possess the land which the Lord your God is giving you. Cease to do evil, learn to do good, seek justice, reprove the ruthless, defend the orphan, plead for the widow. Who, again, were not practicing justice and mercy as God had called them to. But the point of choosing that passage is that's not a passage that's given to the leaders of Israel, but rather to all of the people of Israel. Grant to your slaves justice and fairness, knowing that you too have a master in heaven. who uses his neighbor's services without pay and does not give him his wages. to promote justice, to live justly, to promote righteousness, to uphold those standards that God has set forth. But within that, okay, what is God's moral standard? So those are the overarching category and then the two subcategories that we're going to look at today and we'll see how far we get. It seems as though they tend to narrow it down to the Ten Commandments. You know the commandments. Then I'll just throw in James 2, says the same thing. out of the command of love, if we're doing what's best for others, we're seeking their good, we are living in a just way because we're fulfilling the law. Everyone needs to understand these principles. Because we just we're not in a position to do that. And so this principle is the core of it all. jurors, you know, in certain cases so that they wouldn't be influenced by others. The public will protest the results of the courtroom if the courtroom doesn't match the public opinion. Now it makes sense, right? About who was guilty, who was innocent, what was the correct thing to do, what should have been done better, you know, who should be charged, what should the punishment be You know, many, many people have just they said in the heart, they know what is justice in this situation. Because I don't know the information. I submit to you is because of pervasive false witness testimony. uh basic facts of a situation or before the basic facts can be known I should say. But why is it that oftentimes in other situations where there are different ethnicities involved, why is it that they deem that to be relevant? When there is a white police officer and a black victim who's who's been shot by that police officer Make that conclusion based on evidence, but don't jump to conclusions. to to lend our voice to promote certain perspectives. But the truth is we we have no evidence. That's all the dynamic of false witness. But even then you don't have access to all the information because all the information hasn't even arisen yet. uh law enforcement officer, you know, I I don't know. But I use these examples because of how widespread they are and how you and I are tempted. rendered judgment on things uh over which we had we lacked the information. Kind of different translations have some different nuances, so this can mean a variety of different things. But uh it's interesting how sometimes uh they will you know manage to hide in a home and somebody will kind of uh uh protect them in the sense of not not giving them up speaking against what we would call aiding and abetting a criminal or obstructing justice, you know, when a family member or friend hides a criminal from law enforcement. Right? uh the the black man who was innocent. For perpetuating injustice in that way. uh and and you know given rise to the warrant uh stopped cooperating with law enforcement. I don't know, probably not. So, you know, there's there could be all kinds of reasons why she stopped cooperating with law enforcement. honor, respect, and deference on the basis of some characteristic. And that'll be the next point. Or there are things that are said, you know, people who tweet or Facebook posts that uh that get spread around, shared thousands of times, and oh, if it's been shared this many times, it must be true. And neither should a mob take justice into their own hands and thereby kill the innocent without having gone through the legal processes, right? That's also unjust. Verdict, you know, we're gonna destroy your family, or those kinds of things. uh openly, flagrantly vi uh violated uh these principles in our in our world today. the world being breaking these these principles. creating a narrative. I'm just saying they were one-sided, uncooperated. in in the sense of saying, you know, I'm only trying to do what's right. But he went through a lot of difficulty, whereas these kinds of accusations should be dealt with properly without destroying the lives of those involved. Because that was what he intended to do, the king in that case, Ahazuerus, justly hung Mordecai on those gallows. system today the problem to be done that way but there seems to be a lot of uh uh lot of resistance in the in the lawyer Capital punishment is affirmed by God over and over and over. because not all crimes are physical injury that you can even according to this fracture for fracture. Unless there were multiple murders by the same person, there should have been somewhere close to 16,000 acts of capital punishment. But in 2019, thirty-four people received the death penalty. As of January 1st, 2020, there were 2,620 people on death row throughout our nation. at an average of three million dollars per case. Help us to have the wisdom and discernment to hold our tongue and hold even our own personal opinions and entrust you with the reality that you will Uh repay those who are not repentant with your own perfect justice. Uh if if you if you reach that amount, the sentence is five to twenty years in prison and or a fine of up to twenty-five thousand dollars. So that they can avoid, you know, maybe a trial or whatever. Truth is relative today, right? Anyway, we'll we'll we'll stop there and pick it up there next week. Again, a command to all the people in the nation of Israel. and community or community of justice. And what it seems as though what he's doing is kind of narrowing down the whole of the law to those particular aspects. Right? God's standard of morality. A God of justice, he is also a God of mercy and grace, and he is abounding in those things. We can only talk about so much. nine verses or so. Uh when they who have access to all the available information, right, they're limited in some ways based on what people are willing to tell them and and what can be known, but they have access to the most information. None of us were the investigators, none of us were the lawyers, none of us were sitting in that courtroom. So there's all kinds of ways to kind of subvert the truth, to not let the truth fully be known, or to potentially promote error before it can Why is that helpful? You know, just there's a you may have heard of the uh MTA uh van driver who was shot and killed Friday night in Baltimore. No details about ethnicity. You know, the investigators were still trying to figure out, okay, what happened here? If Christians want to promote justice, then don't be involved in bearing false witness along with the rest of the world. um to protect the guilty. Um all all the pressure was against him, the the legal system was against him, the sheriffs were against him. justice and aid and abet criminals uh and allowing justice to carry the day. In verse 2 is do not follow the masses. should be investigated and validated. Yeah. You know, we we hear of uh uh someone who's been executed uh and because of modern technology and DNA proof comes out, oh, they weren't actually the the guilty one. That's one of the difficulties with the media. But who gets you know uh I mean sometimes that that gets uh uh punished, but very rarely. The punishment must fit the crime. Only 22 people were executed. Now obviously we we want to be sure that the person accused of the crime is guilty. Just one quick example. to the number of examples of injustice in society. Well, look at what your word says about justice, and then consider examples in our society. so that the Lord may bring upon Abraham what he has spoken about him. who are responsible over others to ensure justice. is kind of the overarching category and this definition and for the other two as well again come from that book, Why Social Justice is not biblical justice. Romans 13 verse 10 says, love does no wrong to a neighbor. So the whole law is subsumed under the command, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But fundamentally, biblical justice, if you want to live a just life, if you want to uphold and promote justice in your world. So God has structured society in a way that has placed some people in authority over others. Writing wrong, setting things in proper order when they've been put out of order, and meeting out punishment But uh I think more than that, I'm going to give examples of just how in society today these things are are violated, these principles are violated. is not so much the the personal relationship aspect of lying, but lying in a context of a matter being investigated or tried. Without truth, we could say the pursuit of justice actually becomes an effort to exert power in order to control, intimidate, or manipulate people. If people witness a crime and they lie about what they see, justice is uh uh obstructed. And you know you you you could argue with me and say, well it wasn't just and you know here's why it wasn't just and frankly I I cannot have that argument. what the media said or what was posted on social media if we were following that closely. And they they exist solely on the basis, or at least they're they expand on the basis of false witness. You know, it's always interesting if you if you read articles about various situations, what are the articles and what are the the reports where they emphasize the skin color of the of the individuals involved? that immediately the judgment and conclusion is this was a racist act That's been proven to have not been a false narrative, that he wasn't giving himself up to the police officer. after after she was shot, tragically, uh multiple false reports were published uh that led to rioting. But now that's the major mantra. um or at least someone who's accused of a crime. And the people in the community who who actually know who is guilty, you know, for example, uh a white man, they they lie in order to help a guilty man get off and end up convicting and even potentially putting to death And maybe even still happen. So they had to arrest him. uh uh men who was not guilty at all, but the people in that in the white community, you know, all lied. And without the witness, without the victim, they they had no additional evidence, so they were forced to drop the charges. Or the the concept that ethnic minorities are to be believed over dominant cultures. God's standard is don't be partial to anyone. When I don't know how how do you validate that. They should be subject to the same legal processes as everybody else. is uh unequal wages. I don't know, various challenges that limit their opportunities. This is a a principle of of just if there's multiple people involved, uh or if there's a story excuse me. There would be far fewer false accusations. I'll use the word victim, would have gotten, the innocent person would have gotten if they were found to be guilty on the basis of that false witness, should come upon the false witness. Almost no one. Okay, just the legal costs are $1. Uh in Texas, one estimate is it's under seven hundred thousand dollars for forty years in prison. But you are, and you have given us a standard of justice that we know is not being fulfilled in this world. I'll just use that for example. And uh I know today is gonna perhaps be somewhat challenging as we uh look at uh examples of um conviction and a passion for true biblical justice, I pray. And the Lord is saying, you know, Abraham and his descendants are to do justice and righteousness. If you remember the sermon from Psalm 3 a few weeks ago, that wasn't always true. And that's true not only for them as kings of Israel, but that's true for any leader. But these are the things you should have done without neglecting the others. Isaiah chapter 1, verses 16 and 17, wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, remove the evil deeds from my sight Now you see there, just to kind of give a little preview, you see kind of three different uh, I'll say, types of justice. So we could spend who knows how long really getting nitty-gritty into all of those scenarios and identifying what was unjust. about those situations because the reality is, I mean, bring it if you boil it all down, the point is none none of us, you or I, should be rendering judgment on these issues God commands us in verse chapter 23, verse 1, you shall not bear a false report. That is the repetition from the Ten Commandments where it's given, you shall not bear false witness. that we are not to uh a person is not to give false, misleading, or deceptive testimony in a legal proceeding or a situation in We're in a place in our society, now, we all know this, where some crimes, you know, very few crimes relative to the crimes that are all that are committed. But it is unjust for us, for me, to come to a conclusion to render a judgment in a matter And you know, I don't particularly, I'm not the kind of guy who, you know, finds out about a situation and reads everything and listens to everything that I can. They are in pursuit of more eyeballs on their articles and more ears on their news channels. No, you're just promoting justice. But I don't want to jump to conclusions and render a false judgment based on false information. Again, it says, excuse me, do not join your hand with a wicked man to be a malicious witness. Example of this where the lawyer who is the main character in the movie, it's a true story based on his memoirs. Now, you know, you could ask why did she stop cooperating? Nor shall you testify in a dispute so as to turn aside after a multitude in order to pervert justice. Just because the poll says, you know, 80% of people think this doesn't mean that that's true and right. in his dispute. To be partial means to give honor or to respect. So this is, again, emphasizing the fact that one who is needy, we should not pervert justice to them. But again, we are in a situation where how do we know what's a false charge and what's a true charge? The next point, verse 9, don't oppress foreigners. Alright, so immigrants should not be treated differently simply because they're foreigners. If we want to encourage justice and righteousness to be upheld in the land, then these are principles that we need to uphold and not follow our our uh our community or nation, the public. Proverbs 18, 17 is the picture is you got a witness on the stand and you got one of the lawyers, let's just say the defense lawyer, who asks him a set of questions, and on the basis of his questions, which of course questions are aimed at This happens all the time in counseling. But sadly, again, because of how this played out in the media, her life was destroyed. But it is unjust for so many people to be murdered and so many murderers to not be put to death in God's eyes So with both David and Solomon, obviously as kings over the nation of Israel, the expectation from God is that they were responsible to do justice and righteousness. If in Ezekiel, so Israel has, of course, been disobedient to the Lord, but it says this about the princes of Israel, it refers to them, the leaders of Israel, Ezekiel 45, verse 9. Stop your expropriations from my people, declares the Lord God. Again, this is given to all of God's people as a command to do justice. You know, whatever else, whatever relationship, we are we are to promote justice as a society in our legal system, and we are to promote justice in our relationships with one another. Now, these other passages, like Romans chapter 10, 13, verse 10, then takes the second great commandment, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, and identifies them as a fulfillment of the whole law. We are not promoting justice. Then all you have to do, it's as simple as loving your neighbor as yourself. Sin is an act of injustice. And those people in authority are responsible to render judgment when there's been some kind of a law that's broken or a rule that's broken. Please understand that, especially when I talk about examples of this last year, you know, with uh uh various uh people being killed, like George Floyd and Brianna Taylor. These are things that we should be applying today. is massive. But they've made up with what they do have access to, they've made up their mind and rendered judgments in their hearts. They publish opinions as facts, such as uh publishing testimony by uninvolved family members who try and build up the character of the supposed victim of of Why are they telling me about this person's skin color? That's just that's why they emphasize the the skin color of the participants. We we think that with this video clip we've been a witness. What I've been saying is the media and social media thrive on false witness. when it has not gone through the proper judicial, legal, investigative process. Sometimes that means just not saying anything. So much more we could say about that. We need to be very, very careful. And encouraging others, even unbelievers, to say, you know, I've heard those things, but I just don't have access to the knowledge or to the information to be able to render judgment. So there are all kinds of situations where a person can join their hand with a wicked man to be a malicious witness, where we basically obstruct Or giving deference could be saying that women should be believed over men by default. Because the rich are able to provide or to pay for lawyers who can find that technicality that's going to get them off scot-free. You do not have the wherewithal, the resources, the information, the processes to be able to investigate the truthfulness or error of certain things. Sometimes there's lack of opportunity for those who are foreigners. So that's Exodus twenty-three. But that gave rise to that. Uh I know the in the Judge Kavanaugh case, the woman who brought those accusations um defended herself But that's justice in God's perspective. Now in other crimes, with other situations as he lists here, there should be correspondence from the crime to the punishment. Also in 2019, 22 people were executed in the United States. However, the for for one who is given the death penalty, just the legal costs How uh people will be encouraged to plead guilty for lesser crimes. So feel free to email me if you um have any thoughts or questions. And in case you guys didn't get one, there's one in the back there as well. is paying wages to those who are doing the work. Micah 6:8, we are familiar with this passage. All of those violations are examples of being unloving. So please don't take the examples that I use too far and make assumptions about my opinion, the judgment I've rendered. And these are not, even though these are obviously laws that are given to Israel, I think you'll agree with me that these are universal. I say changes here in my notes. That's following the masses. The the of course most well-known example of that is Haman, right? Uh yeah, I think we can do this. In 2 Samuel 8, verse 15, it says, So David reigned over all Israel, and David administered justice and righteousness for all his people. you know, tearing the Pharisees up one side down the other. That if you just do those things, you will effectively be following the law of God. And so as we walk through these principles, we're going to see not only how these may be violated commonly in our justice system, And obviously that's injustice. baseless accusations, spreading false reports, putting out information before it can be verified, and even withholding information that would otherwise be relevant. And then sometimes we pontificate, based on this video clip that I've seen, on the relevance and the significance of this situation in the larger narrative of our nation. Sitting in my home, you know, here two miles from the church or sitting here in my office, I have no way to discern what's right, what's accurate, what's inaccurate based on news reports. true justice. But you know, after everything happened, the victim who had um you know given testimony in the past about those sexual charges and the sexual assault. Similar principle here in verse 6, which is the next point, do not pervert justice to the needy. But yet, you know, we tend to lack discernment in significant ways. Let me pray. your power and your glory and your creativity. So the notes have been posted to the chat if you if you were in the Hope Book, I'm sorry, the Zoom a few minutes ago, or they're also on the Hope Book Group. In Genesis chapter 18, the Lord says this, referring to Abraham, shall I hide? If we are really uh having in our minds the um uh what it means to love our neighbor, what it means to do uh This kind of justice is not what everybody in in uh in the world is supposed to be doing. even down to the level of common sense. If truth goes out the window, then justice is impossible. Thankfully, I was reading an article this morning that when the judgment came down that uh the officer wasn't going to be charged in Jake Blake's shooting In my estimation, that's an aspect of false witness testimony because they're making something relevant that isn't actually relevant. And you even think, yeah, that's that was wrong, that's unjust. Alright, the second principle, taken from the second half of verse 1, is do not join a wicked person in their attempt to obstruct justice. Sometimes people join their hand with a wicked man, as it says there in the text, because they're motivated by fear of reprisal. You know, that unconditional love of a parent. But the result of stopping to cooperate with law enforcement is now injustice wins the day in that particular situation. Justice demands impartiality. The next point there, don't take a bribe, verse 8. Now, I uh put it in this principle as listen to both sides of testimony, which is uh slightly different than what Proverbs 18, 17 says. is that it was an explosion of one-sided, uncooperated accusations. So a just process includes listening to both sides of testimony. Sorry. Capital punishment is repeated throughout Scripture. In terms of the cost to taxpayers, it's more expensive to condemn someone to death than to give them life in prison. But we just give you praise for the beauty of your creation. So all of these passages I brought out, and again, these are just a sampling of what we can find in Scripture. Well, what does it look like to love our neighbor as ourself in these different categories? Distributive justice, you could limit this to kind of the not so much legal per se, but upholding what's right in spheres where there's authority and laws and rules. This justice is reserved for God and God ordained authorities, including parents in the home, elders in the church, teachers in the school, and civil authorities in the state. Or if people make an accusation and uh there's charges that are filed and then in the process of investigation, then they remove their So they come to their best understanding of what took place. Now, again, that's this is using these examples is not to say that racism isn't a problem, or that brut police brutality isn't a problem, or that injustice isn't a problem. That's justice from God's perspective. is to if you bring a lawsuit, someone brings a lawsuit against you, it's a false accusation. The public has no access, well, they have limited access to some information. Uh sometimes false witness leads to uh massive cultural um uh They just they can't. We just assume that there are certain sources that are true when that may not be accurate You know, one of the problems, and I please understand what I'm saying and what I'm not saying here. False witnesses should receive the punishment they intended to do to the victim. An amount that is determined to imply intent to distribute, which differs drug to drug. Not misunderstood, but that you would be honored as we as we wrestle with these things. And even for unbelievers as image bearers of God, we are responsible to reflect the just image of God in this world. Within the last year, you know, we've seen several high-profile cases. Another thing that obviously happens is jump the people jump to conclusions on the basis of limited information. When in fact there's uh no evidence. Now we could we could give all kinds of examples of how even within the the law enforcement community maybe there's false witness because they're trying to protect The next one, do not listen to a false charge in verse 7. Where am I? All right, well, uh good morning everyone. So bearing false witness is a massive problem today. Now from the world's perspective, you know, today silence is violence, right? Or we add our chorus to the voice or we add our voice to the chorus of witnesses about what happened in the situation. So we need to be very careful to not uh to to stay far from false charges. Between 1978 and 1999, Maryland taxpayers spent $186 million to prosecute death penalty cases What did you see? I mean it's the opposite of that is wrong. Starting verse 18. And so we we understand that principle. Heavenly Father, we thank you for uh this beautiful day. It's so significant. Instead of being a riot, there was a peaceful protest. But uh you know obviously this doesn't mean don't let it pass through your eyes or your ears. Crimes must be tried according to just processes, not in the court of public opinion, where it's impossible to follow due process and protect both the accused and the accuser. So coming back to our original point, one of the key reasons that justice is very difficult today is because justice is based on truth, and as I mentioned, uh truth um But this print this reality that that crimes are adjudicated in the court of public opinion before they land in the courtroom is If there's a story to tell, uh you need to get both perspectives. That's unjust. Now, if you just hit the pause button there, Jesus says, you know the commandments. The problem is, one of the problems is the media is not interested in the pursuit of justice. Don't kill the innocent or the righteous, it says. It's when somebody is offered money or some other benefit in order to do whatever the one giving the bribe wants them to do. In 2019, there were over 16,000 murders in our nation. Deuteronomy chapter 16, verse 20, justice and only justice you shall pursue Once truth is removed, then whatever the pursuit of justice looks like, whether it's in a legal proceeding or If there is a crime committed, if the police officer did something wrong, I want that to be dealt with properly and fully. Just a couple more here, we'll be able to finish off this section today. Hung Heyman. You try to do that, sometimes it gets through that way in various ways, but very, very infrequently it happens. The next principle is do not be partial to the poor or to the rich. Father, thank you for this time that we've had together. Do justice, righteousness, deliver the one who's been oppressed. If you are fulfilling the royal law according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. I'll give this example in a minute, but uh an example would be uh in cases, and we know this has happened many, many times, where an innocent black man has been accused of committing a crime I'm Deuteronomy, wrong side of the Bible. So Abraham and his descendants were to do justice and righteousness. The reason I chose these particular examples is because it's so widespread in the public. Was it because there was pressure to make Blake look better in the eyes of the public? Uh today getting caught with a controlled substance or even drug paraphernalia, like a a needle or something And in in the case, the particular case that's emphasized or highlighted in the movie, it was one of those unjustly accused. But mob violence and death threats and destroying people's lives uh because uh of presumption of of uh guilt Promote justice and righteousness. Now, why does he say the Ten Commandments? So open your Bible if you have one to Exodus chapter twenty-three. And this is a section of the giving of the law where God lays out some very foundational principles of what justice looks like. But even if you if that's what you like to do, you're you're really passionate about that, that's fine. Yeah, let's put that on the evening news for millions of people to watch. But it it does so it doesn't mean that. People would be upset if the judge comes to a different conclusion. They were legally bound to arrest him. Now in Leviticus 1915, he also includes or to the rich. Keep far from a false charge. If you have like 23 grams of cocaine, that's likely for personal use, and so you'll be charged with a misdemeanor. You know, an example would be this recent situation with Jake Blake. Well again, I I don't I I'm not here to judge her motives or her the truthfulness of her statements or any of that. All the way through Romans chapter 13, verse 4, talking about submission to government, where it says the government authorities don't bear the sword for nothing. That's the principle. So that's the overarching, upholding the moral standard as God has revealed it. So my purpose is just to give examples to highlight it the principle and how easily they are violated today. Now, frankly, that's as it should be, because that's an irrelevant detail. I don't think that's probably the right word, but you know the whole hands up don't shoot uh mantra that came as a result of Michael Brown's shooting. The last things, the last thing that we as Christians should do is perpetuate information and conclusions before they have been adjudicated properly. Do not bear false witness. Each person should not be treated in a partial way because of any particular characteristic. In what sense does that help promote justice and understanding of what was going on? That's one, I think, one of the primary ways that we as Christians can be a model of just thinking, of righteous thinking. The judges shall investigate thoroughly, and if the witness is a false witness, and he has accused his brother falsely, then you shall do to him just as he had intended to do to his brother. I know this is kind of obvious, but think about this. You got one lawyer who asks questions and then you get a you get the sense of, oh, this is the situation. We're actually living out injustice. I don't have the ability to discern what was just and unjust. He set his life's work to be helping accused black men receive justice. But that's by definition what happens today because of the nature of media Again, that I know there's a lot more we could say about those those principles. The examples that I use are just examples that came to my mind, things that I've heard of, been aware of. I again I'm not rendering judgment on a particular situation, but I'm sh I'm sure that happens. If you get caught with twenty-four grams of pro of cocaine, just one more gram, then it's likely, you know, you wouldn't use that much for yourself. We have not known the truth. Thank you. And then there's also a section or a category of justice that just deals with our interpersonal relationships. And of course, those were not executions that took place of people who had committed crimes recently. Everybody lives off the relativity of truth in our world. And those those are worthy conversations to be had. You know, I talk to one spouse, I'm like, oh wow, okay, this is uh you know this is an interesting story. Can you imagine that? The last principle is the punishment must fit the crime. There are about sixty-two cases since nineteen between nineteen seventy-eight and nineteen ninety-nine. You know, they went to the wrong apart, no, they went to the right apart. What we might call extortion or um I don't know there might be other terms. I mean that from God's perspective, that is justice. I know my son is is guilty of this, but I don't want him to go to jail, so I'm gonna lie for him. It could be on their popularity just, oh, you know, he's really popular. Um there's a recent movie called Just Mercy. So we should not add our voices to the public opinion for the sake of strengthening public opinion, right? You know, so we had a situation, of course, with Judge Kavanaugh and and even others in other situations who were Because how else are you going to demotivate people from giving false testimony? But it's based on a lie. You're promoting true, wise justice Because they're illegals, uh they don't have documentation, so the you know in many cases in California there's farmers who hire them. Now if you think about this, sin, by its nature, because it is a violation of God's moral standard, It's such a significant reality that the public with their own judgments that they've rendered as a result of reports and media and social media It doesn't mean that that you know a person shouldn't raise valid accusations, but they they need to be carefully dealt with to promote justice and not injustice. So again, biblical justice is conformity to God's moral standard as revealed in the Ten Commandments and the Royal Law So everything hangs on the truth Why is it that sometimes they think that's a relevant thing to say, and other times they don't? None of us is ever going to know. Boy, is this big here. You know, in our justice system, uh we know that it's often partial to the rich. We could mount examples of ways in which our society is partial either to the poor or to the rich. There's that common joke. We need to be very careful as we're taking in information Um and and that's unjust. Isn't that wild? 2 million. And that's wicked. There's this sense that everyone deserves to know everything, but the problem is that can put people in danger and end up subverting justice If, however, you are fulfilling the royal law, so that's where the author of that book gets the Deuteronomy chapter 19, verse 19. He has told you, O man, what is good, and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice, to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God. Fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, just as he has injured a man, so it shall be inflicted on him. Because especially now in our society with media, with social media, So with with that in mind, let's start with this first principle of distributive justice. And so we we you don't want to follow the world in swinging of, you know, all of this injustice has taken place, all of these innocent You shall not oppress a foreigner, since you yourselves know the feelings of a stranger. But that's that's God's standard, fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, um all the rest. Drug laws. Well, there's moral standards that relate to how do you deal with problems in society, how do you deal with those who break the law, how do you deal with accusations I I don't know what they're doing anymore because, you know, by the time something gets to the courtroom, everybody knows about the situation and they Now, examples of injustice. Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? But again, these kind of four subpoints, which of course the points are in my notes. You know, sometimes it's it's hard to come up with what should be a corresponding punishment for certain crimes. I know these are difficult subjects to think through, and I certainly don't claim to be the expert. So we're going to spend a little bit more time here than with the other ones Or why aren't they telling me about this person's skin color? That's why we can't come to conclusions because you and I in our in our lives, unless you're directly involved in a particular case Yeah. In using examples in those scenarios, I'm not And they always end badly for the person, um as far as they always get caught. And we know this happens all the time. It does mean that they should not be mistreated. Um sorry if we're going the the full time there. So here you have the New Testament religious leaders at that time in Israel. Why does he limit everything to that? And and there's already things in the media and people rioting because of Withholding your own, even in your own heart and mind, withholding judgment on matters that you don't have the information on. The sword is meant to kill, and only to kill So that that includes, there's an element there of justice that's not necessarily in the legal realm. Some of them are things that are explicitly stated in our own laws today. They write articles before basic facts can be known. It means to defer to someone. In our world today, the media and social media thrive on false witness. Now if it comes out later that that police officer you know is is a known white supremacist and you know he has posted things about well fine On the flip side, in terms of joining with a wicked man in their attempt to obstruct justice, a victim sometimes will not cooperate with law enforcement They could not let him get away from their presence. This is almost impossible today, isn't it? Foreigners should be given the same respect, the same due process, the same level of justice as everybody else. So that's sort of the thing. You can find this also in Exodus chapter 1, or excuse me, 21, verses 22 to 25. But let's think about this. And he says to them in verse 23, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! We'll start with just that first half. Due process. And Lord, I pray that the examples that I've chosen would be helpful and If uh my voice has any trouble, uh I'm just gonna blame it on the six hours of teaching I did yesterday. That is bearing false witness. And the masses are unable to provide impartiality. And it could be the characteristic of their ethnicity, it could be the characteristics of their social status. Maybe they have, you know, challenges with uh Also do not mistreat or do violence to the stranger, the orphan, or the widow, and do not shed innocent blood in this place. I'm grateful for that, that it wasn't violent. Uh we've spread information that we didn't know was true but that we thought was true. If anyone thinks men should be believed over women, that's wrong. If you destroy the life of one who was made in the image of God, from God's perspective, you deserve to die. But Scripture also exhorts all people to promote justice. These are not three distinctions that are clearly delineated in Scripture Sometimes they'll be motivated by prejudice against the innocent suspect We see things like, oh, that must be true because it's from the Wall Street Journal, or it's from the New York Times, or it's from Fox News, or He built the gallows for Mordecai, and it was all excited that he was finally going to get this man who had been his nemesis. Great. But we can't come to those conclusions. Maybe. Whether they were true or false is not for me to decide. Over the last 10 years, murders have fluctuated between 14,000 and 17,000 each year. Lord, we thank you that we can gather to continue to study your word. That's unjust. Uh my life has been destroyed because of this The entire system of justice hangs on the principle of truth. Obviously, I mentioned George Floyd, Brianna Taylor, and others. It's very common in public profile cases that victims, lawyers, judges, jurors, and others involved So in in that particular example, righteousness and justice for one who is building a house You know, we we can now be summoned by the court as a witness in the case because we've seen this video clip. Now, some of those things may prove to be true in the end, you know, as a further investigation is done. I'm not rendering a judgment on her heart and her intentions behind that Be impartial. You know, drug laws in Maryland. So they end up getting punished for things that were less than what they actually committed. So as there's this interesting internal dialogue between, you know, the Alright, I think that's enough of a disclaimer, hopefully. Oh, you know, I know this is true because I read it on the internet. We can then over the next two weeks, because we have less material to go through on the biblical justice, we'll have some more time for discussion, I promise. You know what the law says. I mean, there's so much that was promoted as yes, we know this, when none of it was really known for certain Like when I saw certain video clips this summer, it's like you you think in your heart, yeah, that's bad. I'm guilty of having done that. So whatever accumulation or whatever of those cases had come to their conclusion in 2019, uh Right? David is said to have administered justice and righteousness, though Now, again, I understand that's the law given to Israel. Sin is an act of injustice. We are completely ignorant of situations and yet we are very willing Okay, now let's kill other people that we think are guilty. In Christ's name. You shall not take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the clear-sighted and subverts the cause of the just. I mean that's tragic that that takes place. God holds leaders, kings, judges, those in authority, responsible for doing justice and righteousness Galatians chapter 5, verse 14 says, For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in the statement, you shall love your neighbor as yourself And again, we mentioned last week that as much as God is Right? And there's there's other information that isn't available to the public. The one who takes the life of an animal should make it good, life for life Here he defines biblical justice as conformity to God's moral standard as revealed in the Ten Commandments and the Royal Law But then again, when it disagrees with what other people think, then people cry, injustice! I mean none of us would want that to happen. But we are not to take a bribe, we're not to accept threats, we are not to subvert justice for personal benefit and personal gain. Is they are they qualified, all of a sudden accusations rise from decades prior that nobody is able to cooperate. Leviticus chapter 24, verses 17 to 22. Lord, I pray for those who are driving in this morning, either to class or to church, that you would keep them safe. Just to look outside and see the snow and just a reminder of And then again in Jeremiah chapter 22, verses 3 and then verse 13. In Luke chapter 18, which I think we've looked at before, a ruler, it says, questioned Jesus, saying. Therefore love is the fulfillment of the law. And none of us do. The innocent must not be condemned in court Here we could we could talk all day if we had it to talk about injustice in our world. Does the punish punishment fit the crime? In the New Testament, Jesus in Matthew 23 is just uh Uh if if someone is found to be a false witness, then whatever punishment the the Now that doesn't mean the rest were innocent. Alright, from there I want to go to Proverbs chapter 18 for the next principle. You need to get the the full picture. They were feigning religious commitment in some areas, but they weren't doing the most important thing that God expected of them We often bring this down to lying in general, you know So they will, because they they hate the ethnicity of the victim, they will lie and obstruct justice. It's of course first given in Genesis chapter 9 after the flood. You know, if if you get in a fight with another man and you fracture his arm, okay. All we have access to, if we took advantage of it, was Something happens and within a half an hour there's an article on some news site based on limited, very limited information. So we often bear false witness in that kind of a situation. I remember in California, one of the common entertainments, sadly, is uh police chases. Verse 3. So if someone commits a crime, That is they received that as the the punishment for That doesn't include the many years he'll likely spend in prison, you know, giving appeals and whatnot. God is not only the God of justice. So the princes of Israel, the leaders of Israel, had failed to do justice. And then verse 13 says, Woe to him who built his house without righteousness and his upper rooms without justice. And so we receive forgiveness even for our own injustice. But that's not my goal today. You know, was it because the original charge was false? But keep far from a false charge and do not kill the innocent or the righteous. Proverbs chapter 18, verse 17 says, The first to plead his case seems right until another comes and examines him. You know, as one person is speaking, I'm w kinda watching the other person saying do they roll their eyes, are they shaking their head, you know, are they you know what are they doing And Judge Kavanaugh's life was destroyed in many ways. Yeah. There shall be one standard for you. So biblical justice No one is good except God alone. Another example, today we look at a short video clip that's been posted. It is so much of the reason that we have so many of the problems that we have. My point is this, so much of the mantras and the rituals and opinions of social justice movement today Verse 2, you shall not follow the masses in doing evil. It's funny, we we all know This doesn't mean that they should be uh treated like citizens, you know, given the equal status, like there should be open borders and Leviticus chapter 24. 22. If we are living day-to-day with our interactions, in our interactions with others, Uh the reason the police officers uh were attempting to arrest him when they Now, think about this next one. And we ought to want to affirm that Let's talk about distributive justice. So you know I said just a second ago that justice demands impartiality, and that's what this is saying here. With regard to Solomon in 1 Kings 10, verse 9, it says, Blessed be the Lord your God who delighted you Does that ever happen today? There's a lot of attention over these years about how drug laws have have affected In Christ's name. So last week we uh talked about the God of justice. So 34 in 2019. Amen. Well, because in the New Testament, as Jesus and the disciples and the apostles reflect on the law, Most of these principles come out of Exodus chapter twenty-three, the first You shall not bear a false report. I mean none of us do We want to make sure that we give deference to him. Uh where am I here? You know, other people were pressuring her? Um but we see so Um there's a cost to you to defend yourself in an armored system. And then finally, Colossians 4, verse 1. That's the way it should be You you can do that One of the problems with the Me Too movement. And here we have it again in these two passages And if we want to be promoters of justice Lord, cultivate in us uh uh It's like yeah you have to just turn off the TV, turn off the computer, turn off your phone. Yeah, just as you were talking, I thought you were going to raise uh perjury as a you know that perjury is a crime. They emphasize some details that are irrelevant and de-emphasize other details that are actually relevant. Sometimes they're motivated by protecting their loved one despite their guilt. Deuteronomy 1919 There it used to be that they would sequester uh Uh bri with Brianna Taylor and her situation, you know, as that was unfolding in the immediate hours. That's one way that we as believers in this world can promote justice. And those who don't repent from those in this life will receive the just penalty of God. Uh she stopped talking to them. The purpose of bringing out these passages is to highlight that all people are called to pursue justice. They publish opinions as fact. And that should not be. Now, I'm not saying they're false accusations. But that is the height of injustice. They're not. They're more than willing to spread false testimony in order to accomplish their goals. That's really the conclusion. Last week we talked about standpoint epistemology. Help us to be people who are committed. Truth is the linchpin of justice And then when the legal authorities, the investigators, the law enforcement, the lawyers They write articles on the basis of Uh if you haven't seen that, I encourage you to watch it. They should not be mistreated. Now if a guy goes to prison for forty years, it costs But the reason that the public cries out injustice when the courtroom doesn't match their opinion Bearing false witness not only includes outright lies, but it also includes misrepresentation. Because we don't even know the truth. And uh it's just a horrifying tale. Lord, there's um there's no end And Jesus doesn't go on to recite the entire you know Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy If you don't speak up It means don't pay attention to it. Um one way that oppression of the foreigner takes place in our nation today All right, we see what's going on here Again, we could mount up examples. And obviously with the time we have I think to one degree or another we've all There's Do not be partial to the poor. You shall not pervert justice due to the needy brother in his dispute 16,000 murders. Those were likely people who had committed crimes many, many years before. Amen. Nothing you can say could invalidate that. So every time we sin, every time unbelievers sin, we are living in an unjust way. Because it must have been born out of racism. Like I know I mean Because that's the nature of humanity. That's un unjust. What they say, what testimony they give, must be treated on its own merits. They don't have access to all the information. But generally I think we can understand this as uh I'm gonna I'm gonna give false information because I want to protect him. Partiality means to assume that one person deserves Uh but you know I if you don't if you don't render an innocent So again. Again, we are his image bearers, and he calls us to promote justice in this world That's a good question that we should always ask ourselves. We know full well that when They said they said they saw his truck, they you know they even saw him and So people throw in lawsuits just for the point of manipulating votes The ends justify the means. The idea of that is very simply This is a very simple reality. How crazy is that? They're swaying the narrative with something that isn't important. We don't have the tools, we don't have the resources, we don't have the knowledge to come to those conclusions. I mean, justice is not determined by popular opinion, right? This this is, man, if this happened, uh You know, if they just get off. During that entire time There's biblical justice, distributive justice. These have to be lived out for any judicial system to function properly. The next point, uh second half of the verse, don't kill the innocent. Um what a tragedy it is when uh For you also were strangers in the land of Egypt. But if you have questions, if you're wondering, you know, after we work through these, if I offend you, please reach out to me. I'm sure somebody does, but I I don't There should be impartiality No. Okay, the last principle This is reserved, again, for those who are in positions of authority. That's what should have happened. That's not very simple, is it? I don't know. That's unjust. And then I talk to the other spouse and I get a very different picture. 2,620. How do we relate with each other in the world? We see the video clip and we're like, oh, this is terrible, you know, this is unjust, and blah blah blah. The person who initially claimed that's what happened retracted their claim. Is it right to lose five years of your life for getting caught with drugs? And sadly, unjustly, they're never held accountable for their spreading of false reports. It just means that they're sitting in jail, you know, giving constant appeals. They emphasize irrelevant details and de-emphasize relevant details and they jump to conclusions. This is right before the Lord is going to go down to Sodom and Gomorrah. So in these next set of passages, you and I are commanded Most recently, I think the George the shooting of Jake Blake But it there was still a protest That's not part of our legal process. You know, we trust him because we know him. Don't quote me on that, but And he defines specifically the Ten Commandments and the Royal Law. If you want to know how can I promote justice in this world, It shall be for the foreigner as well as the native, for I am the Lord your God. Now I'm not here to judge what's right and what's wrong. You can get where see where I got that point? And the reverse is true. But um And if not, then there are certainly But uh Of course some of those would have been murders that happened previous years. Now he's obviously got the position. So I brought that into the new set of notes. Or at least I guess uh yeah, go ahead. The the next principle I mean, you could talk about plea deals. That means It's a it's a good Again, sharing things on social media That's tragic. You shall You're likely going to distribute it, sell it to others. These are people. Thus says the Lord, do justice and righteousness. Masters We're not going to violate any of the commandments because It's very difficult We're upholding God's standard of righteousness. And we know that those things have happened And that happens all the time. That was the major emphasis last week. We don't want to follow the world in that So uh forgive me for that if I need to take breaks and drink water or whatever. Dominant cultures should not be believed more than ethnic minorities. That's not part of our legal system. They were promoting violence and destruction. I think I know what you're gonna say, but go ahead. And So, you know, depending on I thought I had Almost no one receives capital punishment. All of those things are real and they are problems. That's like the only way to not listen to a false charge. It says He's popular. That's not good We'll look at some scriptures of why he defines it that way. So now minimum All right Now, having said that I have no way to do that. I'd love to