And so you see the pattern continue all the way down to then us. Uh in fact we're going to spend a lot of time on that for the next several classes. So let's start off first of all in asking the question, does the Bible clearly teach that men and women have different roles? You're going to hear a lot of people that will come to you and say, Oh, what Paul was talking about in First Timothy two, that was a cultural thing. And so again, all of the naming, the naming of woman represents that there's a distinction in hist in created the created order but also in history. There's several generation chapters in Genesis, and this is the one that has to do with Adam. So yes, there's accountability there. I don't know if that helps to clarify it, it's just you know thinking broadly that if if a s if a child or a wife sins is the husband responsible for that There's two words that are key to understanding this verse in Genesis 316, and that is the word desire and the word rule. Well again, in Genesis chapter three, verse sixteen, there it's in the context of the curse. And so in Genesis 3. Now again, such a desire to control is consistent with Eve's leading Adam into sin in Genesis three six In the Hebrew text, there's six words that are the same and are found in the same order of both verses. You're now going to be against your husband because he didn't exercise the authority and the responsibility and the role that he was supposed to perform. So in Sol of Solomon uh verse seven through ten or seven ten um it says here that of the woman I am my beloved's and his desire is for me. and that can be a corruption and a perversion to what the created order is. The word rule here does not signify one who leads among equals, but rather one who rules by virtue of power and strength. That laborious was long. But what we need to understand here is that ultimately we need to go look back to God, as God is the one who has established this, and he established it perfect in paradise. And so when we see the in a marriage relationship where the man is again complimenting the woman and the woman's complimenting the man So what we see in this promise, this really uh first evangelical gospel presentation given to Adam and Eve Their progeny all the way down to us. All I need to be focused on is my responsibility towards her. This is one reason why there's not going to be marriage in heaven. And I pray, Lord, that in going through this class we would continue to just give you the all the honor, praise, glory, and thanksgiving for what you have done from the very beginning. Yeah. Wow, what a testimony that would be to an unbelieving world. And what we do now is with the uh board fiction. Yeah, I remember when I when that hit me, um it was again like a bolt of lightning, it was just an epiphany I'll have to double check it, but um but it's a great question. sharing God's word together. All right, let's pray. Lord, we thank you for just this, again, very critical, crucial teaching of biblical manhood and womanhood in a society that seems to be running We just pray, Lord, that as we learn the truth, that we would proclaim it and continue to communicate with others the need for understanding your word and the significance of what it means to be called man. We thank you in Christ's name. I want to welcome all of you here this morning. or what it means to be called woman. I know I can't see all of you face to face. We really are the pinnacle of God's creation. uh superior or inferior ro um distinctions in equality uh between man and woman. We want to ask the question, is in the Bible, is it clear that there are distinctions between men and women? We are both equal in reflecting his image. So we talked about the equality part. in these ten reasons. And so those role differences again are meant to complement one another, not to show superiority or inferiority, but basically to see how God has created So the first reason comes down to the order. Who was created first and then who? to the original creation and establishes what God has set as the order for creation. Adam was created before Eve. And what a beautiful thing that is. And it's interesting because all the way through creation you see God giving names and giving identity and um distinctions to various certain things like night and day. And he named them because God had given him dominion over the animals, to rule over the animals, the birds of the sky, the the beasts of the field, and the fish of the earth, or the fish of the seas uh Adam looking around and not finding a suitable helper for him and God then creating the woman. And he did this because of headship. of man and woman there was this responsibility to be fruitful and again multiply and populate the earth. uh we give them names that represent family history. It very clearly tells us that this is the book of the generations of Adam in the day when God created man And then Adam, but Adam was the one who was called to give an account, and we see that in Genesis chapter three, verses eight through nine. in the sense of equality. But boy did go did we go downhill fast. As we've gone through you know, six thousand years of history, yeah, is is now man um still responsible for sin? Again, as a family, if there's an issue that takes place in the family, the man is held responsible for the family's decision, headship, etc. for my wife's sin, um, but I am responsible for the actions or the issues that may have led up to that So but we want to be careful about it because ultimately we don't want to blame anybody else for our sin and we don't want anybody else to be held accountable for our sin. the first woman in the man. And uh let me just tell you, man, please don't do that. That's not the proper way you take responsibility for your own sin. It confuses the meaning of the text because it seems like after the fall, okay, Eve, you're gonna have a strong desire for your husband because you messed up the order? And so the preposition here is not L, but it's actually all. Again, it should be a reminder to us of how a husband and wife should have this strong attraction and affection towards one another. Genesis written by Moses, two very distinct books, distinct purposes, distinctions with regards to their to Genesis. Similarly, Eve was created to bear and nurture children in fulfillment of God's command to be fruitful and multiply. from her responsibility to bear children, rather it made that responsibility painful and laborious. Her punishment did not introduce or take away from this role, but it did introduce conflict into this because It's a reminder of the fall and a reminder of your created order and how we need to look to Christ and be thankful for him. Now, note that we just we take steps to alleviate this kind of pain, both providing for our family and in childbirth. That's something that we need to be constantly striving towards here as we are redeemed but still yet are incarcerated in sinful flesh, living in a fallen world. God, I want to follow your order for me as a man, me as a or or as a woman. Which again God began to reveal in his curse of the serpent. There would come one who would then crush the head of the serpent. And our sin is imputed to him, his righteousness is imputed to us, and we see ourselves being saved from the penalty that was given originally to Adam and Eve. I love that, for sin shall not be master over you. Again, sin was entered introduced into humanity by Adam and Eve. Yeah. in the relationships that we have between our hu between husbands and wives, uh between us as human beings, that grace ought to be extended But likewise husbands, love your wives and do not be embittered against them. This is such an important issue for us to understand that in Christ we have a new perspective regarding our relationships as husbands and wives. for the first man, the first woman. But Ephesians chapter five, verses twenty-two through twenty-eight and thirty-three. In fact she did it a week and a half ago and it was so wonderful um when she did it because she was absolutely right. But it was a beautiful thing for us to be able to ask for forgiveness and again to have that restored. Our relationships as husbands and wives, um, as Christians, ought to be such a tremendous testimony to an unbelieving world that our marriage, our relationship together ought to be a testimony of God's saving grace. When the scriptures say that I need to love my wife as Christ loved the church, um, and gave himself up for her Because we are members of his body. Why did he say that back in Genesis? But you see three persons and roles and distinctions between those persons. as a suitable helper, it was in the context of a marriage relationship. because he was never home. weeks that we've kind of hit that point where I'm like, Oh wow. it all together which is pride. and how Christ liberates us and gives us the freedom to be able to do what sin has done to corrupt the world. fully understand and and understand this um glorious relationship that husband and wife have together. It doesn't excuse them because they're still responsible for it and they will be held responsible for it in eternity future. Again, it's a reason why we need to come alongside broken families and help them to understand this is God's plan of redemption for you. All right. Bone of my bone, this is flesh of my flesh. the significance of your creation. that we were going to be talking about not just how we are equal in dignity, worth, honor, um, etc. Yes. Equal in personhood, but no distinctions, no roles, uh role differences, I should say. So I just want to have those definitions and those distinctions cemented in your mind so that when you come across them, you know exactly what people are talking about. Now when we started out, again we started out by making the point that when it comes to biblical manhood and womanhood And what we wanted to point out here was the fact that um we are both created in the image of God. sixth day of creation, you see how everything was building to the point of creating man and then ultimately creating a suitable helper, which was Eve. that when it comes to man and woman in terms of personhood, we are equal. Men and women are not different. how God created man and woman to have different roles. by talking about uh the ten reasons showing male headship in marriage before the fall. And so we want to talk about that. Now, does that mean that man is superior than woman? was that he would create the male first and then he would create the female. Headship has to do with representation, responsibility, roles, etc. there being a created order in the universe. All throughout Scripture. uh the issue of manhood and womanhood comes up, there seems to be a call back to the original order, the original creation. to explain the differences between men and women and why women are not to have to exercise authority or to teach over a man. God is the one who has established that. Uh again, we just acknowledge that, we understand it, um, and then we start to discover all the reasons for it. Who did God go to first? how the Trinity expresses this kind of order. So again, there's a there's a representation that Adam has that Eve does not have. his wife. um Washington State who pastored a church in uh eastern I no, it was in the Seattle area. I'm sure Adam was just delighted when Eve was created. Again, it's just a beautiful expression of the fact that man has a distinction, woman has a distinction, and together they are the pinnacle of God's created order. So likewise parents then give names to their children and and it's interesting in the Old Testament times we don't do the do that do this uh very often today, but um names were given for very distinct reasons. You see names being given to act actually represent distinct situations and circumstances or experiences that people have gone through. But again, it reflects on the created order. He made him in the likeness of God. It's interesting because the name Adam is not just a proper name for the first man that was ever created, but it actually is a name that represents the whole human race. So again, the Hebrew word for man, Adam, is male. And so the whole human race is named after this first male human being. 21, chapter 4, verse 1, chapter 4, verse 25, and then 5. The next one is the primary accountability, and again we've hinted at this as we've gone along, but Eve sinned first. The word him or you, all singular here, referring to the man, just accentuates the the burden and the responsibility and the accountability that Adam had for sin entering into the world. And that's a role distinction. Adam and Eve that's being articulated here in the created order. Um I would say not only because of the fact that we see that both men and women are then after the fall held personally accounted for their own sin. Indeed, it is often used to refer to God as our helper. So ultimately that's reflected in the creative order that God has given responsibility to the man and again the the responsibility given to the woman is different from the man. I would say not because each person is responsible for their own sin. Um so it's not that I bear the responsibility of my wife's sin or she bears the responsibility of my sin. But we're sinning in a f in a world that's already been corrupted by the by the um disobedience of the woman and the man Eve was created to be a helper for man, very clearly given to us in Genesis chapter 2. Woman was created as a suitable helper. Now, how that works itself out can certainly be expressed in the role distinctions and the role responsibilities that we each have to one another. It's complementary in the fact that they've been created equal in the image of God, and yet these These roles that men and women have together complement us and complement each other in such a way that they really reflect Alright, number seven gets us into the conflict. Um but now we're starting to see how things start to change but also accentuate these role differences um between men and women. Yet your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. You see almost identical um language being used when Adam then curses I mean, um God curses Cain and says, sin desires for you and it wants it seeks to rule over you. And God says, and if you do well, if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. to what um god said to Eve. Um God says to Cain, If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And the language, literally the words are identical here in the phrasing uh that God gives. um seeks after you or is or is looking for you or your desire, Eve, is for your husband and or sin's desire is for you, Cain. in its grammatical form is a very strong word and it's really a strong urge. suggests an aggressive desire uh to control is the context that this word is being used And again, the grammatical parallels between Genesis 4. and you really need him. You are going to think that you are better than him, that you should be the representative head. And God is saying, this is an issue, this is a reason for the curse, for the reason for the fall. not a loving, gracious, um sexual or um you know love that a Eve has for her husband, but here it's really a desire for control. And in pronouncing judgment on Eve, God then indicates that this would continue, bringing further conflict into the husband and wife relationship. and wanting uh to drive us to have this urge to be against God's created order. uh created from the very beginning and how he has made us um different in our roles. Really that's that's the beauty of the relationship that the two encounter together, the husband and wife. Um all would be more for f uh in the issue of four. that there should be this strong attraction, this desire, this compulsion for one another. But grammatically and in the context it indicates here a positive desire for the husband for his wife rather than a negative desire by the wife to control her husband Now in addition to this, uh having a different grammatical structure and a different context It also has a different author. purpose and why they were written. And he can then use his headship as an abuse rather than a compliment to his wife. her being a suitable helper is sin can now affect the woman so that she wants to take control and desire the role and responsibility that the woman has We see how they become twisted. uh the fall. It made that responsibility painful because it became laborious. No, I I God created all of this and created it good and I think maybe even uh weeds are a good thing, but Anyway, it's just you see pain and laboriousness being introduced into the created order and the roles Childbirth was painless. What happened was these roles and distinction became so painful and twisted and again they We started to move away from God's created order in a very rapid pace. Why? And we see this done by reflecting God's created order. by reflecting God's created order. to confront that sin, evaluate why those actions took place and then be able to go back to God and say my wife. Now, this brings us to the next uh the next item, and that's the restoration. we have immediately God introducing the f really the beginning of his plan of redemption. We see that Christ is the answer to that seed. Again, this is a reference to a virgin birth here, since the woman doesn't carry a seed. We see that God said to them, even though this fall has happened, the curse has happened, you will die in your sin, even though all this has happened Salvation in Christ again restores the entire created order. There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Um it goes on that we're saved from the power of sin. And again, that's such a wonderful thing given the fact that um again the curse brought about this this perversion of control and roles in relationship. who will transform the body, our b or the body of our humble state into conformity with the body of his glory by the exertion of the power that he has even to subject all things to himself. And I can't wait for that day when that happens. Waiting eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our body. We will enjoy the full glorification, redemption of all of the created order. and actually living for here and now. Yeah. to God's command to Adam and Eve to not eat of the f of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, if the law represents God's word and his command and his authority, um that law kills us. Now, among the consequences of sin that salvation in Christ restores is again the conflict in the marriage relationship, in which men often rule their wives harshly And women often seek to gain control over their husbands. Again, go back to the created order and how God has established this. at the specificity of the language that's being used here in the text to accentuate the role of the husband and the role of the wife. ultimately goes down to the role of the children and then ultimately the role between slaves and masters. I love this because if the husband were to love her wife in the way that Christ loves the church, we would see a tremendous difference. in the ro in the relationship between the husband and wife. as husband and wife. Again, upholding the roles and responsibilities that we have. And so if I am overbearing, Sharon will remind me that you're to love me. so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, and he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she would be holy and blameless Now, this moves us into the next um one. I love this in Ephesians, again, Ephesians, what I just read to you, he actually quotes from the scripture the Old Testament scriptures here. Loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes it and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church through Christ with his body the church. is a testimony of the gospel to the whole world. Cain didn't get it though. The loving headship of the husband, the willing submission of the wife, as in the relationship with Christ and the church, were part of God's design for marriage before sin. It was then a mystery in the Old Testament. was a testimony of what would happen with Christ in the church. When we go into the new heavens and the new earth, there will no longer be a need for marriage. Now, the next lesson, since we are not going to cover this, we're going to talk about the parallels with the Trinity. And then we'll uh we'll talk about that in relation to the Trinity. All right. that wow now I understand why it is that there won't be marriage in heaven. is a testimony of God's grace. As you recognize it and understand your roles together, how you can come together and complement each other can be a testimony not only to yourselves, but it can be a testimony to your children and to your neighbors around you. to understand the beauty of those roles. The more you do that, the stronger that desire will be for a positive um interaction together likewise her from me as well. Yeah. The problem is sin has driven a wedge and there's just the conflict in such a way that that it's impossible for an unbeliever to truly understand these roles and and distinctions. That's why whenever we do uh premarital or even marital counseling, the idea is to remind us to go back to God's established order for this. Yeah, um that's a great question. Just ask you to teach us and again fill our hearts and minds with truly the significance of how you have created men and women. As we began this these classes, we talked initially about the importance of understanding biblical manhood and womanhood. Just simply summarize what does it mean to be complimentary complementarian? uh so opposite of your word. done in this world. but also that there are differences. differences in roles. So last time we took a lot of time, well, in the first lesson, in the fact that God created man and woman equal in value and in dignity that there's equality between man and woman. perfectly in the way that we have been created. Many times when it comes to talking about the role differences, the critique against complementarianism is the fact that, oh, men are superior and women are inferior. Or, quite frankly, even the reverse in some cases. Man being created first and then woman. that God created man first and then he created woman. When Paul is addressing Timothy and telling him about the order of the s of the church service and the responsibility in the church service, he actually goes back to the creation order, not culture. Um Adam, not Eve, represents the whole human race when they sinned. And so there's an there's an a real beauty in the fact that God comes to Adam and holds him accountable for what has taken place because again it reflects God's created order. um in the relationships um of the persons of the Trinity. Um, God gave identity to those. to find you out and then hold you accountable, that's a terrifying thing. that Adam was the one to bore responsibility. um role differences and headship. God named the day, day and the night, night. And so you see this responsibility being given to Adam to show this headship, to show this responsibility and this distinction. And uh I just remember him try him hilariously telling us that when he created Adam and f there wasn't a suitable helper and then he created um Eve, that when Adam looked at Eve, he looked in the at her and said, Whoa, man. It has to do with living. And he gave her a personal name. But again, this issue of Adam naming his wife is such a beautiful thing. man or humankind. is named after the first created human being. And although this word, like the English equivalent, can be used to speak of mankind in general, up to the point up to this point in Genesis It is always used to refer to a male human being. She is within the human race, and so therefore she is created along with everybody else as man But again, this distinction that is being made in the first human being is what really gives representation to the whole human race prior to the fall. Genesis 3 is so explicit and so clear that you have God confronting the man. like men and women like husband and life and and and expands responsibilities. that a son will not be responsible for the father's for the father's sin or curse. this to Eve afterwards, but she appears not to have understood them correctly. Um so there there's accountability within the family and in the structure where the husband is given a tremendous responsibility to exercise um authority in this realm of this institution that God has created. Again, woman is a helper to man because then we would say God is again our helper. said that wrongly, but what we're seeing here is that there's a distinction between man and woman. So, once again, there's a purpose to why God created man and woman the way that he did. really has to do with um what happened after the fall. between the two. In pain you will bring forth children. The Hebrew word translated desire is used only two other times in the Old Testament. So you see you see this curse being repeated um as it goes through the fall, but what does it mean that Eve will have a desire for her husband. And we see this now lived out in the history of the world. is what's being expressed. that is really a word that expresses against, not for her husband. And uh and again it's a reminder to us that we need to be we need to be aware of the fact that this is ultimately sin, a sin a a sin issue that is driving us to want to control Now, this word again, desire, is used elsewhere in Scripture, and it's used in Song of Solomon wants me, desires me, longs for me, is urged to be with me. Now again, um the desire here is a strong urge um grammatically speaking. So and this makes it less likely that Song of Solomon, uh chapter seven, verse ten, really has any parallel will be met by the rule of her husband over her, further indicating that what is being pictured here is a conflict over leadership in marriage. involve introducing pain into these activities that they were responsible for prior prior bef um prior to the fall. We now have the spirit of God's redemption and the new nature to allow us to go all the way back to the original creation and to start exercising the roles and responsibilities uh that God established from the beer very beginning before. that uh weeds are a part of the curse and uh only because I've been out there picking weeds and it's hard and they just keep coming back up. Part of her punishment introduced pain, labor into that responsibility. Once again, as Satan corrupted the human race by introducing sin into a a perfect world into that responsibility. became quickly a very difficult thing because of sin. as exercising headship uh in that first deception, but also Adam then became much more It became much more of a conflict in the way that he led the woman. But we should also alleviate this conflict that arises by again looking to Christ and to looking to God as the way in which He established this order. Again, it's not that he was wrong in the way that he established this order. No, this the issue is it was always Plan A for all of human history to occur the way that it did according to the scriptures. And so ultimately this is what human history and redemption is bringing us back to. Um, there will be these distinctions that men and women have. shall bruise you on the head, speaking of the serpent, uh which indicates a fatal blow, and then you shall bruise him on the heel, which we know that that's a reference to the blow of the crucifixion. And then that would then prove not to bring the final seed, um, the victory to uh the sap to Satan or the serpent um know that there is a promised restoration that will take place. He did. Christ being the sufficient provider for helping us to have power over sin. was subject to futil futility tr futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself also will be set free from its slavery to corruption and into freedom of the glory of the children of God. and suffers the pains of childbirth together until now. gave us victory over the power of that sin and ultimately in eternal future when the new heavens and the new earth are here. It kills us. Grace ought to be shown and lived and and graciously um given to one another rather than condemnation rather than judgment. Complementing his male headship and responsibility for the family is a testimony of God's grace and love and again his created order. sought to rule over their wives in a harsh way and again produced bitterness in the into the relationship. And we don't want to reflect what's happening in the world. I have had a number of people in the church, outside the church, come to me and express what a difference our relationship is, Sharon and I. Fault, sin, argument, conflict. You are different because of Christ. That is a huge responsibility that I have. This wonderful restoration that takes place is really a reflection of God's plan for all of humanity is a testimony of the gospel to the whole world. was not a consequence of sin. All of a sudden the light went on. um established norm. This was a mystery in the Old Testament, but fully revealed in the New Testament. of how God has designed marriage to parallel the Trinity. the role that God has given me in the home and to do that as a testimony to an unbelieving world. that he was never home and I was like, Wow, I don't really need him anymore. that distinction alone should be a complement that really ought to be a glorious complement to one another. of the w the of the husband to want to be there to again provide the headship that's needed for the home. And that's the thing that ultimately we need to be responsible for is that God has given me this woman for this and I want to have an attraction to that woman because of that wonderful role that she has again a part of God's creation. All right. Now if you as you go on in the naming of creation, you see Adam taking on that responsibility of then naming the animals I just think it's wonderful when a name can kind of be a a representation of something. It's just that the way that the order has been created, there is a very distinction in the purpose for which uh the person has been created. Meeting a need for Adam. Um she was made to be suitable and I love that word suitable because it means fitting, appropriate, corresponding to And we see this in books like Genesis, Judges, Kings, Psalms, Nehemiah, and Isaiah. I think one of the things just as effective as sin was and a curse we have to recognize as believers that we're under grace. And and so in that now created order that we have with God, um, we are now under grace. They should be able to look at us and say, something's different about you and what I know of you, I can see that it's Christ. um particularly in Genesis chapter two, but Paul says that he who loves his wife his own wife That's the question we want to ask. But as we go on, there's also the representation order. Um if you n uh notice um actually turn over to Genesis chapter 5 verses 1 and 2. So even within the naming of the human race, we see that there is a role distinction being exhibited in the created order. We are so far from the beginning of creation in the way that men and women have reacted to one another and especially in a fallen sinful world where there is this issue of wanting to have control. chapter 7 verse 10. But we need to note here that each aspect of God's judgment against Adam and Eve, Genesis 3, 16 through 19, die for his people, establish the church as a testimony to the whole world. But is this helpful? the attraction will become that much more significant. man, mankind, in his image by creating the male and female to reflect his image but differently But again, the purpose here is to reflect that God has a very distinct purpose for man and for woman. Us, animals, everything that was corrupted by the fall will be restored to its glory uh in the new heavens and the new earth. And a joyful relationship within our marriage. Because we look out and we see things happening in a lot of people from the way the world is going. but truly the naming of her was woman. the design and the order that God has established from very beg from the very beginning. Is this the way that God established the roles? we will be saved completely from the presence of sin. men to love their wives and to women to submit to their husbands. We've got just a few minutes left, but any questions, comments? Um yes, Matt, go ahead. Yeah. Uh or a research sort of a research of ad authorities who are eating like that. From the time of Adam and Eve all the way until now. It may use the same word, but it's a different context. So again, these are things that really are important for us to to understand in terms of the distinctions that God has made between men and women. Well we'll probably be helping each other. An unbeliever can't. Father, thank you so much for this time together. Equality and distinctions. So it's important for us then as husbands and wives or even as individuals to go back to the creator order and ask ourselves, is this the way that God established Because this is God's plan of ultimate redemption. We are equal in personhood, but we have role distinctions. And so as we begin, let me go ahead and open with a word of prayer. And he does this because again of representation and roles and distinctions. Does that make sense? The first evidence that we have of the conflict is um Adam blaming the woman So again, the issue is here that after the fall we see a corruption to them. Definitely. Yeah. I'm like, oh my goodness, the kids are trying to kill me. Amen. You will see phrases like, He created man and then He created woman. 16, it really should be interpreted in parallel to Genesis 4. That's a that's a good point. So even though man had headship over the woman, because of sin, there's a corruption in that Um. But in Genesis chapter five, verses one and two, you have the generations. That's not what's being expressed here. And I thank you that you continue to work in and through our lives. But the issue is that when it comes to differences, when it comes to role differences, men and women are created differently And we begin with talking about the reasons why male headship in marriage is just so distinct and so clear in the beginning of creation. And that's complementarianism. Um they're equal. And so that just is accentuated by what the context of the book dictate dictates. And the punishment did not introduce or take away his responsibility to cultivate the ground and to provide for his family. But grace introduced life. Abel did. And I would tell the kids, you know, we're doing this because we're obeying daddy as head of the home even though he's not here and we're just and that was how it looked. Let's go ahead and close in prayer. Um I just praise you and thank you. And again, uh in the context here, um you have the word L before, which is a preposition Um again, we're under like you said, we're under grace. And oftentimes it's why is it so good? And uh that distinction is there because of the fact that from the very first creation So ever since the beginning of creation, male man has always had this distinction of having male headship, responsibility, representation, etc. But in terms of the sin issue, each person is responsible for their own sin. If I was probably standing up you'd be able to see me, but what's more important is the truth up on the slides and not me. And we're going to start off our lesson on page six of your notes. I mean it's a terrifying thing if you were the first man to be trying to hide in the garden from God, who is everywhere present at all times, um, and knows exactly where you are Okay, um so primary accountability. Uh just one question on the uh woman. And if you remember the terms that um you needed to know in this class were complementarianism and egalitarianism. And so that in and of itself distinguishes one of the first reasons why man has a headship over the woman. He did this because again, he was the representative of the f first family So again, uh God gave the initial command to Adam before Eve was created, and then Adam had apparently communicated So once again, just a reminder to reflect back and say, God, thank you for sending Jesus Christ even though we still have pain in childbirth. I thank you that you have created us men and women to reflect your image and to again bring you glory in a c fallen and corrupt world. And then here's the curse that was given to Eve. Genesis three fifteen, just by way of reminder, God said to the woman, I will put enity between you, this is speaking to the serpent, but between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. What a wonderful testimony that is. But no, that's great that you're uh identifying it and and it it just shows you that the curse is still alive and well in the world and we need to fight against it. In the context of Song of Solomon, it's really being expressed in the opposite meaning as it was in Genesis chapter 3 verse 16 and 4 verse 7. Um that penalty for sin that is born in us ultimately is on is rested on Jesus Christ And so the responsibility that I have as a believer in Christ is to be the best husband that I can be, the best father that I can be. This is woman. Today we want to get into the differences. The issue is is that she sinned first, but who was accountable for that sin? And what we need to be reminded of as believers in Christ is that in Christ And I think if we look at that and trust that, that kind of continually promotes the the thought of sickness and promotes the marriage without a way to freeze or not. Yeah, and I love that because again, if the law itself were compared or again parallel And to do that in such a way as to give uh God the honor. Likewise, back in Genesis 2, the relationship of a man and woman coming together to become one flesh. They're not a curse. Um, this is now woman. Um it is always good to be together and to And then you see earth and the seas, and then you see man and woman. If you go over to Romans chapter 5, once again Adam is the one who is responsible for sin and death being introduced into humanity. So if we have an argument with uh that text or that order, our argument's with God, not with man. He created them male and female. Mankind. And so we see in the created order there being distinctions in this equality between man and woman And then he quotes from Genesis 2, For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh. And so ultimately that's why the gospel is so essential. And Father, as we commit our time this morning, we just want to thank you for the clarity of your word, for how you continue to teach us and guide us and help us to understand. Because ultimately marriage would be a reflection of the redemption that God has But when Christ came and again established that redemption with his people That's why marriage took place. Who sinned first? It's really interesting because the name Eve literally means um life giver or the one uh Um It is so funny in there. And again, the conflict will be there because of sin, but we need to do everything that we can possibly This is a creation issue, not a culture issue. Um so when it comes to the image of God, we both reflect the image of God Again, Song of Solomon, written by Solomon We want to be different from the world. Okay. Pastor Mike, I also want to share that um this is all great and sounds wonderful, but it's also a reminder that this is for believers. I'll need to look into that because, you know, the indication is is that she had well, she was named uh Eve there in Genesis 3 Um men and women man and woman were created on the sixth day of creation, and as you track through that that They sh we're different in the fact that our biology is different, but again, reflecting the image of God Man has a responsibility, as I told you last time, to represent the human race. Is that a positive thing or is that a negative thing? That's Philippians chapter 3. One of the other reasons is the mystery. Absolutely not. Its desire is for you, but you must master it Um but then Romans eight goes on to say, For the creation And that picture of marriage was really a picture of what would take place when Christ then would come. All right. So well just be careful about how we um draw the line. And that should call us to account. And that's really important to note there. This is not this is not um some bird or the air or fish of the sea. And then we've seen how that continues as Adam and Eve bore children who were then created in their image. Just so we're on the same page. And we know just by the unfolding revelation that's given to us from Genesis all the way through to the New Testament Yeah, Julie. We thank you for this class and for all who are participating and Um but again the issue is is that there's a distinction between In a marriage man still has responsibility and headship over his family. Um In fact, I often get asked, um I shouldn't say often, throughout our thirty-five years of marriage, I have The next one is the naming of woman. So we either give them our um grandmother or grandfather's names or we pass those along. Christ is the answer. But yeah, I mean as far as the distinction that Eve had Um the naming of her is not a proper name, but the naming of her as And again, complementing it together, it's just the pinnacle of God's creation. Um you then see heaven as distinguished from the earth We see a real beauty of the glory of God being put on display in the husband and wife's relationship. So once again, the s the penalty for the fallen human race that fell on Adam and Eve and then was carried on through their children We're kinda doing it right now. It's not that it's it's not for unbelievers. And we're going to talk about this from two perspectives. And it's just wonderful that the creation of man and woman reflects really what has happened what's taken place We should be living in anticipation of that, Isaac. Because again, that marriage, that first marriage that was brought into creation A reminder of the curse. But we don't need that mm mm. Um the issue is is that because of what has taken place in the fall and in this curse of sin Father, thank you so much for this class. And again, what a beauty that is when you look at how we are created in the image of God. So we've talked about m all of these in relation to this being the created order from before the fall I don't need to worry about Sharon's responsibility to me And again, we see the human race then falling from that point forward. Um and that expression of woman I think has a correlation to the to the name Eve If you want a little bit more of an extended definition of that, that is exactly what I ultimately the summarization of it, but it's equality and personhood And so it is a male term, it is a distinction, once again, that God gave to mankind. 7 and Genesis 3. That just that alone. It's just that we're trying to look to Christ for that created order. Why? And we thank you for all of this because of who Christ Jesus is. Um once again, thank you for being here. Because if you look at the Trinity throughout Scripture, you see not just one God Again, this was established before the fall. Egalitarianism is what? But to start off, just remember that when it comes to equality, um reflecting the image of God And there's order all over in God's created universe. But again, as it reflects the order, it is so beautiful because again there has to be responsibility. We're all fallen. I'll actually let you read that yourself later on, but again, just look at the And we see this very distinctly Yes. Mm-hmm. I think this is one reason why repeatedly throughout the New Testament uh Paul commands That's huge. It was certainly a testimony to their children I don't want to jump into the next lesson because I I know we're not going to get very far. And we've read this passage a couple of times, but I just want you to see it there in the text And again, this perfection that was introduced into paradise will be regained That means we have victory over sin. And it was a testimony of the redemption that would ultimately take place. Again, not sexually. Romans chapter 8 says, For our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly wait a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ That's what we should be striving for. Because she's been taken out of me. That the roles and the and the equality that we have together are once again such a wonderful complement to what you have There are no inferior are It is not gender neutral. This reflects again a complementary role that the two have together. And so it's really a beautiful picture here of the husband and wife relationship This is God's plan of ultimate glorification. So write way back in Genesis chapter three verse fifteen He just shows up like Daddy Moorbucks once in a while but he's doesn't do doesn't help the kids or just never there. So we'll talk about that again when we get there. And that's the beauty of the marriage relationship. Now again this desire on the part of the of the woman Difficult because it was difficult for her to want to help her husband since he had failed miserably. For sin shall not master over you, Romans 6. That's the mystery of the Trinity, and we'll talk about that in detail. It's just that the way that God ordered it It's not that he m he blew it when he established this order of equality and differences and then man messed it up. It saves us from the penalty of sin. And then we'll do just a little bit review and then we'll jump into a new lesson today. And here I tried to talk talk to you about this last week. 1. And it will be directly from the seed of the woman. Ultimately what's going to happen is Why? That is not what we're talking about with regards to role differences. But again, Adam took on the role and the responsibility of of then naming his wife And when Eve sinned, when Adam then sinned, you saw this conflict And so again, you see this pain of conflict being introduced into the relationship. And grace now is the testimony that Jesus Christ has fulfilled the law for us. Your testimony of submission and again leaving And so it's very, very important for us to understand Is it also true today when God holds responsible for a man to correct things? He is the one who would come from the seed of Adam and Eve, who would ultimately crush the head of the serpent. And again, it shows this complementary role that husband and wife, male and female have to one another. Uh again, after the fall, we still see the same role distinctions in men and women, but we begin to see how they are corrupted. 16 are very clear here And we want to be, again, fulfilling God's plan and his purpose That's why the husband and wife came together. I think it's great that you explain why there is no marriage in happening. Yes. Uh but in the in Genesis chapter five, verses one and two It's you know, when you read that he says, Well, it's the woman you gave me, wow, that was a bold statement for him to make before God. Um, I am convinced, although I cannot prove it biblically. Um I know that in my relationship with Sharon Again, you have this distinction between Adam and Eve. We're all corrupted by sin But again, to the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth Um salvation in Jesus Christ restores all aspects of God's judgment against Adam and Eve's sin. Um but it also reminded me that my marriage Yeah. Yes. Um because it sh it really should hold us to um be responsible for reflecting accurately what God has And where L would express the preposition more of against And so this beauty of Eve being a suitable helper to Adam Colossians chapter 3, verses 18 and 19. Because the gospel will be fulfilled. And he blessed them and he named them man in the day when they were created. So we can't say that that it is distinctly a role difference that A curse was given to man, a curse was given to woman, a curse was given to the serpent Um by God's original design before sin, marriage was to be a picture of the relationship between Christ and the church. But in Genesis 4. You should be the one who now has the distinct role of m of headship in the family. But then when you factor in the complement of the wife doing what she's supposed to do And that's the testimony we're looking for to an unbelieving world. Man was created first and then woman. And you'll see that all the way through the unfolding of Revelation. This is when they were bringing their offerings to God, and God accepted Abel's offering, but did not accept Cain's offering. But the reality you've got to see, you know, that as soon as that map growing up and grease, it's like a whole different thing. And so today we want to talk about There's an order to the way God created man and woman. And the issue related to order and Um and so that's another reason why there's such a distinction and clarity in the Bible that talks about Genesis also uses the same word as the name of the first man. Yeah. He's working so much and he's not home. Today we're going to get into those distinctions and why. Um the son will bear his own responsibility for it. But you see, in the restored order, ultimately, we will be given a new flesh, a new body Christ came and gave us victory over the penalty of that sin Uh ultimately because of what we see in God's pronouncement towards Cain, it is sin that ultimately is driving us this way. Although the way that marriage was designed to foreshadow the relationship of Christ and his church, it could not be understood in the Old Testament So is there do you read significant that you can receive in chain pathways or is uh was reported to that should be taken as multiple aspects? And we just pray your blessing on this time today and for our lesson. Um Adam is then the one who names So it's r it's really interesting when you look at creation. Next we get into the purpose. And then what does it mean for the husband to rule over, for Adam to rule over Eve? And here we see the woman expressing the fact that her husband And not only this, but also we ourselves having the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves grown within ourselves. And again, this also means that male headship is not a culturally But yet God goes to the man. Um oftentimes we name our children And again, that distinction continues on throughout history. And that transforms our relationships. You need to come save me. A believer understands them because we believe we understand them in Christ. Since God named the human race after the first man, he gave recognition to man's headship. Um man was not created as a helper. How many husbands have It may in involve that, but more so in the attraction of understanding the roles and the way God has designed us. 7. But the husband and wife relationship Um now again it So yeah. And then wo woman, woman is this and I just laughed when he said that because um So, but great question. And that purpose is reflected not in just the equality of man and woman, but also in the role differences. We need to bring the gospel to bear in a broken relationship between a husband and wife. So again, this is a sin issue that has taken place in the curse Um the way that the word is uh expressed here uh in its grammatical form is very strong. And the punishment did not introduce or take away Now Ephesians goes into this pretty heavily, and uh it's a very significant passage. So those are the two main words that you're going to hear often as we work our way through the lesson. And I believe there are, and we're going to go through a list of those this morning If you remember when Adam and Eve sinned It is distinctly male. We thank you for this time together, and we continue to And when we talk about headship, we're talking about the issue of And so we just see point blank So we just need to know that And so the qua the question is, what does it mean for God to have said the desire Um And, you know, it's not that we're without And that's critically important because And it's interesting, the same verb for naming is used in every one of those created situations. It's a compulsion almost. And then ultimately in the glorification in the new heavens and the new earth I don't know that we the question is is is today Again, it tells you that one of them really helps you to understand the other. Again And I know for some of you So um I wanted to go back to uh what you said here, um essentially Macrobian. Absolutely right. And again, it takes humility, it takes graciousness, um, it takes uh confession. And I remember going to a conference one time and he was talking about how the creation of Adam and Eve came about This means that the desire should be understood as a desire to control. Adam was responsible for cultivating the garden from the beginning, and his punishment introduced pain Even though there won't be marriage in heaven or in the new heavens and the new earth No? Um headship. And so the Hebrew word for desire here, m it may be the same, but again the meaning in the context is different. So male headship for the woman, submission to her husband Um One is before sin entered the world, and then what happened after sin entered the world as well. God exercised his sovereignty over creation by naming aspects of it. And she is the mother of all living. And that's very important for us to understand. So again But here, just remember It's just that Um I don't I'm not accountable And so when the translators translate that word for, it's kind of it So that's a very positive use of this term as opposed to the negative use back in Genesis. Likewise the woman to say, I am your suitable helper. It didn't matter that Eve sinned first 7, the language, like I said, is almost identical And this is how sin has corrupted humanity. Um that from the seed of the woman Although it may not feel that way, the reality is that we're under that grace can be restored as to the white relationship with him. Just as the church is a testimony, the church's relationship to Christ That together, as we complement one another, man and woman, um And likewise Um Ultimately it was man And to have somebody come to you and say No, it wasn't, because he goes all the way back And what's amazing is the second time that that word is used in Genesis chapter 4, verse 7. But God goes on to say that he, Jesus Christ 14 says, for you're not under the law, but under grace. And then here's what he says that's almost identical And that's listen to this Yeah. Um so there should be the desire The Hebrew word for helper here does not by itself indicate a relationship to authority. The purpose. She'll do it in a very gracious loving way. And we'll talk a little bit about that How much more Why? He said God says Wouldn't it be wonderful if We have victory in Christ over the power of sin in our lives. For we know that the whole creation groans So much so that in 1 Timothy 2 Um it's interesting, but I love how And those references are all in your notes Finally, Eve was created to be um submitted to her husband as a helper. Everything that was corrupted, the land Glory will be fulfilled. Thank you. Yeah. So again So we'll talk about this in our next lesson Um I remember way back when and I can't remember there was a pastor in Yeah. And why? Wives, be subject to your husbands as is fitting in the Lord So hopefully you can hear me and we can continue to work our way through these lessons. But when it comes to man and women, we just acknowledge very much up front These principles are for humanity We need freedom for that. And again, it's an issue of created order, not culture. Well what a beauty it is for you guys to recognize it first of all. So thanks. This is this is And we want to talk about Because he has a headship there, a responsibility for this. And it And that should be built constantly over the marriage relationship. I definitely mean a good reminder today because Joel and I in the past have really struggled with our roles in the home. We thank you in his name. So the man is confronted. And so we see that in the created order. And uh and we see Jesus Christ fulfilling all of that Yeah. Um we're accountable for our own sin And and now instead of me being like, I don't really need you 'cause I gotta We're trying to reflect accurately What does that mean? And so all of a sudden now you have Because Adam was created first. It must have happened in a very short period of time And so we see in the way that they were created and how they related together And so the conflict And I tell you, um Do they? Every time Um Rather, it made it difficult. Um so all right any other comments But you're you're exactly right. Um in the old t in the old testament primarily And it's a day that we should be longing for and looking for But again, this is the reason I mean such an artist is so funny and Eve is not called Adam. And we see this in Genesis chapter 3, verse 17, 3 verse 20. It's a great point. And let me just ask you, when you think about the order Amen. Um man doesn't have that distinction. And so then what happened was you are now going to be against him. So it's really a reminder that we're under the curse It's no longer necessary. What we're seeing here though is, and maybe I And just as a recap a recap Um Ezekiel 18 makes it very clear And And so Well the word desire here is actually in its um Now this is after the fall And We just give you glory. And we're going to see later on in the next lesson And in the beginning we stressed And uh Uh the next one is the naming of the human race. Yeah. And Yes. This is how we glorify God It's impossible for unbelievers to find So again And we got to the point where he uh realized It doesn't work it will not work with a believer and a non-believer. Male headship But I love the fact that the human race And he did. And again here we see Exercise It's a great point. That's huge. So Literally the name Adam means Um So you're not under the law but under the race. So once again Yep. Yeah. And so Um So that's the new reality. Um and this last six weeks Um so It's like the feelings are the set. And um Uh And uh so Um Um