So what I'm going to do today is I'm going to basically give you kind of an overview of where we're going, and then we'll start to get into lesson number one. You'll notice in the notes um there are actually this this whole class is broken down into thirteen chapters, and so that fits great with us. However, I can tell you that today we may be falling behind. So that being the case, we'll just kind of pick up where we left off uh for the class next time. But what I want to do today is essentially just go over where we're going and why this class is important. So to begin I want to start off with first of all the appendix that you have in your notes. There is a section in there, I think there's like four, maybe four items that you'll want to be aware of. You'll want to refer back to those from time to time and we'll make reference to them. But the one that is perhaps most important here at the front is to give you kind of an idea of where we're starting from in terms of this class and why biblical Manhood and womanhood is so important. There are three resources primarily that Alan listed. There's many more since the whole movement started. But again, these three primary resources are the ones that you'll want to have um information on and then also be able to reference and if you want to buy them you can. I brought my copies of them, um, so you're will you're more than welcome to kind of look through them. But the first book is Recovering Biblical Manhood and Womanhood, a response to Evangelical Feminism. This is kind of the book, if I could say, back in 1991, that really launched the idea of what is now become the debate between complementarianism and egalitarianism. And I'm going to talk about those here at the beginning of the class. But this is the book that kind of um laid down the line. It it drew a line in the sand. regarding evangelical feminism. It's edited by John Piper and Wayne Grudham, but the contributors of the various chapters in here kind of span the whole arena of evangelicalism. Excellent book. This book uh first was published in nineteen ninety-one. Uh this particular reprint is from 2021 and I think one of the reasons why it ended up getting repr reprinted is because originally it was published by Zondervin And then Zondervin started to introduce some of the egalitarian um evangelical feminist books. And now this book is reprinted by Crossway. And so um you're welcome to take a look at it and uh pass it along. I'd like to get that copy back if you don't mind. Um But that's a book that you are going to want to get a hold of and read and the articles are so great. There was a book that came out just recently, I think it was 2020 Um, a book written by um a lady named Amy Byrd was she presented a book entitled Recovering from Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. So it was kind of a a critique of this book. And she started to introduce a much more broader um view of biblical manhood and womanhood. And quite frankly, I think her book falls short. And I'm going to provide a link to an article, a review on our hopebook page so that you can read that and kind of see some of the critique related to her book. I don't think that they that that was the impetus for reprinting this book, but again you just need to be aware of that The next book is a biblical foundation for manhood and womanhood, and this one's edited by Wayne Grudham. It's kind of a shorter version of that particular book. But again, he goes into all the foundational arguments for why we should be going back to what biblical manhood and womanhood is from the scriptures. And so again, wonderful book. I actually that was a book that was introduced to me in seminary and we read it and interacted with it and it was so helpful in addition to the bigger, more the larger um book that you see from Piper and uh Grudom. This next one is Evangelical Feminism and Biblical Truth. This is a um it's basically this one is like a question and answer book Um, this is a book where Wayne Grudham interacts with all of the arguments that have come across since writing Recovering Um Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. And so it's a fairly thick book But I love the fact that he introduces almost every egalitarian argument there is against um complementarianism. And so this is a book that is a wonderful resource If you have a question about, okay, how does feminism respond to a biblical approach to manhood and womanhood, this would be the book that you'd want to go to and read. It's a great book to have because again, you can just look up the particular question or issue and then you can um see how he answers it and again a great wonderful resource this is an older version there's a reprint that came out in 2010 twelve um with a new cover, so that more more than likely is the book that you would end up purchasing. But these are the three books that are the basis for this class and Alan's notes. There had been So many more other articles, books that have been written to help again uh bring clarity to this issue of biblical manhood and womanhood, but this is these are the kind of resources that you want to get a hold of especially as we're living in such a such a twisted culture today where now it's gone beyond just a feminist approach to uh wanting to see roles and and uh responsibilities be equal um Now it's gone into transgenderism, homosexuality and all of that. So um really this is a time for us to be educated and and to be learning. uh what are the issues and then how to respond to them biblically. And so that's one reason why we have this class is we want to have a biblical response. to the issues of manhood and womanhood. Next is a recommended website. This is a website that came up in response to the recovering biblical manhood and womanhood. It's a website called Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. It launched with the launching of that particular book. I think Wayne Grinnham and others were um pretty instrumental in getting this website up and running because they wanted to introduce articles and books and resources. And it is a great place to go if you need a quick response uh on some of these issues, I would highly recommend this website. And it deals primarily with this issue. When it started, it started out with a journal Um that was called the Journal on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. They have now stopped that particular journal and renamed it Icon which addresses just generally issues related to biblical anthropology. So it's a it's a website that has so many good resources to it that I would highly recommend that you look at it, search through the articles, see what kind of questions, see who's in support of Biblical Manhood and Womanhood and again there's so many um great resources on that site. The 1987 Danvers statement, you have a copy of that in your notes But since then, in 2017, there's been an update called the Nashville Statement. I think what we'll try and do is get you a copy of that to add to your notebook. But you can go to this website and read that in detail. And it's a further explanation, clarification of where we would stand biblically on the issues of manhood and womanhood. So again, please refer to this website frequently if you have questions. And again, I think it's something that will be tremendously helpful for this class as well. Moving on to the notes. Before I start looking at the notes in general, let me just say I love interaction. So if you guys have questions, if you guys want to talk about an issue. Hopefully it won't be a rabbit trail that will take us completely off subject. But if you want to talk about something, I'm I want to be able to make that available to us in the class. What I ask of you is if you could um to just be sensitive to those around you. Um you may come in here with a lot of questions. and want to have those questions answered right away, give it time because we're going to go through a lot of information that may touch on some of those questions and answer them sufficiently. But that being said Try not to dominate the time by asking like a hundred questions in the first class. Okay? Also, please be sensitive to those around you if they would like to ask questions as well. We want to give you the opportunity to ask those questions. Probably the best way to do it is just raise your hand and I'll I'll call on you. But again, I like interaction in class, so I want to be able to do that I probably have much more here to lecture on than actually that I want to interact with. So you can say, hey Mike, you've been lecturing too long. Can we please interact? And I would love to do that. So anyway, all of that to say, I love the interaction and would love to have you guys ask questions. I may not have all the answers, um, but again we can certainly try to find those answers together. But let's get back to the notes. The notes themselves. Again, I'm going to be depending heavily on Alan's notes. He's taught this class in the past and so we're just going to basically go over his notes And I think they are very well laid out. They cover so much. And again, I would just encourage you guys, since he gives so much detail, to just start going through the notes. Read ahead and you'll know what we'll be lecturing on. And then if you have a question you can raise it during the class. But the notes itself, um, they are broken up into two basically three major sections. The first has to do with equality and differences in marriage. So we are going to be camping on this for five different lessons. Just so that you're aware, this is a topic that is huge. And this is probably one of the main topics that launched this whole issue of this and the church, which is the next section, um, this is what launched Recovering Biblical Manhood and Womanhood because questions were starting to be raised about what is the role of women in the church. What is the role of women in marriage And uh how do we address this biblically? Because again, we want to affirm uh value, worth, dignity, but we also want to highlight some of the differences in roles and responsibilities and especially authority. So we're going to talk about that as we move along, but these two sections are huge. This is the impetus for this class. And it is something that I would encourage you to dig into deeply. Work through these issues yourself. Again, try to get get all the information that you can so that you can make a wise biblical decision over what convictions you're you're willing to die for. Um and there are convictions in here that are ones that we would stand firmly on and we wouldn't budge. And so we'll talk about some of those. The third major section is just going to be general issues. You'll notice in there in your notes Do we're going to be just answering some questions about egalitarianism? We're going to talk about complementarianism. Uh we'll talk about single uh civil manhood and womanhood and then also issues like modesty and then what are some of the perversions of this issue We want to tackle some of those issues as well and talk about them. So these are the three major sections of your notes that we're going to go through. Now breaking this down a little bit more Under section number one, there are five major lessons that we are going to cover. And we're going to begin with lesson number one today. But here are the five major lessons The first one is God's design, equality and differences. Now, before we get into all of this, I'm gonna I'm gonna talk about some of the definitions that you need to be aware of because they are going to speak to this issue tremendously. And you need to know what is the basis for for understanding God's design for biblical manhood and womanhood and then wha how does equality and differences fit into that. that model. So then the second lesson is going to talk about the God's design for marriage and how it parallels the Trinity. This is a this is a big argument here because again, what we're wanting to see In this issue of biblical manhood and womanhood, how we are created in the likeness and image of God And that all goes back to, and we'll introduce it today, the Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. What's the what are what is equal about them? What are the differences about them? And we'll talk about that as we go along. So that's uh lesson number two. Lesson number three is God's design for masculinity and femininity. Um these are words that that are getting very blurred in society today. Um You know, you hear often about effeminate men. You hear often about masculine women. Um we see this in every realm of society today, and especially if you have had any um public awareness of the Olympics this summer, you'll know that this was a major issue at one point. So we really need to talk about this. We need to discuss it. And we need to have answers biblically. What is God's design for masculinity? What is God's design for femininity? How do we tell the difference between a man and a woman? Um especially in our society today Um and I would say that in that lesson I I can't remember all the details of it. We'll actually try to give you a definition of woman Okay? I know that that's something right now that it seems like even our even our uh um judges in the Supreme Court are are struggling with. And uh so we need to talk about it The next lesson in number four is roles in marriage. So we'll talk a little bit about what are the roles, what are the differences? What how do we how do we value one another but at the same time uh understand our differences and our roles. So we'll talk about that. And then finally, uh lesson number five under this first major section will address answers to two common egalitarian objections. to male headship in marriage. So we'll tackle those because those are big issues. So this is where we're going for the first section. There's three sections, so we're just going to cover these hopefully these five lessons in the next five, six weeks. Um and then we'll see how we go. I should also say that um I'm gonna do my best to try to highlight everything that's in the notes, but we may breeze over a few things just because Alan has laid it out so beautifully and you can actually study this yourself. But um so I won't be going through all the details of the notes. But I do want to highlight the vast majority of it that's there. So this is where we're going for the first five, six weeks, and then we'll get into section two. It's really important that we start off with some definitions. Let me ask you if if if somebody were to come to you and they were to ask you to define biblical manhood and womanhood. Do you feel comfortable that you'd be able to do that? I probably am guessing you're in this class because maybe you've got some hesitancy or or it's a little foggy and you want some clarity. I think generally we as believers in Christ have a have a good understanding and a good stance and a conviction regarding what is biblical uh manhood, what is biblical womanhood. But again, we're gonna bring clarity to it. More specifically, though, there are two terms that you're going to see repeated over and over again. And it's important that you understand those terms. Do you guys know what complementarianism is? Raise your hand if you do. Okay, so just a few of you. Do you understand what egalitarianism is? Again, just a few Um yeah, in fact I'm gonna define those two terms for you because you're gonna see them in the books, you're gonna see them in the literature, you're gonna see them in the journals, you're gonna see see them in the articles, you're going to see them here in this class and the notes that we're going to give. So I want to give right up front um a definition for both of these terms. And I'm going to give you a more lengthy definition, then I'm going to simplify it for you. So that if somebody comes up to you and says Tell me what egalitarianism is. Tell me what complementarianism. I want you to be able to walk out of here saying I know exactly what it is, okay? So I always love to be able to do that with students because again it's so important for us to have clarity on these issues. So when somebody comes along and says Hey, what's your v your view of the egalitarian argument related to biblical feminism? You should be able to just immediately know exactly what they're talking about. And so this h this is the reason why I want to start off with these definitions and distinctions. So the first one is complementarian. This word, complementarianism, holds the position that men and women are created equal in personhood. But they differ in terms of roles and authority in the church and in the family. The word that really helps here is compliment. Not compliment as in you look great today. But complement with the E there that we work together. We see there being a partnership an understanding where we can function together in a way that really complements the role and the distinctions of men and women. So this is really important and and let me start off by saying this. Back in the late 80s late 80s, when uh Wayne Grridham and John Piper and Don Whitney all got together to address some of these issues of biblical feminism They decided that they needed to start pulling information together, writing articles and bringing clarity to this issue of biblical manhood and womanhood. And at the time they were trying to think of a good word that would describe and define what it is that their position would be as opposed to the second word, which is egalitarianism. And uh it's funny, I I remember taking a class at seminary with Wayne Grudham and him describing what it was like for them to sit down and kind of think through, you know, should we just call it biblical manhood or should we call it um They came up with a number of different terms, but they were realizing that they were terms that already had baggage and already had definitions attached to them. And so I don't know if it was Wayne Grudham or Piper or Whitney who came up with it first, but somebody said, what about complement? What about complementing the roles together? And that word took a took a life of its own. And so now in the argument of biblical manhood and womanhood, it seems like that word is all over the place. And so if you ever address this issue, if you look it up online you're going to come across the word complementarianism. And so it's very important for you to know this term. The second term, and this term came up in response to this next term, which is egalitarian Egalitarianism or like um uh please forgive me, you just said your um you just said the definition earlier equal. Um Equal equalitarianism, that's the key word that came up in the late in the late fifties, sixties, and then most prominently in the seventies. Where feminists, biblical feminists, were starting to come out and say, hey, we need to address the issues of womenhood in the church, in the family, and we need to start redefining what some of those w those words mean. because we're in a different culture, we're we have different challenges, and so we need to be able to address those issues. Well the position that egalitarians hold is that men and women are created equal in personhood However, here's the difference, with no gender-based limitations in terms of roles and authority. And you see that very common today, where there is almost a blurring, if not erasing, of the issues of the differences of roles and responsibilities and authority. with when it comes to the role of women and men in every avenue of life, but particularly the church and in marriage. So these are the two terms you're going to come across over and over. And I just want you to be able to define them, to understand them And now I'm going to make it very simple regarding the distinctions. To simplify the distinctions between the two of them, think of it this way. Complementarians believe that men and women are equal yet different. So just think equal yet different. Equal in personhood in value and dignity but different in roles and authority, responsibilities. And so these are where we differ with egalitarians, because egalitarians believe that men and women are equal without differences. So that's the distinction between these two camps, these two uh groups of people. Um again, we here at Hope Bible Church from the eldership down We are unapologetically complementarian. Um but again we need to address these issues of how do you respond to the egalitarian approach where a woman has been in a sense um what's the word? Cast down or talked down to or expressed in some way as being inferior in some of these various areas Uh we need to be able to address those those questions and those issues. Uh but this is where you will be able to tell the difference between a person's argument related to where they stand. Um and hopefully b while we go through the notes you're going to see why it is we believe in complementarianism But again, these are the differences between these two terms and the distinctions are complementarians are they ex they hold to a position where Men and women are equal, but they are different. Egalitarians, men and women are equal, but they don't have any differences. And so we need to talk about that. Alright. So those are the definitions of that you need to be aware of as we start to address these issues in class. But let's go ahead and jump right into the notes that you have in front of you. or if you have a copy of your notes, go ahead and go through them. I'm gonna I'm gonna go ahead and read through these. I'm gonna give you the highlights in the slides. But again, we're just going to walk through the first part of these notes here. So to begin with, we want to talk about God's design, equality and differences. This is lesson number one. With regards to the notes and with regards to this issue, we really want to start off biblically. So we want to take you to the primary passage that really is the issue that's at large here. And it is the issue of um creation and what God has said at the very beginning. In your notes um Alan has wonderfully laid out um Genesis chapter 1 verses 26 through 31. But if you don't have your notes, I went ahead and put it on the slide. But here's the text that is the basis for this first part of our notes and will again be referred to later on in the in the notes as well. Um I'm hoping that you'll be able to kind of see the highlighted pronouns here. Um I tried to have them stand out a bit, but This again is where we begin to understand what true biblical manhood and womanhood is. In Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 through 31, uh Moses wrote, and basically is again uh giving God's revelation regarding creation. He wrote in verse 26, then God said, let us make man in our image, according to our likeness. And let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over the cattle and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. Then God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the surface of all the earth, and every tree which has fruit-yielding seed, it shall be food for you. And in a and to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, to everything that moves on the earth which has life, I have given every green plant for food, and it was so God saw that saw all that he had made, and behold, it was how good. Very good. Very important to underline, highlight that word very. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. This is the last of the creation days Except for Sunday. And Sunday is the day that God then rested. And that pattern of resting, that pattern of reflection, of meditation, of worship then became the pattern for Israel throughout Israel's whole existence. And uh what is so nice is that we have according to Hebrews three at three or four we now see a spiritual fulfillment of that rest by being in Jesus Christ. And so of all the Ten Commandments that have been repeated, well the that have been laid out in the Old Testament. The only one that is not repeated in the New Testament is the issue of the Sabbath. And it's really because Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of that Sabbath for us. So we rest in him. Um, but again, this is the last of the of the very significant creation days where the world, the universe was being brought together and created from nothing. And this is where everything began with man. So as you read this passage or as you think through this passage, what are some of the things that just jump off the page to you? A jump out of the paragraph for you. Now again, I'll highlight the pronouns but d just whatever. Sure. He created man and and woman, a male and female, and they both were represent his image. Both male and female together request the image of God. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. You had a question or highlight? Yeah, so you can get it. Anybody else? Yeah. Watch me. Yeah. Yeah. We'll talk about this in a minute, but that is a very significant um here in the passage. Anybody else? Just something that again jumps off the significance of what they should do. Uh there was a command for the technology. That was the difficult thing. Yes. Yeah, it was a command. that essentially applied to both of them. So exactly. Did you anybody else? Yes, Julie. Their roles, if you will, were assigned to them while it was in in a perfect environment. Yeah, thank you. We're going to touch on that a little bit in the notes because it's very important for you to see this at the beginning of creation before the law ever take place. So this is at the very beginning. This this is in a sense how culture started. This is how the world started. This is where again we look back to the creation as being the basis for our understanding of what biblical manhood and womanhood is. It is not a cultural issue. But yet today it has been made extremely a cultural issue. To the point of neglecting the very foundations of creation. So I've never noticed before how it says in our image, so we never you know, we're made in God's image. So I've never noticed how it says in our image, like referring to the Trinity. Exactly. So that would represent the Trinity, not just and that's one of the reasons why we have a whole section on the Trinity. 'Cause we want to talk about that. So that was great share. Bless them. I mean, he just created them. It's just God's energy and he can continue to be created and he blesses them. But I had to even look it up and like what that makes that. Because basically this is good. It's just Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing to have God bless these people. Yeah. He says it's voice. He says God created man in his own image, and he's also something that God created. Yeah. Yeah, we'll talk a little bit about the likeness and image as we move along, but definitely it's a very important um very important terms. Sure. Um getting um both the way. They can give them both dominion over here in their roles. They're giving them both like that big value to both dominion over Yeah. Can you imagine being a first man, first woman? and having dominion over the whole earth. Yeah. Yeah. There was somebody in the back that raised their hand. Or not. Any other highlights? I look I love observing the details of scriptures, so please don't um don't just breeze over this passage because there's a lot that's here. Um in fact there's been sermon series on just this passage alone. So there's a lot that's here. Yeah. This is very, very important and w and one of the reasons why the pronouns are all um highlighted is because you want to see this collectively with the Trinity but also with man and woman. Um this is the first time in the Genesis story in the Genesis count where all of a sudden you have God referring to himself in the plural. Um The plural term Elohim um is the word that's being used here. It has reference early on, but again It's it's really accentuated in this particular passage because of the issue of creating man and woman in the image and likeness of God. So here God starts out by saying, Let us make man in our image. Um again, that should beg the question right from the beginning Who are we talking about here? You know, uh we know that and we believe that God is one. The Jews, that was the great Shema The Lord our God is one. We know that. We don't believe in a polytheistic God. We don't believe or in gods. We do not uh believe that um God is divided in any way. There's one God. But right here early on in the text of Genesis, we have God referring to Himself in the plural. Let us make man our likeness. So it begs the question, who are we t who is God talking about here? And if you follow out Biblical revelation you begin to see in the Old Testament and then more clear clearly in the New Testament that God is not just one God in nature, he is three persons And that distinction of one nature, three persons, is the issue that really speaks to us as created in the image and likeness of God. We are one humanity. We are one humankind. We are one mankind. And in fact, it's accentuated here in the book of Genesis. If you'll notice down at um verse twenty-seven, the next verse, God created man. in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female he created them. Now you can imagine in today's culture This might be a proof text for somebody saying, I'm a female, but I can be a man. That is not what the text of Scripture is telling us here. Basically what God is saying here is that mankind Humanity is created in the image of God. Every one of us sitting here today bears the image and likeness of God. Why? Because what's represented here is male and female. Now again, you fully as a male represent the image of God and the likeness of God. Likewise, you women In your femaleness and your femininity, you represent the fullness of the likeness of God. But together We are again the perfection of God's image in the world. We are the pinnacle of what it is to be male and female and to be representative of God's image and likeness in the world. Let me just tell you, this language is not applied to any other created being created animal, bird, um, bug, nothing. This language does not apply to them. It only applies to men and women. And it's important for us to then talk a little bit about this. Um, because again, this is where I think a lot of people deviate. Uh usually when it comes to error, biblical error, it begins with creation Um it's if they if you get the creation wrong, you kinda go all over the place. And so this is where this issue of biblical manhood or womanhood um takes such a a deviant twist and especially with Satan taking the word of God and manipulating it. And he does so in a very effective way if we don't hearken to what the text actually says. But again, this issue of let us, the Trinity, make man in our image, according to our likeness. Let them rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air and over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. I like to quote that passage to our daughters every time they find a spider in their rooms. You have dominion over this. Kill that fighter. Um But no, again, this is an issue of we need to go back and understand what it means to be um God's representative over all the earth. And again, verse 27, I love this because it brings such clarity. God created man in his own own image. And when we talk about man here, we're talking about male and female. But again, he created us in his image, in the image of God. He created him. and female he created them. And then, as Sharon and others have pointed out, God blessed them. And God said to them Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, over every living thing that moves on the earth. And then God said, Behold, I've given you everything to have dominion. Julie. So in verse twenty seven where it says he created uh man, who created him, is that Hebrew word different than the word male? I'd have to look it up, but definitely. I mean So one represents humankind and the other specifically man. No no no man earlier in this is a reference to both male and female. So mankind. But The use of the of the uh masculine pronouns here are just accentuating the fact that this is the way God created us in his image. Now again, uh every reference that you're going to see to in Scripture of the Trinity is using a masculine pronoun And so but that that masculine pronoun has a way of being expressed in the way that God has created male and female separate but complementary to each other. So we'll we'll get into it a little bit more, but it's a great question. I don't know if your specific question though is related to again a reference to the masculine pronoun that's being used here, why it would be God created man in his own image, in the image of of God he created him. Um we'll talk a little bit more about that, but I think um Greg is correct in the sense of this being a generalized term, a generalized use of the pronoun, but more specifically with reg related to mankind. How is mankind expressing the image of God in the earth by the creation of male and female? And so we complement one another in that regard. And I do believe that, Greg, you're you're I think you're right. that this is an issue that goes all the way back to marriage. And we'll see later on in Genesis that indeed woman the rib being taken out of the man and created into a woman is really an expression of how that complementing of male and female together in the covenant of marriage really is the greatest expression of God's image in the world. And it's something that again how the world has got how our culture has gotten so far away from what marriages biblically really illustrates how Satan has Detracted us from the original creation story. So and we do want to talk about that Okay, any other comments or any other highlights that you could see? Because I'm going to start getting into a little bit more detail of these of this text. So I'm going to if you got your Bibles open up to um Genesis because I want you to have it right there in front of you as we work our way through this passage, but Genesis 1, 26 through 31. And just so you know, Alan's uh using the numeric standard all throughout his notes, so if your version is slightly different, it's because of the version that's being used. So as we get into the notes, we want to talk about excuse me, talk about God's design. um equality and differences. And what we're doing is we're we're drawing out observations from this particular passage. So one of the first observations that we come across is that God created man and woman equal in value and in dignity. We really personhood itself speaks of the value of God's created image on the earth. Value, dignity is really wrapped up in God. It's It's again later on when the fall takes place that that value has been marred, that dignity has been tainted. But again, as a created being from God, we have come into this world representing God's image, though corrupted by sin. And this is the whole story of why redemption is needed, why Christ coming in and offering himself as a sacrifice for us. And again providing a full atonement for our sin, both the forgiveness of our sin and the promise of eternal life, really brings back this issue of value and dignity in God's creation. But we want to talk about equal in value and dignity. And one of the few one of the main observations that you see here is that men and women are created, each created in God's image Each one of us is created in the image of God individually. But again, complementing each other really brings that image to its pinnacle uh in the world by showing how God has created us male and female. Um so but we start out with this whole issue of equality, um, really seeing that God created e every single one of us um in the image of God I want to challenge you that this applies to believer and non-believer alike. So when you look around at people, it is so easy to look at appearance. And devalue somebody. Don't do that. Don't be like the world in that regard. Look around at every single person that you see. Even if it's a person that's been tattooed from their toes to their forehead. Spiked, I saw a picture of a of a a woman who had spikes all over her face, her tongues, her her n tongue, her nose, everything. And I looked at that lady and I thought, you have been created in the image of God. Right now I can't see it. I'm having difficulty seeing that image and that likeness. But you as a as a person have worth You have dignity. You have value. Because you've been created in the image of God. What you need to come to grips with is your own sin. You need to be redeemed from the corruption that is in your heart. But again, that doesn't minimize the fact that you are created in the image of God. And that's how we need to approach people, especially people that we disagree with. So in this election cycle, when you look at a Republican you don't like, just remember they're created in the image of God. If you look at a Democrat, they're created in the image of God Again, do not devalue a person just because of what they look like on the outside. We are looking at the whole of the person. So All of us have equal value. All of us have value and dignity. And that is drawn out from this particular passage. Why? Because every single one of us is created in the image of the Trinity. And again, we'll talk about what that means later on. When we talk about equal in value and dignity, how we define that is having intellect, emotion, and a will that's patterned after God's Again, this is what makes us distinct from every other created creature in in creation. So we have an intellect that reflects the mind of God. We have emotion. We have a will. And again, those are things that distinguish us from every other created creature. So this is what speaks to the value and dignity that we have together. And each and every one of us has this And oftentimes in abusive relationships you will see where a person's intellect, emotion, or will is again stifled or suppressed or um or argued out of somebody because of some abuse that's happened in culture. We need to understand that that again taints, degrades, and it twists what God has said about our being created in His image. And so we need to value each other on the basis of you have an intellect like I have an intellect. You have emotions like I have emotions. You have a will like I have a will. But again, we need to value each other in in those choices and decisions that we make along the way, not degrade or denigrate each other. So this really speaks to this issue of value and dignity. Men and women together reflect God's image better than each can individually. I like that because again, this is one of the reasons why Marriage is such a wonderful institution because together man and woman can reflect the image of God, not just in the world, by proclaiming um God, his glory in the world, but also by bringing up children. And again teaching them what it means to have dignity, have value, but also to understand your role in your differences in this world. Because together we all reflect the glory of God. Men and women were equally blessed. Equally blessed. Again, I I love the fact that you guys caught that Because this is truly an amazing verse when it says that God blessed them. This is something that we need to ponder on, especially as believers in Christ. to understand that God's blessing is on us simply because we're created in his image, but even more so because we reflect the image of his son. But this is where, again, equal in value and dignity is drawn out by seeing how we are blessed by God. The next um one is man men and women were equal equally held responsible to be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth. And this goes back to a comment that I think was made earlier about our roles together. Because again, if it would have just been man, he could have not have been fruitful and he could have not have multiplied and could have not have filled the earth Likewise a woman alone cannot do that. But God has designed it so that men and women in the bonds of marriage and in the covenant of marriage can again bring children up, many children Um, I love this because again it speaks to our responsibility as human beings here on earth. And it really begs the question of I don't know if you've come across people today who have said, you know, I just will not have children because I don't want to bring them up in the culture that we live in. This says no. That is wrong. You shouldn't think that way. This is an issue where we are honoring God. We are blessing God because He's created us to do this. And so this is what's um again our responsibility. And I again I love this because This was brought really home to me when I first met my wife and we got married and we went to one of her relatives Um it was a like a celebration together. I can't remember the the reason for it, but sh her background is Finnish and Um there was a huge community in the southern part of Washington State where a lot of her relatives lived, and I thought maybe just, you know, a handful of relatives Well no, when we saw her grandmother when she died at what age? Ninety four. Ninety four. She had how many direct relatives? I mean, that she um Kids, grandkids, and great ring. More than three hundred grand and great ranchers. And all of them were at this celebration. So I kept saying to Sharon, but you know, is there anybody here that's not a relative? And she basically said no. So when I read this passage, that's That's the mental image that I have. Because these kids are now spread throughout the United States and so many of them live still in Washington State, but you know, they're now migrating all over the place and So it's wonderful. Every state that we came in as we came out here I thought Sharon must have a relative in one state. Um and we did. We stayed with one well, a connection to a relative um in one in South Dakota. But Anyway, so this is really huge. Um and it's important because again it speaks to the equality of value and dignity in seeing how we complement one another in this issue of fulfilling God's role and responsibility for us as husband and wife. The next one, men and women are equally given responsibility to rule over the earth and animals. This wasn't just given to the man, it was given to the man and woman together, to the married couple together. And um it's just wonderful when you see husband and wife valuing each other, complementing each other, recognizing there's differences in roles and responsibilities and authority but complementing one another, really valuing each other. I think that's one of the greatest testimonies of God's um redemption and his work of grace in the world. We commonly call it common grace because it's common to every single person, believer and non-believer. But this is where we actually see it worked out in our lives, this common grace of again fulfilling our responsibilities to do what God has called us to do, but do it with Value and dignity, valuing each other. Lastly, God created Eve from Adam's side. I love this, indicating equality, yet dependence. And we see this in chapter 2, verses 21 and 22. But one of the interesting things is here, and um we see that the woman was created not from the ground. like Adam was and the animals, nor was she created from his foot indicating inferiority, nor from his head indicating superiority, but from the side And it really is a beautiful picture of, again, the complementary roles that we have together. Um, she's my equal. When Sharon and I got married in our wedding vows, we again recognized and the charge that was given to us was to value each other. because sh she is not inferior to me um nor when there are decisions or perhaps um things that need to happen in our marriage, she doesn't act superior over me. Um, we compliment each other And it's beautiful when it can be worked out in such a way as to highlight not only the quality that we have together, but the differences. And so that is something that, again, we glean from this particular passage and the rest of the creation story in Genesis 1 and 2. So again, this is really, really important here. The text of scripture goes over it really quickly, but when you start to see the creation story in light of the rest of Revelation, um the unfolding of God's revelation from Genesis all the way to Revelation, you begin to see how this is worked out. Why did God create women from Adam's rib. Why do they have equality in value and dignity? Because you start to see how it's how we bear the image of God throughout all of human history. And again, this is something that is just key to our biblical understanding of manhood and womanhood. And we need to accentuate it. All right, that's basically section one, the first part of lesson one. Let me stop right here and ask, are there any questions or any comments that you want to make about this? Wow, you guys. We need to get rolling so you guys can start interacting more. Well, before we go to the next section, and we'll see if we have time to do that, I do want to start off by highlighting some reasons why or questions which speak to the relevance of this class. Knowing what we just went through as the foundation for biblical manhood and womanhood, especially in relation to equality and dignity and value. There are certain questions that seem to pop up all the time. These are questions that any one of us could be asking at any time, but we just haven't thought about the impact of that question. We see it common in culture today. So I want to show you some questions. In fact, I started to go through some of these with Sharon and our girls, and I realized that they had actually asked some of these questions themselves. But the reason why I bring these questions up is because I want you to see how relevant this class is, especially given the biblical basis for understanding equality and differences. So as I go through these questions, just ask yourself two things. Have I ever asked this question? And number two, How has this question impacted culture today? How has it been impacted and how has it impacted culture? The first one. Do you think it's better to be a man or a woman? Have you ever heard that? This is huge This is the reason why there's such confusion. This is the reason why our culture has twisted scripture. has taken scripture and run amok with it. And this is one of those questions where we as believers need to be careful about asking. Is it better? to be a man or a woman. What would be the answer right now given what we just talked about? They're equal. They're both better. So again, it's not one better over the other. But this is a question that comes up. And I've even heard, again, believers wrestle with this question intensely. Are you happy with the gender God gave you or would you rather be a member of the opposite sex? It's similar to this, but More nuanced. Similar to the first one, but more nuanced. Can you see how we have now gone down that slippery slope to gen transgenderism? how we now have how many different genders being identified. Again, this is a question we need to be careful about asking, and when we hear it, we need to have an answer for it Are you happy with the gender God gave you, or would you rather be a member of the opposite sex? Let me just tell you, in a fallen world Living in a fallen carcass, redeemed by Christ, given a new nature, but still incarcerated in the sinful flesh I can see how this question is asked by believers. But again, it speaks to this issue of biblical manhood and why it is we need to talk about this. As a man, do you feel superior to women? As a woman, do you feel inferior to men? We see this question being asked addressed in fact in our culture in very dramatic ways. As a husband, do you resist taking the responsibility to lead your wife and family? As a wife Do you resent having to submit to your husband? Again, we've heard these questions being asked even by believers. But again, it speaks to this issue of why we need to learn about biblical manhood and womanhood. Do you believe in mutual submission? This is taken directly from Ephesians chapter five, verse twenty-one, and it's an issue that we need to discuss because is there is there really mutual submission in Scripture? We'll talk about it. The egalitarian approach would say absolutely, there is. Complimentary would say no, there's not. And we'll explain that biblically. As a woman, do you hesitate to marry for fear of not finding the right man? As a man, do you hesitate to marry for fear that you won't be the right kind of husband or can't find the right kind of wife. I once had a friend who uh was talking about getting married and we were discussing um what to look for in a in a wife he had a detailed list. And when he got to like the second, third one, I said, Oh man, you were gonna be alone all your life So we had to toss that list because every single one of his qualifications that I remember didn't fall into a biblical approach. So we had to talk about that very significantly. Is marriage really that important? You're hearing that a lot today. It's it's a huge issue. And it's something that again speaks to the heart of biblical manhood and womanhood. Do you believe value, dignity, and worth are more important than roles and authority? Again, this is slightly nuanced because there are some that would say Especially today, value, dignity, and worth are more important than rules and authority. And then there are others who would say the opposite That's why both need to be accentuated. Both need to be talked about and discussed. And we want to do that. Do you believe the Bible is outdated? Culturally insensitive or culturally irrelevant. I have heard this From pastors. I have heard this from believers just because of this last question In regards to Bible study, are you more concerned with application than working hard to discover the correct interpretation? We jump to application often in Bible study. Because we want to make the Bible relevant. Let me tell you, the Bible is relevant. Period. You don't have to make it relevant. It is relevant. If you have a correct interpretation, if you have a correct understanding, you will see how that the Bible is relevant in so many of these situations? Now again, these are slightly nuanced questions, which can you see Just even asking these simple questions here. We could go on and on and on with the questions. But what I'm wanting to highlight here is the fact that every one of these questions speaks to the importance of why we need to have a biblical understanding of manhood and womanhood. And that's what makes this class so important. In fact My prayer is that by the time this class is done you will have such clarity over what it means to be a a man of God or a woman of God that you will be able to go out here and proclaim the gospel with that much more boldness. Because let me tell you, in a cul in a world and in a culture where these kinds of social issues have run amok This is where we need to speak to the gospel the gospel in people's lives. Because the Bible has answers to all of these questions And I love it when there's a public setting either at a home at a a school um assembly uh You know, where they meet with the school board and talk about these issues or even in the Supreme Court or a Capitol Hill, you will see some of these people responding to these questions with biblical answers And I love seeing that because again they understand that this all goes back to God's creation of mankind People want to deny creation. They want to accentuate theories of evolution and other theories other than creationism. But the problem with that is is once you do, you run amok in society and everybody has their own perspective on what's important. You will see consistent answers with people who are biblical. And again, I want you to walk out of here biblical. I want you to walk out of here trusting more in what God says than what any other person says. Because again, this is what brings clarity to your understanding of yourself. but also how you relate to others. And if you can understand what it means to be truly a man of God and a woman of God, then this is going to be a tremendous class for you It will help you, it will encourage you, it will support you in your faith, and it will give you reasons why you should go out and proclaim the gospel to others So I'm excited about this class. I'm excited about what we're going to be going through. And I just hope that again, this will be a class that will really uh touch you in a way that you specifically have needed in a long time. So Alright, we've got just five minutes left, so I'm not going to get into the next part of the notes. But any comments as we close? Any uh any thoughts, closing remarks? Are you still going to upload those slides? I can. Um definitely. The notes contain all the highlighted portions that I went over. The questions I can load that up. If you want, I can provide the slides for sure. So I'll do that. I'll put them on the Hope Book site. Alright, so it's sort of serious what I'm saying, but you can go ahead and laugh if you want to. Um so so many years ago we're talking five decades ago. Erica's parents had Erica and soon after had her sister. They waited seven or eight years to have another child. Her father was reading the verse 28, so So he said, I guess we'll go out and be fruitful. He was in the process of becoming pastor. So we better do that. Application of the scripture. Fruit. Um they had nine kids. for that. So Erica's also eleven kids, but it has a lot to do with that verse. Yeah. So we need to apply if we truly believe that that's the truth, whatever it is, we need to apply Why that's what the big change is to life. Yeah. Now, I would qualify that and say you don't have to have nine kids, although the scripture does talk about it Uh man being blessed when his quiver is full. Um and I think a quiver was like twelve arrows. Um but yeah, I would qualify that to say, no, you don't have to have nine kids, but But again, that's where people will take things overly literal um in here. But we just I think one of the blessings and let me just illustrate it this way, Sharon and I we couldn't have children for sixteen our first sixteen years of marriage. And one of the blessings that we had was we celebrated every one of our friends who were married and had children. We celebrated the birth of their children It got to the point where we were actually called aunt and uncle uh to so many different families. And we still like that, but there are others who kind of want to reserve that for family members and we we get that. But the issue is is that we need to celebrate what God's created design has always been from the beginning. And so if you're single or you're having trouble with, you know, infertility Don't let that stop you from celebrating children, celebrating the birth of a child. So was there a comment? Okay. So yeah And uh again, whether you're married or unmarried, you bear the image of God. And uh what a joy that is. All right Amy. Just as a quick reminder, if you haven't signed in on your way in people on the way out, I think you can leave here by the door. Thank you. Alright, let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for this time this morning. We thank you for this class. We ask your blessing as we move ahead and study these issues very um Specifically. But Lord, we just ask you that you would again fill our minds and our hearts with joy to know that we are image bearers in this world. And ultimately we bear the image of Jesus Christ so that we can proclaim the gospel and preach the good news to those who need to hear that their sins can be forgiven, they can be given the promise of eternal life, and they can live with abundant life here and now. We thank you, Lord, for all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, thanks you guys.