Well, welcome to lesson three of Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. Page 15, God's Design for Masculinity and Femininity. We've talked in the first couple of weeks about God's uh created order and that that uh even though Uh men and women are equally created in God, in God's image, and have equal standing before Him. God nonetheless designed us to be different and to have different roles. And so uh today we're going to look not so much at the roles, a little bit, but mostly just how we're different And um this you know we often can be tempted to think that this a lot of this is cultural or um Something like that, but there's there's a a lot of traits that are pretty obvious to when we when we look at it that are really based on God's design And uh he created us male and female for a reason and also um with with um uniqueness. in each of those roles. So um we're gonna look at some general tendencies here Um it's not to say that every single male is gonna have is gonna be identical and every single female is gonna be identical in in any of these Um there are clearly um ranges of of um What expressions of these various traits that that exist within women and also within men. And so you'll see as we go along that that some of these uh ought to actually um in in the best sense be true of all of us. There's some characters here that are character traits. that um there's much for us to be learning from each other. So, what are some general masculine traits? Well, one that we see often in in scripture and we see it in in everyday life is that God has designed um men, the male body to be stronger, particularly with upper body strength, right And so that shows up in a lot of contexts, but you see many times in scripture where it shows up in terms of uh being valiant warriors and and strong to defend and so on. And second Kings twenty four, for example, uh it's referring here to the the ones who were uh the Israelite men who were uh exiled into Babylon at the time of the exile. And who were they? Were all the men of valor, uh, seven thousand, and the craftsmen and the smiths, one thousand. All strong and fit for war. And these the king of Babylon brought into exile to Babylon. So that's even suggesting that there was uh some range of of these characteristics and he wanted the cream of the crop, right? Because they would be a benefit to to them in Babylon But even Proverbs acknowledges here that the glory of young men is their strength, and the honor of old men is their gray hair. So um um just a general observation too that um uh Um the um it's the young men who are kind of priding themselves on their strength and are making use of their strength and this kind of thing. That fades a bit over time. Uh as the hair gets more and more gray. Right, Richard? Um but um that's just sort of a general truism. Okay, well, uh another aspect of God's design for manhood is in even in his fatherhood Is that he exhorts and disciplines his children. And so the Apostle Paul likens himself to a father in that respect, in a spiritual sense. where he's he's um shepherding his spiritual children. He says to the Thessalonians, You are witnesses, and so is God, how devoutly and uprightly and blamelessly we behave toward you believers. Just as you know we were exhorting and encouraging and imploring each one of you as a father would his own children. So he says, I'm in the role of a father now with you, so that I'm I'm uh helping you as children, spiritual children to mature, right, and to learn and to be corrected. We're going to come back to that in a minute here, but look at Hebrews 12, 9 through 10, for example. Uh where the writer here is using uh earthly examples of parental, in this case even the father's, uh, instruction and more importantly, discipline, as an example for us to understand how God disciplines us, right? So he says, Furthermore, we had earthly fathers to discipline us, and we respected them. Shall we not much rather be subject to the father of spirits and live? For they, our physical fathers, disciplined us for a short time as seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. So yeah, I I find it actually interesting that um scripture usually uses those in in the case of parenthood and and uh uh training our children, it uses the example of of human parents to teach us something about God and his care for us. When I teach parenting classes, I do it the other way around. I say, you know how God parents you. That's a great example for how you ought to parent your children. So it's it's the same principle but flipped down the other way. Um and so um and and you we could go other places to see that sort of thing. And then thirdly, God designed the man to provide for his family. And Um that was even before sin. So if you look at Genesis two, uh there's a mention starting in verse five that no shrub of the field was yet in the on the earth, and no plant of the field had yet sprouted, for the Lord God had not sent rain upon the earth, and there was no man to cultivate the ground. So this was I believe this was um early on day six of creation before man was created. And then it says, then the Lord took the man after he created him, later in verse 15, and put him into the garden to cultivate and keep it. So there's God created the man and even his body to work. And that work is not a result of sin, it's a result of God's design. And that even before sin there would be this need to cultivate, to harvest, and and so on. Then after sin, you look at the next chapter, in chapter three, he said to Adam, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten the tree or from the tree about which I commanded you, saying you should not eat of it Cursed is the ground because of you. In toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. But thorns and thistles that shall grow for you. And you will eat the plants of the field by the sweat of your face, you will eat bread till you return from the ground, because from it you were taken For you are dust and to dust ye shall return. Therefore the Lord God sent him out of the garden of Eden to cultivate the ground from which He was taken. So he was to cultivate the ground before sin and cultivate the garden and and harvest and so on. And he's to do that afterwards, but it was going to be a lot harder. Right. There's no change in the role or the task, but it was going to be a lot harder because of the consequences of sin. You flip over to 1 Timothy 5. 8. There's a comment here, of course, from the Apostle Paul that if anyone does not provide for his own And especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. So uh this God's design where where the man particularly would be providing for his family is just well understood. He says even unbelievers understand that. But then another role that the man has for his family, particularly, is to protect them. Uh like a a shepherd would pr protect his flock. And so um There's lots of examples even in the Old Testament, Joshua 1, for example, where you know some of the tribes Um of Israel had um received permission from the Lord and and through Moses to stay on the east side of the Jordan River while everybody else went on the on the west side into uh the rest of Israel. But here in Joshua One, Joshua's making it clear to all of them that even though Um they now have this land that they just um um got by conquest on the east side of the Jordan River uh with the help of the other tribes helping them, that they would do the same thing for the tribes going over to the western side. He says, Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle shall remain in the land, which Moses gave you b beyond the Jordan. But you, you men, shall cross over before your brothers in battle array, all your valiant warriors, and shall help them So uh it's the responsibility of those men to go over and do perform the same role that they that these other guys did to help them conquest their portion of the land And uh once that's all done then they can come back to their their wives and little ones. Deuteronomy 20, verse 8. Then the officers shall speak further to the people and say, Who is the man that is afraid and faint-hearted? Let him depart and return to his house, so that he might not make his brothers' hearts melt like his heart. So there's no place there for cowards, people who weren't ready to um defend and protect their families, they would be separated And there are other examples there as well. So just some generalizations that uh God designed the the male body to be stronger and because of that came responsibilities to provide for his family, to protect his family And so on. Well, there are some general feminine traits that we see in Scripture as well, and then we can talk about these. So the contrast here is that that um God has designed the female body to be um physically weaker in terms of upper body strength and the capability to do what um uh what men can do. And of course that's we see that, you know, we've got men's sports and women's sports, right? Because they're just They're not going to be competing equally. Most of them aren't going to be competing equally if they're mixed, right? And so it gives all of the men, all of the women opportunity to compete at the highest level they can and that's that's great. Yeah the the the s the strength is going to be a different kind of strength. Yeah So, for example, in 1 Peter 3, verse 7, it says, You husbands in the same way, live with your wives in an understanding way as with someone weaker. Since she is a woman, and show her honor as a fellow heir of the grace of life, so that your prayers will not be hindered. It's very important to God that that the husband would give that honor and respect to his wife Um it says the the term here is someone who is weaker. Uh that's not a moral term here. It's not weaker But it's it's a physical term. But it it's not just physical strength, it's more the implications of it, I think. And so when I think of that, I think of words like Fragile? You know, something that you you want to protect, right, and care for because uh it's it's well a delicate is another word. Right? And maybe maybe the the strongest analogy that that I can think of is the word vulnerable So the the the woman needs to be protected and cared for because she's uh not only delicate but vulnerable And God's God's just created it that way. Right? Um And it's partly in terms of the the different roles he's given to to men and to women. So the woman is the one who bears the children. And that makes her all the more vulnerable and in need of protection. And so that's um part of what Peter's getting at here. And so that the husband needs to to provide that kind of um Uh honor, uh respect, protection, uh, and understanding And sort of the opposite of what we saw earlier about the mighty men in Jeremiah 51. It makes a reference here. It says, The mighty men of Babylon have ceased fighting. They stay in the strongholds. Their strength is exhausted. They are becoming like women Their dwelling places are set on fire and their bars and the bars of her gates are broken. So the the the point is that the the men who should be strong and valiant defenders are not anymore. And it's it's not bemoaning women, it's just saying that the men are not not stepping forward, right, to to do what they should be doing. Um similar here there there's a um uh a timidity against adversaries. And uh it's a very similar concept here. The example here is from Isaiah 19. In that day the Egyptians will become like women. And they will tremble and be in dread because of the waving of the hand of the Lord of hosts, which he is going to wave over them. Um and so it's it's not it's not demeaning women here, it's demeaning the men who are not stepping forward, the men of Egypt in this case, uh who are uh becoming timid rather than strong defenders. And um their stepping out of their role rather than the role of of of a man who's defending, they're in the role of women who are not defending Now, earlier we talked, we we gave the example from Thirst of Thessalonians two. how Paul uh exhorted and disciplined uh the the young believers, much like a father would have that role in discipling, shepherding his children. Here I'm on page seventeen. In 1 Thessalonians 2, right before that, he he says, not only am I like a father, but I'm also like a mother to you. And his example here is, he says, we we prove to be gentle among you as a nursing mother tenderly cares for her own children. Having so fond an affection for you, we were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives because you became, you have become very dear to us. So, and then he goes on to talk about how he was also taking on the role of a father to them. So Paul was both a mother and a father. And the illustration here is that the while the the father was um sort of the disciplinarian, the ones who was correcting and and uh discipling and And so on. The mother is one who tenderly cares for her children. That's just the natural role for her as a mother. And uh Paul likened his his role in um the the young Thessalonic Christians uh to be very much like both of those roles. Which by the way is is a good example of how um The positive traits of both manhood and womanhood can be exhibited and ought to be exhibited. in very practical ways by everybody. So men have a lot to learn from women, women have a lot to learn from men, so that we can together And each of us individually even be better than we otherwise would. And Paul was exhibiting both of those kinds of traits in a very positive way. But if you go back to the Old Testament here, Isaiah 49, for example, poses the rhetorical question. Can a woman forget her nursing child and have no compassion on the son of her womb? What's the answer to that? No, it's a rhetorical question, obviously, right? That that's not going to happen. So even these may forget, and even if that were to happen, I will not forget you, God says. Right? Again in Isaiah, in this case, 66, as one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you. And you will be comforted in Jerusalem. So God's saying, I'm going to comfort you like a mother would. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? That's a good thing. Right? So it's very natural, it's a God-given um impulse for women to be compassionate and affectionate to their children. Maybe even other children, but certainly their own. Then there's another interesting category here, fond of adorning herself. So Jeremiah 232 asks another rhetorical question: Can a virgin forget her ornaments or a bride her attire? Yet my people have forgotten me days without number. And so God is just appealing here to the natural observation. that it's it's natural for uh particularly young women to adorn themselves in various ways. It's not really a commentary on it, it's just a natural observation The New Testament gives some some instruction around that. For example, look at 1 Peter 3. It says your adornment must not be merely external, like braiding the hair, wearing gold jewelry, or putting on dresses. It's not saying those things are inherently wrong. But if that's as far as it goes, you're missing the point, he says. But let it be the hidden person of the heart that you're adorning yourself with, with the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit. Which is precious in the sight of God. For in this way in former times the holy woman also who hoped in God used to adorn themselves being submissive to their own husbands. That was an adornment, something that was noticed by people Just as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, and you have become her children if you do what is right without being frightened by any fear. So it's not wrong to adorn oneself, um but We need to be careful about our motives and whether our adornment is merely physical and outward rather than also inward, which is obviously more important. Okay. Um You may have some questions at this point. Um we're gonna s look through a variety of of nuances here on the next page, but before I do, I'll pause. Any questions? Adornment. Adornment. So that would be uh uh when we to use the the verb to adorn ourselves is to put something on us. Uh or or to like an example would be what he gives here braiding the hair Wearing gold jewelry, those are adornments. Those are things we use to adorn ourselves so that other people can see them. Mostly. Sometimes they're practical. Sometimes they're mostly visual. Yeah. Um And it could be any number of things. He's listing a few here in First Peter three. Um and First Timothy two lists Similar things here. He says, likewise I want women to adorn themselves with proper clothing, modestly and discreetly. Not with braided hair and gold and pearls or costly garments, but rather by means of good works, as is proper for women making a claim to godliness. So uh the main point in both of those passages is that um Far and away, what's more important is the way we present ourselves in terms of our inner character rather than our external appearance. Yeah, well the the problem isn't inherently who's earning more money. The problem is more so where where is our heart? What are our motives? And if the motives are um selfish or sinful really in any way, then it's bound to cause problems, right? Whether it's the man or the woman. And if they're both operating from sinful, selfish motives, yeah, you've got you've got problems. And so where is the solution if that's the problem? It's in the heart. Right? So we need to be having making decisions with the right motives And if the right motives are are biblical, seeking to um align ourselves with God's design and his will Then even if we're imperfect in our ability to fulfill all that, we're moving in the right direction because that's our heart to please God. And That can be hard for someone who has developed lots of expectations and habits. They're going in the opposite direction. And it could be very humble. I mean it's it's hard to be humble, isn't it? To humble ourselves in saying, whoa, uh maybe I've made some bad choices in my life Or maybe not maybe, it it seems pretty obvious that I'm I'm working against how God has designed things. But when someone, particularly a couple, if both of them come to that realization and they work together, okay, well, how can we move from here in a way that would be more God-honoring? And if they work on that together, that would be great. Right? Now if it's only one of them who comes to that realization, it's harder. It really takes both of them to come to that realization. But God provides grace even when only one has that realization and a commitment to turn things around. Often that God uses to get the attention of the other one. Ah. And that could definitely be their prayer that God would do so. Yeah, just to add to um you know uh through through the ages I i I feel like Christianity, people who who you know, deem themselves Christian have been slowly influenced by the world in such a way that we lose sight of God's design for marriage. marriage, right? And so um you know, I I I mean w J Jenna and I got married late later in our years and so we wanted to have children right away and you know, part of it was um but even if we had gotten younger, I remember thinking like, oh, you know, we probably want to be established and we probably want to be, you know, and in a good place to be able to raise a family. And I remember reading a book and just even in that sense, you know, how um It's it's a form of it's us trying to control instead of asking God for guidance, right? So even ev even in our careers and you know, the way we want to excel, right? I mean, we live in a society where it's follow your dreams, you can become anything, you know, and we lose sight of w where's God in that picture, you know? And so uh you know, even I I grew up because culturally I'm a female but I'm also the firstborn and so I have a tendency to to do, right? And so It's it's very humbling for me um when I have to take a step back and realize like oh I have to be patient You know, and I have to and so um even even like Pastor Allen said, when we come together and we realize in our marriage, you know, how do we want to glorify God? It just makes it so much easier to be able to humble myself, to to r you know, realize this is how God wants me to be as a wife, as a mother, you know, even though my cultural and worldly bringing up makes me want to just take charge and get things done. You know Yeah. Yeah, we can take from the design or from what happened with Adam and Eve. Uh when uh when uh man is not leading, guiding, and protecting like he should be uh uh a woman or a woman or like Eve herself had a sense that things were out of control. And when that happens, she has a tendency to want a control Because uh she doesn't like that feeling of insecurity. And and that's what happened with that with eight. But uh you find it often in society today. And it's we and it's just in our nature you find men who don't want to take the position of leading, guiding. And protecting like they should in that role which God designed. And uh women often will step up and take control of that. You find that in a lot of churches where you have women who are in charge of that church because the men did not step off that in the role they were designed to do. And I think a lot of that is just indwelling sin, right? Indwelling sin that comes forward and causes you to Yeah and and you see that even with with Eve where it wasn't just um Seeing something that needed to be done, it was a matter of not believing what God had said. Right? And and opening the door for Satan's attempt And say has God really said that? No, you know? And and to fall into that. Why? Because there is a propensity to uh Um not act in faith in obedience to what God had said. Yes. Yes. Right. So there's the where the protecting needs to come in, right? Yeah. It's kind of ironic or strange because we created a generation, you know, post New World War Two of weak men. Right, this all starts Like you're saying, Richard, right? Um, because of weak leadership and weak men who are not capable of leading or or have no motivation to lead. And so women build a void of that leadership typically in homes or in this in society. That's what we're seeing. I think that's what we're talking about. I do agree. There's some uh misunderstanding from post World War Two that men to lead is to make money. I think we are in a different position in society where things have changed. For example, men want to be entrepreneurs and a woman is, you know, want to become a nurse that entrepreneur is not going to make a whole lot of money in the first ten years. So it really is a balance in in life of understanding where they are as a couple um in society. So um and and that submission and leadership is is a balance between you know in life. So and in society So I think there's a lot to play, which is very strange to see that post-World War II which just created very weak men, and that's the effects Yeah. Yeah, I think it's not just um weak men. It's it's that um Society in general has convinced itself that men and women are interchangeable. And you see the effects of that. the consequences of that. Um you know, some of the things that you're you're talking about, the well, you know, uh it it can come down to uh um uh leadership um but all of us all of us tend to be lazy Right. And so not stepping forward to lead or defend or whatever i i is is um a pretty pretty strong temptation when someone else is willing to do it. Right? We all tend to be lazy. It's given the opportunity. Rather than fulfilling a role God has designed us for, uh, we tend to go along with Okay, maybe men and women are interchangeable. And that's a dangerous conclusion. That's and in fact these days it's no longer even just men and women are interchangeable, but Men and women could be whatever they want. You know, a man could be a woman or a woman could be a man, and it's just the natural natural uh end of a lack of mooring. You know, we're not moored, we're not we're not anchored in the truth. Uh I think but I I I feel like I mean sometimes some people oversimplify and very uh you know, you have these general masculine general traits. And some people though will oversimplify that and say, well men are specific leaders and that's all they think about that hey, whatever I say goes right. And that's what they use to justify things they say, the things we do, right? And not really take a proper leadership role in the gotly way from here's you know, and they may take it from the Bible too and say this is, you know Well God said that you know the man's supposed to read, but and they don't really understand what leadership is. What it needs to be is servant leadership. And what it becomes is autocratic, forceful leadership. If it's leadership at all. take up and women or are there you know it there there's really some crossing between that right and we talked a little bit about discipline Right. Right, right. So that's a good segue perhaps to both what we're going to cover next year on page eighteen, but also uh the next week or two. about roles. On page 18 we have some general observations about comp the complementarian, we've used that word a little bit before So men and God designed men and women to compliment one another. That's not compliment with an I where you say nice things to them. It's complement with an E where you you fit together and the strengths of one, the weak and uh compensate for the weaknesses of the other. And together you're stronger than either of you could be separately. That's complementary. And um in each of these traits There is sort of a masculine tendency and a feminine tendency, and in both cases, they can go to an extreme that is bad. In both cases. So let's take a look at some examples here. This isn't exhaustive. It's kind of qualitative because You can very easily think of some exceptions to some of these and and not not necessarily bad exceptions. But anyway, communication. If you've been married, you know the importance of communication, right? Men tend to be wired to communicate about the facts. Just the facts, ma'am. Right? the substance of it, the substantive nature, the what's the the information that's involved. Whereas the women are, they don't They don't mind that, but they're very conscious about the manner of communication, the the the personal aspect, the personal dimension of the communication is important to them and it should be. It should be important for all of us, right? But left to their own devices, the mentor sort of speak the facts that to speak the truth, sometimes not in love. Um and the women are very focused on the the manner, the the nature, the the uh um the personal nature of the communication. And so is there something there for each of them to learn from the other? You bet. Definitely. Now if the man takes this um just the facts, ma'am, attitude and he goes to the extreme, he can be very rash, harsh. Right? And that's that's sinful. That's wrong. Even if he's right about the substance, the manner in which he delivers it can be completely wrong, and that's the issue now. Right? Whereas the women can be very personal in their communications, which is good, but taken to extreme can lead to being gossips because of their relationships with other women, let's say, or they can just be chatty and and and so on. Um but particularly the gossiping is something that's that's um spoken against in scripture, right? That's that would be wrong. So both the men and the women have some positive tendencies here. that they can learn from each other and each of them can be taken to an extreme that is harmful, outright wrong, right? How about the sense of worth? Again, this is just a generalization, but men are all about doing That's why women give them a to do list. Um women tend to be more about being. The the the character, the The uh it's it's not what I do is who I am. And both of those are good. It's both to be doers, is both it and it's good to be doers, it's good to be beers, those who are concerned about their character and and and reputation and so on. Um And so again, there's much we can learn from and observe from each other. Um but men can be doers to the point where they're just losing complete sight of people. And it's impersonal. And it's maybe even manipulating people to get what I want done. Kind of a thing. Women, if they're focused on on who they are, they can often become excessively self-conscious. And um that that can be a bad thing if taken to the extreme. So these kind of differences in traits kind of come to the fore, and yet often we see when they're put into the same context, they tend to become like each other in often not so good ways. And so the women can become more aggressive because they've got to compete in a man's world, they think. Uh the men can become um Either harsh or uh self-conscious, whatever. And you're right, the woman will be more personal, but if the person becomes like a dua and less personal, they see less as a woman that she's even a woman white woman I mean why is she behaving like this that they give you name? Whereas you just want to get it done, we're not supposed to be go school. But they expect it to have that subtle voice. So my picture of it. More of what is expected of the Hulon trace rather than what I mean Yeah, some of these things certainly are accentuated and influenced by culture, expectations, but at the core These are differences that God created in masculinity and femininity that have expressions in different cultures in similar ways. But as part of that, expectations are powerful, for sure. Similar to that, look at the concept of work. Men tend to want to create things, conquer things, something new. Whereas women tend to focus on maintaining their work would be on maintaining something, uh preserving. Um And so um both of those are important. Um and they can learn from each other. Yes, we need to maintain what we have, but we need to be um uh uh thinking ahead and and expanding whatever it might be. And the men are all about creating something, but they're not thinking about how that's going to be maintained, you know, if it were created. And so it takes both perspectives. Um what about initiative? Men tend to take initiative in leadership, and women tend, even by God's design, to be helpers in that pursuit That is what God designed. Both are needed. But the men, and we spoke about this before, sometimes they they interpret their role as a leader to be an autocrat, do what I say or else, kind of thing. Sometimes using force to to um ensure that and becoming too aggressive. Whereas women, yeah, uh they understand th they're to be a helper, but they can often slip into nagging Kind of that trying to interject that that control of the process and and so on. And um Proverbs twenty-one refers to that as sort of a constant dripping. You know. Um and so both of those roles are needed and they need to be complementary and cooperative and there's much that the men can learn from the women, much that the women can learn from the men there. Um but when either of them goes to the extreme, it's it's harmful for everybody. Now problem solving, uh I don't know y what your experience is, but um Uh the so the general tendency is that men tend to want to think, again, this is just the facts, man. And how do the facts come to fit together And women tend to be much stronger in a more intuitive approach to a problem, sometimes which is needed. Um sometimes just focusing on the facts you kind of lose the context and and so on. Uh and so This is not to say that women are never logical and men are never intuitive. It's just general tendencies and they both need to learn from each other to be able to approach a problem in a helpful way. Right. What so when you say intuitive, can you speak about being intuitive in problems all? Um Intuition can be built on experience. Um you know, a similar situation, this is what happened, and so quite apart from the facts of the current case, my intuition is that the better course is to do this. Okay, maybe not even focusing on the facts specifically, but so maybe from experience, maybe from um Well it's given a name. It's called a woman's intuition. Right? Um and It's not entirely clear to me, being a not being a woman, where that comes from, other than God's design is to give them just a a way of looking at something And um not necessarily being always being right, but having an approach to it that the men never would have thought of. So it's like uh Men see a box and they say, well, let's fix it. And then with women it's uh thinking outside of the box Yeah. So thinking outside of the box is part of it, uh I I think. But it's just a a different approach to the situation that um there are men who are far stronger in intuition than in logic and there are women who are far stronger in logic than in intuition this is not to say it's exclusive But there are general tendencies. to say it you know rightly maybe not the deal uh but um you know i I I strictly go by logic right what x plus y equals e And that's the answer. Whereas when we're making decisions, you know, Anne would say, no, I have a bad feeling about this, that something's gonna something's gonna go a little awry with this vacant decision. I don't think this is a good idea based on not really, you know, uh hardcore setting it on the backs. Backs are all there, I'm like, yeah, this is a good decision. Whereas she's like, oh I don't know, that's not a that's not the the approach even with it. So there's there's I think that's what we mean about women's intuition. There's just a lot of um it's it's not that non-logical or illogical is bad It's just the way that she sees the situation based on what plays the previous situations or what she senses in the previous situation. Yeah, and that's a good point. Women tend to be, because of this perhaps, more risk averse. than men. Um just another general tendency. Um kind of protecting what we have rather than the potential of of um gaining something new. But uh yeah. Sorry, just put it one more way. Uh intuition is often uh defined as the logic of the subconscious And says emotional value is tied often to past experiences. which is where that comes into play, oftentimes you will feel the implication of something before you actually understand why that is. Uh which is a a a gross difference from the structured approach of going step by step and analyzing something to figure out what it should be. Yeah, what's interesting is that even if you're focusing on the facts, just the facts, seldom do you have all the facts. Right? And women pick up on that pretty often and say, well w what about this? What about that? Right? And those are good questions sometimes. Now think about when these things um go to their extreme. So if the men uh say they've got it figured out based on the facts they have at hand and they say it's it's my way or the highway. That's dogmatic, right? It's saying it it's going to be the way I want it Um but what about when women um extend their intuition to depend on their emotions Right? So I'm making this decision on an emotional basis, not just good intuition. It's it's even I'm not going to feel right about it. And and I want a good feeling. Now, feelings are again God's design, but they have a role. And uh if we um go to the extreme, whether it's dogmatic or emotional, uh we're almost guaranteed to get the wrong answer to the problem. uh with uh people don't use maps today nowadays. I don't need maps. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And never ask for directions, right? And that's that's pride, right? I think I could say that that problem of pride is split equally between men and women. Unfortunately. All right. Let's see how many of these we can get here. Social interactions. Men tend to be more competitive, and men and women tend to be more cooperative. So are you playing the game to win or are you playing the game to have fun with others? Do you ever notice that difference? I was like in shock. Went bowling with some people and everything was fine, but the ride home was a little awkward. And I asked a friend of mine, I said, What what happened Well my my it was I was with a friend from high school. He um we were we went ball with another couple and He was the highest order. And then the wife um came in second. Hansen came in third, I would. laugh I'm not a good boy. So the husband was a little angry because you know, he wasn't in the top four. So with the ride home was a little off and I said, What I don't think it was possible. I said, okay. I was like, oh my goodness, guys, too, but we can't be He didn't come for the the you know, the fellowship or the you know, just seeing the friends or whatever. He he came to me. I didn't know how serious it was, but they actually had their own bowling balls, the bag, and the gloves, and all the gear they covered bowling down with the hero. Indeed. So taken to the extreme, and and again, there are women who are very competitive and there are men who are very cooperative and and so on, it's it's not exclusive, right? But if that comp desire to compete is to win at all costs, no matter what the wreckage is with other people, now that's that's evil, right? That's bad Or if it's being so cooperative that, well, let's just make sure everybody's happy. Give everybody a trophy, you know. Anyway, they th those are not very helpful um extremes. But the inner core here, even though there's differences, competitive versus cooperative, they're both important. Right? Um so we can learn from each other. Sense of beauty. You know um A man will look at a vintage Corvette and say, man, that's a thing of beauty. And what will he say? horsepower and and uh speed and and and its function. Um a a woman looks at something and thinks of beauty as something that you see and and is and And uh uh it's it's form versus function really is is the difference. Um and again, these are not uh solely, you know, um men are all function and women are all about the form of things. Th these kind of go together. The ideal is when they do go together. You know, so that something that that um You know, my in my first life I was a structural engineer. And it's easy to build something that works like a bridge. It gets people from here to there. It's harder to get something that gets people from here to there in a w in a in a structure that's beautiful. Right? Is that a good thing or a bad thing? It's usually more expensive, but um why not make it something that's beautiful as well as functional? Right? Both are important. And so taken to the extreme, if we're focused so much on the function of something, we can be blind to the other attributes. And the value of inherent beauty, right? But if we're so focused on the form of something, We can lose sight of its function, and maybe it's going to be deficient in its function, right? So both are important, and we don't want to take either one to an extreme Oh, you're gonna love this one, emotions. So what do you think? Are men and women the same with regard to their emotions? No way. Is that cultural? No. No. So are emotions a good thing? Yes, they're God given. God is emotional. We have emotion because he created us in his image. Right? God is a God of love. He's a God of wrath. Both have their place. And we're created in his image. Men tend to be controlled in their emotions, which sometimes is very helpful, but sometimes is taken to the extreme and they're very hardened. And it gets to the point where it just blows up. That's not good. Right? Or women can be very transparent in their emotions, which is fine. But they can also be reactive, react emotionally and not really given a lot of thought to the implications of that. So both can be taken to extremes, but there is a place for being controlled and a place for being transparent in our emotions. I think uh most Probably. Probably being reactive for sure. Yeah. Frustrated too probably. Yeah, it can bottling that all up and then not being able to handle it and it explodes or whatever, that's bound to lead to some major problems. And so we need to learn from each other that there is a place to control our emotions at times. There's a place to be more transparent in our emotions. We can learn from each other in that We talked about these different roles uh in terms of duty You know, the men have the God-given responsibility to provide and protect, and the women have a God-given ability and role to nurture. Both are needed. But even as Paul gave the example, um men need to be nurturers. And women need to be uh protectors and and uh help in the provision. Uh they're not mutually exclusive, we can learn from each other there, but they can be taken to extremes, again Right? So the providing and protecting can turn into workaholism. And that actually undermines their their effectiveness and role in the family. Or in the case of women, their nurturing can lead, it's gone to the extreme, to being um controlling. and protecting their turf and and whatever. But um again, we need to learn from each other there. Uh vision, or we focus on the big picture or the details. Um this one again may be not as clean cut between men and women. A lot of women are very focused on details and and uh others are more focused on the big picture. Uh some men are focused on details as well. Others are focused on big picture. But um How about love? Let's look at love. We haven't we're about to run out of time here God designed men to be sacrificial in their love, and the example for that, for us, is Christ. And therefore, as a a servant leader to demonstrate love, um uh for the other, not what I'm gonna get out of it. So it's it's like an agape love. I love um because of being loving, not because of the the um character of the one I'm loving. Uh women tend to be tender in their love. Both are needed. Both are helpful. And we can learn from each other in that. When taken to the extreme, uh Women can be drawn into being seductive as an outlet for love. Well men respond to that, and even if it's not intended, they often are driven to lusting. Uh that's not love. And so we need to be both sacrificial and tender, both men and women. And I want to close with this passage in Isaiah 40, which gives us an example of God's balance here. Where in Isaiah 40 we read, Behold the Lord God will come with might, with his arm ruling for him. Behold, his reward is with him as an and his recompense is before him. Is that a man-like thing or a woman-like thing? Yeah. He's coming like a strong man, right? And his arm is ruling for him. Then it says, like a shepherd he will tend his flock, and his arm With his arm in his arm he will gather the lambs and carry them in his bosom and he will gently lead the nursing youth. Is that sort of a picture of a man or a woman? It's the feminine side, right? So um both have very strong um They're both very strongly coming from the character of God. He doesn't have a problem with being strong his arm being a symbol of his strength, and his arm being a symbol of his tender compassion. Both are true of him. And even though he's given um more of those He he's kind of separated to some extent those tendencies in masculinity and femininity. They're both coming from him. His compassion and his strength are sort of patterns for how he's created us And it's good for us to be balancing those things as well, to the extent that they're good, and not taking them to an extreme. Well, we gotta close. But um next week we're gonna start looking more at roles. Let's pray.