Within the Godhead there are three distinct persons that have different roles in that unity that they have together. But again, is there a quality in the Godhead? And a lot of people at that time would have associated God with the Father. And and literally the word that he uses here is exegete the Father. It's the issue of he is of the exact same nature as the Father. And so when we talk about the empty the emptying of Christ, we're not talking about him giving up his deity or somehow becoming not becoming God. And so here Jesus Christ stepped into our place and died the death that we needed to die in order to receive the righteous judgment of God. And here it's emptiness by addition. If Jesus is God and the Father is God, and there's one God, then why are we talking about one person saying that they're submitting to do the Father's will when there's just one God He came to fulfill the law in every aspect for us. So again, um there is this humble submission, this this wonderful, joyful submission on the part of the Son. He's the one responsible for sending the Son, ultimately. But what's wonderful is that he sat down again symbolizing that he had fully accomplished everything that God the Father had sent him to do. And again, what we see very clearly is the distinction of the Holy Spirit being sent after the Son was ascended to the Father to do exactly what he was sent to do. Well now, how is God's presence made public and demonstrated in the world today? If you're a believer sitting here this morning and you have been born from above, if you have a new nature, you have the fullness of deity dwelling in you. That is why the church is so absolutely essential for us as believers, the corporate fellowship of the church. Now again, you can be involved in all different types of ministries, but it's the church where we see the fullness. That's the Mike Jarvis translation, but um again, this is a wonderful truth that we need to be reminded of constantly. If I don't go away, the helper will not come to you. Yeah, and I would say they went beyond that by not even by failing to even proclaim the gospel to the other nations. How do we know that that promise was fulfilled? So again, there's a there's a temporary setting aside of the nation of Israel and God prom God's promises of fulfillment to the nation, but when the fullness of the church age concludes, and how do we know that it'll conclude? Yeah, Acts chapter one verse eight. Now again, there's a distinction here. He didn't come to do his own will. And a wife's submission to her father's her husband's loving rule is patterned after the submission of Christ to the Father. He created them. I'm honoring God in that. That's where there's a complementary role coming together and and asking each other how can we move forward. That is a total misrepresentation of what the complementary position is. So again, just a reminder there. That's where we need to just take a moment, take a step back. We thank you that God, when you have given us your word, you have given us your will. Father, embolden us, empower us, continue to fill us with the power of your Holy Spirit, as again we submit to the Word of God, to your plan, your purpose, and ultimately to you. And yet the Holy Spirit is not God the Father, the Holy Spirit is not God the Son, but they are one God. This is a great opportunity for us to uh gather together on the morning. Friday night, sa all day Saturday, yesterday. And we've been talking about that as kind of introductory to a lot of the issues related to biblical manhood and womanhood. on how to shepherd the home. that are there differences? altogether. And so last time we talked a little bit about these different roles and we delved into the issue of headship. that has to do with um the distinction of a man or a husband in a marriage to be the head of the home Um that's something that we'll get into more specifically later on. It was Adam. uh that Alan has provided on the equality and the differences within the Trinity. And again, this has reflection going back to creation when God said, let us make man in our image. But I would like us to read some of the passages together. I and the Father are one. So here, there's equality in the Godhead. So again, very clearly Jesus says we're equal. But very clearly Jesus is saying that I am of the same nature as my Father who is in heaven. But here Jesus is saying, because I am the Son, because I am of the same nature as the Father, if you've seen me um who God is. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who although he existed in the form of God, that's that's not debatable. to be able to die. and yet never sinned. And I love the fact that Paul in Romans says that Jesus is both just and the justifier. And again, and yet it didn't diminish the fact that he was fully God as well. And again, Colossians two nine, for in him, how much of the fullness of God dwelt in him? Okay, say that one more time. But how is that God revealed to us? And I love if you go back to Hebrews chapter ten, you see this this dialogue between the Son and the Father talking about how Jesus is saying, I've come to do your will. And so he submits to the Father's will. The Father sent Jesus. And now he is at the right hand of the Father interceding for us. You know, if he would have just simply stated that, then we could fully identify with him as a human being, and we can identify with him as the as the perfect The Son not only says, I will fulfill all of it, but there is this exuberance, this ex this um joy that comes from having accomplished all of the Father's will. uh verse 1 and 2. Again, we're not perfect, but but we do have this freedom in Christ to be able to say no to sin, we do so joyfully. go through all this hardship. in God the Father, in the Godhead, we should with joy be able to say, I humbly, joyfully, exuberantly submit to the Father's will, because this is exactly what my Savior did for me. Galatians four four, but when the fullness of time came, God the Father sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law. that the message of the gospel would go throughout all the world. And again, this role distinction very clearly proves that there is this complementary um notion going on between the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit to accomplish God's will in the world. That whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. The we see these distinctions, this headship, this submission. and therefore there was just one one presence of God being there. He then ascended and and up to five hundred people witnessed um his bodily resurrection. And now what does he do in heaven? He is the exact representation of God. We can boldly approach the throne of grace because of the fullness of what Jesus Christ has accomplished for us in doing exactly what the Father sent him to do. And the fact that he sat down next to the Father just once again proves that there is there is purpose, there is again unity You see very clearly God the Father creating the whole world and again doing all that he did. When the temple when the Spirit left the temple and the temple then was destroyed and then Herod rebuilt the the temple, you then see not the Holy Spirit coming back to fill the temple, but what happened? Jesus came into the world. So again, you see it in the garden with God walking with uh the first man and the first woman, you see it in the tabernacle, you see it in the temple, you then see it in Jesus How do we know that? I know sometimes you want to say, it doesn't feel like it. And might I say we're becoming more aware of the Holy Spirit's presence within us. As we demonstrate new life in our marriages, in our families, as sons or daughters or husbands or wives, as we relate to each other, we are learning And this is God's purpose for believers today, not to be isolated in our Christianity, but to be together, fellowshipping with one another, so as to fully proclaim We've talked about this already, but just again another reminder. And again, this this is the spirit of truth. Not just is the Holy Spirit God's presence with us, but His Spirit is now in us, and it's in us permanently, never to be removed. to accomplish something significant or purposeful in God's plan and purpose for the world. And I love the fact that he sends a helper that is equal to God. that you're going through maybe a time of suffering and maybe you're feeling alone. to accomplish his good purposes. I love Philippians chapter 2. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and will bring to your remembrance all that He said to you. because it made its way into inscription in into Scripture. that is the Spirit of Truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me, Jesus says in John chapter 15. He came from the Father to accomplish exactly what it was that God promised and planned for him to do. It includes Jew and Gentile. When God told him to go and preach to Nineveh, what is the what did he do? Because the nation of Israel by the time of Christ had completely rejected the Messiah, rejected God who would then proclaim that gospel to every nation on the world in the world, including Jews. but through individual believers who collectively then become the presence of Christ on earth. And he said at the time when he was on earth that he would build his church, and even the gates of Hades would not overcome it when every person who's been elected from before the foundation of the world to salvation in Jesus Christ from every tongue, tribe, and nation of the world, when they come in, at that moment the church is raptured. through that propos process to understand God's unfolding revelation. and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the end of the earth. What a glory it is to see how the Godhead is glorified through each person of the Trinity. to seeing the Holy Spirit active in people's lives by applying the truth to people's lives. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. and the likeness of God, as we've already previously discussed. And there's order in marriage as well. As you look at the unfolding of God's revelation, by the time you get to the New Testament, you really start to understand why marriage is a reflection of the likeness and image of God. that when they are one flesh, they give a greater testimony to the likeness and image of God in the world. than her husband is to believe that Jesus Christ, by submitting to the will of the Father, is inferior to the Father. Paul says in Ephesians 5, that is what the wife's role is demonstrating. Because why? And that one flesh is should be a reflection of the one flesh or the one unity that God the Father, God the Son, and the Holy Spirit have together. It is therefore it therefore does not imply that women are inferior or of less worth than men or men in general or their husbands in particular. You need to help them to understand that that is not what the Bible says. That can be said unequivocally. Uh we've got just a few minutes left before getting into uh God's design for masculinity and femininity. that we need to constantly proclaim and also live by is that we need to be submitted to God's will. Because his plan is perfect. You're gonna fight against your husband's role. Which goes back to the first man and the first woman, which then gets inherited to us. I pray, Lord, that you would continue to just fill our minds with the truth of your word where we can joyfully see how your plan and your purpose is being worked out in our lives. That your plan is perfect. But we need to take a step back. Father, I pray that in each one of us today, especially as we leave this class and go into the corporate worship of the body of Christ. That Lord, you would fill us with joy. again this class that's going on and then we went to a conference um just a uh basically a one and a half day conference uh has a tendency to work its way into all aspects of our life. Just by way of reminder, we uh started with talking about God's design with equality and differences. I've been noticing that through this quarter and then through the semester and this year, God has been laying upon my heart and just my mind a lot of issues related to biblical manhood and womanhood. and leadership in the church and we're talking about these issues related to family and what does it mean to be the head of the home and how are we to operate as spiritual leaders in our home. Everything from the way that they were created to the mandate that was given to them to be fruitful, multiply, populate the earth, uh have dominion over the earth, all of that is a reflection of God. his creative work and his power and again it just shows how men and women are equal um in their personhood and their value, their dignity, etc. And again, we could start with biology, but it's not just biology that distinguishes man from woman. But it's just that because of the created order, there's distinct differences between men and women. the role that the man plays in creation. However, are there distinctions? So again, we're not going to argue or present an argument for the Trinity this morning, but we are going to talk about the equality and the differences that are expressed in the Godhead. And so to bring the likeness and image of God into creation through man and woman, that is something that is reflective of the Godhead So once you get there, just raise your hand and I'll let you get there. Or is he talking ontologically? He has the same purpose or the same intention or the same desire as the Father. And yet, because of who Jesus Christ is and what the prophets have said about this person who had come, the Messiah Very clearly we are seeing the opening of Revelation telling us that this is God the Son. Take on flesh so that he could fulfill the Father's purpose. Now again, uh Philippians chapter 2, verses 5 and 7, a verse that you guys are very familiar with, but I love how Paul explains the role or the the the manifestation of Jesus Christ in the world. This is an issue where he takes upon himself, in addition to having the nature of God, he took on the additional nature of man is full deity, full equality with God, he is also full humanity. for our sin. Again, a a man who grew up, he learned the law, he related to people, and again he f he experienced the fullness of humanity, total humanity in him. So do we see in Jesus the fullness of the deity? The word firstborn here is not in the sense of being the first created one. So again, is there equality in the Godhead? Again, total deity. And one last one, Matthew twenty eight, uh, nineteen, I love this because again, it's the Great Commission um that Jesus gave to his apostles and his disciples, but go therefore make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in, and notice the singular name here, not names, but name, one God. They were lying to God, they were lying to the Holy Spirit, and he says, Because you were lying to the Holy Spirit, you were lying to God The first is that the Son, we see very confidently and clearly submits to the Father. Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me and accomplished his work. son uh offer himself to come in to the world to take on human flesh and to die in purpose and in fulfillment of the g of the father's will, it's because he was made perfect to do that. as a distinct individual, distinct person within the Godhead to accomplish all that the Father had set out and to do and his purpose for the world. of Jesus Christ when he took on human flesh, he came into this world to do the Father's will, to accomplish the Father's purpose in the world. Once again, the son fully submits to the Father's will. for the writer of Hebrews to say that. We do so because we follow in the footsteps of our Savior. that not only does the son submit to the father, but we see very clearly that the father sent the son. uh uh issues that were going on. And so it was amazing that when Jesus Christ came at the exact time that he came, it was the perfect time for the whole world, Jew and Gentile, to hear the gospel. had sent the Son to do. And again, but what we see in this verse very clearly is there's a distinction between the Father and the Son. to go into heaven. The perfect God man who came to do exactly what the Father sent him to do. Such a powerful statement. And I love this. When he had made purifications for sin. And again we see very clearly these distinctions between the Father and the Son. at the right hand of God. that God has revealed himself not just as one God to us, but he's revealed himself to us in three distinct persons. in what God is accomplishing in the world and what he has accomplished. Therefore, having been exalted to the right hand of God, and having received the Father uh from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he poured forth And how were they able to see this person? And again, as Jesus said in the Gospels in John chapter 14-16, if I don't leave, the Spirit won't be sent, the Spirit won't come. And that's one of the reasons why Jesus had to ascend back into heaven. But then what you see start to happen in the unfolding of God's revelation is you see the tabernacle come into being. That tabernacle then became the temple, and again the temple became a place where God's presence was on earth I can't hear you. Again, the new nature that we have been given is the fullness of God manifesting his presence in and through us. to understand what it means to walk in the fullness of Jesus Christ, the fullness of the Spirit of God, the fullness of the Holy Spirit, the fullness of what God's purpose is for our lives. And the manifestation of that is the Holy Spirit in us. Through again, children, young adults, adults, fathers, elderly, every season of life plays together in terms of the different persons of the Trinity. of between the Son and the Father? Do we see a distinction between the Son and the Father sitting at the right hand of the Father? And I love the fact that he is called a helper. That once again, God has not abandoned us. We see right from the start of the book of Acts when the Holy Spirit comes upon them, they know exactly what to say. When the helper comes, when I will send uh when I will send uh to you from the Father, uh whom I will send to you from the Father. You gotta be kidding me. uh manifests his presence in our life, how he again leads, guides, uh, protects, does all the things that God the Father, God the Son would do for us. And I think part of the advantage is the fact that again you had Jesus walking alongside the disciples, but he wasn't in them. But what advantage do we see with the Holy Spirit? explain why Jesus said, Unless I go, the Holy Spirit won't come. to initialize the church, to again begin the church age. Israel failed miserably. Israel failed to do that, and so because of that, the Holy Spirit then comes into the believer's life in order to form the church so that through Jew and Gentile the gospel would be proclaimed to the whole earth. but not the nation, to Gentiles. for a time where the church would then, Jew and Gentile, not just Jew, but Jew and Gentile, would then proclaim the gospel to the whole world. Together. at the time of Pentecost. But he said to them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father has set by his own authority. if the power of the Holy Spirit had not been upon them. is what enables us to go and proclaim the gospel. Wow, you can go all the way to the gospel with this issue if you start to understand the complementary roles that um the Godhead Isn't that exactly what Jesus Christ said? All of a sudden scripture comes to mind. As imperfect as it's given, he will again use the truth of Scripture to convert somebody, and that's the power of the gospel. And through the power of understanding and interpreting and applying the will of God to our lives, we then see the role of the Holy Spirit being lived out in our lives. As you read and study the Scripture and as you continue to fill your mind, saturate your soul with the Scripture, what happens when you engage in a conversation that's off the cuff with somebody about Christ? as the Holy Spirit then uses the word to proclaim that and apply it to a person's life. that God, you're the one who can only bring the power to convert, to change, to sanctify a person's life. That is a work of the Holy Spirit in your life. Again, this is such a wonderful truth to know that the Holy Spirit compliments the Son, glorifies the Son, and He compliments again the Father. And together the the Godhead accomplishes exactly what it sets out to do, what is proclaimed to do, what has been created, promised, and principalized to do um have any disunity. nor my praise to graven images. is praying this to the Father, two distinct persons who had perfect unity in eternity past. that has been given to us in the likeness and image of God. God said, Let us make man in our image and according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the There must be this wonderful reflection of the roles being given in the marriage relationship so as to proclaim the gospel accurately. There won't be marriage given in heaven is because we won't be proclaiming the gospel. But just think about that in light of um the heresy to say that somehow Christ is inferior to God the Father that once again we can see in the in the man being created and the woman being created. Again, role distinctions simply reflect the role distinctions that we see in the Godhead. So please, anybody that comes along to you, an egalitarian that would say there's no role distinctions, because if you do this, you're going to promote a superior-inferior view of husband and wife Why? the gospel to the world. And they are going to do everything they can to argue that what the Bible said back then, that was cultural to theirs to their issue. say to them, then why does he go back to creation and not argue from culture this issue? And uh that's that should be a confidence to us that God knows what He's talking about. of you know, woman's desire to be over man. at odds because we see it um in all of its abusive extremes and so therefore we're reacting to it that in your word we can see these distinctions. For you are God, and you are to receive all the glory. Perfect confidence and the reassurance that your will is perfect, and that when we submit to it, we can be blessed and thereby leave here, boldly equipped to proclaim your gospel and your word to the world is we delved into this issue of God created man and woman equal in value and dignity. But very clearly, and this goes to the issue of the argument between complementarianism and e egalitarianism Man and woman were created in the beginning to really display the glory of God, to display the pinnacle of God's creation. um they're done away with especially for those who are in Christ Jesus. those distinctions uh and we want to talk about it from the perspective of the Trinity. Just to uh lay the foundation for this discussion, let me just tell you this is not um my explanation of why I believe in the Trinity or how the Trinity is existing. helps support the idea that the full Godhead were involved in the creation of man and woman itself. Let me uh have you guys get ready to open your Bibles. And so to try to argue that somehow Jesus is less or not as equal to the Father in nature, you just can't see that in this context and you can't see it in the Bible. But he didn't regard equality with God a thing to be grasped. And so he became like man, to be tempted like man. in every way possible that a human being um can experience life. Um, but again the issue is is that he can identify us uh identify with us in every single way possible. and Holy Spirit. It's because the Bible is making clear to us that within the Godhead there are three distinct persons. Because I do not seek my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And I love that because again it's a reminder to us that as believers in Christ, when we're given the new nature, when we are created new in Christ Jesus, not only do we have the will, the power, and um the ambition and the joy of being able to overcome sin in our lives given the circumstances and the s the condition of the world and also all the political and um social social Um for God so loved the world, John three sixteen and seventeen, that he gave his only begotten Son Again, God, his means by which he would save the world, was to send his son. Um again it's this idea of there's full accountability and that full accountability goes all the way back to God the Father. um at the throne of God. And primarily it is because he accomplished fully what he was sent to do. The Father is not the Son, the Son is not the Father, likewise the Spirit is not the Father, the Spirit is not the Son. Do you understand that that's the fullness of the Holy Spirit in you as well? And the ro the reason why it is important for us to grow in our sanctification is because we're becoming more like God as we joyfully endure suffering for the sake of Christ and the gospel, as we proclaim him in the world God's purpose in the world. we are to proclaim him. for what Christ has has proclaimed to them. they stand up and rejoice at the fact that they were able to suffer um as Christ suffered for the sake of the gospel. role that the Holy Spirit is playing in doing exactly what was promised, what was given to us in the Old Testament of the purpose of the Holy Spirit. Um John chapter 16, but I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage. choices and their decisions in their their motivations. He actually is the one who can give us who can give us the perfect prayers to pray before the throne of grace. He is the one who enables us, literally enables us to approach the throne of God with boldness. God would then do. They did except that because of the nation of Israel being put aside or again um Israel for not doing what they were supposed to do as a nation. in order to fulfill the gospel coming to the whole world, every nation tribe, tongue, nation of the world. then at that time God would reinstate his promises to Israel and fulfill all of those in response to his promise of Jeremiah 31. Are you asking if we're separate? The issue is is that there is a distinction in ethnicities, yes. by fulfilling what Jesus promised to do in terms of bringing his church into existence and proclaiming it to the rest of the world. And God then comes back to fulfill his promises to Israel. But in the millennial kingdom we will see all aspects of the promises of Jeremiah 31 fulfilled. running the other way. We wouldn't want to do. that if Jesus said, It is to your advantage that I go, if I don't go, this power will not come upon you. John chapter 16, but when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak on his own initiative. to do and accomplish God's purpose. He will glorify me. Everything that the Holy Spirit does in our lives, He does in order for us to glorify the Son and to glorify God. He will take what is mine, of mine, and he will then disclose it to you. And so therefore that's why we need to know the word. He does it. God does this by every member of the Trinity. There is equality also likewise in marriage that reflects the pattern that is in the Trinity. And here, when we talk about marriage, we're talking about how marriage was created to reflect the image We see that clearly given to us in 1 Corinthians eleven verse 3. And God, every wife I should say here is the context. sky and over the cattle and over the all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. Because within a marriage that is godly, you see a reflection of the distinctions that have been given. You see the submission being a complement to the man. Well, number one, male headship in marriage is patterned after the the eternal headship of God the Father over God the Son. That with man and woman being created, immediately they were brought into marriage. God is the one who distinguishes those. So the issue is that this this role distinction really goes back into eternity past if you consider the Godhead But it distinctly goes back to creation in Genesis chapter 1 and 2. to establish the order in the church that a woman is not to exercise authority to teach or exercise authority over a man. again of his purpose and plan in our lives, and I wouldn't want to be at odds with God. That is why we end up fighting against God and his word. proclamation, that curse that God gave to the woman, how you are going to want to desire your husband's role dominant rule over you, which again uh goes against God's plan for him as the head of the home. And we need to say, God, I'm not looking at this correctly. All right. Knowing that even with with the struggles of sin and the fall and the world, the flesh, the devil, Lord, we can have the Um but does the Bible tell us that there is one God and three persons? that Jesus is talking about here him having the same nature as God the Father. Now, that seems very clear. when again Koine Greek was being spread throughout the world through Hellenization, but when Jesus Christ came, he came at the opportune time Again, it's not that it's not that um somehow when he died his spirit went and somehow became formed back into the one God identical in nature to that of the Father and the Son. And for the purpose of doing exactly why Jesus sent him and the Father sent him to do this, but to come into the lives of both Jew and Gentile So that's Gentile and Jewish together. And that's what's being communicated here. uh play together and have together. In the context of equality and unity. Is the husband or the man seen as superior? depiction, presentation of the gospel of Jesus Christ to the world. establish this as a cultural issue. Help me, not my will be done but what? As the spiritual leadership program continues, we're delving into issues of leadership and marriage Amazing statement. And again, these scripture verses very much communicate to us this equality that exists within the Godhead. The Holy Spirit, again, like Christ, is the fullness of the deity. But now is there distinctions? this which you both see and hear. With again the Son and the Holy Spirit being actively involved in the creation of the world The Holy Spirit, and how is the Holy Spirit's presence then um shown to the world Um somebody read if I can find it. Exercise and how they relate to one another. Equality and differences have forever existed in unity in the Godhead Now, this kind of helps us to understand once again the significance of equality and differences within the Godhead. That's how strong the language is here. Nowhere in Scripture, nowhere can you go in Scripture where it would indicate that somehow the Son was inferior to the Father. again after the eternal headship of God. Right there in heaven, doing exactly what they do in terms of bringing salvation to the world and authority over all creation. Selected, elected to proclaim the gospel to the world and they refuse to do it. uh distinctions in persons. man of God, but he is the God man. to everyone who is there from all over the world in in their own language, the gospel of Jesus Christ I don't know if you've thought about this in relation to 2 Peter. Power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem. They do not they do not What's another word for argument? superior. Yes. Jesus is the pre-eminent one. But again So then why the Gentiles numbers fulf fulfilled if it's a Jew and Gentile together? And again, she is the one who then is able to say, I humbly submit. But clearly, is there um an argument to be made from Scripture that men and women were not only created equal, but they were created differently John 17, 4. Israel as a nation wouldn't do that. The promise was that the Holy Spirit would come and indwell believers in Christ Again, your testimony can have the power of displaying to somebody a changed life, but what converts people is the Word of God. Father, thank you. So again, we want to talk a little bit about that. And then John chapter 17, verse 5. I'm trying to think of the language that Paul uses in um the book of Romans when he puts them aside. So this is a wonderful role distinction that the Holy Spirit has. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long and you still do not know me, further? That is a faulty understanding of what headship is. Because that is a reflection of again the Godhead. The problem was is there was no sinless man who was around to be able to fully atone for the sins of the world I just want to make sure we're on the same page. Not even in his submission. Because it inaccurately depicts what the order of creation was. Sorry. The Holy Spirit came and indwelt us. Isaiah chapter 42, verse 8. It is. Uh Adam was the one who was called to give an account. What a bummer. He is the exact representation of his nature. Let's go ahead and close a little bit early and thank you guys for today. So he's the perfect man. I think it's 2. What did he do? It struck me as you were talking about the point view that the whole struggle with that seems to me that is a problem with the virgin. Yep. So we not only see the equality between husband and wife, between the first man and the first woman related to how they were created, but in that image, in that likeness of God, there is also distinction. So that's not a lot of culture. Since he has provided a full atonement, a full salvation for us, what does he do now? So from a hundred and twenty people, we then see the gospel going out to the entire world. Is there any confusion about that verse? And one of the purposes for which Israel existed was to proclaim to all the other nations the truth of the gospel, the good news of salvation through God. We need to r we need to pray. There was ti there was a time when I started to ask myself as I was reading through the Bible, why does it say so many times that he sat down next to the Father? He didn't come to speak on his own initiative. There are testimonies all over Hope Bible Church of people whose lives have been transformed by the gospel of Jesus Christ. So again, equality and differences have forever existed in the unity of the Godhead. And I love this because if you go all the way back to John chapter 1, very clearly Jesus says, I came into the world to But how is he able to say that? And literally it says in John chapter 1, he tabernacled with us. To believe that a wife's submission to her husband's headship makes her inferior or of less worth And uh again, the issues of biblical manhood and womanhood have come up. Um culture today, uh many egalitarians would say, no, there are no differences. And so if you've seen me, you've seen God the Father. But yet in all of that he did this so that he would take on the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men, he could then die for our sin. And he did it again in the fullness of being God. We don't want you to go. Is he talking we're one of the same nature, of the same being? And so again we see the Son submitting to the Father. The writer of Hebrews in chapter 1, verse 3 says, And he, Jesus, is the radiance of his, the Father's glory Yes we do. It's all So what do you call Gentile? It means that there's distinction in roles. Um let us see it is therefore not culturally um it's not a cultural variable. That your revelation is absolutely authoritative and infallible If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. I wish I didn't have to do this. And the only way, the only institution that He is blessed for that is the church Um the struggle against God's order, God's distinction, God's plan is an issue of the fall. And if you have a question about the Holy Spirit's deity, you just need to go to Acts chapter 5 with the dealing of Ananias and Sapphira, and you see how Peter affirmed that they were not And that's why the writer of Hebrews can say we can approach the throne of God with boldness. Even though they tell miserably what they fail miserably is not trusting Jesus as their save. It's perfect. And this is an issue where once again we see this fullness being put on display because of the complementary role that the God has Because number one, why don't you just judge and kill all those wicked people? There is perfect unity in the Godhead. Once again, anybody coming along and telling you that because of the role distinctions, that because you believe in the role distinctions, there's superiority and there's inferiority. Let me tell you, that is the work of the Holy Spirit bringing to mind the scripture that is exactly needed to proclaim God's truth. You know, for the joy set before him he endured the cross. He went and sat down at the right hand of the Father. And again, he is working out all things according to the perfections of his will in us. The Holy Spirit is the one who applies those things to our lives. Fill us with the wonderful expectation that you will be speaking to us through your word, that we can worship you in spirit and in truth. Uh and in that issue a lot of issues came out related to biblical manhood and womanhood. Are there role differences between the persons of the Trinity? I glorify you on earth having accomplished the work which you have given me to do. When Jesus Christ came into the world, it was the absolute perfect time. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. So then God promised to Israel in Jeremiah chapter thirty-one that what Israel was unable to do for themselves So once again, this is not a cultural issue. He's revealed to us in three distinct persons that are equal. We see it in Acts chapter 2. The f son submits to the Father. Jesus has the exact same nature of deity as the Father has. Yeah. He's the perfect helper. The Father and the Son sent the Spirit. Are there role differences in the Trinity? Somebody read John 10, verse 30. They saw what had taken place when the Holy Spirit came down on those hundred and twenty people in the upper room and then went out to preach the gospel. Correct. Now again, if the husband is completely out in left field on the choices, decisions He, Jesus, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. So what happened was God then used believers. We wouldn't have the ability to do them according to Romans chapter 8. We talked a little bit about um man's accountability in creation last week. So again, he says, I can do nothing on my own initiative. I mean why is that a distinction? It is the presence of the Holy Spirit in us that enables us to do things that in and of ourselves we would never want to do. Remember, this is Jesus Christ saying this about the role of the Holy Spirit, submitting to the Father and the Son. It it just the fact that that continues through all these generations to be a struggle of issue, generation after generation. Jesus Christ, thank you. He didn't just humble himself by coming into the world. Again, there is equality within the Trinity. He came to do exactly what the Father had sent the Messiah to do. That's the same thing that Jesus Christ said when he was on earth. Well, the the church, the body of Christ. John chapter 14, 16-17. I love the fact that in the New Covenant, as we are experiencing some of the blessings of the New Covenant today We want you to stay. But if I go, I will send him to you. Is there equality between Jesus and the Father? I am the Lord, that is my name. Again, there is complete equality within the Godhead. And so marriage reflects this eternal order So it's not just equality, it's distinction. So again, to claim that because man is head over his wife, that he's somehow superior, that's heresy, if we could put it bluntly. We need to consult God's Word. He's the perfect man in the sense of he is the perfect God man where he at the same time Total deity. Because then if the Holy Spirit has something to work with, he will then use the word. It would go to every tongue, tribe, and nation of the world. And the fact that God spoke in s in all these languages was a judgment against If we're arguing with this, it's because we're not interpreting it correctly or perhaps we're just But headship has to do with representation. For God did not send the Son into the world to judge the world at that particular time, but that the world might be saved through him. But there is absolute context to the equality and the unity He looks back on the life of Christ and sees the testimony concerning Christ. And so we see this distinction being made. There's no ethnic distinction is what's being proclaimed uh in the church in the New Covenant We can see these wonderful compliments that are being given in Scripture And and to begin, we ask the question with regard to equality and differences within the Trinity, is there equality in the Trinity? Spencer, go ahead and read John 10, 30. These are two amazing passages. All of it. Jesus never said anything like that. He's not just with us, he's in us. But whatever He hears, He will speak, and He will disclose to you what is to come He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, for him, all fullness of beauty. He is the one who is the visible image of the invisible God. We should like Christ as a believer in Headship is is one of authority, it's one of representation There is no imperfection in Jesus as God. He was something who uh he was somebody outside helping them, guiding them, directing them, commanding them, again, giving them principles to live by It is such a wonderful testimony of the unfolding of Scripture. Now, Father, glorify me together with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world was. Um it's really interesting, just a little uh little bit of freebie here. So be ready to read, because if you uh get to that verse, I'd like to have you read that out loud. That power that the Holy Spirit provides for us is the power to do things that in and of ourselves Holy Spirit has to be sent. In no way is the the wife or the woman seen as inferior. Um it's not a cultural issue. I need to submit myself to your will. I'm gonna make reference to some of these and some of these are in your notes He went the opposite direction. Um Acts chapter one, because the language here is so specific. He came to give us exactly what God had given us. And it's power. Absolutely. Fully, all the fullness of deity came to indwell us The inspired, inerrant, infallible, authoritative word of God. But again, just think about it in the in the role distinctions of the Trinity and how the Son submits to the Father We have the same nature. Once again, now speaking of the distinction of the Spirit Himself. Isn't it Jew and Gentile together? That is not what the position of complementarianism presents. And then what's gonna happen? And so it's critical that we understand what is our role. Why? Um, but when Peter says God has given us everything we need for life and godliness, Um, and God the Father is the head of Christ. And so again, to try to fight against this goes back to Genesis 3. Um not that not that Eve didn't have any um responsibility in that I have come to explain the Father to you. No, when when God the Son died, when he was raised bodily, flesh and bone Collectively, corporately, as a church, we represent God's presence on earth. Just as Jesus was the helper to the apostles and to those disciples who followed him during his time, he sends he says, Now I ascend to the Father, I'm going to send another helper. It is to your advantage um that I go away. And the fact that He is with us, we have how did Jesus uh say it to the disciples in Acts chapter 1? So, now what kind of conclusions can we draw from this? But what happened? The fullness of deity dwelt in bodily form. Unequivocally, they stand up with boldness and they proclaim the gospel. Because like you said, Gen cells are numbers to fulfill. Male headship in marriage is patterned after the headship of God the Father over God the Son. Because what does Paul say? He accomplished it fully, and so therefore when we come before God, we can I love that. Um they wouldn't have distinguished the Son And so what does he say here? Now again, do we see a distinction? Do we see a distinction between the Father and the Son in the sense of sending? Why? We don't want you to leave. And so it's a wonderful, again, reminder of the distinctions between the Godhead. It doesn't mean she's inferior. All of it. And so we in a sense see Israel being set aside, that's the language that I was trying to use, set aside Um God said back in Genesis chapter one There could be, because um, you know, is is it talking about is Jesus here talking about we're one in purpose? I love the fact that the Holy Spirit, if you look at it throughout the unfolding of Revelation Because exactly what the Holy Spirit was sent to do, he did that. They were brought into this bond of oneness of flesh. God is the one who establishes those. Absolutely, we do. He's not less than God. God's God's. Remind yourself of the wonderful promises of Scripture and remind yourself of the truth of Scripture. And so we want to talk about this because again, is there equality in the Trinity, in the Godhead? No, because he being a mere man claims to be God And very clearly Jesus is God Exactly. And most days, sometimes I don't even recognize it But as a nation, the nation of J the nation of Israel was They are completely one. Holy Spirit, thank you. Because it wasn't something that he didn't have and now has or had and now doesn't have Absolutely. This is a word that speaks more of his preeminence. Before God's presence was with the nation of Israel It's a faulty understanding of really the wonderful complementary roles that husbands and wives Our marriage is a gospel presentation, just as the church is a gospel presentation. Um it's a mystery. And he did this in such a humble way that he was able to identify us So again, is there equality? We pray in your name. Because God is working in us and through us to accomplish both his will and his purpose. This has direct application on the apostles and the disciples at the time, but we see it today even in our own lives There's accountability. We need to talk to biblical um people that we can trust, that know God's Word, and then we need to repent. And part of those that fulfillment is judgment on the world. But Paul says, But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man, and the man is the head of every woman. And again, to submit to His will is to have the fullness And so again, just just think about that the next time you have a a difficult day or And again, looking at the role of the Holy Spirit and how the Holy Spirit Um the short answer to it is the fact that it was in God's plan. Number five, the Holy Spirit submits to the Father and to the Son. John 10, verse 30. He fully submitted to the Father and did exactly what the Father told him to do. And why do we see that? The husband is gonna have this abusive, this overbearing And I hope based on what we've talked about that you can see very clearly in Scripture how men Total humanity. Mark chapter 16, verse 19. But again, the fact that he sat down next to the Father once again proves to us The fullness of God Power that is so much more powerful than anything this world can do. Male headship in the marriage is patterned And the important principle There's neither Jew nor Greek, nor male nor female, etcetera. Luke chapter 22, verse 42. When the Father tells him what to do and gives him this commission to go and fulfill his will. So many people are going to tell you it is Therefore we violate this principle to our own detriment and to the dishonor of God, our Creator, if we do. And we can look at it. Father, we thank you so much for this time. So there's a whole section um in your notes Once again, distinct persons. So very clearly, and an amazing statement, again, one that would have been viewed from the Jews as blasphemous. Um not a quarter of it, not half, not three quarters, not ninety-nine point nine percent of God was in Jesus. Let me tell you, if it was left up to the disciples, they probably would have failed weeks into their commission. She is the bride of Christ. Who sent Jesus? Not only does he uh in his in his uh incarnation possess full deity, the fullness of God is in him. Jesus says, I will ask the Father, he will give you another helper, that he may be with you forever. Because they are God, but also in purpose as well. Um, I love Colossians 1. We could go on. Acts chapter 2, part of Peter's famous Pentecost sermon. They know exactly what to say not only in preaching the gospel, but when they're brought before the Sanhedrin and they're accountable So yeah, the blame goes back to us. For I've come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. God created man in his own image, and in the image of God he created him, male and female. And I love the fact that in the in Genesis In no way The he, the pronoun here, is in direct reference to Jesus Christ. Do we see the fullness of humanity? So you have the throne of God the Father, you have the throne of God the Son, and you see two distinct persons But here the issue is that culture does not dictate equality and distinctions. And the reason we know that is because in John 10 at the very end the Jews pick up stones to stone him, not because Yeah. And then he says this, but you will receive power There is no argumentation in the eternal counsel of God. And again, the Father and Son are the ones who sent the Holy Spirit Again I will not give my glory to another. And once again, this is the truth of the Word of God. Um so it just seems like this is a prevalent issue. It is the roles that God has given us Absolutely. Absolutely. He's not in any way diminished or or not as fully a helper as Jesus would be a helper. He is the one according to Romans chapter 8 who helps us when we don't know how to pray. And there are role differences. John chapter 14, verse 9. He emptied himself. Not my will, but yours be done And he's in us. He used the the apostles, he used um believers in Christ to proclaim that gospel through Jews. He is the classic example of the failings of Israel to fulfill the commission to go and proclaim the gospel to the world. There's representation. But again, as a demonstration of the likeness and image of God to the world And at the time, it was only two people around And headship doesn't mean he's um Um the context seems to really strengthen the argument I'll let you read the rest of the verses there. And Jesus Christ came into the world God's presence was with us still on earth. As we walk in obedience to God's commands But here in the New Testament, in the New Covenant, we are literally given the Spirit's presence in us forever. And again, we don't want to be at odds with God over the order and how that then presents And yes, we can say that because the Bible affirms it Number three, the Son sits at the right hand of the Father There's this role distinction. He intercedes for us But also, I don't want to be the one to go and do this because what if they kill me? I didn't come to do my will, I've come to do the will of the Father. And what we do complementing one another is to again give an accurate It's because, again, it goes back to the order that God had established from the very beginning. It has to do with And so we want to talk a little bit more about John 10, verse 30. Absolutely. What are we gonna do when you leave? This is the second member of the Trinity who has come to not just show us God, but it to And he was tempted That is an an amazing statement And we see that actually happening in the book of Acts Now again And that's why in 1 Timothy 2, Paul goes back to creation, not culture. In my mind I'm struggling over this, but I know your plan is perfect. Amen That's probably the better way of saying it And why? So the body of Christ is now the physical presentation of God here on earth. Because we see it from the youngest to the oldest. But God gave them exactly what they needed to say. The church. Not through the nation of Israel. I love the fact that we here at Hope Bible Church are committed They are completely unified Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. Absolutely, there's equality. So we see that fulfilled in the hundred and twenty people that were in the upper room He gave us exactly what Jesus Christ spoke to us And we want to talk about those. How God can be one God in three persons, um, that is something that is beyond or above my pay grade. The Spirit is a distinct person And what do we call that? But here Again, we need to be praying as we're listening to the sermon being preached. I humbly submit. Um are there any comments, questions? And so we want to kind of continue that today. And so once again the Holy Spirit is the one who helps us He is the one who is God, who will bring judgment on sin, and yet he is the one who's provided f a full atonement. All right. We can live our lives by it. Okay, so He came to do exactly what the what the Savior was meant to do in coming into this world. Israel cannot save the world. And we've talked about this, but again Because together we are the proclamation of the gospel in the world. Why? So again, yeah, the curse has a lot to blame for this Um we're created equals, so therefore any roles or distinctions that we have are in a sense Headship is not just an issue So if you want to see God Father, Son, and Um not only did he come at a time Why? I'm sure the disciples at that particular time probably thought And again, just as man is to be head over his own home, his own wife And you know what? So we affirm that And he says It was the Father. Can you explain why Jesus said unless I go away the Holy Spirit account? But then And as an as a believer in Christ, it should be a glad, joyful submission to submit to God's will. And again, we see so many passages As I hear, I judge. So then when the Lord Jesus had spoken to them, he was received up into heaven, and he sat down Why? It's amazing, uh you just had this thought. But use the clear exposition of your word to do that. He took on not just flesh, he took on the nature of man. Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from from me. We also see Because the son was perfectly suited to do exactly what the Father Um We thank you for, again, the truth of your word, and we're so thankful And then somebody else read John chapter 14, verse 9. Um But again, this is a pattern after the Trinity But we see this as a result of the cursed. We rejoice. And then I attended a class, uh uh a seminar He was a boy, he was born a boy, uh he was raised as a as a boy, he was We would be against God in doing them. Because there's order in the Godhead And the first section that we talked about Because our perfect Savior What are how are we equal, but also how are we different. And if you remember when Adam and Eve sinned, who was primarily held accountable? 15. He sat down next to the throne of God his Father. He is distinct in his personage from the Father. Yes, we do. I love the fact that he says, I've accomplished that work. But is there one God? Absolutely. Um Discord. I've come to demonstrate But when he ascended from the Mount of Olives The Father is the one who sends the Son. Not very That's heresy. Jesus called it his church. It has to come upon you. Somebody read that. Yes we do And I love the fact that There's this wonderful complementary role that the husband and wife together Any thoughts? Again, um John chapter fourteen, verse twenty-six He emptied himself And the tabernacle was a representation of God's presence on earth Even when they're flogged I love the fact that once again we see this So today we're going to delve into the issue of the Trinity. And so And we know that this uh promise that Jesus gave to them was absolutely fulfilled. What's that? Again, clearly, the language Um this one's for free. That it wasn't just, oh I've got to go and I've got to die. My judgment is just Peter, Paul, they're all Jewish. We can rejoice in it But he says it's to your advantage. Well in reading the text, observing what is in the text, you can with full confidence So therefore they blur the distinctions or get rid of them In the Old Testament, you saw examples of how the Holy Spirit would come upon a person. But yet, here the writer goes on to say, upholding all things by the word of his power, Again, this is the advantage that we have with the Holy Spirit. I am the Father of the Lord. Let's back up to verse seven Absolutely, there is one God. Colossians 1. He wasn't at every moment in their It it really is an issue that How can you say, show us the Father? He does it perfectly, and so we see what a tremendous advantage it is. It's an issue of the curse of sin I mean it's Israel it's the producing Jesus because Jesus is And Jesus did it perfectly. And so he has to come. We're talking about biblical manhood and womanhood and It's it's just it's a fact that he is God. I don't know if you've thought about this, but So again, the sitting down at the right hand of the Father is just It was in His purpose. And when the fullness of the Gentiles has come in Once again, the Holy Spirit comes submissively. Because And he did it with joy. And how do we know that It goes back to that He is the image of the invisible God. And so why did he then offer himself as the And here, this is just a wonderful testimony Dispute. But let's move on. We see how God is manifesting his presence Nowhere 15 and then Colossians 2. The Son is the one who is sent by the Father to do the Father's will. His church. And again, as I told you last week, that's one of the reasons why. Absolutely We would be like Jonah Letter B We thank you that your word is perfect. But John 6. And again Have discord It is. You're going to be my witnesses The issue is the power of the Holy Spirit. And uh He's done it all. Why is it to their advantage? 38, Jesus says It's a reflection of Ever This was the purpose for which the Holy Spirit came. It's just Now again. And then uh Well we need to repent. And He does it. That is an amazing statement. Hebrews chapter twelve And it took a man Absolute joy. He is actually He's fulfilled the Father's will. Now I've got to Once again, the Son They don't argue with each other. Okay. And so once again. Again. 9. Because No.