But for today we want to talk about how to live out reconciliation. If you have been able, by God's grace, to experience reconciliation This can often be relatively easy in the sense that, again, as we've talked about, the majority of sins that we commit against each other as husband and wife, especially, we're in those close friendships You know, you seek forgiveness, you love each other, you you grant each other forgiveness, and you just move forward in a relationship and most of the sins that we commit, they don't really cause a big hindrance. You know, you just you talk through it, you work through it, and you just move forward. in the relationship. And and if that's all things were, then we really wouldn't have to have a lesson like this. But the reality is there are times where there's significant hurt that's been caused by sin. Uh and even though we're able to reconcile, we're able to confess our sin, to grant forgiveness, and all of that, it can be difficult still to move forward because of the nature of the sin that's been committed, whether that's betrayal or just deep hurt that's been caused. And so that's more the type of scenario that we're thinking about today Uh in that first paragraph in the notes, it it talks about how uh statistically you're more likely to get in an accident within, what is it, five miles or yeah, five miles of your home And you know, that's most likely because you spend most of your time driving uh within five miles of your home, unless you of course you work in DC or something. But uh generally speaking, you know, the grocery store, the gas station Um, you know, and the uh those er things that we do on a regular basis tend to be within five miles and so we we tend to have are accidents in that space. You get very comfortable driving there. I mean I just think between here and my house, which is just a couple miles down the road, I've driven that path thousands of times over the last few uh few years and I just I could probably do it my sleep, probably not, but you know, it's uh you just get comfortable, right? And so you get um more relaxed and and less attentive. And it's that way with relationships, that when we engage with those who are closest to us, we tend to have more conflict than we would have with others uh who we don't interact with more regularly because of just the the commonality, the the security, the safety of those relationships in the sense that we don't feel like we have to guard ourselves so much. We let down our guard. We are more open to uh showing our flesh. Uh and uh and so we need to um Be mindful of that. And then when we reconcile, we were kind of forced into continuing to live in those relationships. There are some relationships that you know they naturally become distant. Maybe a friendship that you grow apart, whether that's because you actually move apart or You just decide, you know, we're just headed different directions in life, and you might still be in the same church, but you're just not as close friends as you used to be. It's not inherently wrong that that's the case But again, a lot of times you're still in the same area of life and you need to learn how do you continue to relate with this other person that you've had a significant conflict with. And so that's that's the scenario we're wanting to think through uh today. And even before we get into the the passages here, one of the things that we didn't talk about in the lesson on forgiveness, which of course Pastor Christopher covered that, but it's not in the notes is the reality that one aspect of forgiveness that we have to consider is that forgiveness, when we forgive somebody else, we're in in a sense absorbing the consequences of their sin. If forgiveness, or rather sin uh creates a tear in a relationship If it breaks people apart, and forgiveness is the process of restoring, repairing that terror, knitting that relationship back together. There's a sense in which the person who's forgiving has to absorb the consequences of that sin. Rather than demanding that the other person uh experience consequences in whatever way that might be, and of course there's, you know This is not to say that somebody shouldn't have legal consequences or things like that, but in turn especially in terms of the hurt uh that sin can cause, we often h have to absorb that hurt and move forward in forgiveness even though we still feel that. We still feel that pain and that sorrow over the the sin that's been committed And so these are are things that we have to keep in mind because of how painful sometimes reconciled the relationships can be. And so let's uh begin by just walking through some of these passages where we are told how do you relate with those Where sin has taken place. Not all of these passages relate to reconciled relationships per se, but they they contain wisdom for how are we to relate with those who have sinned against us. Romans 12, 14 to 21, some of the excerpts from there. Paul says, bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. Never pay back evil for evil to anyone. Never take your own revenge. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him a drink, and do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. These are uh incredibly difficult uh commands to live out, especially if someone hasn't repented of their sin, but even if they have repented of their sin and you've expressed forgiveness, these kinds of things can still be difficult When we feel pain and hurt and sorrow in our heart over the sins that somebody has committed against us, we can be tempted in various ways, maybe not uh overtly, but to repay evil for evil. Right, we want to keep our distance, we want to limit our interaction, we want to avoid that person um in in our own heart when uh they're weeping and and sorrowing and because of something in their own life, we're not necessarily drawn to them because that relationship is is hindered. May maybe if they have sinned against us in a significant way and the Lord blesses them in their life It's hard for us to rejoice because we're like, oh man, the Lord blessed them, even though there's some, you know, they've sinned against me in this way. Why is it that the Lord is blessing them and not blessing me? We're tempted in our own mind to not keep that promise of I won't dwell on this sin, remember? And so we we kind of uh can can be thinking about it and instead of uh blessing them we're tempted to to grow in bitterness. So these things are very, very difficult to do, and yet this is exactly what God calls us to do. And then consider Matthew 5, 39 to 48. But I say to you, Jesus says, do not resist an evil person, but whoever slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other to him also. If anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, let him have your coat as well. Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with him too. Give to him who asks of you. And do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Again, this is not a context of a restored, reconciled relationship. This is Jesus talking about kind of active enemies, people who you wouldn't consider to be your friends. And what I want to say is how much more should we do these things if there is a restored, reconciled relationship? uh where it's still difficult. You know, again there's been a a great uh hurt that's come between you and this other person in your friendship, in your relationship, in the home And yet we ought to still go out of our way to bless the other person, to uh borrow, or or rather to uh lend to them. um to grant them uh requests that they might have that we might be tempted to say, I don't I don't I don't trust them, I don't I don't want to g do this for them. I don't want to do anything that would be good and a blessing to them We need to overcome that resistance in our heart. And again, Jesus says in Luke 6, kind of repeating some of the main uh same things again, but I say to you Who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you. There, I guess you could add the element of prayer, where if we are to pray for those who are mistreating us, how much more should we be praying for those with whom we've reconciled? Rather than battling in our mind about the things that have taken place, the hurt that we've experienced, we ought to pray for those who have mistreated us. And then Philippians 2, 3-5. Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with humility of mind regard one another. as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own interests, personal interests, but also for the interests of others. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus. Again, in reconciled relationships, one of the things we can be tempted to do is to look out for our own personal interests, to kind of put up a guard uh against that person where we don't want to be hurt again. So we're going to limit our interaction with them. We're not going to be thinking so much about their interests because we're more concerned about our own, not wanting to be hurt again, not wanting to be uh betrayed again, and so forth. And yet Jesus here says, or rather Paul uh says, uh we need to still look out for the interests of others. And then finally, 1 Peter 2, submit yourselves for the Lord's sake to every human institution. Honor all people. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the King. Servants be submissive. to your masters with all respect. These commands obviously are broader, very broad in terms of our relationship with the human institutions that the Lord has put in our lives. And These c commands are given to a people who were on the receiving end of persecution by the Roman government, and yet there is still this responsibility to uh obey these commands, to be submissive, to uh honor the king, uh honor all people in fact, even if we might be on the on the receiving end of mistreatment So the commands to do these things don't get wiped away if we've been hurt, and they certainly don't get wiped away if we have experienced reconciliation. Alright, now you think about all those commands, and you get that first bullet point there. The consistent biblical mindset is that we are to be proactive in loving, caring, And serving others. Come on. All right, we're to be proactive in loving, caring, and serving those who are our enemies, those who are sinning against us, and again I want to say how much more Should that be true of those with whom we've enjoyed reconciliation and been blessed by the Lord to reconcile with The key word there obviously is proactive. In our natural tendency, we would be very passive in our approach to relationships with those that have hurt us. Even if they've confessed their sin, even if we've forgiven them of their sin against us, we would have a tendency to kind of pull back a little bit Again, in in the vein of protecting ourselves, of not wanting to be hurt again, we would we would uh pull back from the relationship in some way. But what we see consistently in the scripture is that we need to be proactive in moving toward the person for their good. Right, for their good. And this is obviously a radically different approach to relationships than the flesh would want us to take, the world would encourage us to to have. The world would say, if there's a toxic person in your life, just get rid of them, cut them out, divorce them, stop being their friend, un unfriend them on Facebook or, you know whatever else. But the word of God says, no, no, no, you need to move toward that person in a proactive way. to consider how you can bless them, how you can minister to them, how you can serve them, how you can care for them. In our close relationships, we should not burn bridges, cut ties, cut off communication. disavow or do anything else that is antithetical to unity and love. If we can add the caveat of, you know, there's certain circumstances where wisdom would um allow for uh a separation. Uh those are you know extreme situations and and those are there but the general uh dynamic that we're called to is to move towards some uh somebody who has sinned against us and with whom we've reconciled, not to pull back. Again, it's very easy, very tempting for us to just cut off communication, to shun other people, to Burn bridges. And we are not to do that. So if we're if we're not going to do that, if we're not To remove ourselves from the relationship, uh, what are we called to do? Well, we're we are called to consider how to relate with somebody. Not just how to treat them, but how to relate with them. What's the difference there? What do you think is the difference between how you treat somebody versus how you relate with them. What what are we trying to get at there? Randall? Relating more personal than how you treat someone is just Not being mean to them but relating to someone implies that you're engaged with them. Yeah. Yeah, there's a personal dynamic. That that's kind of a a two-way street. Good. Anything else? I would go with when it comes to relating with them, that would be the place when just treating them, you would be doing just what you know to do. So when you relate with them, that's where compassion would come out of your heart And just when you have more compassion for them and have pity for them or whatever it be, you're gonna relate with them so that love can actually be used as I guess on the bridge. Yeah. Yeah, so treating is more of an external, this is what I have to do, but relating conveys more of an internal heart level engagement. Good. Anything else? Well it seems like treating is more of a one-sided um situation where this is what I'm going to do with you where relation is it's a two-way street and you're you're listening to them and and empathizing with them and back and forth. Yeah. One-way street versus kind of two-way street. Good. Those those are those are all the the ideas that I had when when uh putting those two words in contrast to each other. that the the purpose of this is not to say, well, this is what I have to do to this person, but uh these are ways that I can engage and strengthen the relationship with this person. As it says here, the key verbs in these passages are bless, rejoice, weep, feed, give, do good, go, love, pray, regard, look out. uh submit and honor. Some of those are things you do on your own, like you pray for them that you do that in your own heart, maybe in the in your prayer closet if you will. Maybe in some ways you can And do other things even anonymously without them even being aware of it. But but many of these things you have to do with someone. You have to do it together. You have to Engage in a relational way in order to minister to them in those ways. You know, you can't rejoice with someone. when you're not actually with them. You can't read weep with those who weep when you're not actually there with them to weep with them. So again the idea is I want to engage in a relationship to the degree they'll allow me, to the degree that they're desiring that, but I want to pursue that and make myself available to them so that I can minister uh to them and strengthen that relationship. And of course the reason we do these things is because uh these ways are how Christ has treated others and of course how he's treated us. But even n not only us, but even those who he knew would crucify him. and reject and betray him. You think about his relationship with Judas, for example. That he had the same kind of relationship with Judas that he had with all the other disciples, even though he knew how Judas would ultimately betray him. Uh he uh spoke the truth. Uh he uh didn't attack uh the religious leaders. Um, you know, you he he didn't uh avoid them. Uh, you know, obviously he wasn't exactly friends with them, but um Uh he spoke the truth, he was gentle and and he uh really called them to repentance. Um With those who were in the crowds that he knew would ultimately cry out for his crucifixion. He ministered to them, he healed their sick, he taught them the truth. pointed them to himself. He appealed to them to believe in him. So Jesus models for us how to love and care for those even who are our enemies. So the question then is all right, how do I go about um engaging in relationship with those that I have reconciled with. What are practical specific things that I can do to strengthen these relationships? First thing is to know the person, to know the person. Jesus relates to us, of course, according to his knowledge of us. Psalm 78. Uh, it says if I can get there. He remembered that they, his people, this is speaking of the Lord, of course, were but flesh, a wind that passes and comes not again. How often they rebelled in speaking of his people Israel against him in the wilderness and grieved him in the desert. As the Lord engaged with his people Israel, he knew what they were like. He knew their rebellious hearts, and yet he still was with them. He cared for them, he provided for them And obviously he at various points brought judgment and punishment, but uh he kept extending extraordinary grace to them. And then Psalm one oh three, verses thirteen and fourteen. There it is. As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear him. For he knows our frame. He remembers that we are but dust. He remembers that we are but dust. When the Lord engages with us, he does so under the knowledge of what kind of creature we are. that we are made from dust, that we're fragile, that we're um temporary, at least life on this earth. He doesn't treat us as if we are like himself. He he considers our weaknesses. And he relates to us in light of how he has made us and how the curse of sin has affected us. He knows what we need, what we struggle with, our tendencies, our strengths and weaknesses, our comprehension, our maturity. He knows everything about us. He doesn't treat us all the same. Uh you know, you think about Jesus, he doesn't he didn't interact with his disciples the same way that he interacted with uh the Samaritans in the same way that he interacted with the Pharisees, in the same way that he interacted with uh Romans. He engaged with people based on his knowledge of where they were, where they were spiritually, where they were in maturity, where they were uh in their life, what their needs were. He considered each individual as an individual and he engaged with them in light of that reality. And we're called to do the same thing. 1 Thessalonians 5:14 says, We urge you, brethren, admonish the unruly, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with everyone. So we are to uh interact with other people in the body of Christ in different ways depending on Where they are at, where they're at maturity-wise, where they're at spiritually. If somebody's unruly, if they're rebellious, if they're hard-hearted, well, you speak to them in a particular way. And that's different than how you speak to somebody who's grieving Who's sorrowing? Who's weak? Maybe who's ignorant. They haven't been well taught. It's one thing to speak to a teacher in the church and seek to correct them in terms of their understanding of scripture versus correcting somebody who says something but they've never actually been taught the scripture. They don't actually know anything. Right, even in that act of correction, you approach each individual a different way based on your knowledge of them. And so it's important for us that as we relate with one another that we do so on the basis of our understanding of each other, which means that we have to learn one another. I think one of the things that um uh I would say experientially uh in marriage and relationships and as I've worked with many couples over the years One of the reasons that conflict tends to repeat itself and there tends to be cycles and people just keep arguing and and uh um you know getting after each other is because they don't learn about each other. They don't consider, oh, when I do this This pushes my wife's buttons. I think I mentioned before that little cartoon that's still on my desk with two robots sitting and the therapist says, you know, what I've learned or what I've gathered is that you know how to push each other's buttons. I mean people just keep pushing the same button expecting a different result. And what we need to do is learn one another so we can say, okay, when I do that, that is just not helpful. It's not helpful when I speak in this way, it's not helpful when I say those things. What would be more helpful is if I approach this person a different way. That's not to say that we're obviously trying to manipulate others, but it is to say, I want to know this person, I want to know what would be a blessing and what would be beneficial for them. So you have here a whole list of of questions of what you can consider about this other person. And obviously this is just an example list of ways we can think about how has God shaped this person? How has he uh brought them to this point in their life in maturity, in wisdom, uh in um uh biblical understanding, in godliness? What's their personality? How can I engage with them in the most loving way based on their strengths, their weaknesses, what's helpful, what's not helpful? How can I know this person well and minister to them according to who they are, according to how God has shaped them in their current state in life? It's like the principle that husbands are commanded in 1 Peter 3. 7, you know, to live with your wives in an understanding way. But really that's how we ought to always relate with those around us. How can I know this person? What are they like? What are their tendencies? How can I engage with them in a way that's most beneficial to a productive relationship? If we find ourselves in a repeated cycle of conflict or we're struggling to move forward in the relationship, that's what we need to do. We need to sit down. maybe on our own before the Lord and just think through questions like these to consider how can I engage in relationship with this person To promote a more productive, God honoring, mutually beneficial relationship. So we want to know the person and and not just assume that we already know them. But consider who they are. Alright. The next thing we want to do is practice godly listening and speaking. Again, we're thinking about relationships where there's been hurt, there's been sin, it's been worked through, but maybe it keeps happening, or we just need to know how to grow in that relationship We need to learn how to how to listen well, how to understand what the other person is communicating, and how we ourselves can also speak in a productive way. So you have a passage there like Proverbs 13, or rather 18-13 He who gives an answer before he hears is a folly and shame to him. How often is it true of all of us that we often speak in response to somebody, maybe our spouse or a friend, and we haven't actually stopped to make sure we understand what they're trying to communicate. We haven't fully heard them out. We jump to conclusions about what they're trying to say. And or or we jump to conclusions about their, you know, what what's in their heart behind their words. And so we respond rashly, and that breeds conflict. We need to think about that and consider how can we listen more effectively. James 1 9, this you know, my beloved brethren, but everyone must be quick to hear, slow to speak. and slow to anger. So again, we want to listen well. And maybe you've heard of uh um reflective listening where Before you respond to what somebody says, you reflect back to them what you're hearing. Something like what I'm hearing you say is, I think we talked about this What I'm understanding you to be communicating or saying, you know, what how you're understanding the situation, how you're interpreting things, you you reflect back to them. Is is am I understanding what you're saying Right. Do I understand your heart in this situation? Sometimes that can be very important in moving the relationship forward. So we want to listen well, Brian. So um you you referred to Proverbs eighteen thirteen, you went to James one nineteen Those are two or three verses that I start out my very first counseling sessions, letting the counselee know that these are not necessarily for them, is more for me Because it's the first session is the time to get to know them and find out what's going on, and then have a game plan based on God's word, how they can be given hope. But there's another verse in 18, uh was referred to 1815 as well, and that's the heart of the prudent acquires knowledge And the ear of the wise seeks knowledge. So for us to know how to reconcile with this person, we do have to get to know. We're not God. So we have to spend time with them. get to know them, find out what's going on and and see how we can invest in the Yeah. I don't know this is going back to that point, but just to um keep emphasi emphasizing that uh as you did. Especially in the context of a local church, when there is offense, when there's hurt or sins that are committed, we think we know people better than we do. Because we see each other on Sundays, maybe we're in the same small group, maybe we're you know in a smaller group of regularly getting together, uh maybe we serve together in a ministry for whatever whatever our contact is, we We often think we know people better than we do. And so when a conflict happens and maybe we work through that uh we don't necessarily take the time to consider what what led to this. Was I uh understanding them? Uh d do I uh am I judging their heart uh in a way that's um inaccurate. Uh w we we need to be slow to assume, and really don't assume Um that we know the person and and instead get to know them. Um this is a different kind of situation, but uh at our previous church in California you know, the uh massive, massive church. There was a pastor uh that uh uh w was well he was as one of the pastors he was often up front and for some reason I just I didn't like him. I'll just say it. I didn't like it. Him. And uh no particular reason. It's not that he tried anything wrong. Uh I just I don't know, the you know, from the distance being up front, I didn't resonate with them, didn't care for my it was totally my perception, and it was totally wrong. Uh in God's providence, he got moved into a position where now he was actually one of my pastors in a smaller context. And so I had the great opportunity uh to get to know him and to minister alongside him and in getting to know him on a personal level I actually kinda liked him. You know, he's a godly guy, faithful servant for the Lord and and all of that. He grew to really appreciate his teaching. And it's just the process of getting to know somebody. uh will often re help us to realize I was making a false judgment against this person. So again, when we're uh in conflict with somebody, even if it's your spouse who you think, man, we've been married for 20, 30 years, of course I know them. Well, just as you are changing, they are changing, right? So we always need to be growing in our knowledge of one another. So And we do that by listening and godly speaking to one another. Of course, Ephesians 4. 29 there, let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth. But only such a word as is good for edification according to the need of the moment, so that it will give grace to those who hear So as we're trying to strengthen the relationship, we want to be very excuse me mindful to not speak words that are destructive, to not bring up their sin and use it against them. But to give grace with the words that we communicate, to show kindness and affirm and encourage and edify them with how we speak. So we want to practice godly listening and speaking. And again, that that can take effort depending on where your heart disposition is at. If you're at all bitter or hurt angry, it can uh require a lot of effort to be purposeful in that, but that's what we must do. Then the third step is to work together with uh mutual understanding To solve problems. So there's some situations, many situations even, where uh the conflict was over a decision that needs to be made and differing opinions uh exist and so you know you maybe you have an argument, you sin against each other. Okay, now you reconcile that, but the decision still needs to be made And so the question is, how do we make this decision when we are still disagreeing with each other? You still have a different perspective of what the solution is. And so that's what we want to talk about now for the rest of today. What are some practical ways that we can navigate differences of opinion In a relationship, again, often in a marriage, but it could be in a friendship, it could be in a ministry context. Maybe in a work context, how do we navigate the differences of opinion? Because we have to make decisions We have to move forward with these things. We can't just forget them and move on. So how do you make decisions where there's conflict of opinion? Well the second bullet point there says most conflict uh uh uh in most conflicts the difference of opinion can be handled simply by one party giving deference. to one another. And we see that principle there in Philippians 2. Sometimes you just need to die to yourself, die to your preferences, and say, you know what, I'm not going to argue for my position anymore We can do what you want, that's fine. I I'm okay with that. So many things can be resolved and move forward uh in that way. Of course, one of the things that we tend to fear is that if we do that, that we'll have to keep doing that and that we'll never get what we want and that other person will always get what they want and that'll be the new dynamic of the relationship. And though there's always the potential for that, I would say that that's not something that should prevent us from deferring to others Especially if the other person is in Christ, they're seeking to honor the Lord, when they observe our humility, they may in turn respond and desire to exhibit the same kind of humility in the course of the relationship. So sometimes just deferring, I'm going to die to my desires, I'm going to give up my preferences, and we can do what you want. That can often be the way to move forward in the relationship. Skipping down there to Ephesians 5, 21 to 6. 9, sometimes decisions can be made simply by recalling and living out the uh relational dynamics that God has placed us in. So 521 says, be subject to one another in the fear of Christ. And then from there, he moves into the relationship between husbands and wives and parents and children and slaves and masters. And so the point here is that if you're in a position where God has put someone over you as a leader, as maybe your head if you're a wife, your husband is the head of the wife, as he says in 522-23. Or you're a child in the home and your parent has told you something to do, or maybe you're an employer and you and your employer have a difference of opinion Just exercising that relational role and submitting to the leadership that God has put in your life can also be a way of simply resolving conflict. And even if you strongly disagree with the decision, if it were up to you, you wouldn't make that decision. But remembering that God has put that person over you, and therefore that person is responsible to the Lord for the decisions that they make, the leadership that they exercise. And so as long as it's not sinful or some other significant danger. We can just submit to the one the Lord has put over us and again die to our own preferences and desires. And then in some conflicts, the differences of opinion needs to be settled by mutual agreement and to mutual satisfaction. And so to accomplish this consider the following method as a wise way to work through disagreements to reach a mutually agreeable solution or decision. So again, some sometimes you can't just defer, like you you both need to be on the same page You both need to come up with the best possible solution that hopefully you're both happy with. And so how do you navigate differences of opinion when that's the case? You know, if you're a leader, if you're a husband, if you're a parent, if you're an employer, if you have authority over others, it is usually not wise to say, we're going to do what I want. No matter what you think. Because I'm the authority, I'm the one that God has has put over you, and so we're we're just going to do what I want. That's not a wise or helpful way to exercise leadership. Now, w could there be situations where that needs to happen? Sure, especially with parents, right? But uh many times, if at all possible, wise leadership says, I want to look out for the best of the person that I'm leading. I want to care for them. And so w since we do have this difference of opinion, let's see if we can work toward a a a place of mutual Agreement. So here's a simple tool that Ken Sandy came up with with how we can navigate differences of opinion, different solutions, and come to hopefully a better better approach to navigating these decisions. So it's called the issue position interest model or IPI and we'll just walk through this here. So, first of all, issue. Let's define our terms here. The issue is a question Which the final position answers. So there needs to be a question that's asked. And you see some examples there. How should we educate our kids Obviously there's all the different methods, home school, public school, private school, uh the the where do we go on vacation, you know, whose family do we visit? It's a question. The issue is a question And uh in order to uh employ this method, both parties have to agree with what is the issue. What is the question that needs an answer. And so you you come up with that singular question and you write it down and that's what you're seeking to address. Then there's the position, which is each individual's proposed solution to that issue. It's the answer that each one has for that question. Well, I think we should go to the beach. No, I really would prefer to go to the mountains. Or, you know, I think we should homeschool our kids. No, I I don't want to homeschool our kids The position is simply each individual's answer to the issue. And then there are the interests. The issue is singular, the position is singular, interests is plural. This is the motivation, or rather the motivations, that drives each person's position. This is what gives rise to their preferences. And these are the reasons that they have the position that they have. And so for any given position, any given answer or preference, there might be all kinds of things that contribute to a person thinking that they have the right solution. So the person who this is probably I need to change this example uh with homeschooling here, you know the person who says uh I I want to homeschool, uh maybe it's a mom who says, I really, really want my children have a I I really want uh to to teach my children. I want to have that joy and privilege. Uh maybe an opposing in interest is As it's written here I even pains to say it. I want I want my kids to have a good education. Obviously that's that can be somebody's Interest. Sorry. Yeah, interest. Doesn't make it right. It just that's could be what somebody's thinking. Uh alternative uh interest for the same issues could involve uh priorities, time, finances. There could be a variety of things that uh contribute to a person's position on the question of how do we educate our our children. There could be past experiences, good and bad, that contribute to that mindset You know, with a question of vacation, a person could prefer the sand and the water, whereas the other person prefers snow. And again, there could be multiple other factors that contribute to each person having the position, the answer that they have for that issue. And then same thing with you know, where uh which home to buy. And this is what's hopefully obvious, but really important to remember. When we have a question that's being asked, when we have an issue that we need to decide, and each party has a different position, has a different answer to that question. There will always be multiple and varied interests, motivations, factors that contribute to each person's answer. The problem is, and the reason that we tend to have conflict, especially in marriage, over these issues, and it could be in any other relationship as well, is because we just focus exclusively on what's the question and what's the answer. And even more than that, we focus it on the different answers that we want to provide. And we don't take the time to think through what's giving rise to those different positions. Why do we have those differences of opinion? And so that that's a dynamic that's critical to keep in mind and that this process is meant to address. Well then there's the goal. The goal is the final position, the ultimate answer, which satisfies the most amount of interest therefore resolving the issue. Okay, so those are the definitions. There's the issue, that's the question, that's the decision that needs to be made. There's the position, which is each person's initial answer to that question. There's the issues which then, sorry, interests, which uh are the factors and motivations that give rise to each person's perspective. So that's the layout. Let's think about the process. First thing, you have to identify the issue. You have to identify the question. that's going to be answered. In some cases, maybe it's it's multiple issues, multiple questions that need to be answered in cascading order. The situation, the decision is complex enough where there's multiple questions that need to be a answered and maybe there's a particular order in which those questions need to be answered. But you can only answer one question at a time, so just narrowly agree on one question that you can answer together and work through this process. Secondly, just clearly identify each person's position. My answer is, this is what I think we should do, and this is what you think we should do. Just identify, write down, articulate, agree together on each other's positions. Again, this is practicing good listening. What I'm hearing you say is this is what you would prefer. I know that this is your answer It's not not a matter of agreeing or disagreeing. It's not a matter of evaluating those opinions, just saying this is what each of our positions are. And then finally, listing out, and this is the most important part, listing out all of the interests that give rise to each person's position. What are the motivating factors? What are the things they're thinking about that lead them to make the conclusion that they have what is the best answer? You have some sample statements there, but you know, the idea is very simple, just writing out, here are all the things that I'm thinking about that make this answer what I think is the best answer And that part of the process, writing out all of the interests, is usually where there can be a light bulb moment. Where all of a sudden, aha, I didn't know that you were factoring this or that, you know, with uh vacation. Maybe one of the parties didn't know that it cost $10,000 to do the thing that they really wanted to do. And that's why the other party said, no, we can't do that. There could be all kinds of things that come out that haven't been communicated before, but have just been running around in in each other's minds, but by putting that out on paper uh puts everybody on the same page to realize Are the positions that we have even possible? And the person who's had a position, maybe they realize, oh, I I can see now why that's not even a reasonable answer to the question or why that's not the wisest answer to the question, or whatever it might be. So that's a critical step, listing out all of the interests all of the the factors to consider. If that doesn't immediately resolve the issue, then you can work through, all right, in light of all of these interests Is there a third option? Okay, you had your initial position. I have my initial position. Is there another option, is there a creative solution that actually meets most of the interests that we've both come up with that the original physicians didn't meet? And so that's a process of just talking through those things creatively, thinking about those things, talking through the interests themselves of uh you know affirming those things, maybe thinking about how to address each of those in different ways, uh just having a a conversation of understanding and working through each of the interests and collectively coming together to a more creative solution So that's number four. I did I know I didn't read all those subpoints, but I think you you get all of that. Number five, then you arrive at the final position, the goal And you write it down. And if you're sitting down together, you can thank the Lord for uh his help and have helping you navigate. uh that process and coming to a good solution uh that both of you are happy with and and uh that resolves uh the situation So, any any questions about uh any of that? Kind of walk through that fairly quickly. But issue, position, interest. No questions at all. Bassi, do you have any questions? Okay. Well that final concluding paragraph there, all of our relationships should be characterized by peace, unity, harmony, and love. As we said at the beginning, a reconciled relationship should be stronger than one that hasn't weathered any storms. And if this isn't true for you, consider how you can serve the other individual and even repent if you haven't been treating them. like Christ. Alright, so we we flew through uh a lot of this, uh especially that very first uh section uh in those passages. I I don't know about you and how you've been uh processing this course, but I hope that As we work through the material week after week, that as you have opportunity, as you know, you're just going about your life and thinking about your relationships. that there's been various things that have been helpful, that have been convicting. I would tell you that was it three weeks ago the lesson that I taught on battling bitterness. The Lord used that in in my life, subsequent to that, having taught that, just living life and thinking through some challenging uh issues, I realized, you know what, I think I might actually be struggling with bitterness in this area. And so the Lord has been even growing and maturing me, hopefully, and uh in practicing these things. So I just encourage you to uh be sensitive to the Spirit's work. of conviction and um instruction in your own life and heart. And I think these passages there, the the first page of this set of notes, page 71, are things to really give a lot of thought to, of how can I relate with those who have sinned against me, whether or not there has been reconciliation. And in a way that would please Christ, right? What would be a wise way to pursue this individual And we obviously need to think in every case about that situation and what is wise and and what is possible. But those are things I think to think through rather than just to assume that we already know the answer to that. Uh yes. I uh If uh thinking about forgiveness without reconciliation, I I think it's very possible to uh practice attitudinal forgiveness where we are forgiving somebody in our heart without having been reconciled to them. And by that I mean what uh attitudinal forgiveness is where we put them in the Lord's hands and say, Lord, though they have sinned against you and toward me Um I I am not going to hold that against them in the sense that I'm not going to uh seek to uh ad um exact revenge, I'm not gonna cultivate bitterness in my heart, I'm not gonna you know kind of practicing at least the first three promises. I'm not gonna let let this run around in my mind, I'm not gonna rehash these things I'm not going to talk to others, you know, in the form of gossip and so forth. So we can entrust a situation to the Lord. And say, this is in the Lord's hands. That person is in the Lord's hands. And I'm not going to hold anything against them. I'm going to forgive them in that sense. um even if they haven't come to me uh seeking my forgiveness. And be because they haven't done that, then we can't actually reconcile and restore the relationship. Does that answer the question? Okay That's it we related to that. Isn't that why we have the scripture uh giving someone seventy times seven? Because if you're forgiving them, it's not really reconciliation if they can to continuing having to continue to forgive them over and over again, sending them outstanding. So you are forgiving them, obviously you're not being referenced. Well it depends, I mean, um I think all of us who have relationships with other human beings, which is all of us, um, know that we sin against each other all the time and and we can still reconcile and overlook sin and uh forgive each other and and you know move forward but still have to repeatedly do that repeatedly forgive each other repeatedly extend grace so I mean, but there's like the other passage where Jesus says, even if somebody sins against you seven times in a day, forgive them. Now I don't necessarily think that means you know they sin against you in the same way seven times a day because Uh I I I left out the phrase, if they sin against you seven times a day saying, I repent each time, uh forgive them. Um if they're seven doing that seven times in the same day, you know, saying they repent, well they're not actually repenting. So we can sin against each other in different ways seven times a day and still repent and oh please forgive me now man now I messed up in this way, now I messed up in that way. Uh so it's more handy you don't Yeah, at least in one day. But yeah, it's a radical level of forgiveness that God calls us to because that's how He forgives us, right? Yeah. I've heard to the years a lot of people um use the term in the Ex examples of well somebody has repeatedly offended you, hurt you, they say something. They're still a believer, you're a believer, but moving forward, you seek reconciliation You've forgiven this person, but you still have this barrier because there's no trust. And um you have them at arm's length because fear for more harm for emotional view or it's a whatever. And the term that I've heard many people say is Well, just because you forgive that person doesn't mean you should let them hurt you again. Sure. Biblically it almost sounds like Well, before the Lord, if that's another believer who sought reconciliation, you're forgiving that person, you should still allow them to be in your life What is the position? Yeah, so I I think that's a situation where and this is where I was emphasizing it's that kind of situation I had in mind where I was thinking you have to consider what's wise Right? Uh I think there are are passages in scripture, like in Proverbs, where it says multiple times, uh the the uh prudent sees danger and hides himself. I mean that principle is put to in different ways multiple times. Where wisdom would say if this person is unrepentant and they are demonstrating a hardened heart um that not for the sake of self-protection uh necessarily, uh which is what the world would emphasize, you gotta protect yourself from toxic people, but uh for the sake of love You know, it's not necessarily it's not loving to allow someone uh free and full access uh without um um urging them to repent and um pursue holiness. I mean church discipline would be uh on the table if somebody is continuing to sin in a particular way if if there's uh a character issue there. Um you know when we think about church discipline, we often think about big sins. Oh, it adultery I don't know. Whatever else. Adultery is often one that one would think of when it comes to church discipline. Church discipline isn't for any particular sin, it's for unrepentance of any sin. And so if someone is continuing to sin without repentance and they're being continually confronted by one individual or multiple individuals, and they're still not repenting, then the church is responsible to uh address that through the process Jesus outlined there in Matthew 18. So So wisdom would say, I'm not gonna have the same, I'm not gonna allow the same kind of relationship if they're continuing to sin. But I do want to relate with them in a way that demonstrates love, which includes confrontation. And if they don't listen, then includes bringing one or two others, and if they still don't listen, telling it to the church So uh th those are the I think principles that we have to think about of uh how can I love this person well? And sometimes loving means I'm not gonna invite them out for coffee, uh I'm gonna um confront them over their sin. And so um the the way that we relate with them in that sense is is different than trying to strengthen a relationship where they're clearly wanting a strengthened relationship Does that make sense? Yeah. It's a common theme that I've heard for years and years people will say and consent of any different truths. It's a common theme in Christianity where they're like, well if that person, you know, has hurt you and you forgive them, it's done. But you don't have to be fun somebody. You know, just like cut them out. Yeah. And I'm really thankful for this course because it sounds like It's a little bit more complicated than there's wisdom in taking. Yeah, yeah. I would definitely say it's you know, case by case we need to think about what is a wise way to fulfill the commands that we're given And rather than just a simple don't be friends or you know k keep letting them hurt you, it's far more complicated for sure. Yeah, Brian. So um can you take Matthew ten sixteen the um being wise disturbances and stuff? So it's talking about false prophecies. aware can you apply that to that situation where you're being wise but also the distance of your opening up your life you still want to uh reconcile But being wise, being cautious. Yeah, yeah, i if we really just pull that out of the context and and draw the the broad principle from it. Yeah, we always want to have a soft heart. towards sinners, right? We always want to uh be ready and willing to forgive and have a a uh mutually beneficial relationship Um but uh we don't want to be foolish about it at the same time. You know we're supposed to be taking scripture hopefully God at that moment reminds us of what his precious word says And then we'll give it an opportunity to do that. Right. Right. Yeah. Alright, any other thoughts or questions or comments? Okay. Well let me pray. Father, thank you for uh this time that we've shared together. Uh Lord, we would confess. I don't know every situation in this room, but I know some, and I know the things in my own life where we would all affirm that the life you call us to is a life where we die to ourselves and Pursue others in a way that we wouldn't naturally want to do. Lord, help us to grow in wisdom. to consider how we can shine the light of Christ, which is a radically different light than our own flesh. But to put on display the transforming power of the gospel to those who have sinned against us and with whom we are seeking to be reconciled. And also the ambassadors to model for the watching world how you call us to live in a radically different way than what is typically expected. Lord, these are hard things, and we can't do it in our own flesh. We need your spirit's power and wisdom. And so I asked that you would give it to each one. And if there would even be a step that's needed to be taken today or this week. Lord, put that on our hearts to demonstrate the love of Christ and in the pursuit of strengthened relationships. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.