Lord, thank you for this day. Thank you for this morning. Thank you for who you are, for your truth, for your word that you have preserved for us to know. That when we battle such issues as these, when we have conversations, when we go out into the world, we would be equipped to be able to speak your truth to them. Because it is by your truth that people are saved. Not our rhetoric, not the things that we believe, Lord, as long as we hold fast to your truth. It is you that saves. It is you that transforms the mind and the heart. We are nothing without you, Lord. And we are nothing without your truth. Whatever wisdom I might have in myself or anyone else, it ultimately falls short of your wisdom. For you understand every circumstance and every situation to the perfect degree that is necessary to have a right opinion over these things And so we need to look to you to inform us how we are to think about these issues. They are contentious to the world, Lord, but we are your bride. We are your church. We are your body. And you have called us to be unified no matter what. And we are ultimately to be unified, of course, in the gospel, in Christ, by your spirit. So we looked to you to empower that, Lord, give wisdom to my words. Whatever is false may it be forgotten quickly, and whatever is true may it have an indelible print upon our minds and hearts. Instruct us this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so again, you're on a screen. I'm looking at you, but I'm not actually looking at you because the screen is this way. Um, I have to bring up my notes on the computer, so I can't see you, which is unfortunate. If you need to say something or have a question or anything or a comment to be made, uh just say it. Just stop me, interrupt me. If I start catching my breath and I start breathing and there's a pause in between the things that I'm saying Uh just just do it then. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna feel offended or anything like that. Excuse me. Um I'm obviously not Pastor Gabe, so uh he did a fantastic job last week. I I was incredibly encouraged by his lesson. We have been talking about this class for quite some time. This class was actually originally out of a conversation between Pastor Moore and I. I was hoping to teach the class with asked some more initially, but he left. So he is doing great things. I stay in regular contact with him. I've gotten notes from him for this class um in in in the preparation for this. And but then I um Pastor Morrow left and so uh I talked with Pastor Gabe if he wanted to to do this class as well as well as with Sean and Elias, but Elias is teaching the um uh teaching class which is a class I personally want to take but still haven't been able to take that class. I'm supposed to hit the record button on the recorder, I'm sorry. Pastor Gabe, if you're listening to this, it's because I forgot to hit the record button initially. So I already said a lot of things without recording, so I'm sorry. Anyway. So none of you, there's like three of you on the screen, everybody else has muted their microphones and has turned off their video Which is sad because I'd like to see faces. We have a few people in class. One, two, three, four, five, six people in class. Everybody else is online. Oh, my face is so close to the screen. I'm sorry about that. I know you don't want to look at that. Um I'm just now realizing these things. I would love for all of you to come to class. We still have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. We have nine, ten seats available, and I think we can make a few more seats with this class I encourage you to come to this class. If somebody asks a question out there, I'll repeat it just in case you you haven't heard it. And I'm also recording. This as well for Pastor Gabe and then also for the for the course notes and the files. And so I'm going to repeat the question. And also to make sure I understood what your question was. Again, I don't mind any interruptions on questions, just ask your question. It's okay. If you don't feel comfortable asking your question in in in front of people, then that's fine. Reach out to me, reach out to Sean, reach out to to Pastor Gabe. And um And we'll we'll help answer your questions as best as we can. Pastor Gabe is out of town this week, and then Sean is not going to be in class because he's actually at another church preaching. this morning so that's really cool. Um he has an opportunity to do that and so by all means um I think he should Okay. If you have the course notes open, the class notes, if you don't, please get them open. We are talking about worldviews and critical theories in this class. Really broad topic and to try to ground it a little bit here. We obviously are in the midst of a of a cultural revolution. That's not a radical statement that I'm making there. We're in the midst of like a like an ideological civil war. People are incredibly divided And at the crux of all of that is this issue called social justice, which has had a long history within this country and is now coming back around here. um today. Um critical theories are a um broad topic. It's not one thing, but it's really a a framework that informs what are called other critical theories. There's I think 13 main critical theories. This class is specifically on biblical authority, as you as you can tell from the notes. This class was actually going to be lesson four, but we moved it to the second lesson. It's actually going to be lesson one, but then Pastor Gabe really, really wanted to teach that first lesson that he taught. So that became lesson one, and this is now lesson two. The reason I say that is because a few points in the notes kind of assume that we've already taken the critical theory class and the critical race theory class. Those are two separate classes. And just So you know if you're if you're kind of getting um wound up to to go through that class because you have things to say or you have questions, you've heard things on the news or whatever the case is, we're going to get to that class I specifically wanted the lessons to be few and far between so that we would have more time to be able to slowly walk through these things. And just for just for reference, the critical theory class is about 24 pages long. There's no way we're getting through that in one week. It's probably going to take two weeks, it may even take three weeks The critical race theory class is about 17 pages long. This class is only about 10 pages long. But at the end of this, we'll probably have gone through about 100 pages of notes more or less. And that's truncated. I when I was writing the majority of these notes I realized that I could I could keep going on and on and on and on. But you know, it was too in it was going too far. Um And we would never finish the class at that rate. But even at that, um even at that, we're still going to dive pretty deep into this stuff. But in order for us, I think, to have a really good conversation about critical theories and critical race theory and social justice, we need to begin with these principles. Pastor Gabe went over Um a good majority of those principles. Excuse me, I drank a monster this morning. In most mornings. I know some some of you may not agree with uh energy drinks, but Can help you with that. Also, for any questions about my beard or my hair, one, Faith has approved these things, so that's okay. She actually likes my beard, so that's also okay. I'm not shaving it for a year. We're already eight months into that. So the if if you ask me when are you shaving it, I maybe a year, you know, but probably not Um, I'm not gonna cut my hair probably ever again, but we'll see how that goes. Um So I just kind of want to move that some of that stuff out of the way. Yeah. Because I can, exactly. Roger mentioned that I can do these things, and so I I will do these things Okay, um I can still only see a few faces, but that's okay. I'm sure everybody else is laughing. I like to think I'm funny, but sometimes people tell me I'm not. Pastor Gabe kind of mentioned that he was a bit a bit nervous about this class. Uh I I echo some of his sentiments. Pastor Gabe is a man of faith. He does not shrink from the truth as I would expect all of our elders and leaders and teachers to be the same way. And I think he demonstrated that. He really did a masterclass on the core foundations of this issue and what we need to be aware of. There is a in in the in the in the bulletin there is a um a class description of what of what this class was. And at the end of that class description, it talks, it quotes part of a verse from Ephesians 4, 1 through 3. It's actually one of our men's breakfast memory verses And the memory verses or the verse is, therefore I, the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience. showing tolerance for one another, in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. This class is not designed to be divisive. Inherently. This class is not designed to put each other at odds. This class is not designed to get out each other's throats. This class is designed to preserve the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. And I think ultimately the truth does that. And the way we get to that truth is by submitting ourselves to the Bible. And there are many instances where that might be incredibly difficult to do. might be very difficult to do in the midst of a world that is blasting an ideology in your face and is is a as best as it can right now, trying to force people to adhere to that ideology, whether um you you agree with it or not You have to recognize that it's it's in your face. If you are anywhere around media, if you're anywhere around social media, if you're anywhere around the news, If you're anywhere around academia, if you're anywhere around sports now, everywhere this issue has shown up. And there's a reason why this issue has shown up And it's not, it's not just it's not just what you what you probably would answer that question or that statement to. There is an agenda, and this isn't me trying to be a conspiracy theorist, there is an agenda that's being pushed. And it's not an agenda about conservative versus liberal It's really trying to undermine what truth is, be able to establish a new truth. And that's really the crux of critical theory. Just to give you a small brief little note on it. It is a framework that is designed to establish a new truth and it's And it's a skeleton that allows anybody to put the meat on it to create their own theory and then push that push that ideology for the public or whoever. Throughout this class, we are going to compare and contrast social justice and critical theory and critical race theory and all these things with biblical truth. And we're going to see if it aligns up. And that will require patience and it will require us to really look at what Scripture has to say on these issues. Because God cares about justice I I don't know if that's you know a crazy statement. I know you guys believe that, but God cares about justice. God cares about truth. God cares about um what you are listening to. God cares about people, he cares about his creation, he cares about everything. And my wanting to go through this material is not to um not to upset or not to offend or anything like that. What my my job is, it's not really a job, but my my desire is to make sure that God's truth is understood. And that these principles are taken and that they're um put upon our hearts and our minds and ultimately will inform how we conduct ourselves and our behavior and the way that we think and talk and speak. Because all of that matters, because the Bible talks about literally all of that. It talks about what you're supposed to do and and how you interact with people, uh the your your the kind of thought life that you have what you do with your time, who you align yourself with, things like things like that. And the the biblical authority class is probably not going to be some shocking material. A lot of this is just me reminding you of of this, but we're going to talk about a few things. Okay? I hope you're excited. I'm terribly excited for this class. I'm not exactly nervous. I'm just I'm jittery a little bit because of the monster, but I am really, really excited for this class. Honestly, I thought the first week went incredibly well. And I'm hoping also for more interaction. I know he Pastor Dave had mentioned this is more lecture and material, which it is, but please, by all means, don't let that um uh prevent you from asking a question or or or or stating a comment. And and I will interact. If I don't agree with your comment, I'm gonna tell you I don't agree with your comment. It's not an attack on your personal character. It's not an attack on you as a human being. It's just we're gonna disagree possibly. And that's okay. I think we need to learn to how to how to have disagreements so that we can better work through these things as brothers and sisters in Christ That's that's that's you know a longer conversation. All right, here we go. Here are the notes. You ready? What exactly does biblical authority have anything to do related to this topic? As previously examined, and again, this is assuming we'd already taken this class, so this worldview of critical theory stresses that any ideology, fact, or truth claim cannot foundationally and ultimately be true. We have examined in part how the Bible stresses that truth is actually true and in contrast to critical theory it is liberating rather than inherently oppressive. That statement will make a lot more sense when we take the class, believe me. We're going to take those classes right after this class, okay? The Bible is really at the center. It's easy to convince a world of unredeemed sinners that the Bible isn't true. It should be impossible to convince a redeemed saint that the Bible isn't true Did I say that right? Yeah. So what the enemy instead does is create a new narrative similar to the Bible using biblical language. Do twist what it really says and gets you to agree with that twisted understanding. It's very subtle, it's very crafty. And we'll go through it in other classes. We're going to do a deeper study on Genesis 3 and exactly how the serpent twists truth in his conversation with Eve, but it's incredibly deceptive. It's very subtle always. It's little changes. It's a change here and it's a change there that creates a completely new dynamic to what he's trying to portray. The narrative completely changes. And we'll go a little bit over that in this class as well. Let me give you a pretty straightforward example, all right? Let's say someone comes up to you and makes the statement. You know, you're talking about social justice, you're talking about these things, and then they say something like this. They say God is about justice. And Isaiah 1. 17 says to correct oppression, so how could you be against the social justice movement? Don't you care about those that are being oppressed? Are you really a Christian That's not that's not a crazy statement. I've heard statements like that before. You've probably have heard statements like that before, but it assumes so much within that statement. And really you have to ask those questions about what it is that you mean by those statements. So let's go over a little bit of that. Well we won't go in depth here. There are many assumptions that are made to even make such a statement Sounds simple. It uses a Bible verse. It has similar words and language, but how could it possibly be wrong? First assumption is that God is about justice. They have to assume that in order to even make the statement. What does that person know about justice? What do they know? What does that person asking know about God? Who do they believe God is and why and what do they believe justice is? Where are they getting their information from? A person just comes up to you and says, I am for justice. Your justice and their justice might be completely two different justices and it not even be the same justice One justice might be so far out of here, and your justice might be you might both be wrong, right? But all of us instinctually have a sense of justice, but we have been informed about how We have been trained in certain ways about how that justice is shaped. And so even if a person says, I'm for justice, that doesn't necessarily mean they're for biblical justice. It's just the statement needs clarification, unfortunately, more so than ever. A lot of what the conversation has to be about is clarifying. Asking for definitions. What do you mean by this? What do you mean by that? Who do they think God really is? Are they even a believer? Do they understand that Jesus Christ is the Messiah, the Son of God, sent by the Father to die for the sins of his elect, to be uh to bear the wrath that was for us? to die, be risen again, be seated at the right hand of the Father, to send the Holy Spirit. Do they believe these same core biblical doctrinal truths? Do they understand really who God is? Have they even read the Bible? Are they just using a verse? A lot of these things are very assumptions. Second assumption is that you won't catch the whole verse. They're just using what we call cherry-picking, and we're guilty of this too. They're just using the one part that sounds right in their eyes The whole verse says this, learn to do good, seek justice, rebuke the oppressor. I'm using the NASVI here in the Easpi it says correct oppression. Obtain justice for the orphan, plea for the widow's case. Okay. So now we have a little bit more clarity in context to what this verse is saying That phrase learn to do good in verse 17 is followed by a semicolon which links the next statements and places them on the same level. It's a way of saying that the second statement further explains the first. To do good, one has to seek justice and plead for the widow's case and obtain justice for the orphan and so on and so forth. And you may you may be saying to yourself, well that that certainly sounds like social justice to me. We'll we'll we'll talk about that. I'm still working on it, but we have notes and we're going to go over literally what justice is. And it's 17 pages long. I anticipate it probably being like 25 pages. We're probably going to have to go through quickly some of these other classes, but we're going to talk about literally what the Bible the signs of justice. I'm going to give you a spoiler here a little bit, a little, a little nugget. Okay? Get you excited for that. What is justice? I'll give you a quick answer. Justice is righteousness and equity. combined together. Those two phrases are are two sides of the same coin and they always meet. And you will find in passage after passage after passage after passage after passage Every time that it talks about justice, it's usually met with righteousness or equity, which equity really means impartiality. to be impartial about things, to not be prejudiced about things, to not be assumptive about things, to take things and and to examine them, to be impartial, to not give favor to the one or to the other. And by the way, the Bible says strictly not to favor the great or the poor. And we're going to talk about that, alright But justice is met with righteousness and equity in almost every single passage. Okay? Third assumption is what the Bible means again by good justice oppressor, because Frankly speaking, what social justice defines as oppression is not the same thing as what the Bible defines as oppression. I'm going to throw a couple big words at you here. Okay, again, these are some primers for the rest of the lesson. Social justice believes that oppression is is hegemonic oppression. I'm just- I just threw a weird word at you. You may have heard it, you may have not. Hegemony is essentially one's dominating culture being oppressive to another person's culture. That's hegemony. It's power dynamic. Social justice and critical theory goes through a lot of power dynamics, oppressor and oppressed. And we'll we'll talk about all of that. Okay? The Bible has a very specific definition. Okay, go ahead. You had a question? Oh Jeff, what's your question, Jeff? Um I'm sorry, I just recorded this out. Um I don't know if you can give a uh a generalization. Those who believe in this social justice and the term that you just put forward, Hejmani Uh when people are out there screaming, do they even know what they're even talking about? No, the final Yeah, we're we're gonna we're gonna that's a great question and and I think part of our problem is that we we assume those things as well. We're talking about very academic level type stuff here, okay I I am sure and I even put it in in some of these notes. I I forget exactly which which lesson at this point this this portion comes up, but I put specifically in these notes somewhere and I say essentially You probably could go out to to a to a Black Lives Matter function protest, whatever, and you could probably talk to most people and you would say things like, do you know what hedge money is? And they would probably go, I don't know what that is And it's not to call them dumb, it's not to call them stupid, it's simply to say that they may not know what that means. The the point is is that the agenda leaders, those the organizers, and and I I do a really good job, I hope. And when we go more in depth into what social justice and social justicians believe, I try to quote as much as I can. and have sources for everything that I state that that they believe. And I I try to make sure that you can verify that information for yourself. Not just because they're in in in in these nodes, but so that you can do the homework as well. But beside beside the point to to Jeff's question, they I I don't think they they have a clue, probably. They've probably heard it before. Um they probably may have heard it in passing, but no, I I honestly believe that there is probably a good majority of them who just simply hate racism, they simply hate the death of people, and they're out there protesting that. And they're just getting caught up in the theory of things. Yeah, and I'm you know it it's it's it's a heartbreaking situation and many heartbreaking situations. Again, as Ray mentioned, we're not really going to go over, you know, current cases and specific instances with George Floyd or Brianna Taylor for an example. We're not really going to talk about that stuff. We're keeping it very academic level Um I'm more than happy to have those conversations, by the way. I I don't I don't mind having those conversations. But w we also have Literally like 100 pages of notes, not today, but um in general to go through. So But yeah, I I I I agree with you, Jeb. They're probably just caught up in a lot of this stuff. Um And the same for for um for for a lot of people, but anyway, here we go. We're on topic. We're still there. Thank you for the question, Jeff. That's it is a really good question, I think, that needs clarifying too. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Um he essentially asked Um, you know, do people when they when when they go to these rallies and whatnot, do they know what what hegemony is, for an example? The answer is probably not. That's the bottom line. Probably not. Okay. Um You know, these are pretty generic statements. Seek justice. What does it really mean to seek justice? Is it synonymous with the ideology of critical race theory? How would you know Here's a question. Would you still agree with the original statement if it didn't? What does that say about you if your answer is yes? And what do I mean? You know, um Is biblical justice synonymous with the ideology of critical race theory? Is it or is it not? Does it agree or does it not agree? If you would still believe the statement if it was in a disagreement with the Bible and you admit that, what does that say? What does that say about you? What does it say about how you view the Bible if you're ready to accept a potentially misleading interpretation of a verse and use it as justification for your actions? We want to be very careful. And I know I'm again this is a very generic situation, a very generic statement. You know, I'm I'm not going in depth. I'm not pulling a quote from somebody today and and And I'm also now pulling out what their heart's intentions is and being able to show that to you all as well. I'm just talking generalities here a little bit. In this simple example though, you can see how it's easy to start picking apart many things, and especially unspoken things. A lot of it again is assumption. The world truly doesn't understand the Bible. They make assumptions based on what they believe the Bible should be saying They may even be right. There's that adage, you know, broken clock is twice is right twice a day. They may even be right about about their interpretation of the Bible. They don't understand it experientially in the way that you do. I asked Pastor Lee before, I said, if if somebody can give me the gospel and they can give me every intricacy about the gospel. You know, but they they don't they don't believe it or or um you know if if they can ascend intellectually to everything about the gospel, what separates me from from them His answer essentially was they don't experience it the same way that you do. You you have a different relationship with the gospel inherently than than what an unbeliever does. Even if they are right about that information. I have a family member who is a staunch atheist, and they can literally give me penile substitution pretty good. Penile substitution is well, you know, Christ paid our debt for our for our sins. He bore our punishments, you know, in a judicial way. We are declared righteous by the judge, right? Things like that. They can give me really good answers on what penile substitution is about the gospel. They don't understand, they don't believe a lick of it though You know, they deny Christ, they deny these things, and yet they understand logically what those things are, what separates us. We understand doctrinally what separates us, scripturally what separates us is that we have the spirit who illuminates our minds to the truth And they don't, right? So they have to they have to make a lot of assumptions. Um some commentators say that they borrow our worldview in order to explain how their world works. And you have to catch them in that They assume what justice is, they assume who God is, they assume what truth is. They don't have a justification for any of that though Generally speaking, they don't have a single justification for any of that. Where do you get truth from? Where do you get truth? Where do you get God? Where do you get these things? Who are you worshiping? You have to ask questions like that because I I promise you you'll come the answers you probably expected. The bottom line is we ought to get our reasons for anything pertaining to worldview, ideology, understanding of truth, foundations based upon the teaching of the Bible. That's why expensive preaching and teaching is absolutely necessary. Because we need to do the hard work of digging into the Bible rather than using it for our own purposes. Since these ideologies and philosophies want you to drift away from biblical conceptions. It is important to reinforce why biblical authority is important. We're going to go over three things here. Excuse me. Inerrancy of the Bible, infallibility of the Bible, and authority of the Bible. Those are three main things that we're going to go through today Alright? Comments questions so far. Coolio? All right, rockin' and rollin'. Great. The inerrancy of the Bible has been under attack since its inception. Throughout the Old Testament and the New Testament, the writers of Scripture, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, are constantly defending the Word of God. Again, this assumes we've already taken those classes. We began our study with regards to Genesis 3, where the serpent deceived Eve by twisting the command of God by offering a new interpretation of that command, a new conclusion of that command, and a new result of that command. We're going to go more in depth into Genesis 3, but let's pull it up together. Okay? We pull up Genesis 3 together, please. Just so, you know, we're gonna go through scripture here. I think that that would be a good idea, you know. All right, verse one. Now the serpent was more cunning. And any animal of the field which the Lord God had made, and he said to the woman, Has God really said, You shall not eat from any tree of the garden? The woman said to the serpent, From the fruit of the trees of the garden, we may eat, but from the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat from it, or touch it, or you will die. The serpent said to the woman, You certainly will not die. For God knows that on that day you eat from it, your eyes will be open, and you will be come like God, knowing good and evil. When the woman saw that the tree was good for food and that it was light to the eyes and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, she took some of its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband with her and he ate. Then the eyes of both of them were open and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed big leaves together and made themselves waist coverings. We're focusing though on verses two through five in short form. We're going to go over this next week in greater detail. The serpent had denied the command of God. He said, has God really said? And that statement right there is a turning point in human history. So you know how important it is for that statement to exist. That is a turning point in human history. You may say, oh, it was when Adam and Eve fell. I don't think so. Yeah, that was when it was solidified, but the s the beginning point of all of that happens on this statement. And what is it that is being denied God's word is being denied, and that is the first issue to all of our problems right there. As Od Billy said. Satan denied that. He denied the command of God immediately Has God really said you shall not eat from any tree of the garden? This is his new command. What did God originally say? Don't eat from one tree of the garden. What did the serpent say? Did he say not to eat from any of the tree? See how subtle that is? We went from God saying you can't eat from one tree to Satan saying did God really say you can't eat any tree? He he amplified the command. He made it worse He made it more restrictive. All these things. Satan twisted in a very subtle way, the way that God had actually commanded Adam and Eve what they were supposed to do and not do. He twisted it We made a new command and then made a new statement from that command. You certainly will not die. There's the new conclusion. There is the new statement from Satan himself He questions God, he makes a new command, and then he says, You're not going to die. Don't worry about it. It's fine. And then a result of that command, for God knows that you will become like God. Speaking from from the knowledge of from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, if it was that easy to become God, you know, I I okay. The the the the logic doesn't exist there. I mean you understand that. But do you really understand that? No, she was deceived. But the point is is that he makes a ridiculous statement. What does it mean to become like God? It isn't just knowing good and evil. We all know good and evil now. Are we God? No. But but that's that's that's the the twisting of all these things. It's a twisting of the commands, it's a twisting of of what you're actually supposed to do and not do. It's a twisting of the results of obeying or denying those commands. And then it's a twisting of what's going to happen when you do those things. And his statement is you're going to become God. You're going to become like God. You're going to know good and evil. From beginning to end, the serpent strategy is completely wrong. It starts with the wrong interpretation. and comes to a wrong conclusion. What did God first tell Adam? He said in Genesis 2, 15 through 17, From any tree of the garden you may freely eat. But from the tree, the one singular of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. That's the original command. For on the day that you eat, you will certainly die. You won't become like me knowing good and evil, but you're going to die. That's the original conclusion and result of that command. God's command is actually much better than the interpretation and deception of the serpent. God said to Adam, he could eat any of the any of the trees. He can do whatever he wants, including the tree of life. We know that the tree of life was in the Garden of Eden, right? It gave him eternal life. It's good It's great. They can eat freely from that. So there is no restriction. No restriction from from their relationship with God's rel uh their relationship with God. They can walk freely with God. They can They can talk with him and ask him questions and be in the midst of the garden and paradise and be in good relationship with one another. No animosity, no enmity between the man and and the woman. No enmity between anything in in in all of creation. God literally made it good. The only thing he didn't immediately declare good was when he made Adam and Adam was lonely, so he made the wife and then they came together and everything was good and great and grand I lose the Garden of Eden, it was perfect. Please just sound really loud on the recording. I knocked the microphone down Cool. But God's command was so much better. He could say you can eat any of the tree. Anything is is open to be eaten. Genesis 2 even tells us the Lord God caused every tree to grow that is pleasing to the sight and good for food. You could eat from them. It tasted nice. What kind of trees were they? I don't know. I have no idea. What does an uncorrupted orange taste like? Who knows? I know an orange tastes pretty good though. Did oranges exist in the Garden of Eden? I have no idea. You know, they they Ray Comfort used to do his little spiel with the with the banana. And he was like, you know, the banana is perfectly fitted to the to the hand of a human being to be able to eat. And then people got on his case, they called him Banana Man. They called him Banana Man because Humans have like genetically modified the the the banana that we have today to be the way that it is and then scientists would say, oh, this is proof of atheism because of natural selection we select these training genetics to make the banana that we have today. It's a really silly debate. It's a really silly debate on bananas, but that's not the point. The point is is what what did original fruit look like? I don't know. It probably tasted really good though because the Bible says that it tasted good. You remember you remember that song as a kid? My my wife sings this song to my son. uh just on every night. Jesus loves me. This I know and then what does it say after that? For the Bible tells me so, wow. Isn't that incredible that even in our children's nursery rhymes we come to the conclusion that we know these things to be true because the Bible says that these things for true. Everything has to be reinforced by this. This is incredibly important. Nothing was out of the reach and beyond the approval of God. They watched with God, they talked with God. Alright? You can read the rest of that. That's that's point E. Point F. We see the consequences of listening to bad biblical interpretation. It moves us away from the better truth of God and gives us justification to live unrighteously. What happened to Eve? She saw that the fruit was good to the eyes, it was pleasing to the sight. It looked good to eat and what? That it was desirous to make one wise Yeah, the lust of the eyes, the lust of the front, the fruit uh the pride of life, all three of the main some main temptations, ones that Jesus himself experienced, one that's talked about in 1 John, Eve experienced right there in the garden. Wow, the thread of the Bible moves pretty good. It moves pretty good. One potentially major consequence is the issue of wrongly interpretating the gospel. Think about the consequences of having and believing a false gospel. What does that do? It gives us a false sense of security, it gives us a false hope, and it will lead people to hell. This is the consequence. This is the gravity of the situation here If you don't have the right gospel, you're not saved. Plain and simple. Where do you get the right gospel from? You get it from the Bible. Are these radical things you're hearing? Absolutely not. They're radical to the world though. But it isn't the only it isn't only gospel doctrine that the writers of the Bible warn about. We say that you can't be bound by the Bible. You can't box yourself into the Bible. That the Bible is a springboard to get you to God. And then they go on these wild tangents of different doctrines and ideas. Do they hold fast to the gospel of truth? Yes. Yes, they do. Do I welcome them as brothers and sisters in Christ? Absolutely. But the dangerous of not holding to biblical doctrine, biblical orthodoxy is going on wild adventures with ideas. And if you say we only need to affirm gospel truth and we can just kind of put aside the secondary and tertiary conversations, that's not what these verses that I'm about to show are talking about. They're not just talking about gospel doctrine. They're talking about all got doctrine. Second Timothy four, three through four. For the time will come when they will not tolerate sound doctrine. Generality that isn't specific to just the gospel, that is just sound doctrine in general. And they will turn their ears away from the truth and will turn aside some myths. Let me ask you, is is Paul saying that that's a good thing or a bad thing? So does it do those do these lesser issues matter? Now am I talking about you know the the the the types of clothes that we wear to church? I have a giant jacket on Some people might feel offended by the clothes that I'm wearing right now. That just might be the case. Some people might be offended by the fact that I have a beard. Some people might be offended by the fact that I'm a male and have longer hair Are these lesser issues? Yes, they're lesser issues. That belief matter in our interactions with one another. It shouldn't. But does it sometimes? Yes. So do these things matter? Yes, they do matter. Are they as important as the gospel? No. Are these radical things that I'm saying? Of course not. You already know these things I have to affirm these things because we're about to talk about a whole system, a whole world view that is so deeply ingrained into so many assumptions, to so many false statements, and this twisted But the truth of God's word, the truth of God's word, and the things that it affirms into such a radical new idea. And blood, by the way, at the end of the class I'm going to give you the lesson outline here for the class. Okay, let me get you excited. Okay, so we did we did the principles that that Pastor Gabe did week one. Now we're doing biblical authority, affirming what the Bible says, and holding fast and submission to that And then we're going to talk about critical theory in an academic level. And then we're going to compare and contrast critical theory with the Bible. Okay? And then we're going to do the same exact thing with critical rate theory specifically. But I also mentioned that for 13 big studies on critical theory, we're going to talk a little bit about those, not a whole lot, but a little bit about those. Okay And then we're going to talk about justice. What is biblical justice? I already mentioned it. Equity and righteousness. Okay? And then we're going to talk about what the Bible defines as racism, oppression, prejudice, and all those things in one whole lesson. We're going to talk about all of that. And then we're going to talk about the importance of the gospel, and then we're going to talk about social justice in our culture, which by the way, critical theory and critical race theory and social justice, even though they're linked, they're not all the same thing. Those are the foundations. Social justice has its new message. And then we're going to talk about exactly what that looks like in doctrine and how that influences churches today. Because I don't know if you know this. There's not a I'm not raising an alarm bell and and being trying to make people scared or paranoid or anything like that But those messages of critical theory and critical race theory and social justice have have made their ways of the church so far into the church. But they're literally making a new gospel. My primary concern with this class was being concerned with the influence of these things upon our understanding of biblical orthodoxy And how and how easy it is to twist. What I'm going to do eventually, I'll show you a list tweet. If if anyone's ever read the statement on social justice that was produced by Dr. MacArthur and I think uh other other theologians, not just Dr. Dr. MacArthur. He's the one I remember. Uh Dr. James White was on it as well, and I think um I can't remember all the names are on it I went list by list, statement on social justice, made statements and declarations, gave what they were, and then the biblical interpretation or the biblicals control packing for that right there is another place I'm not going to say because I don't want to spoil it there is another place that gave its own statement on social justice in direct in direct contrast to what they were saying and let me tell you Some of it's very silly. Some of it's very, very silly. Not because they're there are morons, but some of them are the some of the statements are very silly This is this is a place, you if you Google this, you'll find it. This is a place that that put um plants in on a stage They put plants on a stage and made a prayer circle around it and then and then asked the plans for forgiveness. But one of their first statements is that in order to understand biblical interpretation correctly, you must hold fast to the Bible and critical theory. That's one of the first statements on their statement on social justice. I'm not saying because they believe that then they believe about asking plans for forgiveness. That's not the correlation that I'm making. But I'm saying that there's a logic conclusion to how these things play out. Okay? So very strange stuff. It's very weird stuff 2 Peter 2, 1 through 3, and we're gonna have to go a little quickly on this. But false prophets also appeared among the people, just as there will also be false teachers among you who Will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the master who bought them, bringing swift destruction upon themselves. And you think, are false teachers getting away with this? No, no, no, no, no. Many will fall their in just indecent behavior because of them The way of truth will be maligned. And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. But here's justice. The judgment from long ago is not idle. And their destruction is not asleep. Woo! Man, those are those are some heavy statements. Those are some heavy statements for false teachers. They think they're getting away with it. I always ask the question, does a false teacher know that it's a false teacher? I don't think in every single case, unfortunately. I think some people are actually deceived into being false teachers. I have reasons for that. But I think there are some men and women, both, who know exactly what they're doing who know exactly exactly what they're doing. And they think they're getting away with it. I'm telling you right now, their destruction is not asleep because God's word says that. And that's a that's a that's a heavy statement. And we even call out the false teachers and we say Please come back to the gospel. You don't you don't want to endure God's wrath. You don't want to do that. It's not worth it. It's not worth it. Just get that in your head. It's not worth it. What is meant by the inerrancy of the Bible? The God-breathed scriptures are wholly true in all things that they assert in the original autographs and therefore function with the authority of God's own words. The Word of God is pure and without any mixture of fraud and deceit, like silver which was well refined and purified from all its straws. In other words, God's word is true in all that it claims and all that it asserts and all its passages, verses, and doctrines Everything that the Bible is is true. The Bible is inerrant or incapable of being wrong. Because God is inerrant. Much of the conversation that we're going to have throughout these weeks is based and rooted in God's character. Why does justice exist? Because God is a God of justice. Why do we affirm these things about justice? Because God, because justice is rooted in God's character. Everything that we are told not to do in the commandments of God are true because those things are not true of God. I'll give you an example. We'll talk a little bit about this. Let's uh go to point um Yeah, point three. In other words, God's word is true in all that it claims and all that asserts, right? The truth of God is rooted in his character. For example, the commandments of God are true because the ultimate reflect is nature. They are a demonstration of who God really is. We are told not to bear false witness simply because God will not bear false witness. This is not in his character to do those things. Where do we get that from? Numbers 23, 19. God is not a man that he would lie. Titus 2. 1 or uh Titus 1 2 and the hope of eternal life which God who cannot lie promised long ago. Why are we not to lie? Why are we not to bear false witnesses? who God is and we are his creation. And so God tells us not to do those things. In a debate that I had with a friend, they they asked me, you know, um if no humans existed, would murder still be wrong? If humans didn't exist and we're there's space and cosmos and all these things. We people, because he believes that we decided on these social aspects that murder is really bad for society and all that, hey, we would agree. with that statement. It is bad for society we shoot and murder. Murder and killing are two different things, and then you know that. Um But he said if if humans didn't exist, if the if the main com combatants against one another didn't exist, would murder still be wrong? The answer is yes. You know why the answer is yes? Because God has always existed. Yes. People have decided what is I said, you know, with a Bible thing because they don't have Bible the word of practice, specifically in the Kenko Market Yeah. Yeah, that's that's a really, really large conversation. Um He was saying that he doesn't like the arguments that um you know um we we develop these these laws for society because it's beneficial to society. Rather, these laws are developed because they have root in in biblical truth and scripture. Specifically with the with the Ten Commandments. I think that's true. In every aspect, good law always has a has a measure of of moral truth combined with that law. You know, we have laws against murder because it's morally wrong to commit murder. Where do we find that basis? We find that in biblical truth. It all relates back to these things Right? We are told not to murder, here's here's another one, you know, in in keeping with that because God is not a murder. John eight forty-four says You are of your father the devil and you and your will is to do your father's desire. He, uh Satan, was a murderer from the beginning and has nothing to do with the truth because the truth is not in him When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Now this is a characterization of Satan. It demonstrates he is a murderer and a liar because it is rooted exceed exceed Um in his character. And then it goes on to say, for he, God, who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not murder. Now if you do not commit adultery, but do murder, you have still become a violator of the law. God support this law because God is not a murderer, therefore he instructs us as his creation to not murder, nor is God a transgressor of his own law. So the Bible is true because one, God wrote the Bible, and two, the Bible reflects his nature. 2 Timothy 3, 16 through 17 says, all scripture is inspired, and you can read those verses from there. We're running a little low on time. Yeah, I thought this lesson was only supposed to take one thing. Oh man. Oh boy. Okay. I have to stop doing I have to stop doing rabbit trails. I'm sorry. The bottom line is if the Bible is inerrant, then all that is said about life, truth, and reality are true. The Bible deals on all topics to varying degrees, and we're given biblical wisdom to navigate varying issues that pertain to life, truth, and reality. Not every single situation is given an exact answer. I know that there is a book of Daniel, but there's a book It's not a book of Daniel Tyler that's supposed to be factors of my life in every single scenario and situation. It's the T. Do I take a left step with my left foot or a right step with my right foot? in the morning at at 8 36 a. m. I don't know. That's not what the Bible says. I just live, you know what I mean? But it gives us biblical principles to inform our wisdom to be able to make conclusions and determinations on how we should live our life They have to be informed by these things. Further, the Bible stands or falls as a whole. This is precisely the reason why there are attacks on the Bible inerrancy in every age. If the enemy can show that the Bible is not inerrance And the whole of the Bible is called into question. If one aspect of it isn't true, then why should we trust it? For example, the account of creation. I'm not going to read the passage that I that I have in there There are some Christians who believe that evolution is true. Despite the fact that they have Genesis. And I I do believe that they're brothers and sisters in Christ because it's It's an issue of creation. It's not an issue necessarily directly of do you believe that Jesus died for your sins? Okay? But it it causes issues, does it not? If if a person believes in evolution, then what's the whole point of Genesis? What's the whole point of creation? And then specifically it goes into here, what's the whole point of Romans 1? But Jesus came as the man who who by the one act of righteousness fulfilled what was demanded by the one act of Of of sin of the man Adam, what sense does that make if the Genesis isn't true? Who is Adam in evolution Some would say John Lennox, who is a Christian apologist who did a marvelous debate against uh Richard Dawkins, highly recommended, did have one, I do have one quibble with that debate is they talked about evolution, and John Lennox essentially said Well I believe that God did something special in evolution with Adam and Eve. No, absolutely not. Don Lennox is a is a mathematician. He's he's a really intelligent, smart man, and I don't think he just makes this thing Alone is a brother, but that is that is wrong. Just wrong. Um if if if if Adam didn't exist in evolution, and he didn't sin in the way that it says that he sins. And and that sin nature isn't passed through generations by the one sin of Adam by evolution, then Christ coming down doesn't matter because what what is the basis of evolution? It needs to be cycle of death. Death in life and death in life and death in life so they can mutate and grow and change and all these things. Where did death come from? It came from sin. It was introduced in the world by sin. And so if the creation account is wrong, then creation was instilled initially with a sin nature, death. Death in life and death in life. So either Adam and Eve were were not protoplasm that evolved eventually into fish that evolved eventually into human beings. But they were. And it certainly the passage that I see certainly doesn't make sense that protoplasm sinned against God. Does it make sense? It doesn't make sense because it's it's it's it I don't want to say it's silly, but it's it's it's just wrong. It is silly. I'll say it is silly. Go ahead. Yeah. Yeah. So it's it contradicts Mm-hmm. Contradicts a lot. Yeah, he was saying that evolution contradicts a lot of things. Evolution says we're getting better, but in reality we're actually getting worse. Okay? Do I have any questions on the chat? Well, it's Camel throughout it. I'm not gonna read chat anymore. Okay. I didn't even see that and my wife is defending me. Thank you, honey. Okay. God is indeed capable of writing a book. He's able to communicate to us clearly. Godquestions. org, which by the way, I say this in a lot of classes. because they use the material a lot. Godquestions. org is the premier Christian Google on the planet. And it is the best thing ever. I love, I love that website. Dwayne Atkinson of the Bar Podcast, not the Bar like drinking bar, but the Biblical Reform Podcast, in an interview with the with the creator of Godquestions. org, he is a solid guy. I mean a solid guy. Um he he would come in this church and stand with us on on literally almost every single issue. really, really appreciate the ministry of Godquestions. org. They provide this this fantastic point. Quote, the Bible judges us, not vice versa. For the word of God judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart. Hebrews 4. 12 Notice the relationship between the heart and the word. The word examines, the heart is being examined. To discount parts of the word for any reason is to reverse this process. We become the examiners and the word must submit to our superior insight. And God says, but who are you, O man, who talks back to God? Romans 9. 20. Wow, I love that statement so much. Because it is exactly and precisely one of the core issues that we run into constantly. It's that people are judging God's word rather than submitting to God's word. And that is ultimately the reason why we have so many issues with interpretation and ideologies and philosophies ultimately. Who are you to judge God's word? Just just think about that for a second. Who are you to put God's word on the docket and become the judge of it and say, please, please testify to me while you're true? I mean, how arrogant is that Verses such as John 67 through 69 teach us such important insight. So much to go through. You're going to have to read the majority of this on your own, but that's okay. You can do your own study. that's going to be beneficial. The infallibility of the Bible. The people say the Bible is infallible. It's not, does not have error. There's no error in the Bible, right? Seton says we believe that of the original documents. There's there's a caveat here. We believe that of the original documents. What do I mean by that The doctrine of inerrancy and infallibility are are linked to the original manuscripts that are written. Infallibility essentially means that the Bible is not is without error. We believe that the Bible as originally written contain no error, whether doctrinal or grammatical. We're going to make caveats here. However, what we possess today is not the actual written originals. Okay? If you didn't know that, now you know that, alright? We don't have the original manuscripts. We possess copies, which have been passed down through the generations. We'll talk about a little bit. That does not mean that we don't have the originals contained within our copies today. Okay? So if you're scared, don't be scared. It's okay. We have the originals. contained within what we have today in our translations. James White, who's a renowned defender of doctrine and textual criticism, he's a scholar in Greek, or yeah, in Greek. He has studied the papyrus. He has seen many of of of the papyrus that has, you know, a lot of these of the oldest manuscripts that we have today. He has vigorously defended textual criticism and the veracity of the Bible and the authority of the Bible. and over 150 moderated debates. I recommend the majority of his debates. Some of them are I disagree with him doctrinally on, but that's okay Uh I benefited practically from everything I've I've I've gained from him. What is he says this it's not that we have only ninety percent of the Bible or 95% of the Bible in our translation. We have this and we say, you know, um uh do we have the whole Bible and and and manuscript in here? We do. It's all in here, okay? Everything about the Bible that you need to know that God intended for us to have is contained in this book. Alright? It's all here. See? Is contained in our copies as the original manuscripts. What is the case rather than is that we probably have an extra puzzle piece. A remainder that has been added over the centuries. And this usually comes in the form When translators they see they see notes in the margins of scribes or something like that. They see an added passage that wasn't in the original or wasn't in the previous earlier manuscripts, but they want to make sure that they have the whole document contained just in case, just in case. Because it could be the case that some of these things that that may or may not have been added are actually scripture There's a lot of work that goes into that. Okay? So they make sure that they contain the whole of Scripture, just in case. Let me give you an example. If you turn to Mark 16, 9 through 20, you'll notice that there are big brackets in that whole passage. And you'll notice if you read through that passage, that that that passage seems to come abruptly and say some some wild stuff. Okay? You're not you're gonna get bit by snakes, but the venom's not gonna affect you. And then people live that in their lives and then go out and snake snake wrangle and then get fit and have to go to the hospital because they thought they were protected because of of passages like that. But there's those brackets, and you'll notice that if it has it in those brackets, it usually says not in the origin not in the earliest manuscript documents or something like that. It seems to have been added There are other passages like that. In 1 John 5, there's some versions like the King James Version that says, you know, the the the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, these are these are the three of the Trinity or something like that. We believe in the triune God, right? But we don't need a passage like that, because that pat that verse does not show up in most of the manuscripts that we have. The NASB you'll notice doesn't say the word Trinity, and the KJV it does say the word Trinity in that passage. John as well. Yeah, and John as well. Yeah. Yeah, the swirling of of the well Fesda, that's that's also um a passage that may or may not have been added. But we we we retain those just in case, just in case. But they're they're given the caveats that they need. Well we must understand more so than textual variance. misspellings or grammatical errors is that none of these additions, none of these mistakes, or any additional passage change a single solitary doctrine of the Bible. What we possess is a copy without doctrinal error, it may have some grammatical error. Or passages that were likely not in the originals, but none of these variants change a single solitary doctrine of all of Scripture. The Bible is the most tested, trialed, and yet authenticated and verified book in all of antiquity. Did it again? After you guys if you're ever gonna listen to this recording, you're gonna hear in two points of this recording you slammed the microphone to the ground and I I apologize I get too animated sometimes, you know. I sometimes it's the monster, but I also think, you know, it's it's God working for me. Throughout church history, many men and women have sacrificed their lives to make sure that we have this today. If you study church history, it's full of the blood of martyrs And it's the reason why we have this book with us. I cannot stress to you how important it is to affirm that But God is capable. And I will not accept an argument that says, you know, God is incapable of preserving his word because he is. Alright, we're gonna get to the main point. All that to drive this point home, the authority of the Bible. If God's word is true and without error and it makes demands about our lives, Then that means that it is authoritative in nature. The authority of God's word is likewise challenged. Sinful beings have Excuse me, the impossible task of living up to the standards of God. We are sinful and disobedient by nature. I want to caveat something. If you are a believer in Christ, that is no longer your nature. It is no longer your nature to be sinful by nature. Does that make sense? You have a new nature. And I and I I get tired, but I I would like to hear more of that conversation about the fact that you actually have a new nature. You have a new nature You have a new desire. You have a new heart. You no longer have a heart of stone, but a heart of flesh. I know that we are sinful and disobedient by nature, but guess what? If you're saved, you have a new nature. You are able to please the Lord and that should be encouraging to you. There are some verses that that reference this and you can you can go through those. We're commanded Be like God in his character, but like the Holy One who fallen through for Peter one. Be holy yourselves also in all your h behavior because it is written you should be holy. That's another one of our men's memory verses that we go through on Sunday mornings. If you don't go to the men's breakfast, you should. We shouldn't call it a men's breakfast anymore because we don't have breakfast currently right now because of the pandemic. Should we call the men's meeting in the morning But that's a discussion for another thing. Um I have to take that up with with Steve Kirchner, amongst other things. But I love Brother Steve. Anyway, the point is is additionally God commands sinners to repent of their sins and live according to his word. I like Acts 1730. So having overlooked the time of ignorance out and means of mankind that all people everywhere are to repent. What does this matter in in context of critical race theory and social justice And I need you to hear this because if God's word is the one that defines life, reality, truth, justice, and God's word is the one that commands us to live in such a way and to do certain things then it is also the rule of life and command of life that we must live by. Not the opinions of others. It is by God's word alone. You will be faced with a decision. I will be faced with the same decision if you attempt to hold both in conjunction with one another. If the Bible defines what justice is, no matter how right it may seem, You are to deny what the world defines as justice. And that might be incredibly difficult. You have to do it. You cannot hold the world's definition in the Bible's definition of anything in conjunction with one another. And I guarantee you in most other issues you would have no issue doing that. The world would understand that, even to some varying degree. But most Christians on most issues should understand this principle. And if the world defines love, if we would say this about love, let's say it was called not social justice but social love. And we say we're we're about social love and the issues of social love We would have an issue with that. And they they went through all the you know gender fluidity and and sexual orientation and and gender disorder and all those conversations. We line that up with social love And I said, the Bible defines love as one thing and the world defines love as another thing. I I would bet. But the embetting man, we would have an easier time accepting that We have a really easy time accepting love. Justice is a very hard, hard conversation to have. But I'm telling you right now, if the world defines justice as one thing and the Bible defines it as another, you are to reject what the world defines as justice. I don't care how right it seems. That's difficult. And I know that's difficult. And I know that can be heartbreaking for a lot of people. You have to do that. You don't have another recourse. You are a Christian. You know what Christian means? It means little Christ. You are a little Christ. You're a little Jesus. I don't mean in the in the DNA of God way that some weird prosperity teachers teach. I don't mean that But I mean that you are to reflect your Savior. If Jesus is about justice, you are to reflect the same justice that Jesus was about. You have to do that. You don't have an option or a choice in that And and I don't I don't say that firmly because I'm trying to be overbearing on you or anything like that. I'm a I'm a 28-year-old, you know, uh growing Christian who who practically knows nothing about the world and life Okay, I understand that. I'm young. I get that. I get that having been around long enough. I understand that. I understand that people, and there may have been people in this church that have gone through some very harsh issues when it comes to racism. I've talked with some of you before I know that this issue is tough. I know that it hurts. And I know it seems like people don't care. But I'm telling you right now that is not the way you are to feel because you stand in conflict with some of this. I know that's difficult. Part of me is is is is a little timid to even say these things, but I have to say them. I have to. I have to be about the truth. I don't I know it's difficult If the g if if if like God's word, all truth and matter claims and ideologies will either fall as a whole or stand as a whole, because these ide ideals are rooted in something foundational, and they also deal with the conclusions of that foundation, then they are either to be right or wrong as a whole, but not something in between. And that's the commentary on some who want to take parts of social justice from the world and parts of biblical justice and merge them together to create this new hybrid. It's more balanced in that approach. And I don't agree. I don't agree I know that the Bible is written 2,000 years ago. It was probably written 4,000 and 6,000 years ago with Job in Genesis. Not Job, not Genesis, but Job. Which could have been the the the the first book of all the Bible to be written. I know that the Bible is old, but in every other instance you would not use that same argument and other instances and issues, except for this You may say, you know, about clothing and and things like that, but we understand culture and context. We we deal with the historical grammatical method of interpretation or hermeneutics when it comes to exegesis. I understand that conversation very well But let me tell you something quickly now. Critical theory and social justice have a conclusion about how the world is supposed to look. I'm telling you right now, we'll get into that conversation later. It doesn't reflect what the Bible teaches about how the end of the world is supposed to look. This is not heaven. Let me give you one principle. The earth is not heaven. It won't ever be heaven. And I know that that's tough to say, and you go, well then why do we do any of this anyway? Because we could which we're commanded, why do we do justice anyway? Because we're commanded to live out justice. If that doesn't make sense, just know this. All these things that we're commanded to do when it comes to justice and love, even though this side of heaven will never be heaven. We'll never be perfect and we'll do it in a in a failing way to some capacity, but I also believe because we have a new nature that we're able to please the Lord in these things to We're to do these things because ultimately, and this is the main purpose, you have to keep this in mind, ultimately, it glorifies God, and that's why we're here. To glorify the Father, to glorify the Son, to glorify the Spirit. If none of this ever makes sense to you and you have no other better reason that you can think of to do any of this stuff, then do it by the best reason and the only reason why we should do any of these things. according to 1 Corinthians. That we do all these things for the glory of God. In other words, either critical race theory has full merit or it has no merit. This is because critical race theory and all the reforms of worldly philosophies are created as any good lie. with a measure of truth as to conceal its deceits. We want to know how what what a good liar sounds like. Go back to Genesis 3. What did the serpent say? He talked about the clans of God. He talked about God. He talked about the tree He talked about uh what you're supposed to do and not do. Those are elements of truth, but then he conceals that and wraps that so that the lie isn't isn't seen in plain sight the way that it should be Every good deception has measures of truth. And usually the truth is a surface-level truth that surrounds the lie, so that you take the truth and you crack it open a little bit and boom, there comes the lie They're called the Coded ones. You're just standing at the gate, it looks like a nice gift. This looks very well done. Gets into the gate and then what? All hell breaks loose. And all damage is done. By its own foundations and teaching critical theories defy objectivity and reality, we'll talk about that. The attempts to curve definition to redefine things in their own view. about that. Her conception of justice, good and evil, creation, worship, truth, and issues, such and sees a whole new definition, one that fits your net their narrative. And by the way, you may go, wait a minute, I see I see worship in there. That's a weird thing to say. in matters of social justice. A lot of this movement is spiritual in nature. And we'll talk about that. For a moment, I want to let God's word breathe and let us just observe just the passages. Colossians 2, 6 through 15. Pastor Moore preached on this. I recommend you listen to that message. The Abbott. It was the uh the last message he gave before he left. Colossians 2, 6 through 15. Therefore, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him having been firmly rooted And now being built up in him and established in your faith, just as you were instructed and overflowing with gratitude, see to it that there is no one who takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception in accordance with human tradition In accordance with the elementary principles of the world, rather than in accordance with Christ. For in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form, and in him you have been made complete And he is the head over every ruler in authority. And in him you are also circumcised with the circumcision performed without hands, and the removal of the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith in the working of God, who raised him from the dead. And you were dead in your wrongdoings and uncircumcision of your flesh. He needs to alive together with him, having forgiven us all of our wrongdoings, having canceled the certificate of death to seven of the priests against us, which was hostile to us. And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. When he had disarmed the rulers and authorities, he made a public display of them, having triumphed over them through him. Beloved critical theory in social justice cannot, it cannot stand up to pass and it ought not to take you captive. Okay. I I am thoroughly, thoroughly excited for the rest of this class. A little timid, but thoroughly excited for the rest of this class. We're going to go through a lot of stuff. This is just wave tops. And we're going to even hit the wave tops and the more in-depth stuff. Do I have any comments or questions from chat? Um let's see here. Moody had a question. We also I don't think so to do eventually filters to support the immediate accounting. Um in the conversation of critical theory which which we'll get into next class, which will be the next class, um we go through the whole history of all of that Um socialism, Karl Marx, and in fact the the the statements critical theory is is socialism is is not completely correct. I I agree with that statement. There's there's much that comes into that comment Just because I mentioned Karl Marx doesn't mean that we're, you know, everybody who's a who's a Black Lives Matter protester is a is a socialist or something like that. So um we're gonna talk about the history, we're gonna talk about the origins, how it even came to America, we're gonna talk a little bit about the civil rights movement, just in history, all right. Um, and then we're gonna give get to eventually come to the point where we're at today. How did we get here? And and and that goes over and that goes over things of socialism, that goes over um postmodernism, that goes over um Um uh what were some of your re developing her notes. Okay. This will be a big one. Um I have I have footnotes in these in these lessons. Some of them have like fifteen, twenty This one doesn't. This one has like a like three or four. Um but I try really hard to make sure that when I make a statement about critical theory, critical race theory and what they believe but I'm using their their own resources and their own quotes for for that. So that's I'm representing them as as best as I can in the more I use um a book called um you know what I'm gonna send a message to Naomi and I'll I'll get you all those resources. But I use several books I use heavily also the Desk Thinking podcast with Daryl Walker and Virgil Walker and Daryl Harrelson. Dusk Thinking Podcast has many, and I mean many episodes on this subject and they are all excellent. And I agree with ninety-nine point nine nine percent. I think I remember one thing and I was like That was really it. Um I highly recommend that podcast. As a matter of fact, I may assign it as optional homework say listen to the podcast read this article or something like that for for further study. I use the podcast a lot. I use several books on social justice. I read some of the critical theory research papers and things like that There are many other books on on this movement. There are a lot that are reaching. Founders ministry was influential. They have a conversation with with who are called the uh the three horsemen of the of the of grievance studies I think and there are these three atheists it's a fascinating were these three atheists who did grievance studies and submitted fake grievances Things over like ice glaciers and how they relate to to to like racism and whatnot. And they got like peer-reviewed and published in like academic journals. They're called Frieden Studies, you know. Um, how like how like uh Dog parts um you know affects a a domineering society in the world and things like that. Can I can you move away from the front, right? And we're gonna completely drops out. Oh. Oh no. I'm so sorry. Okay, long story short, I will get you those materials. Okay? I'll I'll write out a list of everything that I used. All right, any other questions that I'm missing? I think that's a funny right half and you'll put a different step also. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. It's it's the biggest one. So Minji's question was when we talk about critical theory and critical race theory Is critical theory a large framework and all these other critical theories are they portions of those frameworks and those or or I I relate it to critical theory is is a skeleton And critical race theory and clear studies and all of that or the meat on the bones. It's all the same thing. And I'll give you I'll give you an example. It's in the notes. You can literally take statements from critical race theory, take out racism, black and white, and then put in another issue, and it fits exactly the same. It's exactly the same If I said um the white um white people use the institution of of um uh white people use the judicial institution to oppress black people Um or they use the institution of of justice to oppress black people. I could say the same exact thing if I said heterosexuals use the institution of marriage to oppress homosexuals It's word for word, that's very general. It's word for word the same. Critical theory is the framework, critical race theory, it's the biggest one, which also has a bunch of subcategories. but they but they all stem from from the same framework. Yeah. Is that it? All right. Elias will now take the podium. I'm just kidding. Elias just walked in. I know you guys wouldn't know that. on TB land. We're going to pray. All right. And then if you have any comments or questions that you're uncomfortable speaking in front of the group or just thoughts that you have throughout the week, you can email me. I'll put my email in the chat. Email me. You can go on Hope Book and look at my number, anything like that. Pastor Gabe will answer any questions. Sean will answer any question. Um I'll throw a lice in there too, just for funsies. Um thank you. Good questions. Um please let's go before the Lord. Laura, I just want to thank you. I want to thank you for everyone who is listening. I want to thank you for their lives. I want to thank you for preserving them. I want to thank you for saving them, for loving them, for sending your son for them, Lord, and also for me. Thank you for these brothers and sisters in Christ who I love so dearly, Lord, who are taking these issues seriously, who are thinking through these things, God, and wanting to come out um being being one who who honors you in the way that they walk and and talk. God impressed The truth that has been spoken today upon all of our hearts and minds that we would live by it. Whatever has been spoken that has not been useful to you, Lord, let it be quickly forgotten. And let your truth stand firm in our minds and hearts, Lord. Let it transform us and change us in all that we do. We love you, God. We do. From the bottom of our hearts, we love you. In Jesus' name. Amen.