And I fret over it and I'm like, no, no, no, no, no. In fact, the Psalms are full of places where David and others pour their hearts out before God to say, God, my adversary Paul's going to go on and talk about his credentials as an apostle to straighten his church out. And and remember, when we're talking about restoring somebody, we're talking about somebody who's exhibiting a pattern of difficulty, a pattern of sin in their lives. And we had a long talk and and it's just not happening. That's a time to redouble our time in Scripture, to bathe ourselves in the truth of what God says. I don't even know if I can put that in the words. Uh-huh. When when when hurtful things are said, that my definition of value is given by God. Zariah thanked, what do we have to do with each other? then you don't have to fight anymore. Even those who want to do a farm or who ride their motorcycle across our backyard just without concern. defended you like it it's not about being right, it's it's how you're communicating with that other person to recognize. and I'm just gonna move over here and hopefully it doesn't splatter on me or anything like that. from high school, had it been right. So I could go and ask my part in it and then ask questions that the other person was able to explain where they were coming from. I I evaluated myself on the seeing how I responded and and just really you know me just looked at that to grow up on it You will always have peace in your relationships if you follow these five easy steps. I need not be bold with the confidence with which I propose to be courageous against some who regard us as if we walked according to the flesh For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses. to one of these episodes of Five Minutes in Church History about uh this guy who ran in the Olympics back in the early nineteen hundreds, Led Dell is his last name. That you go back and you're, well, I did have a part. stay unfaithful in in the peacemaking efforts. Or or at small group saying, oh, I got a prayer request about a conflict that I have whose initials are X, Y, and Z, and um you all know who I'm talking about, right? In my life, I feel like I get this loving your enemies thing, and then and then something comes along, and I have to be reminded about this. And he's cursing David and he's throwing rocks at him. and get their to the destination and just give them all the freedom we want if we want want to take that other this other path. Oh yeah. their whole life, the whole picture in their mind. Not just at work. in the community that is the Lord's example in scripture and his will that we be reconciled with all people. So not not and I'm probably concerned about his safety and some of the people that come onto our property that are subject to get hit you know, just kind of put yourself in their shoes. It it just when I when I look at offenses now, it just so minimizes that in respect to what God has forgiven me uh. Um there are people who my life is pretty much surrounded by Christians, um family and friends. thing but now to understand that that's actually since I need to keep my mouth shut and I need to actually speak highly of that person no matter what they've done to me and build them up and that was really convincing Yeah, absolutely. or or something like that. with your family members. Um even a victory would, you know, even on a bigger scale, would the victory would be you swallowed your pride, you went to them, and now your friendship has been restored. I'm not sure. Um somebody had jumped to a conclusion and then I jumped to a conclusion about that stay awake late at night over analyzing every word that I said. But specifically starting at verse 18, it says, if possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. Take your own revenge, beloved. never be confrontational and try to resolve the issue, avoid the issue. Take a look at 2 Corinthians chapter 10. And he's going down to look at verse 7. He says, no Corinthians, you're wrong. I confessed my sins. In the midst of this situation, we can remain and we must remain focused on the Lord. Maybe they already have a hint of the situation that's going on. And they go, Thanks, here's my bill. And whoever takes away what is yours, do not demand it back. and really didn't think much about it. in uh through our yards. standing firmly on that. Um that reconciliation isn't just in the home among family members, not just on the job. There's a rare, rare situation where 100% fault one way or the other. And all of a sudden you realize, ah, I am so self-centered. And then I was able to process, okay, what is my part in this? And then I checked, he checked himself. Yeah. And you still there's a gulf. now it's time to let the Lord do what he does. that as as as far as our strength is concerned and our ability is concerned, we will not have peace in that relationship. I'll leave plenty of room, God. And his letters are weighty, but he's not. I don't know what kind of inflection Paul did. Galatians 6. What to do in these situations where I don't have reconciliation today? that I maybe didn't do well in this go and reconcile myself to this person. And um this is before, you know, this is before they get to Mount Sinai and they run out of water. And they come to this water and you can't drink it. It drove them crazy. And lastly, which is kind of like where we started, maintain God's perspective on our life. My tooth is this much of me, right? It was represented by my loving Savior and not by unkind words that people have said to me. And David is such a fantastic example. Right? They can give you some advice about this. Um but haven't somebody examined the situation alongside of you outside but alongside of you can give you an opportunity to go, oh, have you ever had a situation where you have a problem? You you see one side of the story played all the way through and then you see it from another person's perspective played all the way through and you go Uh-huh. We do not have to work hard at that. If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Pray for those who mistreat you. to try to endeavor to do those things, especially with the right motive. and not take another notch under a belt. But he had a moment where he was trusting God. Don't. That was a passage in thirty-five, it says you'll be sons of the most high. who has gone before us as a compassionate priest, who if you look at first Peter suffered for all righteousness' sake, and then we're called to do the same. For he himself is kind to ungrateful men Because you have different desires and wants and beliefs, you're going to disagree. Of the person you're in conflict with. So then while we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. you know, very negative thing and don't want to deal with it, but it it is an incredible opportunity. When we talk about forgiveness and how you know he would mention that if we consider how what God forgave us of Yes. Something that pa was close at one point and isn't close anymore. I don't know. As a moment to grow us in sanctification, even I dare say is a thorn in our sides. So are we, for even if I boast somewhat further about our authority which the Lord gave for building you up and not for destroying you, I will not be put to shame You need a people need to call for help. Cotcha. And that's when he's writing most of the Psalms. Have you ever had a moment where you read something in God's Word and you're like, that's not true in my life? It may be too. I know I should have done and they're gonna come and tell me that I should have done it and then I'm gonna have to go do it, so I don't wanna seek help. And you should move along. to be vulnerable with them. Yeah. Yeah. But to view you know conflict as an opportunity. I think it's so far to go. um you know, we're telling me take a couple of days and then instead of continuing to go back and forth with the computer, you know, just easy person. Leaving it. Done. Absolutely. I like my comfort. And want to die in there. Um or maybe maybe I I didn't go to them with the best humility. I'm done. We need to make sure when we're in conflict that we're keeping our relationship with God central I can't walk on a straight line anymore, I can't sleep at night, and on and on, and I'm like, fix it. And to to use this to grow in grace That's like when God calls down fire from heaven and lights up the and just and even licks up the water from underneath the sacrifice It's tempting to do that. Humble yourself, confess, and trust God with where it's gonna go hasn't been resolved. overcoming evil with good. Seek help. Because I've got stories of when I've done that. I'm sorry, but I say to you who hear, love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you. But love your enemies and do good and lend expecting nothing in return. If I if I lower my shield, what's my enemy gonna do? Um anybody here ever get surprised when we get into conflict with sinners? to reconcile. And um compassion that we need to exercise. That's a hard thing. And I'm quick to share those offenses with other people because I never thought that that was a problem to do that. Because our sovereign loving God has ordained these situations as an opportunity, as was already said. Paul is in the process of trying to reconcile with the Corinthian church. But what's the fourth one? This thing hasn't resolved itself. And they they you know they left overnight. When we're in conflict with somebody, that situation, that relationship can balloon and eclipse everything else that's going on in our lives Uh or in Grantona. And you could go, oh, praise God, praise God, look what he does. Going back over what you did. Examine the communication, examine what was said and how it was said. Did di did I did I make excuses for my sin when I shouldn't have made excuses for my sin, d and stuff like that. I have an issue and I I'm having loggerheads right here. And the very first thing that you do is you walk over to somebody and you say, see here's the problem. You've only heard one side of the story. Or to seek help. There's one more pray. Exactly that passage of and then with the respect and the gentleness you'll be able to give an answer with hope for anything. Look for opportunities to maybe even what this means is I'm thinking a lot about workplace, right? Wow! And I'm I'm willing to make this concession and we are believers and just start a relationship rather than put up a stiff arm and say don't do this And the the literature and what Gabe taught and stuff like that is that um we're we live in a world that expects comfort It by this person. Is w work on us in conflict and in reconciliation. Like you said. I think we get into the definitely we feel that we can do something, but then we have to get to the point where we realize it's out of our control 'cause like you said, you did what you're supposed to do and The implication here is there are times when you're not going to be able to be at peace. My enemy, I am so frustrated by them. And like kind. I would say too that oftentimes, well, it's easy for me to say this about myself. Thank you. And ultimately pay the price, but but because he did that for God's glory and not for his own. What's the second one? 23 to 24. To stand firmly on God's grace, to recognize the truths about who God is and what He has done, and to stand there Have you ever then taken that passage to God and said, God, you say this, I'm going to wait for you to make this true. And you'll say, you might say, oh, I don't know. To demonstrate to them small opportunities to demonstrate to them that you're still open to reconciliation even if they're not And in the process of explaining that to somebody else, you go, oh wait, I didn't try this. Not necessarily like an Matthew 18 situation, but just to restore the relationship. I'm just saying that's okay. There's a part of me that is going in hope, but there's also a realistic part of me that's going, this might not work. Really? He's there because he sinned with Bathsheba. We might think, ah, my shields are up. And and my my and I need to be reminded of God's perspective, which is, you're around sinners, you're gonna have conflict And because we live in a world that expects comfort, when we come into conflict, our gut reaction is to flee from it There are times when that's the wrong choice. And the right choice often is to go try to be reconciled to that person. It it helps I learn expression not so much people. And he's he's helping them out with that. Think it through and have a measured response to correct what's being said. And you know that you can go to the mat with this person and you can come out the other side. Maybe after they've listened to the situation, they're wanting to go be a mediator. To love. Um, it says to pray for them. This is not easy. That just sounds like a random example. And well we don't reconcile. Oh, I guess I'm the only one that does that. I I think of sometimes I think of church and to to step into the back of the worship center and scope it out and make sure they're sitting on that side so you can sit on that side instead and and stuff like that. I can trust God with what's going on, no matter how uncomfortable it is. In that I'll glorify God. where our strength comes from, where our joy comes from, and that's trusting God. We don't know what tomorrow is going to bring. For a number of reasons. There's a fantastic example of a relationship that never got put back together again. And I'm not trying to call this person out. Why didn't you they might come up with an idea for you that you didn't even think about. Unless you're diabetic. And they act like their parents. Say hey, I just want to let you know I've been doing the because I know you've got a struggle going on. Can I tell you what a good job my enemy did? But but to let them know that okay we're um I'm the same as you I enjoyed this activity in in your day and I still do I can humble myself and then glorify God. And to move you beyond the things that cause us to to find and cause conflicts Um and Kirk you kind of brought this up a little bit. Because it's you can come to church and act the Christian, you know what I mean, and kinda slide through, but at home it's where you need to also underneath a big thing, you know what I mean, and how you communicate Family's not that way. And and even to be in a position where I enter in I I I find myself in conflict with somebody and The end result is God is glorified. If somebody if if if if this is a uh has descended into a real conflict between myself and somebody else and they're throwing darts at me, I never have to respond to those darts Don't say, uh I can live with this. In other words, God says, I will do this thing for you. Confess it. That's gonna give them ammunition. But all we are very good at protecting ourselves. Verse nine. Do you guys see what where your enemy is in that last verse? Well again I want to say good morning. Has anybody had and you don't have to get into details if you don't want to get in or if it's not appropriate to get into details. I I'll call it when we don't have the victory. It's not been restored. Good segue by the way. The instruction that we have here is in these situations, love your enemies. And they complain. I kind of think about it like having anybody here ever have a sore tooth before? It is not shadowing our relationship with God. I need to refresh myself. Excuses the gossip. Nothing breaks the ice like that. But here it is, it's overcoming evil with good. So your enemies. work in the sense of we might not have peace again in this relationship. When you go to somebody and you are humble and you're gentle and you're vulnerable, you may win their hearts. You're gonna both want to get ahead at the same time. And we're fighting against our flesh. Either a safe I'm sorry, I should say it like this. And I work through it. No, this is this is God puts us in situations to sanctify us that are very challenging. You know, the sanctification thing I kinda have it, right? And the analogy I like to think about this is um you go to the gym to get stronger. If you're in a situation where it's like you're you're trying to re store a relationship, this gets back to humble yourself. And David said, What what do we have to do with each other, each sons of is a rub is a rubber bell? There might be. Is there something that you learned from this class that uh has been particularly important to you these last twelve weeks? Thanks. I wouldn't have heard it. And yeah, Rob. There are times when we need to say, hold hold on a second. Because when I went to them to reconcile, I I I was all times about not really necessary. If you lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Or they're all homeless. Bless them. Pray that God would bless them. In all of this, all of this, remember that we're doing all of this to God's glory and not for our own I'm not standing up here going I'm the best example. Fantastic. I just want to in my mind I want to just say, can I just do a little revenge please? Use wisdom. The reality is engaging with the conflicts that are around us in a way that glorifies God is far more important than our comfort. And he he went to China as a missionary and decided to stay behind That's not what God calls us to. Um because I can tell you in my own experience it's a treasure to have the relationship restored. You know when David is fleeing from Absalom and he's being he's being chased along by Sim Shimeh, I think is how you pronounce the guy's name Be very serious. Uh uh uh just don't lose heart. This this chunk of passage around verse 18 is very apropos to what we're talking about right here. Where we live our lives in an orientation of peace where we are satisfied with what God has given me today. That's not me being like Christ who loved his enemy enough to go to the cross on their behalf That can always an ion to straighten things out Or with anyone. My fortress, I'm going to run there. Plus, I don't want gossip. Doug, I'm I'm suspecting that that standards would be even difficult for the Pharisees to Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Yeah, because when when I'm in a conflict the my gut is to say, ooh, I gotta get away from this as quick as possible, even if I'm just gonna like pretend like it never happened So we're in that chapter in the book. Anybody try to make sure that you look far down a hallway and make sure they're not coming down that hallway before you go down that hallway because you don't want to accidentally have to have an awkward encounter And and he kind of forgot what lied behind, and he pressed on. 1 is the primary verse that talks about this. Ha ha. How else do we pray for enemies? But maybe that's a right opportunity for me to work through that conflict with that person to demonstrate God's glory and to show that there is hope for reconciliation Kurt, thank you. Um a compassionate way, like uh I'm sorry if the way I responded I'm just telling you what my uh in my heart, what I'm tempted with and what I sometimes struggle with, it says never When we're in a when we're in a position where we remain in conflict, where we don't have peace with somebody else over a situation, we can still be in a position But the example there, he glorified God. I did what I was supposed to do. Yeah. And so figuratively what Christ is saying here is let it You're gonna be sons of the Most High if you act like God. He's made perfect perfect in his weakness. I'm definitely not saying that. What's another thing? I have to do that again? Yeah, right. So yeah, thanks for pointing us in that direction. That's the implication of God's word right here. From the class? God puts you in trials and difficulties to make you stronger in your spirit. Second. And you know the people who love you the most know right where to touch you. Now this is not going to everybody, you know, oh I got a problem with so-and-so, and you know, I need help. What does this passage call us to do? Oh oh oh come on six I see some head shaking. Wow. If possible. This was already mentioned, you know, did I use the best com forum in communication There's a thousand lines of code. Thanks for sharing. Yeah, thank you. Um you know it you make me think about how God oftentimes we you think otherwise. Yeah. Um I I sometimes just chalk it up to there's another lost battle. That's a that's a time where you you can you can put a little flag on that moment in your life because you can go, look, look at God and what he has done Stay faithful in our peacemaking efforts. That's something to own. Fantastic. Because we're more comfortable to say things more boldly with family than you would do among our brothers and sisters at church. Way more easy to see other people's problems. I really prayed about the log in my eye. Overcome evil with good. I can take a little I can take a little if God's gonna be glorified. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? Thank you, Christopher. And don't give up. It may be that tomorrow you're one day away from having restoration and you don't know it Sometimes that might be a hard thing. Make that available. Help your enemy get ahead. At church that's true as well. And the reaction that you give or the response that you give or the teaching that comes helps you to go I really appreciate everybody sharing. Yeah. Please be patient with me, God. And see what God does. Not like this person look at the situation, give you some advice, some input into your life Oh. Um pray for their good. And we're walking closely with God, that we're being refreshed in our minds. Um this is my security blanket. There's other people whose names I need refreshing on in this class too. But if your enemy is hungry, feed him, and if he is thirsty, give him a drink, for in so doing you will heap burning coals on his head And I go, Oh God, I need you, bro. Gently restore. They might be wanting you know to go and challenge that person or to go listen to that person's side of the story because you know when you've heard one side of the story Should be I is self-brid later. I gotta mention one last thing. And what that looks like is somebody goes, I'm leaving that church because I got in a fight with somebody. And bless those who persecute you, bless who do not curse. Tomorrow. I'm gonna have to come alongside you now and gently restore you. When you when you're humble about that with other people and when you're a little bit vulnerable, just see what happens Daniel used it David used his son to get revenge. I am so impressed. It's it's good to pray. You know. I I didn't do it. I almost jumped into the lesson as soon as you said Romans twelve earlier. There are times we are going to be times in life where we're going to find ourselves in conflict with people and we're not going to have reconciliation today with them. It's the log in our own eye. Or fill in the blank. And that's the way life is. Is kind to ungrateful and evil men. You're made in the image of God. If you're gonna love your enemy, isn't that what you would want your enemy to say for you It it's interesting that they actually don't even know anything about us and the fact that I rode a motorcycle when I was their age. Yes, Karen? And you gotta deal with that. Anyone else? And in doing that I reflect Christ. Uh somewhat building off of what she was saying when she said even if you're in the right or something along those lines, uh is that He had to flee from the discomfort of staying in an occupied country. You know, mankind. We um there's a I think scripture here is calling us to to be vulnerable with our enemies. So love 'em. You can also pray like the psalmist does, where you take their words to God and say, God, do you see what they said about me? If it was, you would have learned it in kindergarten and you'd have been done with it already. I wish I could say otherwise, uh, because it is it is challenging, but I can tell you this also. That's another lesson learned from this class is to not use text or email with certain topics. Well that's not the verse I wanted to read today really. So I'm gonna there's some things here still that I'm gonna leave to that. In fact, we have to work hard at not justifying ourselves and being real and calling ourselves out. Oh, and by the way, I'm talking a lot. And I I this is one of these things that I think I get and then I don't. Or they're all vaulted. And now I can't speak for every situation, but I will say that I like where you went first, by the way. But leave room for the wrath of God. I want to enjoy my comfort. The first one is glorifying God. Now that doesn't mean you put it on instant replay over and over and over again, right? Go to the person you're having a fight with and confess it There may be an opportunity when you have a conversation. Have you ever thought about one way that you love people is to be vulnerable? Is is to trust them with your weakness Which we kind of touched on that a little bit, but I wanted to make sure that we saw kind of the whole the whole picture there. And and I always think about that as loving somebody's angry at them too. There are times when yeah, when I said darts, I meant kind of a metaphor of of, you know, but there are times when I don't. You are looking at the things that are outwardly. And they complained. Fourthly, be in the business, as we see here in Romans 12, be in the business of overcoming evil with good. Yeah, and part of the reason why it says you will be sons of the most high is because children look like their parents. And and you don't pray for other things in their life. And I can I just say how much I appreciate you being willing to go first. I would like to know if you're willing to share what you have learned from this class Um and so that's a that's a really good ground to make sure that we practice reconciliation. We were able to work that out. Get him. S secondly, take it take another look back and ask yourself, is there anything Take a look, and I mentioned this before. Whoever hits you on the cheek, offer him the other also. And the Proverbs twenty-five fifteen says, By forbearance a ruler may be persuaded and a soft tongue breaks the bone. But I I wanted to let the young man know that there's actually a path that he can take that's off to the side of our yard in which they can So it's not just the Christian community or husband and wife or father and daughter. Yes, go ahead. And and that weariness comes from having a lack of peace. I don't like having lost battles, God. It's probably not the best time for me to go in there at that point. There's opportunities in our struggle to embrace and to praise God in our response. So stay focused on the Lord, stay faithful in our peacemaking efforts. Or he's running from Absalom and he's crying out to God in those situations. But let's say you know somebody who's a more mature believer in Christ, who's been around for a while. I really don't want to I don't want to make them look bad. You can. Good start. Guys, here's the thing. There might be a right time to remove yourself from the situation. I tell you how firmly I believe that. I'm not there yet. Scripture tells us to respond to those darts with good. There are times when um wisdom needs to be given and potentially there are times when we need to move ourselves out of a situation um because it's not wise to be there anymore. And so we need, and and that's that's an example for us as well, to to love your enemies. Now in your own family, you don't see it because they're so different from one another. Let us not lose heart in doing good, for in due time we will reap if we do not grow weary. Yeah, it's a good thing to learn. Ant I haven't heard yet, but it's turned it lower to embray and turn it over to empty guys. I know I no, I gotta hold on to this thing and I'm gonna worry about it and I'm gonna fret over the and that's my struggle. I'm sure he's doing this in love. You don't want to be in a position where this is bitter. Or that toenail is that much of me. Especially if somebody has said something hurtful and has really touched a tender spot in our lives. Um and I would say that this also feeds into the fourth thing, which is um And that's very apropos in what we're talking about right now. This is part of spiritual warfare. You just it it's it's just putting that other before other person before yourself, even in their response Emojis aren't good enough to pay your emojis. Okay. I think it might be chapter twelve if you're following along. In fact, it goes on if you look back at it, it says, never take your own revenge, beloved. And responding to things that people are saying with correction is something that we see modeled by the Apostle Paul. Um I want to jump down to twenty-seven. But to lit to raise it to that level for those reasons, it's like imp impossible. And to pray, to be merciful. I'm impenetrable. Try that. And every time we put up our dukes and fight against our flesh, God is glorified. Yeah, go ahead. And look what he writes. Glorify God. And maybe that's one of the things you want to talk to them about. Maybe they'll get promoted out of your office. Sure. Weary. And then try not to do the same thing. Get him now. And following is Paul correcting the Corinthian Church in their understanding of who he is. Um so today as we're thinking about this situation and that's in in that same context about the four Gs, today as we're thinking about what God's calling us to continue. So glad he didn't get to a point with me and say, uh, yes, God's not gonna repent Maybe there's somebody in your family that you trust. I wish I had thought about that. But but to if we offend a non-believer, we we need to take it upon ourselves to Yeah. Has anybody ever had that situation? Because the people who are showing up that they're starting to respect are people who aren't bringing them the gospel Well, the very first water they get to is bitter water. Here he is, he's out in the wilderness, he's running from Saul In conflict, I need to be refreshed in the Lord and go to Him. I already did that once. Define victory. And it has it had the the ability to blow up and and be ugly, but because I was in here and I learned something That's the fourth one. We we're not in fact this passage doesn't tell us to protect ourselves, although I already said I'm not going to contradict contradict myself, that if you're in a dangerous situation, you should find help. You're gonna both want whatever it is that causes conflict in your life. One of my favorite stories in the Old Testament is when Israel leaves Egypt. What do you mean? Yes. Rock their world a little bit. Fill in the blank about what what might have been lingering around that that hasn't been For even sinners love those who love them. What's another thing? It says to do good uh do good to those who hate you. How how do you pray for your enemy? I I'm in a conflict with my boss. Yeah. Yeah, so you get one of those moments where, you know, in my whole body It's worth the effort. Um but we still needed love. Or they're all, right? So far as it depends on you, be at peace. There's something here that just hasn't been addressed. I mean, ever since Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, we are really good at justifying ourselves. You're with a sinner all the time. Here he is ministering to his disciples. And I know other folks had thoughts in their minds and stuff that they didn't didn't share for one reason or another. Um and and you know I want to go through this life without conflict. And it may be that it doesn't hurt to go to somebody that and and I'm leading into the next thing, to go to somebody that is a wise person. And now what you have is a relationship that's been tested by fire. And I need some help. He is self-brid later. Yeah. Please give me your grace. That really is something to own. Wow. Yes. Especially if I say something in your like Doug that doesn't make sense. He's saying, if God sent him to curse me, let it happen. I've been at this church for more than two decades, and I can tell you I've been in conflict with people at the church. I'm sorry, can you remind me of your name? But God has glorified in my response, in my heart, in my growing in sanctification. Where we are, let's just remind ourselves real quick, what are the four G's? And part of the reason why glorify God is one of the four Gs is we also we go through life thinking, I really want to have a trouble-free life I've wept. They grabbed what they could from the Egyptians, they had their flocks and herds, and they're wandering through the wilderness If he's cursing because God sent him, let him curse. Go. Treat others the same way you want them to treat you. Bless, not retaliate, fantastic. I think that there's some boundaries and some wisdom that should be applied there. Most of the time. And then we had a very productive meeting to try and solve something else that's related to You s you don't have peace in this relationship. Turn to Luke 6. That fits in character with what we're reading in this passage. And I don't know, they've made music uh movies and plays and stories and dramas about this scenario where I need help. Yeah. There's a lot of times when that's the wrong choice Especially within the church, I think sometimes we think it as this Whether I never see that person again, whether I um or they live in my house When when reconciliation doesn't happen Glorify God. And part of the reason why that's in five minutes in church history is because of his work of glorifying God and being willing to sacrifice for God. And sometimes it's not easy to humble ourselves and go, My fault. There may be times to get advice, but Anyway, and life can be like that And that's when when that's going on in my heart, I gotta confess, that's not me loving my enemy And Joab's brother says, I could go up there and kill him pretty quick How else do we pray for our enemies? Amy? I'm good here in this aspect. You know, I'm basically a loving person, right? It's important to hold on to that because part of the I think part of the sanctify sanctifying work that we have and that God designs into our lives Yeah. Gently restore Don't be quick to give up. Joe. Is there is there a right time to escape and run away Not in an enabling way, but in in a humble Which in the fact I'm not sure I would have done. Yeah, over and over again. I'll go find another friend. We need to remember that every conflict is an opportunity Yes. Um It wasn't one. And and I think that's what this is talking about. Because when I have conflict with one of my sisters, I I realize that you can take that one conflict and become That's the that's the arena that we're trying to get reconciliation in I struggle with this too. Well good point. Yeah. Yeah. We are not as strong as we think we are. It says, all people, that includes your enemy. I wanted to read the the verse that said Then you're not you're not saying that you're out of time to call One of the key passages for that is Matthew 5 And they shouldn't have. So yeah, but to think of that as an opportunity I ask that when I'm at I'm in verse two by the way. Remind yourselves of the truths of Scripture. And I appreciate guys you guys being patient with me. We need to make sure that we're reminding ourselves of what God's truth says. Hypothetically. And you know how thirsty you get when you're looking at water and you can't drink it and you already didn't have any water Anyway, I digressed a little bit. Yeah, those are fantastic. I need to keep it up. And you look at the kids and you're like, it looks like got this can't cookie cutters out The other thing that really stood out to me is um Yes. So that's an important one. It goes this, it goes this, and then it just goes away. Um bless them. I always just thought, okay, be nice to them. Can we just have a victory in my life right now? That's going to justify them. I you gotta book for me, right, babe? Some people you can can offend you and then you never get to see them again. And same thing to make a fight first Um But no, that's not what God says And I go, yes If any was confident in himself that he is Christ's, let him consider this again within himself, that just as he is Christ's This is the church he founded. But so anyway, um I really appreciate the at the end of When I'm angry, this is the hardest one for me to do, I think. Try that if you've never done it before. You know what I mean? Gee. It says, never take your own revenge, beloved, but leave room for the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. So come alongside. If anybody wants to raise their hand and interrupt me I get that. The last thing is to make sure that we maintain God's perspective on our life. I need to tell you what the truth is. Get up off your seat and be reconciled. Examine your heart. I already did everything I was supposed to do. But I say to you That's more accurate. Christopher. Um so Roman Swob has been one of my favorite passages. I fasted, I you know, and and I wrote letters, but then I even went in person and Um there's there's five things that we're gonna be talking about today Should I s pursue another job? Yeah, it does. I may get to you if you raise your hand. Yes. Maybe the way maybe this is there something that that should have been done differently? It's this it these challenging times when we really need to depend on God. Don't be quick to give up. You know it's worthwhile And your answer probably would be something like, nah, I shouldn't be doing that. But the board are coming and they can go right through your shields. But you get the idea. I've actually experienced that my own self, yeah. Get the log out of your eye. And again, I in all of these things, you can always ask yourself, and I can always ask myself, what's Christ's example? I I don't want to have to tell somebody the area that I'm Where they could do other things that were visible When I go to be reconciled There's so much work you have to still do in my life Um what did you do And and I don't know if you're like me, is as I pray and I'm like, God, I have trusted this in your hands and then I quickly pull it back and I worry about it again. And you look at that and you go, uh-uh. Ah, yeah, Margo. The thing that brought us to this place is a really serious conflict. Break out their teeth, which I think is a metaphor, by the way, not a literal breaking of their teeth. He pressed on to the next thing and served God hard with his life. Maybe you want to say, look, I I'm troubled with this. Associating it's not just about doing it because of an example with us, but it's associating our identity with Christ. Brenda, whatever it is. Christopher. Verse twenty-seven Whoever takes away your coat, do not withhold your shirt from him either. Bless them. So thanks for sharing that. There are going to be relationships I just want some sweetness in this relationship by getting back. Sometimes just talking it through, you get to the answer before the person can even help you. Let's pray There's always fault somewhere in between And it affects my entire body. If you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? But I think sometimes And in communicating with people, the amount of humility Have you ever been in one of those situations where uh you've done everything and you feel like you probably did it right as you could? Just like Paul was given a thorn in his side, to remember that I wasn't going to go here, but we'll uh 2 Corinthians chapter 10 So he's not just rolling over and saying, Oh, I I'm just going to sit back and hope that you guys figure out what the truth is. Glorify God. And but we need to make sure that when we have that conflict going on with somebody Because it can. See I'm a software background person and sometimes you get this error message and it back in the day it would just say syntax error. We can also pray for our enemy sniper. That God's grace is sufficient in these kind of times I probably need to cool myself down a little bit first. Um Yeah, no, this is more like alongside I've seen hey, you know what I see power in your life? Be reconciled. You guys got 'em all. Guys remember what the third one is? I gotta be ready to take the next blow. Yes he is Just in case. It is? And then you come to a class where God puts you in a situation And to knowing that there's a a broken relationship. One of the things I've been trying to say is we've not been reconciled today Maybe somebody at work that you trust. You're either with a safe sinner or the unsafe sinner And how so often I forget it. And just churning with it and stuff like that. I I read it with my inflection. He won the Olympics. I'm just gonna have to live with bitterness and I'm staying put Okay, thanks, Kurt. Maybe help talk things through Thank you. Pleasure to meet you. Amy? I did that. And your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for he himself. You don't have to be afraid of anything. Yes. I'm good at that. Honestly. Oftentimes when I want to correct somebody, my feelings are kind of involved and I'm a little bit spun up. And That's why he's saying that. Just even if we're great, just looking at the approach and then Really? Ah, going, oh, your faith. I don't want to do that. You may see them in the hope. Um the third thing here is to get get a third party. To do good. I don't want you guys to go, oh, dog's got it figured out. So um but after I processed my part in it Because the next day they came to an oasis. Get a third party. When you talk about staying faithful in our peacemaking efforts, um Because maybe that person will listen to the story and they'll go, dude. But people who are outside your family are like, they're all killers. And not make that um then and and harm people that might be him in the last way. And there are people who bother me, don't necessarily sin against Weary. And now they're like, Paul? We also have to make sure that we're we do be in takes a moment to be introspective Think about that. So if if this is going to color your opinion about them, I'll go talk to somebody else Even sinners lend to sinners in order to receive back the same amount But this is something we're going to come back to again and again and again That we're dependent on God's grace. So just digging into this a little bit more. Good. Be merciful just as your Father is merciful What do you see here that we're told to do? That that's that's like saying do good to them, right That's right. You mentioned prayer. Is there something I missed out? How do you pray for your enemy? I do. Um so They have maligned him. Is that So those are two things Well when he explained that blessing means to actually speak highly of someone, that was really quick thing for me. Like can you believe she does any you know, for people who know the situation and that sort of And then you start to think about the standard of what love represents You don't torture yourself with what happened. Because this is just a companion to what we read. Just wanna let you know that Maybe you should. What did you do at that moment? I mean praise God in that. To not make excuses It's not Two things that really stuck out for me. Has anybody had any um victories, large or small, as a result of the class? I ask that when I am present And we can ask ourselves as Paul's correcting the Corinthian church, he's glorifying God in what he's doing. Look for opportunities to tout them. Um This is hard. Yes. We also need to remember, especially when things are said Take some time on your knees and earnestly pray for the blessing. When we're in conflict It doesn't give me any more information. Yes, Kirk. That's a powerful faith building moment. We're in a good place. And they're the ones you gotta reconcile with Well, you got the big ones. I think David knew what Fantastic Write him a sweet note. Can I tell you, in the middle of a meeting in front of everybody, can I tell you what a good job Brenda did on his project? He could have stayed in England and been like I didn't run on Sunday Or whatever And I saw some heads nodding. If God didn't send him, I'm going to trust God to take care of my revenge. So this this whole class has been really good and I and I I'm seeing myself and Gently restore. That's part of And your enemy might be a part of the church. This is not, oh I I went to that person Most of the time And that that cleared up everything like, oh, okay, you've had a good conception I can still love people who are being mean to me. That's going to give them a layout. Because if there is a if there's something that Alright. And look what the next sentence is Oh, them too? Um last call Yes, uh please God. I never have to respond with evil Your enemies. Pray for their success. My word They might come around. You're in that meeting and you you say, these aren't good words, but I have to use like Do you guys remember what the four G's are? That may not be what you're called to. Maybe that apology was just kinda like, I'm sorry, but you should have done different. Invite somebody in. We've got to remain remember where our our true peace comes from. This is an opportunity to exercise faith Just the example of the um the two motorcyclists. And and that yeah, that's frustrating to have that happen It's not I remembered. Ver specifically I want to look at verse 18 When I'm prideful, the hardest one is to get the log out of my own eye Come on. I hope you have a good time on your vacation I'm in a conflict with some of my coworkers. Today we're going to be looking at um Um, is that I have a hard time just Which is kind of ironic because it can be the hardest thing to see in our lives. God allows the Israelites to run out of water It's that vulnerability that Christ goes before us and empowers us because we can And you're with an unbeliever all the time God is my rock. Send your enemy a gift I was in a situation where Um look at Romans 12. And and the the the obvious thing is those aren't the same Or how about a splinter Because you're going to hear things that aren't true. Because it's not happening right now. And I'm afraid of it Bring them a donut in the morning Um There might be opportunities to No one no one can do that. First, and Pastor Gabe, I think, mentioned several times about the And Christopher, I remembered still. Do you see what they said about you? And you have peace They don't think that he's much of a person in present. Um I can't remember his first name right now. God's given you everything you need for life and godliness. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Praise God. How does that make you feel? That's their problem. Love your enemy. You're going to both want the same resource. You can say, I need some advice Pray for them to be advanced. But take a look back at what happened Uh don't look for excuses, right? What's one thing? And exactly what you just said Um If you're in a legal proceeding Give to everyone who asks of you Take another look at that. Um For even sinners do the same. Um Help my unbelief, God Um And that's not what God says to do She was saying that's it. I don't think they'll ever agree with me on This morning I was listening They're not seeing the truth. It was a lot of fun and I probably cut through people's yards. Maybe I can get over that. This reconciliation stuff is not kids. God is my shield. Well that yeah, that would be a victory, right? Let's Look Right Do you see the lies? Okay And that's the indication of our hearts, isn't it? Um Maybe I can Yeah.