Open to 2 Corinthians chapter 8. I'll actually be finishing that chapter and then going into chapter 9, since I read chapter 9. For our scripture reading today, I won't go reading the whole text, but uh we pick up with uh giving principle number 13. So if you're new today or missed some of that, you missed the first 12, we still record our messages. You can get them. Verse 13, picking up with the words, by your ability. Actually, that's in uh I'm sorry, it's principle number 13, verse 11, and the last part of verse 11, and going into verse 12, if you concentrate on that. It says, by your ability, and that picks up from the previous sentence there, by your ability, your giving that is, for if the readiness is present, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have. Verses eleven and twelve. Now we saw before That these Macedonian Christians were special, that Paul is boasting about here. They gave, and they gave not just proportionately But do you remember, they gave what? Sacrificially. Sacrificially. They gave, as it states in the passage, beyond their ability. But the normal giving, your normal giving, week after week, month after month, should be according to what you have, according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have As Paul puts it. That again is why the 10% principle is a good principle, not a command, not a requirement, but it's a great principle to live by. The ten percent mark fosters proportionate giving. But even then Some who give 10% should really give more, for their ten percent is not really proportional to what they make. blessing in this world financially is so much so that fifteen percent doesn't change their lifestyle at all nor twenty percent or whatever. So really proportionate giving doesn't even tie us to the 10% mark, although that's a good standard to use. It transcends even what we call percentages. It allows each person to study their own situation. and then make a decision. What can I give in my situation? It is not the size of the gift that matters to our Lord and Savior It is the size of the gift in proportion to what one has that really gets the attention of the Lord. God knows not just what we give, but he knows what we keep, and he knows why. He knows our motives. Each single in this church and each family should have a plan for regular, proportional giving beyond any time like we are in now with a financial campaign. And so that is the principle of proportionate giving, principle number thirteen. We've got a number to go through, so we're going to go through them quickly. Number fourteen. Giving, another principle for giving, giving should balance resources in the body of Christ. Giving should balance resources in the body of Christ. That's verses thirteen through fifteen. It's why we have a benevolence fund, and you'll see that here. Verse thirteen for this is not for the ease of others and for your affliction, but by way of equality Verse 14, at this present time, your abundance being a supply for their need, so that their abundance also may become a supply for your need, that there may be equality. As it is written, he who gathered much did not have too much, and he who gathered little had no lack. This is about giving, which results in balance within the body of Christ. The equality that is mentioned here is not about each person in the church giving the same amount. It is about the rich giving to the poor to make life situation on earth more equal. The rich are not called upon to give so much that they become poor. That would just extend poverty in the church. In other words, the rich do not have to do what Jesus Christ did for them Jesus Christ subjected himself to abject poverty that they might become rich spiritually. All that the rich financially are being told and asked to do in this passage is to help. Help to carry the load and the burden for those who do not have so much. In other words, it's a sharing of the burdens within the body of Christ. This does not mean that the church or the rich in the church are required to eliminate every single inequality in the church. This does not demand strict economic parity. But it is teaching that the rich have an obligation to be generous and to share. Those who have more should look out for those who have less. We should not, in other words, be accumulating more and more wealth to make our lifestyle more lavish. We ought to be looking around us and helping those who don't have hardly much at all to raise their standard a little bit and to meet particularly real needs. We should be about disseminating wealth and not accumulating wealth The gathering, by the way, that is mentioned in verse 15 is a quote from the Old Testament. And it is from the account of the Israelites when they gathered manna out in the wilderness. You may remember that account. Exodus chapter sixteen, verses thirteen and following says that some that went out to gather the manna in the morning, that interesting bread like uh substance that was spread into the wilderness supernaturally. It says some gathered more than other people gathered. But everybody's needs, not all their wants, but all their needs were met. And no hoarding of the manna was allowed, because if it was kept to the next day, the Lord made sure that it rotted. The manna from heaven met everybody's needs. That's how it should be in the body of Christ. This is point. 1 Corinthians chapter 12 is appropriate to quote here, verses 24 and 25. God has so composed the body giving more abundant honor to that member which lacked, so that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another. See all the talk about love doesn't really translate into people feeling it if they come in and they're very poor and they see other people driving up in really lavish cars with nice You know, things are wearing and jewelry and there's never any sharing. It's not wrong to wear the jewelry, it's not wrong to have the nice car, but to see that and to see that their needs and they're not met, well that just makes a travesty of the whole idea of love in the body of Christ. So there has to be this talk about money and sharing. Again, this doesn't mean everybody has to drive the same car. It doesn't mean that everybody has to go on the same vacations. After our financial came I don't uh financial campaign, I don't think any of us are going on a vacation anytime soon. Maybe we should have a giant camping trip. That's not too expensive. We should get our tents out and enjoy that together But the context here is about meeting needs. No one with true needs should go overlooked in the body of Christ. Unfortunately, that happens That happens here in this church. It happens in every church. That's never going to be completely eliminated. We uh are always vigilant and looking out for the needs of other people. It makes us sad as leaders when we hear that happens and we can't try to improve what we're doing, but it does happen. It should not happen. Nor does it mean that those who have not lived wisely in the past should be given up Three pass. Yeah, I squandered all my money and I didn't make good decisions and I blew it on this and that. Now I need some money. Would you give it There has to be lessons that are learned in the midst of that. That's why there's financial counseling, that's why there's budgeting seminars and the like. Sometimes people need to feel a little bit of pain in regards to their lifestyle so they learn some lessons and then When they're humble and willing to be taught and make changes in their lifestyle and the way they handle money and their personal discipline, that's where the body of Christ comes around them and says, okay, now since we see you're making good decisions, we'll help you out And that needs to that needs to happen. By the way, there's all kinds of freeloaders in society, and they're out there and they come to churches, not just this church, but just about any church, you know. ring or knock on the door or whatever it is or call them up and say I need money for this or that and if you have a system that says we'll help you out but we need information about you, what's your background, what have you done, what are you willing to do They don't want to be part of that process at all. They want the quick money, they want to spend it, and that might be their problem. But even those who have made poor financial decisions in the past still can be helped by the body of Christ. Teaching them self-discipline, priorities, faith in God, how to handle finances, how to do budgeting, and many of you have helped in the past with that and some of you could learn also how to help with that. By doing that and not just giving them a whole bunch at the beginning, but carefully proportioning what they get and helping them with rules, that also is love in the body of Christ. Principle number 15. Giving should be accompanied with accountability. Giving should be accompanied with accountability. This is a large section. It starts in verse 16 to 23. I'll read it again. But thanks be to God who puts the same earnestness on your behalf in the heart of Titus, for he not only accepted our appeal, but being himself very earnest, he has gone to you of his own accord. We have sent along with him the brother, whose fame in the things of the gospel has spread through all the churches. And not only this, but he has also been appointed by the churches to travel with us in this gracious work which is being administered by us for the glory of the Lord Himself and to show our readiness. Verse 20, taking precaution so that no one will discredit us in our administration of this generous gift. For we have regard for what is honorable, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. We have sent with them our brother whom we have often tested and found diligent in many things, but now even more diligent because of his great confidence in you As for Titus, he is my partner and fellow worker among you. As for our brethren, they are messengers of the churches, a glory to Christ. Well, this is a long section, but it speaks to the accountability in handling the money properly. How many churches have ruined their reputation because they did not handle money properly? Paul was sending three men to Corinth, Titus, another unnamed brother, verse 18, sent to collect. We don't know who he was, but he was a man of integrity. And third, verse 22, probably one of the Macedonians sent along with a gift. And these were tested men, please see. Men approved by the churches because of their character. Verses 22 and 23 really give the credentials of these men. These men showed also that this was not just Paul's collection. Yes, Paul was the leader, but it wasn't his collection alone. Titus was involved in this. Titus was not coerced into collecting. He wanted to do it. He wanted to be involved in ministry. Titus had a genuine concern for the Corinthians, and Paul valued that. In verses 20 and 21, we read really the heart of Paul's concern here. He didn't want anybody to discredit them in the administration of the gift, the handling of the money They had concern for what was honorable in the sight of God. They had concern also for what was honorable in the sight of men. Even pagans know what it means to handle money properly. He didn't want a bad reputation for the church or for himself or for the work of the Lord. And it is not that there was distrust between the collectors. But they did realize the church has enemies who will use any opportunity to bring even a false accusation of embezzlement against the church If there are not checks and balances, then a false accusation becomes more believable. When there are checks and balances, many hands, many eyes. Many ledger sheets that handle and account for the money, then when a false accusation arises, it doesn't go anywhere People say, nope, here's how here's where it was, here's where it went, here's who handled it, here's the system, here's the operation, it could not be abused. That's what we have at Hope Bible Church And any of you are free to analyze or ask any questions about any portion of it at any time. Trust in ourselves alone is not enough to establish this. There must be checks and balances present. After all, it is the Lord's money, right? Well, they said the Lord doesn't need the money, but it's his money anyway And it is the Lord's ministry. And more importantly, what we have here is it is the Lord's name that is at stake in the handling of our money. Principle number sixteen. Giving sets an example for other believers. Giving sets an example for other believers. Some of you are good examples in that. We praise God for you. Look at chapter 9 now. We're into chapter 9, verses 1 and 2. For it is superfluous for me to write to you about this ministry to the saints, for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you, to the Macedonians. Namely, that Achaia, that's the region in which Corinth is in, that Achaia has been prepared since last year, and your zeal has stirred up most of them. This is like Redskins against the Cowboys here almost. Here we see more of Paul's unashamed persuasion. To urge Achaea, the Corinthians, to give their money to a good cause And to understand his motivation, please notice that he again calls their giving a ministry. Remember, he hasn't been using the word money. It is a ministry to give in order to meet needs. And in persuading them to minister, he writes that he knows of the Corinthians' readiness to give. In fact, he mentions that readiness and had mentioned it before back in chapter 8 and verse 11. So here He begins by pointing out it's superfluous for him to write to them about this ministry, meaning they have already embraced the importance of the ministry of collection. They already know about it. They already know it's important to give to the saints He even tells of his boasting about the Corinthians to the Macedonians. That's church of Philippi and others He was telling the Macedonian Christians that the people of Achaia, the believers there, where Corinth is, were ahead of the Macedonians in their giving. Oh yeah, they're beating you to it He told the Macedonians that the Corinthians were ready a year ahead of time. So the Corinthian example was used to motivate the Macedonians. The master of persuasion is here at work. Take note of this, all you leaders out there. It is godly to use godly persuasion, and here it is. Boasting of the Macedonians to the Corinthians and of the Corinthians to the Macedonians developing a healthy competition of what? Of giving. Isn't that amazing? Now you might be thinking, is that kind of boasting and competition really allowed in the Christian life and in spiritual people? Well that's what Paul's doing right here. You could read it for yourself. Yes, it's allowed. It's good and it's godly. Ben Franklin tells of a time that he went to hear George Whitfield preach one of his outdoor sermons He knew that Whitfield usually ended his sermons with some kind of an appeal for funds for an orphanage that he was developing in the colony of Georgia. Franklin writes about the persuasiveness of Whitfield in his appeals for money. He wrote this, I happened soon after to attend one of his sermons. In the course of which I perceived he intended to finish with a collection. And I silently resolved he should get nothing from me I had in my pocket a handful of copper money, three or four silver dollars, and five pistols that are Spanish gold coins As he proceeded, I began to soften and concluded to give the coppers Another stroke of his oratory made me ashamed of that and determined me to give the silver. And he finished so admirably that I emptied my pocket wholly into the collector's dish. Gold and all. So godly persuasion has been used many times to raise the funds that people don't want to give to realize there's a better cause for that money than in your pocket. Here the Corinthians had started the giving first, but they needed to be urged to break through the finish line. And did Paul's competitive persuasion between these two provinces of believers work? You betcha. He says, the zeal to give by the Corinthians had stirred up most of the Macedonians. And we know, by the way, from Romans chapter 15 and verse 26. that the Corinthians did indeed finish their giving. They did what Paul was concerned they might not do. They went ahead and they went through the finish line and they did give what they were supposed to give. What is to learn from all of this? That one godly example influences another. For those that pledged last week, you are an inspiration for those who have not yet pledged. And why are you not pledging? Why are you not giving where you should be giving and you know in your heart it is right to give? Maybe the story of giving will go out from this place one day, as we've heard the testimony of other churches that came together in their time of need, facing situations like we are. And they said, we want to be remembered as a congregation that had faith and gave. We want to rem be remembered as true disciples of Christ that didn't just talk the talk but walk the walk There are a lot of people that do talk about their devotion to Jesus Christ. The real proof of that is in the money. The real proof of that is in the pudding, and the pudding is the money And that is, if people don't give, then their heart can't be said to be close to God. It cannot be. It is not possible to serve God in money. You cannot be a close follower of Jesus Christ and hang on to the money and not give it, particularly when you see the calls for it here. There is no getting around that. It doesn't matter how much you dislike that. It doesn't matter how much you want to accuse other people of wrong motives. It has to do with you and your heart before God. Either you prove your faith, you prove your love, or you do not And that's where you are, and that's where your position is before Christ. To come and sing hallelujah and to talk the talk and learn the doctrine, but not arise and give of yourself at the time when it is needed is to show the weakness. The vacancy of your faith. Look at the godly example of the brethren around you who are giving up things. See that they have given, understand their faith, and follow them. And for those of you who gave, please know your obedience was more than just letting go of some money. It was to remind people why we are even here in this world to advance the Church of Jesus Christ and the gospel of our Lord. Principle number seventeen giving can be affected by covetousness Giving can be affected by covetousness. This is verses 3 through 5. But I have sent the brother. Notice that but with all the bragging he did. But I have sent the brethren in order that our boasting about you may not be made empty in this case, so that as I was saying you may be prepared Otherwise, if any Macedonians come with me and find you unprepared, we, not to speak of you, will be put to shame by this confidence. So I thought it necessary to urge the brethren that they would go on ahead to you and arrange beforehand your previously promised bountiful gift. So that the same would be ready as a bountiful gift and not affected by what? Covetousness. Oh my. Yeah, I've been bragging about you to the Macedonians, you guys. Started well. But just in case, I'm sending some people ahead so that when the Macedonians arrive We're not all ashamed because you decided to pocket it all, go back into your homes and your tents and not give after you promised you would. Does that sound familiar, Hope Bible Church? Does that sound familiar? A pledge is a pledge is a pledge. You pledged it. Remember that. Let's not be ashamed. Let's not be ashamed that we said we were going to do something and then we looked at all the things we then saw we would be sacrificing and we said, no, that church has enough money. We're not going to give it to them Or whatever amount of rationalization goes on in the minds of people that's not from God. Wow. This is powerful That last statement really expresses Paul's concern. They were ready to give, they'd committed to give, they'd been an example to the Macedonians. Maybe it was because Paul knew a little bit about this church at Corinth that they were not always so obedient that he felt he needed to do this. There was still the possibility that they would not complete the project. That was Paul's concern. So he mentions he sent the three men. Mentioned even back in chapter eight. On ahead. Why? To arrange the gift, get it all prepared, put it all together, count it, make sure it's all there. Get their financial house in order, so to say, to help them keep a good reputation. What's more important to you, your reputation as a giver or hanging on to your money? See, in his love for the Corinthians, he wanted to spare them shame. Before Paul got there with that group of Macedonians, he wanted there to be a bountiful gift that they had promised. Paul had boasted. Otherwise just imagine him bragging about them and then they all arrive and they look at the paucity of what was given and it's like, ooh, what do we say now? What a total letdown. What's wrong with this church? Don't they understand that Christ gave to them? What's going on in this church? Oh my! What reputation are they going to have now? They didn't give. Well, Paul did have confidence that they would give, but and he did speak of the confidence, but he knew the Corinthians. He knew He knew they were a worldly lot. There's a lot of enticements in the world to take the money. He wanted to make sure they might not be ashamed. Of the less able, the poorer, evidently poorer congregation of the Macedonians. Imagine them poor coming with a larger gift than those that were richer and outdoing them and giving. Oh my It is a shame for Christians not to give. It is a shame for Christians not to give. Paul knew if the Corinthians did not give, it would be because their gift was affected by covetousness. Didn't need to figure it out. Why did they not give? It was a very simple answer. The same same answer for us today. Why do people not give? And the answer is covetousness. It's the sin of covetousness. It might be called many other things. I'm just being responsible with my own finances. That's what you want to call it. It's covetousness, actually. Well, I didn't calculate correctly the first time. Whatever. The failure to give when the need is clearly presented is affected by the enemy of giving And what is the enemy of giving? Selfish covetousness. What is covetousness Greed, covetousness in this case, is that which would prevent them from providing a bountiful gift. And so it's keeping for oneself what could be used in ministry. There's a book called Developing a Giving Church. And in it comes a cute story which illustrates our problem of covetousness. There was a young boy, as the story goes, who lived with his elderly grandmother in a small town Every Sunday the grandmother would take the boy to church, and after they would go downtown and get an ice cream cone, which was a special treat On one particular Sunday, the grandmother was not feeling well. She told the boy that he would have to go to church by himself today, and she gave him two nickels, one for the offering plate and one for an ice cream after church. Now As it happened, the boy needed to cross an old wooden bridge in order to get to church. As he was crossing the bridge that Sunday, as boys will do, he was watching the river below, skipping, hopping, generally not paying attention All of a sudden he dropped one of the nickels. The nickel fell to the bridge and, as chance would have it, found a small crack through which it fell into the river below. The boy dropped down and put his eye to the crack. He watched helplessly as the nickel fell into the river below As the boy got up and put the other nickel in his pocket, he said to no one in particular, oh well, there goes God's nickel. When forced to choose, many of us are like that boy. Oh well, there goes God's money this month. Here's another story. At a church meeting, a very wealthy man rose to tell the rest of those present about his Christian faith. I'm a millionaire, he said. And I attribute it all to the rich blessing of God in my life. I remember that turning point in my faith. I had just earned my first dollar. I went to a church meeting that night. The speaker was a missionary who told about his work. I knew that I only had a dollar bill and either to give it all to God's work or nothing at all So at that moment, I decided to give my whole dollar to God. I believe that God blessed that decision, and that is why I am a rich man today. He finished, and there was an awed silence at his testimony as he moved toward his seat. As he sat down, a little old lady sitting in the same pew leaned over and said to him I dare you to do it again. But the problem is the more we own, the more it owns us. Covetousness is the enemy of giving because it slowly, almost imperceptibly takes over our hearts. And the heart generates many, many defenses to keep from giving out. You saw Franklin try. You have to be honest about your covetousness if you're going to become a giver. At the root of covetousness, obviously, is selfishness. And embedded in the law of God is that commandment against covetousness. You ever thought how fascinating it is that in the Ten Commandments, one of those commandments is a long commandment that says, Thou shalt not covet, and then goes on to describe thy neighbor's wife, his house, his male servant, his female servant, his ox, or his Ferrari. It's all there in Scripture. Exodus chapter 20, read it for yourself. Covetousness is one of the ten commandments that we are to guard against in terms of sin. We think we own our possessions, but the reverse is often the case. I saw a newer bumper sticker that corrects the older one. It says, he who dies with the most toys loses. Colonel Sanders, founder of Kentucky Fried Chicken. They don't say that anymore. It's KFC now, right? I guess because the word fried is bad for business. I don't know. KFC. It says there's no good reason to be the richest man in the cemetery. Principle number eighteen Giving is investing. Verse six. Giving is investing. This is a new thought for many Now this I say, he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and he who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. Here, from verse 6 down to verse 15, we really see the outcome of giving. First, the giver is blessed. That's talked about here in verses 6 through 10. Then the receivers are blessed because their real needs are met. That's verses 11 and 12. And last but most importantly, in verses 13 through 15, God is blessed. Here, the image of the harvest shows that you can plant as much seed as you want. The more you plant, the more you harvest. That is what giving is about. If you are content with a little harvest, then you sow a little bit because you have a small vision and probably a small heart. Open your heart and you sow bigger and you think bigger. You think about God's kingdom and you realize we're talking about something enormously important. By your giving, you can sow more abundant amounts and you can reap more abundant ministry. A quote from the book, The Treasure Principle, says, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Why? Because it's right? Not just that, but because it's smart. Because such treasures will last Jesus argues from the bottom line. It's not an emotional peel. It's a logical one. Invest in what has lasting value. You'll never see a hearse pulling a U-Haul because you can't take your money with you. Do you remember Jim Elliott's famous quote? He is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. What is it that you cannot lose? You cannot lose anything you give to the Lord. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verses 10 through 15 has some instruction about the love of money. He who loves money will not be satisfied with money, nor he who loves abundance with its income. This too is vanity When good things increase, it says, those who consume them increase. So what is the advantage to their owners except to look on? The sleep of the working man is pleasant, whether he eats little or much, but the full stomach of the rich man does not allow him to sleep. There is a grievous evil which I have seen under the sun, riches being hoarded by their owner to his hurt. When those riches were lost through a bad investment, and he had fathered a son, then there was nothing to support him. As he had come naked from his mother's womb, so will he return as he came. He will take nothing from the fruit of his labor that he can carry in his hand. Gee, the New Testament says it even more succinctly. First Timothy six, seventeen and eighteen. For we have brought nothing into the world, and so we can take nothing out of it either. If we have food and covering with these, we shall be content The more you possess, the more you want, never satisfies. Never. The more you have, the more others want from you And the more that you have, the more you have to worry about what's going to happen to it. You have to ensure it, you have to protect it, you have to repair it. More actually becomes less. Some of you are learning that. You're downsizing, you're giving stuff away. I'm like, that's good. More actually becomes less. Less of what? Less joy. Because you're spending time in your materialistic mindset and you can never get out of it all day long. It's about what to do with your possessions and your belongings. More becomes less. Less of what? Less time to serve God. You don't have any time to serve God. You've got to take care of the belongings. More becomes less. Less what? Less focus on other people. I don't have time for his problems. Look at my problem. Back to the treasure principle book. Giving is the only antidote to materialism, it says The act of giving is a vivid reminder that it's all about God, not about us. It's saying, I am not the point, he is the point. He does not exist for me. I exist for him. God's money has a higher purpose than my affluence. Giving is a joyful surrender to a greater person and to a greater agenda. Isn't that beautiful? Giving affirms Christ's Lordship. Giving dethrones me and exalts him. It breaks the chains of mammon that would enslave me. So invest in stock you can take with you. The best investment program on the market is not one of those, but by H and C Bank, Heaven and Christ. Ten million percent return on the money. Do you know how long eternity is? Neither do I. Uh oh Giving is to be done cheerfully. Verse seven. Each one must do just as he has purposed in his heart, not what? Grudgingly or under compulsion. For God loves a cheerful giver. This is the best known verse in these entire two chapters. But what is not known as well is that Paul likely added the statement so that the arrival of the men from Paul to Corinth Would not look like pressure or extortion had caused the giving. Paul truly wanted them to give from their hearts. Only that kind of giving is real ministry. Only that kind of giving brings glory to God. Have you ever received a gift from someone that you found out later someone else made them give it to you? How did that make you feel? Imagine God. So Paul is going to persuade hearts, but he will not utter threats. Threats would lead to compulsory giving. Instead, they were to do two things. They were to purpose in their own hearts what to give, and then when they gave it, they were not to give it grudgingly, they were to give it cheerfully. Purposing in the heart speaks of predetermining what you're going to do. It's not an emotional decision. You sit down, you think, you pray. You think about your life and what's most important to you. And then because of your faith and because of Christ, you give as you purpose to do. Not grudgingly or under compulsion speaks of not giving in sorrow. After you give it there's so much pain. I can't believe it. A grudging giver gives, but he doesn't really want to give. He gives because he feels obligated. There's no happiness in the giving. How did you feel after you went home, after your pledge dropped in that box in the back? How did you feel? Did you go home and pout this past week? Cheerful giving is happy giving. It means you're joyous to give Giving is a joyful experience. The cheerful giver loves to give. You can see here that God is very concerned not just with the gift He's not even just concerned with the one getting the gift. He's very much concerned with the one giving the gift. What an outrageous statement Jesus said that's recorded in Acts 20, 35. It is more blessed to give than to receive. Is that just pie in the sky, or is that true that you are more blessed as a giver than those that receive Notice God loves a cheerful giver. I think this is one of the most endearing statements in Scripture. The Scripture speaks of things that God loves especially. There are some things that God loves more than other things. And here it says very clearly, he loves cheerful givers. Why does God love cheerful givers? Because the cheerful giver understands. The cheerful giver understands God's priorities. The cheerful giver does not love the world The cheerful giver sees God's generous character and his generous actions in history and he wants to imitate it. The cheerful giver sees the blessings of ministry and he wants to be a part of it. The cheerful giver sees a need of a brother or a sister and he wants to meet it. The cheerful giver sees a church building and all that God will do to glorify his name there and wants to be a part of it A cheerful giver thinks of the Word of God going out, running and being glorified, as the scripture says, I want to back that. The cheerful giver is, his giving is spawned by faith, and that faith pleases God. Do you want God to love this church in a special way? Let's be cheerful givers. Let's give in such a way that when people ask you, why do you give to the church? Your answer is because it makes me happy to give. And even more important, it makes God happy that I give. Principle number 20. There's only two more. Principle number twenty. Givers must give by faith. Givers must give by faith. Verses eight through eleven And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance for every good deed. As it is written, he scattered abroad, he gave to the poor, his righteousness endures forever Now he who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in every thing for all liberality. The promise is in this passage are immense. Only scratching the surface here. Notice in verse 8 the totality of God's provision for those who are givers. These are promises for givers, okay? If you're a giver, this is a promise for you. If you're not a giver, then it's not for you. The immense generosity God has for givers. He mentions all grace to abundant bound to you. Then he says, always having all sufficiency in everything, in every good work. And then look down in verse 11. It says, You've been enriched in everything for all liberality. I mean, this passage is just spilling over with blessings and bounty for the givers. God promises to provide for givers. As you give to others, he will keep giving to you. Why? So that you can keep giving to other people. Somebody said, Well, I'm going to give so that God blesses me and I'll get rich. If God blesses you because you give, he's blessed you so you'll keep giving and not become rich. God promises this to givers. The church which gives becomes a channel of God's bounterless blessing to other people. God knows He can entrust more to that congregation because that congregation won't sit on it. They'll give. This is the exact opposite of the word faith, blasphemous movement. They say if you have faith, God will make you rich. You can tell God, and He'll give you the money God says, if you have faith, I will help you to make other people rich. That's the giver's joy. That's the giver's mission The giver's abundance, notice at the end of verse 8, is for every good deed. And it's all generated by faith. Faith in what? In the generosity of God and the God who provide for me, that when I let go of this money, God will not let go of me. That the job that I currently have is is the one that he gave me. I never have to worry about my finances. I literally never have to worry about my needs being met at any time in the future. I have faith in God and I give as an example of that faith. It's all generated by faith. To the one who doubts what will happen if I give, what will happen to me? Paul writes in verse 8: listen, God is able. To the one who wonders, who's going to help my family if I give the money away? The answer comes in the passage: God is able to make all grace abound to you. So the one who wonders, well, what home will I live in and be able to afford if I give money away? So that always having all sufficiency in everything, Paul writes. So the one who wonders if if I if I give that money away, how will I be able to help other people when they they come and I want to meet needs for them? Paul answers, you will be able to abound in every good deed. It takes faith, brothers and sisters in Christ, not faith in faith. Not using God to get rich, but faith that God will lead and God will continue to supply and God will keep supplying. So we can be a gushing channel of his abundance materially in some cases, but certainly spiritually in most cases. God gave the illustration in the natural realm. Seeds that you plant. Take time to plant the seed in the ground. One seed does not produce one seed. One seed produces many flowers and each flower produces hundreds of seeds. It multiplies what you do when you give. That's faith. You plant one plant and it blooms and hundreds, yea, thousands of more seeds come from that one seed. If you didn't take it and you didn't plant it, you would never see the bounty. Do you understand that? It does not just propagate itself. In God's work, one dollar doesn't come out as one dollar. It comes out as a thousand. There's a harvest of righteousness. Look at the end of verse 10. We'll supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness. That's what we ought to be giving for. We ought to be giving so that we will find in the future a harvest of righteousness. We will see souls that are saved and Homes that are repaired and people that follow Christ more and missionaries that are sent out and people that are blessed in this congregation. That's what you're giving for Just like the lad who donated his two fish and the five loaves, and Christ took it and he multiplied it in a way that everyone's jaw must have just dropped open. A thousandfold, ten thousandfold. When we give our little, and it doesn't look like it's going to be anywhere near enough, we put it into God's hands, God works. And we believe that by faith. Listen, it's the weakness of faith that paralyzes the Christian life and it paralyzes giving. Acting on faith energizes it. You call yourself a believer in Jesus Christ. The scripture asks you, where is your faith? You must believe God, not at some time in the future when He finally gives you the things you're praying for. You must believe God right now in the midst of your circumstance. Because he gives you promises right now, and that takes faith. And the last point, which I don't have time to extrapolate upon it, point number 21 Giving produces thanksgiving to God. Verses 12 through 15. Giving produces thanksgiving to God. He says, which through us is producing thanksgiving to God. For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints, it's not just about their famine in Judea But is also overflowing through many thanksgivings to God. Verse 13, because of the proof given by this ministry, they will glorify God. For your obedience to your confession of the Gospel of Christ, and for the liberality of your contribution to them and to all While they also, by prayer on your behalf, yearn for you because of the surpassing grace of God in you. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. In other words, the end of the passage completes the cycle. Out of the riches of God's grace, He provides for us. We give, it benefits other people. And then that gift produces in their mouths and in their hearts thanksgiving to God. And thus the blessed cycle goes back to God, on and on. And God gives more, and then the people give it away, and more thanksgiving to God is produced. And that thanksgiving arises to God, and God supplies again. And then that which is supplied is passed out to others again, and then they give thanksgiving to God, and it rises to God again Verse 14 even emphasizes the prayers that will be said to God on behalf of the givers as they thank God, thank God for these givers. Thank God for them meeting needs. And they do thank God. This is where your giving and my giving needs to end, right there in verse 15. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. The indescribable gift is the gift ultimately of salvation in Christ that comes from him and only through him. Please remember that. The one who was made poor that we might become rich, that is the indescribable gift. That is our gift. That's what we own. That's what we possess. And it should keep us thanking God Over and over and over again. Thanks be to you, our Lord and our Father, who has granted to us life, yea, and new life. being born from above, born by your spirit, to inherit an imperishable inheritance, and to experience bountiful joy and righteousness and fruitful ministry in the present life. Thank you, Father, for your people. Add faith and love and understanding to this message. Teach us in our hearts what it means to be followers of Jesus Christ in all its dimensions. For so we have preached and so we have prayed. Amen