Similarly in Ephesians 4. And like I said earlier, it all starts with recognizing our identity in Christ. It just seems like a continuous cycle. The third are, we have been reconciled to God. While he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion for him, and ran and embraced him and kissed him. I'll share just a personal experience with me and it's about me. Because of her kindness, it just it it causes me to just decompress, start talking to her, and then you guys know life is good How about um how about from the wives perspective, if anyone wants to share? But to approach it with gentleness um just changes everything. Verse thirty, but he was unwilling and went and threw him in prison until he should pay back what was owed. Uh that wasn't what I put in the issue with uh okay, so what was the actual issue? All right, 2 Timothy. It is not conditional. Alright, while we're waiting on Jeff, let me ask this. So excellent. It's it's okay. They're dead to Christ. Show me in the Bible where it says to apologize. Kindness, humility, gentleness, forgiving, love between those two verses. The first one, we have been rescued from Satan's kingdom. And you can't be in both. In fact, in Isaiah, it talks about us being hostile to God. And these are true about us no matter what others have or can do to us. Pastor Gabe has another class, I forget the title of it, but basically something about preaching the gospel to ourselves every day It's hard, but this is where the rubber meets the road, and this is where you can exercise and grow in these attributes. so that we will be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God. And lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for He Himself is kind to ungrateful The severe personal offense we committed against him, God showed and continues to show compassion towards us. which we have done in righteousness, but according to his mercy by the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit. personal application, any any thoughts or examples of of a situation in your life where you had to show kindness. Right. a snack cabinet at the office. Right, before it becomes a conflict. everything's cleaned up, there's no, you know, spots over the conference, you know. You know, thank you, but why didn't you get me gluten-free snacks? This person maybe gets fired up because no one considers the gluten-free person. Next time. but gives grace to the humble. servant leader when you're and you have a role of authority in a workplace for the industry that you're willing to do what you're asking everyone else to do in a public That's a great word to use, especially as a husband, right? Um, I was in the military for several years and was in several command positions and this was a challenge sometimes because you have a clear distinct role as a commander And yet you have to have, you know, that spirit of a servant leadership if people are really going to follow you. not I'm grumpy and I'm not in a good mood, you know, Crean, my wife again could could react very differently to that. But with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. But he chose to humble himself, to reconcile us to himself. Who, although he existed in the form of God, did not regard equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself Any other comments on humility? you know, dads, fathers, it is so key. Huge failure on my part, right? an area that I have grown in is uh my approach to to conflict or interaction in the home. you know, so often our conversations now it it does. an encouragement maybe to you that that maybe you have smaller kids or or younger children, um it can really be a sweet, sweet place when you get to that point of Scripture is a standard. you know, fatherly type of attitude. care so as not to unnecessarily offend, harm, or discourage them. Right? It's also, I would say, a trained attribute. Your proving ground, your practice ground. First Thessalonians, but we prove to be gentle among you as a nursing motherly tenderly cares for her own children. so that it will give grace to those who hear. and attentional about being a gentle person. Toward us is seen in the fact that He does not rain down on us the just punishment of our sins the first time we sin, or the second time, or the third, or the fourth, or the fifth, or the hundredth You know, hey, hey, speed up. Often I look down and I'm like, oh, he's driving the speed line or she, right? when we are caught and only after we've gone through time consuming legal processes, God knows instantly when we sin. So his fellow slave fell to the ground and began to plead with him, saying, Same question, have patience with me. When he had begun to settle them, one of one who owed him ten thousand talents, and I think you've heard this in different sermons. But since he did not have the means to repay, his Lord commanded him to be sold along with his wife and children, and all that he had, and repayment to be made. Now here's the key. And I will repay you everything. Right? It just doesn't matter. you know, closet door underneath. the Holy Spirit. Putting up with others, enduring and tolerating. That they vacillated and were as easily swayed to believe as they were to question. The heart attitude. for forgiveness. These were prayers, these were exclamations made in the Old Testament. See if it's here. And the Lord of that slave felt compassion and released him and forgave him the debt. That this slave had to the king, right? Just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. teach a parenting class and this comes up too this idea of apologize versus forgiveness. You pattern that in the home, but but it's a very powerful difference between I'm sorry, I'm sorry you did that to me, or I'm sorry you were in the wrong place, or you know what I mean? Say what you're apologizing for. For the benefit of another person. Or I love that you love me as much as I love you. out of love. And then one John, in this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation. the fruit of the Spirit, but all of these are the character of God which He produces in our life as we streak as we seek Him. Yeah. with, you know, I'll call it a spiritual mentor that has helped her recognize and walk through some of these attributes. Um so encourage everyone to have that spiritual mentor. Just like, wow, that that hit me or that's a gold nugget that I'm just going to keep with me forever. That really changed my perspective on, you know, that crazy driver in front of me. with all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing tolerance for one another in love, being diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Again, being the kind of person that glorifies God, being that peacemaker. holy and beloved. as believers in Christ, as children of Jesus Christ. as though they are saved by works. Right? Right? Reconciled. We have a new mission in life when you become a believer. And it's about these truths, and it's so, so important, right, to remember who we are, our denity in Christ Right? As we go through this, um I want you to be thinking about application to your own life, to your own scenarios, if you will. Nevertheless, in your great compassion you did not make an end of them or forsake them, for you are a gracious and compassionate God. And he can show compassion on them, how can we not do the same? of God is that the sad condition of mankind did not come about because of circumstances outside their control. kind of a challenge for us from an application standpoint. Not the benefit of ourselves, the benefit of the other person. Alright, so the first attribute is compassion. If he has done that for us, should we not meet the needs of those around us, regardless of whether they deserve it? What's going on? when they least deserve it'cause because, you know, God sh you know, you know, put his compassion on us when we least deserved it, when we were yet sinners. somebody comes in one day, they get hungry or if they only um say no and staying a couple of hours and leaving at lunchtime, they can go in there and grab a snack. Excellent. someone who like the father is kind to those whom they are in conflict and meets real and practical needs. Cole's on this person, right? There are many senses and contexts in which one can be humble, financial, social, influence, servitude. We are made in God's image and thus have inherent dignity and worth, but we are sinners and thus there is no place for pride or haughtiness. Because of who we are in Christ. And so there has to be a humility about our attitude and our characteristics. you know you're a sinner as well as your child and and having not that you give up any of that authority, but you come at it with a sense of humility, right? we all have with our children at times. You know, husbands as um leaders in the home, we absolutely have to have a spirit of humility in dealing with our wives and our children. Um again showing a spirit of humility, being sensitive to that um really helped, you know, kind of diffuse that situation, helped me to talk about it, and that's um, you know, coming along beside me and helping me with that. but also the interests of others. Especially in the home, in a marriage, parent-child relationship, this becomes so critical. Holy. familiar passage right Philippians 2 when we focus on Jesus Christ and this idea of humility. Taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Important. his glasses, it's the righteousness of Christ that he sees you. Is there any level that you are unwilling to stoop to for the sake of a person you're in conflict with, especially a wife or a husband? for a child. of gentleness and and abusing maybe um you know my power or my authority as a dad. For I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. But to say, hey, just let me know. And that's why it's so important to be in the Word, to be renewing your mind, and putting on these characteristics. Now we're going to go to the second floor, number five is patience. Patience is the prolonged restraint of anger. prepared for destruction. Or the thousand. Different from any other creation that God did, you know, humans, made in the image of God. Right, we get the wrath, we die. And uh he just got his license and and I can sense in him a little bit uh you know, the mind going, Hey, speed up or why aren't you doing this? He would be right and just to immediately and without reservation allow us to experience his holy wrath the moment we sin the very first time. Patience. and I will repay you. Again, this was huge for me because um you know going into our marriage I've always been kind of a neat freak. in changeable situations where forbearance is more related to long term and fixed situations. versus down in the dishwasher and you go ballistic. um in discussions with our children to show them uh to to preach the gospel to them, to encourage them. Aren't we prone to be like that wicked slave like we just talked about? So how can you grow in patience? You unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? and again and again but you understand their sinful nature you know what's going on in their heart they they were not born um spiritually alive they're dead uh on the character person or the nature of the act of forgiveness, that it rises out of a gracious heart and is a gracious act. Because of the littleness of your faith. If you, Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand, but there is forgiveness with you, that you may be feared. Then summoning him, his Lord said to him, You wicked slave, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. My heavenly Father will also do the same to you if each of you does not forgive his brother from your heart. Right? Sean and Nicole. I'm not going to tell other people about it. No, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to do that. For maybe at home or kids or Jose, you were in our class. just be like from what she said, like seeing it played out in my children. forgive somebody versus to just apologize. Mm-hmm. For God, you guys know this one. How God loved us first. For love is from God, and everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. For the one who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God with whom he has not seen. should love his brother also. How can you show love because God first showed us love? we put on these eight characteristics. Clom onto that senior uh mentor, if you will, that's walked the walk. Every kind and if you go into a conflict thinking, thank you, Lord, this is an opportunity. How can you not show those same attributes that God showed to you? And then I think we'll we'll cover this today. So what I've just talked about, in order to respond to conflict in a way that glorifies God, that's our ultimate goal in every situation, is to glorify God. So also should you. We must be the kind of person that glorifies God. Kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience, bearing with one another, and forgiving each other. Our doing or will do, right? Psalm 56, in God I have put my trust, I shall not be afraid. It is often translated mercy or pity. Matthew 9, but go and learn what this means. Matthew 14. And evil men. And raised us up with him and seated us with him, so that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. hating one another, but when the kindness of God our Savior and His love for mankind appeared, He saved us, not on the basis of deeds which Sinful, evil, wicked sinners, just like ourselves. For in doing so you will reap burning coals on his head. Could your personal enemy have that you could meet? Characteristic humility. that he may exalt you at the proper time. And this is where we see God exemplifying humility. versus the child. that role, if you will, as a servant leader. Right? We all deserve the penalty of death. Towards those who are weak, poor, and vulnerable. transition and they become friends and and partners with you in life. Behold, my servant whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights, I have put my spirit upon him He will bring forth justice to the nations. All the time, even up to the point of his death on the cross, we're still questioning, well, who's can I sit on your right and your left and who's the greatest among us, right? And and I would say this, you know, back to those original Rs, those those six Rs we talked about, we can often come from backgrounds where maybe we had an authoritative dad, right? A bruised reed he will not break, and a dimly burning wick he will not extinguish. And the coastlands will wait expectantly for his law. Because these were supposed to be the leaders, the religious leaders, right? Um he was still very, very gentle. gently min minister to by our Lord, we ought to be gentle in our interactions with those who are in conflict with us. Brethren, even if anyone is caught in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. In love. You guys know our first reaction when a conflict arises is to dig in, those defenses go up, we can't do any of it outside of the Holy Spirit. Each one looking to yourself so that you too will not be tempted. Identify those areas, seek forgiveness, and be intentional about reversing those habits. And if you are, go ask for forgiveness. you you can demonstrate and practice these things. Often here's what I say, you know, I'm trying to get to work because I know I have an appointment. Up to seven times? Ton of like 10 million plus, right? A fraction, I mean a fraction of what the previous slave owed the king, right? Right? Forbearance is more about a long-term or fixed situation. social awkwardness, mannerisms, learning challenges, preferences, again cup up or down. We should not get fed up with people and their weakness, but tolerate and bear with them and encourage them. God has always been a forgiving God, even in the Old Testament. So this this little sin, this little you know, conflict against him a wrong, he was unwilling to forgive, and yet this mountain of sin that or debt that he had At some point you guys will discuss forgiveness in greater detail. In the same way that I had mercy on you, and his Lord moved with anger, handed him over to the torturers until he should repay all that was owed him. Okay. Alright? They're not sorry. Love is others-centered, not self-centered. By grace you have been saved and raised us up with him. for our sins, the propitiation, the the substitute that took that wrath that we deserve. It gets back to, you know, Ephesians 4 talks about putting off the old nature, renewing our mind, and how do we do that? The Spirit will empower you to imitate God and bear this fruit in your life. Cool. just really kind of stood out to me. And if I think about the patience that God showed me, why can I not show this person patience as well? You've addressed your own contributions to conflict and now you know you're ready to to do that battle, right? Fruit of the Spirit, right? helpful or beneficial. Is displayed in all its glory towards those who don't deserve it. Um I don't know how she does it, but shows me just great, great kindness and she'll just very sweetly just give me space initially, but ultimately she'll hey what's You know, or if if I know that um we share office space, uh we share office uh suite with another company. It's not easy at all. separated from God the Father. And you reach that stage where it's more of a friendship than a a parent-child relationship. Um, you know, that interaction all day long, if you start those conversations with gentleness, it just changes everything. interacted and responded to the disciples and the people that were lost. A gentle answer, especially to our children, to our wives. But she would love to have a closet that, Christopher, you don't even go in there. we are chasing, as this need to say, money. infinitely by God. Yeah. Right? Remembering who we are in Christ and that God forgave us. You know, conflict, every conflict is an opportunity, and then remembering how God treated me and who I am in Christ, I need to show the same type of characteristics. Notice how Paul began both passages I just read in Colossians 3. Because of the life and death of Jesus Christ. But that's that's Kareem. That's like a constant when you think about at home. But how I respond is so important. And that's what we carry with us, and we bring that forward. It'd be easy to respond negatively and without gentleness, because hey, I'm doing you a favor. Not wishing for any to perish, but for all to come to repentance. It just doesn't matter. Let's start with how did God treat your sin? Um again I can see this application in raising children, right? Just like Jesus did with us. The Lord, the King, forgave him. Or have earned it. Your children, children on children. And maybe you didn't feel like it. That's a great example, right? So clearly you have a role as a parent. Jesus did not humble himself because it was right, or because it was necessary, or because we deserved it, or for any other reason than he chose to exemplify his gracious character. So far from the truth. Treats us or responds to us. And the the parallel is that mountain of debt, that's what we have in our lives before Christ This idea of forgiveness means I'm not going to bring it up to you again. when they're crying and they're like, I'm sorry. Love is the commitment to use your energy, time, resources, and abilities. Ephesians 2. Two, three, or all these characteristics, here's how you can grow. So in Christ we are we are reconciled back with Jesus Christ, with God our Father. Right? So specifically, we are to exhibit the following characteristics. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction. What would have been right? It is not the idea of weakness or fraility, right? Oh, was it? And and so if we allow the Bible to be our friend and also to be the center of the house of the whole, it will solve all these things. Well like I just never had this growing up or like how do I do this? Yeah, excellent, excellent. But that's really critical to remember you are in God's kingdom. I talked about that up front. Instead of getting defensive. To to not get hung up, focus, respond immediately to that that little sin that seems to just kind of gnaw at us, right, compared to the mountain of debt that we had before the Lord. You hear that all the time between couples, right? unbelievers, those outside the workplace. In Titus 3, for we also once were foolish ourselves, disobedient, deceived, and slave to various lusts and pleasures, spending our life in malice and envy, hateful. That's the God we serve. So this was the first part where it's the king and the slave. Yep. Uh I was just gonna say it's also helped me a lot to spend time with a spiritual mentor who has learned and grown in these points more than I have. Colossians 3, 12-14. Matthew 18, oops, verse 21, and this is a very, very familiar passage Alright, if you have your Bible, let's open, we got some time, we can open up to uh Matthew eighteen, because the next two characteristics are going to reference uh Matthew 18 and this idea of And and what did God do? And it starts in the home. Compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, patience, forbearance, forgiving spirit, and love. Well I jotted down a couple that that really stood out to me and I'll share those. But then for whatever reason we kind of slide into this mentality of starting to work through you know trying to earn our salvation or earn goodness before the Lord and then we're brought back Kindness is one of the fruits of the Spirit, like we talked about earlier, right? They are separated from the Father like we all were. The most common being this ephemy, I believe it is, which focuses on the releasing of the debt. Yeah, let's go back to uh Matthew 18. But but you're not holding it over someone's head anymore. And and so be prepared for that and then you'll follow up with uh lesson eight. You know, instead of becoming defensive, thinking, hey, it's me that's that's causing him to get all fired up, has nothing to do with her, right? So with that in mind, here's how the spirit would have us think about ourselves. Now let me ask you guys, can we do any of this of our own accord, our own strength? Ephesians 4. And that's hard sometimes when we think about our past, isn't it? Christ has gone before us to prepare a way for us. That is. That's what all these characteristics, the root of that is the heart attitude, the character of the person. Alright, so from the lessons you guys have had so far, um Pastor Gabe has has showed you how to think about conflict. And this was the second instance between the slave and the slave. Isn't that a delightful thought? I'm so sorry. Yeah, amen. Right? about forgiveness and patience, about king the the king and and the slave and some debt that was owed. I don't care anymore. Okay, any comments, questions on that one, or experiences, forbearance? Yeah. Those six R's that we talked about, that's the standard. It's okay. It is unconditional. So the reality is these are accomplished already. According to one theological dictionary, compassion is a display of concern over another's misfortune. What about husband and wife? The fact I got another day with my wife, that's what matters, you know. Alright, last characteristic, we got about 10 minutes left, so we're we're in good shape here is love. Ephesians 4. You are in one or the other. Sure. Meeting real and practical needs. You're just you're showing kindness. And that's important to note. Right? But again by by God's grace I I would love to think that this is uh something that has grown in my life. Second Peter, the Lord is not slow about his promise, as some count slowness, but is patient towards you. Hey, why did you do that? This is really important, guys. You see a lot of those same similar attributes, and we'll go through that. Boy, this is a tough one, isn't it, guys? But but how is this spirit of humility um helping your interaction maybe with your husband who who isn't maybe being a servant leader? Next time when I'm picking something up, I'll get you something. Maybe that's why I joined the military. We can only love because God loved us first. Let that sink in. I I don't know how many of you have experienced that. When he went ashore, he saw a large crowd and felt compassion for them and healed their sick. Gentleness in Scripture is exhibited by those, this is this is interesting. Jesus said to him, I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times. But God being rich in mercy, because of his great love, which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. Beyond all these things put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity Mm-hmm. Alright, good. Those character, those Rs that we talked about up front, that's who we are in Christ. Judgment, wrath for all of us. But he doesn't do that. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. So you guys have had, I guess, five lessons so far. Ephesians 2. I like the way you put that. And these are true about us no matter what others have or can do to us. Humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord, and he will exalt you. So the slave fell to the ground and prostrated himself before him, saying, this is what he asked for, have patience with me. So Nicole, you brought up this idea of apologize versus forgiveness. Therefore, I, the prisoner of the Lord, implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling which you have been called This is all on God. Now here's the key. This idea of humility is so key. And that's how we are to be, especially within the home. But what was the response? Which is okay. Um yeah, just teaching the the so that they think later on as they grow and actually do mean it, oh, I should say I'm sorry, but there's definitely a difference in no penetration. It is not primarily a feeling, though it involves feelings, we know that. It doesn't, right? Um just always showing a a very gracious and sweet kind spirit to me, especially during uh those tough days. And so thankful that characteristic doesn't change, right? Now, he did come how come down hard on the the Pharisees and the Sadducees, right? Let's see. Because you're you're acknowledging what you did, right? But we have to remember, right, that that God is the originator, the perfecter of our faith, and we are saved only because of what God did in our lives. The fourth are we have been recreated in holiness. Right? And it's, you know, but it's a sanctifying process. Regard one another as more important than ourselves. You set the tone in your home. How does he respond though? Right, similar situations with us. We want to examine how God treated us so that we can treat others the same way. And, you know, if it's getting low, sometimes I'll go and find things to put in the air, microwave popcorn. It's with gentleness. Again, it's training. Okay, forbearance. And it's not just going off into the That's a great point, Owen. Yeah. In God's case, he loved because it is his nature to love. It starts in those relationships closest to you. All right, let's let's pull on that example a little bit. I mean no interaction when we are in that other kingdom. Growing up, young man, seven kids, um and they were great, right? And so um I'm asking you guys through five lessons, is there anything that really just You can practice these things and build them and be sanctified each and every day. Let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as is good for edification, according to the need of the moment. So here's the question. It is a large, large sum of money. And the Lord of that slave felt compassion and released him and forgave him the debt. Um and over time my wife has kind of come to the you know, I'll I'll call it more to the center. We're uh my wife and I are teaching a parenting class as well, and that comes up often, you know. I I s suspect Pastor Gabe has already covered it. You know, sometimes people can, you know, come off unlovely and we all can sometimes. It starts with just gentleness. Why'd you do that? It's something that has to be learned and practiced, just like just like building muscles, right? How would that um change the situation if if we were applying these types of characteristics in in what can sometimes be heavy, heavy conflicts, right? It's not saying you you don't have to think about yourself. It was necessary that he pour out his wrath on us. You know, all the things we're talking about, you learn those through practice. Turn that tide. You're gonna get there on time. And again, this idea of patience. He was patient and he forgave us. There is significant overlap between forbearance and patience. For now, let us simply say that we should be willing to forgive in the same way and to the same extent that we have been forgiven, just like we talked about. So I think it's important. I mean, it is an opportunity to glorify God and for us to be sanctified as well. Do not be overcome evil, but overcome evil with good. You have authority clearly described in the Bible, and yet I'm okay with that. Just like Jesus did with us. Paul's preferred word for forgiveness comes from the same root word as grace, and you I won't even try to pronounce that. And there's a third piece that I forget. So it's important to use scriptural uh mandates and language and so that's a that's a great one. Alright, what we deserve is the first time we sin, kaboom Right? I just I stopped loving her. Therefore I implore you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling with which you have been called. Do we have distinct roles described by Scripture? You know, we're instructed, you know, the older women to instruct the younger women and and men discipling other men. I believe the intention of this class is really reconciliation with brothers and sisters in Christ. Kindness is doing the right thing in the right way for the benefit of the other person. I mean I try to cover everybody, even those people that um you know can't have a lot of sodium. Again, that's kind of that summary statement that you need to be thinking about. A servant leader. The focus of gentleness-meekness is the attitude and manner in which we interact with others. It's important to reestablish that baseline. He will not cry out or raise his voice, nor make his voice heard in the street Well I'd not really take offense to that, but to this other item that's something I've experienced a lot again. It is a choice. Loving one another is of such importance that John says in 1 John, Beloved, let us love one another. The second one is this idea of kindness. Um can you can you bring that up again and maybe let's pull that thread a little bit. Invite the Bible. Not just the death, but the perfect life that He had here on this earth. Um the issue that I have is um you know, sometimes when I do chill kindness it's always people around me that always said it, uh, you don't have to do that. We should not read sinful anger or frustration in Jesus' words. I don't know if you were there for that lesson, but we did talk a little bit about that. Yeah. You know, there there have been times something maybe happens at work or whatever and you just come home pretty ornery, right? You know, like I have children, so it's just you know, focusing on their kids and providing for them. I don't know. And seated us what with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus It's it's very distinct. And the remarkable, wonderful miracle of being in God's kingdom is you can never go back to this kingdom Right? I think that's kind of the the key or the basis of this, right? He is not harsh, mean, overbearing, crushing, or sharp. And it was this it was this class, I'll be honest with you, a reminder of that person in that car was made in the image of God Right? Alright, bring them back to the beginning. And you see the verses there. Um if you don't mind, I want to go back and and remind me your names back there, please. You can tell when it if it means something to them versus just I'll say it but I don't need to say it's that's a great example and and I think, you know, like you highlight, it's something that has to be learned. I love that word. And and I'll tell you early on it wasn't always with gentleness, right? You know, many of my kids are older now and and out of the house and it's just uh it's been a really neat transition. And we're going to cover that today in great detail. Right? No longer to serve self, right? Now here's the key. I desire compassion and not sacrifice, for I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners. So he had to be tough on them. And I've kind of come over here and I've kind of come to the center where it just doesn't matter. Yeah. And then we leave the children aside. So as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion. Romans, there is no one who does good, no one who is righteous. Alright, again, how about some personal application here, especially in the home? And then Ephesians 4, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing tolerance for one another. But when our feelings change or when the person stops loving us as much as we love ourselves, suddenly we have fallen. You have a new master. But God being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, made us alive together with Christ I really like Matthew 11. Though we have been shown infinite patience, infinite patience, we can barely stand someone's offense for a minute. Right? That is hopefully a great, great encouragement. So that's a great example. Right? Remember, because of Adam's fall, we were separated, totally separated from God the Father. Make it really personal and think about applying these truths each and every day in your home Alright, gentleness. You know, I go back to the example of driving. And and I waited till the very last minute to leave the house. That's not even a denarii. When they're young, you're giving them commands, you're giving them instruction, and you gotta do it again. God has always been a forgiving God. I believe it's uh lesson eight, but you might revert back to six next week. So we're going to talk about those characteristics of what does that look like? Since Jesus has met our greatest need, while we were his enemies, what needs? Right? That's gentleness. But he was unwilling and went and threw him in prison until he should pay back what was owed. It's gone. When we see something we always have them say, I'm sorry And the sibling is supposed to say, I forgive you but you can definitely hear in the tongue I'm sorry And I would add it is unconditional, right? When we show how do we show love to God? You know, when you first became a believer, just this overwhelming joy and thankfulness that, God, you saved me. What can man do to me? That's what would have been fair. But that gentleness remains. I go back to the example at work, the snack bar. Right? The one who does not uh does not love does not know God, for God is love. So it's not about your circumstances, it's not about that person that wronged you. But a harsh word stirs up anger. Absolutely true, right? Alright, we got a couple minutes. Like I feel like I'm doing all the other things and so sometimes God just puts people in your life to model that I don't know if you guys heard in the back but she talked about uh it's been so helpful working There's only two kingdoms. Right? It's not something we earn, they are accomplished already and a part of our lives. As we relate to others, humility means to think of others as more important than ourselves, regardless of the position we may hold relative to the other person. Our society, our world loves to associate gentleness with being weak. And and I like this. So sorry about the mix up, but this has been a fun lesson anyway. Make sure there's water in the refrigerator, at least a case, you know, things like that. To be humble literally means to be low Romans nine. But the slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred denari, and he seized him and began to choke him, saying, Pay back what you owe. So to forbear, especially with our children But he was unwilling and went and threw him in prison until he should pay back what was owed But it comes with a warning, right? Yeah. We have no role in that All you have to do is let me know and I'll Okay. Let that be your encouragement. So i i and this is something I've I've tried to pass on to uh my son as the last one of seven Um and my wife, on the other hand, is a kind of a free-spirited woman. Luke 6, but love your enemies and do good Remember we talked about that earlier in the Rs. Make amends and be intentional about reversing those habits. Another one of my strong suits. You just open it and things go in there. How long shall I put up with you? No, that's actually it's really it's a form of communication, isn't it, at the end of the day. Far too often professing Christians have a works righteous theology and and identity. Not only because of what God has done for us, but because this is God, this is how God has treated us. And your response is, well hey, just let me know and I'll get that We go before the Lord, we ask for forgiveness. And that's why it's so important to preach the gospel to ourselves each and every day. So let me start in verse 21. I took this class about this time last year and there were a couple of things that And so when you're looking at this other person who was made in the image of God, The first is, and I I don't know if you've gotten to this yet, or maybe it was part of the introductory lesson, is that conflict, every conflict is an opportunity. But we are a new creature. Compassion is not just a feeling. Um and it's a very pleasant, pleasant time. It was a very gentle, loving Regard the patience of our Lord as salvation. So his fellow slave, I'm starting in verse 29, so his fellow slave fell to the ground and began to plead with him, saying, Have patience with me and I will repay you. Again, this is so critical, and this we'll come back to this because this is some of the fill-in-the-blank that uh I know is important for this class. Um we we often I I'll say I have often fallen short of of fulfilling that Matthew 17, and Jesus answered and said, So anybody, I don't know if anyone has had uh issue or situation or example they want to share from Um I've had many RMU system. Where else do you see a lot of those characteristics, if you will? So here's kind of the summary statement again for kindness. Really, it just doesn't matter. It's it's making a choice to be patient. We talked about that earlier. Exodus, Psalm, Isaiah. What if um what if you're providing these snacks for the the snack bar and uh a coworker comes up and says Unlike earthly judges who can only hand down punishment But again, I I say that just to encourage you. It is an action on our in a heart attitude on our part. And this commandment we have from him, that the one who loves God That was a person made in the image of God. Boy, wouldn't that solve like 98% of our problems if we did that consistently? Of course we do, right? So when his fellow slaves saw what had happened, they were deeply grieved and caned and reported to their lord all that had happened Bottom line is I'm not going to bring it up to you again, and I'm not going to tell other people about it. The Bible is the foundation. I hope that's an encouragement for you all. So, as those who have been chosen of God, He will faithfully bring forth justice. And then what do we turn around and do? And I I don't want to, you know, Pastor Gabe will go into much more detail about what does forgiveness mean, but I I'll just give you a little hint of what he's probably going to talk about. The second R, you have been redeemed from the penalty of sin Scripture does say that God is kind to those who are kind, but his kindness Do not merely look out for your own personal interest This idea encompasses a number of words such as bearing with one another. So really take that to heart the next time there's a conflict or you're getting riled up. Throughout the Gospels you see how Jesus And that's a world standard right there. They're not fun all the time, I get that, but it's an opportunity to glorify you and for for myself to grow. And I won't read that whole story again, but let's look at verse 20 This is so, so important. But as you're going through the Gospels, you know, keep that in mind. What if God, although willing to demonstrate his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much patience vessels of wrath? So again, this very large debt, just like we have before the Lord, he forgave him. And what you sinned against that other person. But this idea of Remember, Satan's kingdom and God's kingdom. And and to start with gentle that doesn't mean you don't address the situation, you don't discipline, you don't do all the things you're supposed to do I you know I underline it for yourself. And the slave says, Have patience with me, and I will repay you everything. Love is the giving of oneself for the good of another. Let me jump because I want to make sure I leave a little bit of time for any comments or discussions. Great, great thing. You know, uh if we talk about fairness, and that's not in the Bible either. In what ways do you personally struggle with gentleness in the midst of conflict? 10,000 talents was brought to him. Right? And I'm not suggesting that she does that to heap And it it has uh you should have Colossians 1, 9 through 11 in your notes. Anyone want to share a personal experience from a compassion standpoint? Why? His holiness. Anything through the first five lessons that really jumped out at you That is just a glorious, glorious thought. Ooh, this is a big one too. That's not the standard So think about that. Go down to uh verse 35. We are a new creature. It is uprightness in one's relations with others. But you know, it we we have that relationship now and they come back and they want that advice, but There is no way In our case, we love because we have been loved. So I want you to think about as we go through that. Okay, so we're going to go through though those there are eight characteristics that we'll go through And we should be bold in that, like Paul was, right? You know, to to fulfill that that God given I'll call it mandate to be submissive, that's not easy, is it? Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit. So I like that distinction. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. And it it goes back to the attitude and the manner, right? You see my point though, it's craziness. That's what forgiveness is. And again, you know, invite the Bible into your life, into your homes. Have this attitude in yourselves, which also was also in Christ Jesus. So the first one is compassion. So this is really, you know, you bring up a good z example. James 4, but he gives a greater grace. And this idea of gentleness and patience and kindness. Huge disparity. If I forgive somebody, I'm not going to bring that issue up again. However, to start with But to be in the kingdom of God we are reconciled to a Father who loves you. But Jesus graciously tolerated their weak faith. It's everything we need for life and salvation. Like I said, we need the gospel message each and every day. But to have this attitude of thinking more and more about the other's person's interest. Gentleness in Scripture is exhibited by those with power, influence, and strength. But the difference can be summed up as patience being more related to short-term But I think the intent is next week you'll cover uh chapter six or lesson six. Right? Because he is holy, holy. But that's why He He deserves perfection. And knowing all the facts there is no need to hold trial. For this reason the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his slaves Someone who's been there, someone who's mature in the Lord. I I really, really love that word, intentional. I'm not sure everyone was in the room, but can you Obviously relationships between you know husband and wife I don't have right? It starts at home. Um I I am not a road rage kind of guy, but in my mind Some people struggle to grasp biblical truth more than others. Let that be a warning, an encouragement. Yeah. Nehemiah Kindness. And that's why I say the home is your Not really Right, to be very specific, you bet. It is not primarily romantic, though it can involve romance. By loving others. Fifth hour, we have been reserved for heaven. And then the sixth one, we have been recommissioned to serve with Christ. And those are the eight characteristics that we're going to go through. Now at the each of end uh each of these characteristics is kind of a summary statement that is really should be a thought piece. Kindness. We absolutely do. So that's a great, great term. We do this by handling them with So all right. Whoever has a complaint against anyone, just as the Lord forgave you, Focus on meeting their needs. He had to Well thanks, but why didn't you get me a gluten free cracker? Proverbs 15, a gentle answer turns away wrath. Then Peter came and said to him, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? I just I I have but I like I w I enter a room and I like things to be neat Give them truth, truth in love. Okay Bring him here to me. This is not based on circumstances. As those who've been Guess why I'm late? Some of these, as we mentioned earlier, are listed in Galatians 5, where it talks about To to engage in that conflict. You're not a slave to sin anymore. In Luke 15. As we relate to God, to be humble means to think of ourselves rightly from God's perspective. Um and he equips us by being in the Word, renewing our mind. I mean, it is a ton of money But over time I love Psalm 130. So I think it's time for all of us to invite the Bible into our lives and also So for me it was again It is the foundation. And it is out of these realities that the following qualities can be exhibited in our lives. It is a feeling that leads to action. Okay. But gracious God, right, sanctified me over years and years and I would love to think that this is It starts with gentleness. And let me say this. Patience short term Unlike what some claim, God didn't become a forgiving God in the New Testament. Okay, we'll move on to a forgiving spirit. I in in even with our own kids, it's like Our sorry state is the direct result of our own sin and rebellion against God. And so sometimes, you know, just showing that grace and mercy to to others, um, you know We have been in our sinful nature separated Seven kids will help you with uh uh maturing and patience, trust me Just the little practical things in life, you know She likes to enter a room now and and likes to have it neat as well. This is what God did for you. And like I said, Pastor Gabe will talk about that. He will not be disheartened or crushed until he has established justice in the earth Go home and meditate on it. First Peter, therefore humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God Um because she's probably had a tough day too with seven kids, she's been towing around all day, but He is gentle So In the same way, we are to tolerate the idiosyncrasies that people have. A great one. We are a new creature in Jesus Christ. Sure. But there's someone at the office, and I hate to say it, but it's the HR person. So you're responding in kindness. And again, the summary statement, this is the one that should hit should hit home. I don't have to do this But that slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves who owed him a hundred denari. Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave Inviting the Bible, scripture into our lives, and we put on our new self. To say that God is kind is to say God comes to those least deserving and meets their greatest need. From the beginning to the end of his ministry, he knew the disciples lacked of faith. So next week, well, maybe not. That's what this is saying. Yeah. Kindness. Charizomai has more of a focus on the It should go both ways. Let me close in prayer. How can we be a person that glorifies God? All three of these passages explicitly say that God's kindness was expressed to who? This whole attitude, this hard attitude of But they're kids. Galatians 6 But he doesn't. Again, it goes back to I'll talk to to Pastor Gabe about that. Gentleness can also be translated meekness. Again, these were Try to buy something for those people that are doing keto and you know, little free items or whatever. And the comment is you don't have to do that. Yes ma'am. So you've been rescued, you've been redeemed. And it's easy to think of reconciliation with maybe So if I get an email saying that they're going to use um the conference room the next day, if I'm in the office, I'll just go in there and make sure Any comments, questions about anything we discussed? And not only with children but with with adults, right? Sure. Right? So again, this is a wonderful passage we can use for our own lives as a reminder. To remind ourselves of how God treated us. It's my fault. And and we've had some good talks about Michael But it's a really important passage and especially when you can uh great discussions with your children. And that's why it's so important to revert back to what did the Lord do for me? Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not drive it out? So I think it's important and uh this is something I think to learn as well when you apologize The more you increase in the knowledge of God, again being in the Word and spiritual wisdom and understanding, But that Was there an did you have another comment or you were going to add to that? So here's the question. So again, rescued, redeemed. But bring it even more personal. This love is self-centered. It was just a bad day at work. Yeah. It's a very different heart attitude to That has nothing to do with these truths, these realities. So it's this balance, isn't it? Well, let me keep going because I didn't finish the story. And just to think it back off of that, also um it also communicates to the other person what you what you think So he got up and came to his father, but And so yeah, yeah. Yeah. They're they're little bundles of heathenness, right? God's patience We have been set apart If they have sinned against God infinitely more than they have sinned against us That's a very practical need. It doesn't come naturally, guys. There's some more things we need to address though But that's that's just an example of how showing kindness can really diffuse a situation. Where are you where are you falling short So when you apologize, you say, I forgive you, and it has more weight because you know what you're forgiving. In our culture, love is more akin to, I love the way you make me feel. By obeying God and his command is to love him and to love others. The quality of being He is patient. It is not based on how others respond. Not because they deserve it. You have a new mission to serve Jesus Christ. But at the same time, we still struggle with sin Right? It's not the guy in front of me who's who's driving slow or driving the speed limit I should say. Somebody uh puts the cup up All right Romans twelve, but if your enemy is hungry, feed him. Therefore it says God is opposed to the proud. Consider this It doesn't mean you necessarily forget Again, any examples, and again, I want you to bring it home We deserve infinite judgment. How did he treat his own disciples that failed all the time? These are what is true about us, apart from anything we have done. Just not a kind person at all. Responding in kindness. Right? Right in the Bible. And so you see a lot of commonality with some of those words, right? No, that's excellent. When God interacts with us, he is not harsh. Ephesians 4. If someone says I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar Some struggle to trust in the Lord when hard times hit Again, Jesus wonderfully displaying forbearance. Do you struggle in one? So Gwen, that's a great example. Again, it really gets at the heart attitude. And that is so, so important. But that that is very powerful versus apologize. Right? She adds color to our marriage and I love it. I won't read that, but And and think about applying these attributes to conflicts that Boy, isn't this a big one, Dad? It's about recognizing Okay, the third Right? And so how does he respond? But um let's go back to While they say they are saved by grace, they live and think How are you going to respond to your brother that just stole your toy from you? Bring it home. You know, I I'll take it back to, you know, I come home and I'm ornery and and I'm not In the New Testament, it's the least common word Anything jump out at you Where and how can we show humility? It's not the love of the Bible. Okay? Now don't open that that Second Corinthians. You know, following Christ. Good example, thank you. It it's waking up and it's being very deliberate Alright, so that we've talked about the first four characteristics. Um, because it gives you a practical um view of That's the key to all this. Excellent. But that's a that's a great term And when He looks at you through But nobody else is doing it. Constant balance of having a boldness Now go to verse 30. Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving each other. Um that's just different communication styles. Boy, you see the huge disparity Uh to ask for forgiveness is very, very powerful. Agree. But we know that patience will not last forever, right? Alright? So Especially Uh the Bible is the the answer to all crises. Now Isaiah 42 A militaristic type dad. Amen. She talked about um the relationship with the children and and being in Agreeing that, yeah. And it absolutely requires Since Jesus has done that for you, But um there's six R's. So that was a big one Yeah. Of course. Dads? These are so, so important. Your spouse Anything else? But because we don't do that, when we work You've got to act on it. What is remarkable about the compassion? So again, let's point back to how God Amen. So yeah, that's a great example. I absolutely love it. These are eight characteristic traits of a peacemaker. Like little things like um we have like And my precious wife Servant leadership, absolutely. If he is thirsty, give him a drink. Yes? Good. Again, another John three All right, the peacemaker then is And despite Compassion And the boss is not there, so And he said to them, The same question. The all Just put it in the cabinet. Um Our role as parent Here's what's And Yeah. So