All right. Line of folks coming in. Well we are on page sixty-three, I believe. Is that the was it for you confrontation? Sixty-seven? Okay. I need to update uh my notes here. So again, I think we just have one blank, so I'm not that's why I'm not using the PowerPoint. Um So as you can see the outline is really eight questions that guide confrontations. We've talked about getting the log out of your own eye Uh addressing the sin in your own heart, considering what are the sources of conflict uh that take place in our lives, the interpersonal conflict And so now we're at that place of what about when we need to confront someone? How do we go about that in a wise way? Uh I don't know about you, but um I don't find that to be a particularly enjoyable experience. I don't look forward to those kinds of conversations I normally have an elevated heart rate, uh uh shaking in my body. You know, I've many times stood there or sat there staring at my phone like I don't want to hit the call button to, you know, have this conversation. I You know, please Lord go to voicemail. You know, whatever it might be. Like it's not a fun experience. It's not something that we delight in. I suppose there might be someone who enjoys that. I don't I don't know if whatever. But um Uh but it's good to think about it because whether we enjoy it or not, it it is a difficult conversation to have. uh in a way that communicates love and grace and patience and compassion. And so uh we want to think carefully about it. So let's just kind of walk through these eight questions to think through these things. And the first one is even to start with the fundamental question, is rebuking an option for a gracious loving follower of Jesus. I was uh watching some video clip yesterday where somebody held up uh you know a sign You know, and it said, you know, did Jesus say anything about or here's what Jesus said about this issue and turn around and it's blank, nothing. And then what did Jesus say about this issue? And that's blank, nothing. As if to say, you know, Jesus didn't say anything about abortion, Jesus didn't say anything about homosexuality, and so, you know, we shouldn't, you know he he tacitly approved of those things is the implication of the video. And of course what do what do people say? Jesus said don't judge. And so they say you shouldn't confront anybody. You shouldn't tell anybody that what they're doing is wrong because Jesus said don't judge. Uh you should be loving like Jesus and not rebuke anyone for anything. Right? Who are you to judge? Well, what's the answer? Is rebuking even an option? What's the answer? Yes. Yes. Yes. So you can write that in your notes. Because sin distorts, deceives, and destroys The most gracious, loving thing we can do is follow Jesus in helping people see where they are at odds with God and others. Right? All sin is deceptive. All sin uh breaks relationships to one degree or another. Uh it distorts God's design for life. And why would we want to allow someone to perpetually live in a destructive, distorted, uh deceived deceitful condition? Uh the nature of deceit is every every step you take down that path of deception you get further and further and further away from the truth and then you are pretty soon in the condition of insanity Well, if we can have any role in bringing someone back to the truth, uh that should be something we would desire to do, even if it's difficult So it's love for others that should drive rebuking. Not hatred, not judgmentalism, but love and care. We see in scripture that Jesus rebuked religious leaders, right? Matthew 23, that's the passage of the, I think it's seven woes. that Jesus proclaimed on the Pharisees. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees. And he said some pretty harsh things, you know, your whitewashed tombs full of dead men's bones, your uh You brood of vipers, you you know make other people s twice the son of hell as you are. I mean he said some pretty uh harsh, uh straightforward things. And so uh he certainly uh exemplified someone who rebukes those who are in sin. Uh Jesus even re rebuked the uh disciples, right? Uh he would say to them, you know, don't don't you know, don't you remember, don't you understand? Um he would say even to Peter, Get behind me, Satan. You don't have your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man And so he would rebuke them when they were in error. And we see him rebuking believers as well. Revelation three nineteen. Well that's uh as Jesus is writing the letters to the churches or dictating the letters to the churches, that he would uh rebuke the churches for putting up with false teachers and sin in the church Of course, Jesus rebuked demons as well as he commanded them to come out of uh out of those that they were um controlling. So Jesus was not afraid of rebuking. He did it to everyone, his friends, his enemies, alike. He did it. Biblically, he did it lovingly, he did it uh truthfully. He wasn't angry uh and abusive when he rebuked, but he he did it properly. And then also we are commanded to r admonish, reprove, and rebuke others out of love for Christ, the purity of the church, and love for the sinner. So If someone were to say, well, okay, uh Jesus rebuked because he he is God, right? He is Lord, he's the head of the church, uh so it's right for him to correct others, but but we're not to follow his example in that. You know, we're to to be the more the loving hand and and voice of Christ. Well, we have all of these passages and I think it's helpful just to see how many of them there are. Second Timothy three, sixteen to seventeen. That all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof Which is basically rebuke for correction for training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate equipped for every good work. The idea of reproof there is helping someone to see where they are wrong, uh see where they've gone off track. And then correction is the idea of bringing them into a proper understanding. So Scripture is given to us by God to help us um know where we're wrong and to help us know uh minister to others to help them to know where they are wrong. That's the purpose, or well at least one of the purposes of Scripture And then 2 Timothy 4:2, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience. So as Paul is giving his final instructions to Timothy, right before the end of his life, uh he didn't just say preach He didn't just say exhort and you know encourage people to command, but he said rebuke people, help them to see where they're wrong. Should this really be towards other Christians or is this also talking about non believers? Because it looks like some of the verses seem to be towards Christians alone. Yeah, I I I think most of the time when scripture uses those terms of reproving, rebuking, it's really towards Christians Because uh unbelievers, even though in a in a broad sense they're under uh they're subject to God's laws, uh they can't obey God's laws because they're dead in their sin. So what they need is the gospel. And so we are I don't believe we are to go uh around to unbelievers and tell them, hey, you're doing this wrong, you're doing that wrong, you're doing the other thing wrong. I mean th w certainly there are there's a place for that. That's a much bigger discussion. But I think in the way the scriptures talking about it, it's aligning believers to the revealed will of God and helping believers grow in Christ likeness. Timothy four two the end which really hits me is with great patience and instruction. And so if you're trying to lead someone Christ as well, or there's a baby in Christ, and they continue to sin. There has to be great patience. um any time to rebuke but in a manner that is going to be it's still loving, it's in Christ, but with instruction. So you're trying to get them to grow um or through the Lord. Um and but that takes self control, that takes that patience, it takes that will to come constantly look like Christ to do that because in this world if you don't have these things, at least today, if you don't have these things, how are you going to bring this dark world to Christ? Yeah. I Paul does say there at the end of that particular paragraph in Second Timothy to do the work of an evangelist. So he seems to distinguish between these commands which would be toward uh or in the context of the church and then he do the work of an evangelist of uh preaching the gospel to those outside. I mean, because Paul was writing to Timothy and you know, first and second Timothy, and then to Titus. He was writing to pastors. He was writing to men who were uh working in in the context of the church, inside the church. So I think again, primarily it's with believers. Um but you know, it's it's not to say we can't you know, if we have a a good relationship with an unbeliever, you know, admonish them and appeal to them. uh to to do what's right. 'Cause they have, you know, the law of God written on their heart. They are made in the image of God. They do have the capacity by God's common grace to understand um right versus wrong. They may not, you know, see Christ as beautiful, they may not have the conviction of sin, they may not have the ability to repent in in the full way as as we would consider God-oriented repentance. Um But just in in terms of helping someone to live rightly, we can we can encourage them in in our personal relationships. Where I think we can go wrong is um more of a public uh let forget that I don't want to get into that. That's more complicated. Uh uh that's more involved. So, primarily in the in the context of the church. And so Luke 17, 3 clearly would indicate that. Be on your guard. If your brother sins, rebuke him, and if he repents, forgive him So right there, command from Jesus, if your brother, brother in Christ, sister in Christ, if they sin, you are to rebuke them. And by the way, you know, we we hear the word rebuke and I think we naturally assume that's a harsh uh activity. Rebuke is sharp, rebuke is pointed, uh rebuke is um firm. It's it we don't typically think of rebuke as compassion, we don't think of rebuke as grace. as gentle uh but it is. You know, the word rebuke itself is simply pointing out someone's wrong and and so we ought to do it in a loving, gracious way. Uh the next passage there is actually First Timothy, not Second Timothy, First Timothy five. Second Timothy doesn't have five chapters Paul says, do not receive an accusation against an elder against on the basis uh except on the basis of two or three witnesses. Those who continue in sin rebuke in the presence of all, so that the rest also will be fearful of sinning. So here we have not a private rebuke, but a public rebuke that there are some because of their level of authority, the the level of influence that they have, you know, obviously speaking of elders here, that uh once you attempted to do the private uh rebuke and if they're not repentant then you bring them up in front of everybody and you you point them out, you name them. You address their sin publicly so that it says the rest will also be fearful of sinning. Titus, one of themselves, a prophet of their own, said, Cretans are always evil, uh liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons. This testimony is true. For this reason, reprove them severely so that they may be sound. in the faith. And again, when he says reprove them severely, he's not saying, you know, do it with an angry face and an angry tone and hotheadedly. He's just saying, you know, do it seriously. Make sure that they understand that if they have come to Christ, they can't continue to live according to their uh their culture that they were raised in, uh, which is so ungodly. Ephesians 5, 11, do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but instead expose them. It's the same word there, just uh a different way of uh expressing it. First Thessalonians 5. 14, we urge you, brethren, admonish the unruly, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient. with everyone. So even this is you know just a selection of verses, but we just see over and over and over again from different authors, different contexts. uh the importance of addressing sin in the lives of other people. So scripture is very clear that yes As believers, as those who have been loved by God, received the grace of God, we are to express the love and grace of God even as we are rebuking others, as we're addressing. sin in the life of others. So we should do it. We shouldn't shy away from it. In fact it's unloving to not rebuke uh others. Now What are, next question, what are wrong ways to handle the overlook versus rebuke dilemma? Right? Scripture says love covers a multitude of sins It says that it it's a good thing to overlook the transgressions of others. And sometimes we might be tempted to say, well, I don't want to have that hard conversation, so I'm just going to overlook that person's sin. I'm just going to cover it with love and not address it. And there are times when that's appropriate, there's times when that's good, and there's times where that's not good. So just consider some of these uh ways to to discern when should I uh overlook or or not overlook. We wrongfully overlook sin when we want to avoid conflict more than we want to look out for the other person's interest. That is, we desire our comfort over their holiness. Right? Again, that's uh I'm shaken. I don't want to make that phone call. Okay, I I don't have to make this phone call. I could just let it go. I could you know you know what, I'm just gonna be gracious. I I'm just gonna love this person and not say anything Well that's uh that's just a selfish motivation, right? And so if I'm selfishly motivated that I don't want to have this hard conversation, uh I'm afraid of what might happen, I'm afraid of how they might respond, then uh then that's not a a r right reason to overlook or or related to that we wrongfully overlook sin when we want others to like us and thus we don't want to get others upset. That is we have a fear of man more than a fear of God. Right? We uh project how the other person will respond uh we are uh in a sense we almost think the worst about them by assuming they're gonna respond poorly, that they're gonna not like us, they're gonna hate us, they're gonna get angry at us, uh and so we again are more uh driven by our fear of man than the fear of God. We we want our comfort. We don't want to complicate the relationship. We wrongfully overlook when we don't cover sin, but unla instead let it fester in our hearts and it produces bitterness Right? So we might say, I'm overlooking it, I'm covering it, but we might be harboring, like we talked about uh last time, bitterness uh in our in our soul where we can't stop thinking about it Uh we we on the one hand we say, no, I'm you know I'm just overlooking it, but in our heart we know that we're letting it fester there and and boil. And uh and so that's not uh a a proper way to overlook sin. Now on the other hand Instead of overlooking, we wrongfully choose to rebuke when we care more about our hurt than we care about their offense against God. When we are so pained and we want them to know our pain, we want to in a sense exact revenge or vengeance. And so I you know, I want them to know what I'm thinking, I want them to know how I'm feeling, I want to give them a peace of my mind. And so that's why I'm going to rebuke them. That's why I'm going to confront them. Well, that's again selfishly motivated. That's not looking out for their own spiritual good. That's not seeking to reconcile. That's just seeking to exact some form of vengeance. Rather than showing love and care. Or we wrongfully choose to rebuke when we can't control our emotions or our words. Where we just we we uh are just overflowing emotionally or verbally and we're not thinking uh reasonably, rationally, uh we're not uh considering our words, we're not thinking about how to communicate what we need to say in a way that's helpful, that's productive, that's that's uh promoting reconciliation. And so when we can't speak uh carefully and wisely, and we're just letting our heart overflow through our our mouth, that's that's a wrong time at least to rebuke. Next slide, we wrongfully choose to rebuke when we haven't considered our own contribution to the conflict or we've made assumptions about them based on our limited perception. So again, where you haven't taken the log out of your own eye, you haven't considered your own role in the in the conflict, you just want to get right at their sin, confront them, assume that they are uh the the problem in this situation. And uh and so you're uh you really are coming at it in a judgmental way rather than a a humble, gracious, compassionate uh way And then finally, we wrongfully confront when we attack the person, not the problem. We assume their motives, we use words like always or never, and demean their character. So their rebuke is is more of an attack, a personal attack than than a confrontation. Um we're more interested in winning, we're more interested in beating them down and uh making sure that they feel pain um then that we are in reconciliation. Any thoughts about any of that? Any other Yeah, no you you're you're right about that. Um I'm just writing writing that down That's really good. Uh the a good point there. So if if you didn't catch that, uh I l I know they didn't probably get on the recording 'cause the um It's hard for the little recorder to pick pick up from the back there. But Ezekiel chapter three, uh verse sixteen at the end of the Yeah. At the end of seven days the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Son of man, I have appointed you a watchman to the house of Israel. Whenever you hear from my mouth, warn them from me When I say to the wicked, you will surely die, and you do not warn him or speak out to warn the wicked from his wicked way that he may live That wicked man shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. And then he says the opposite, that if you do warn him and he doesn't listen, then um then you you will not have his blood on your hands. And so that that's an excellent point. Um That if if we're in a position to love someone enough to confront them and we don't, then we bear responsibility for their continued sin, uh, in a sense. So thank you for that. What was your name again? Jonah. Jonah. Thank you. that you're have a conflict with or at least a little bit farther out fellow believers. Mm-hmm. Yeah, this is really interpersonal conflict primarily. I mean it could be You see someone sin. Um, you know, you see me at the grocery store and I blow up at the cashier 'cause she didn't give me my penny or something And you're like, hmm, I I think I need to talk to Pastor Gabe about that. You know, where it's not that I've sinned against you but but uh either interpersonal sin or where you have a relationship with someone in a way that um Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah, and you know, it's a good I think one of the we we can just be wise about it. So we don't there's no hard lines of this is the relationship or you can only confront people in this circle of relationships So you just need to think, am I in am I the best person to address uh this person's sin? Now you might be, right? Um you know, I don't have a personal relationship with all of you other than I'm one of the pastors of the church, and so Um anyone is welcome to to come to me, but if there's a complete stranger, um then it m would be difficult for someone to receive that rebuke if like who are you and they they have no sense of your love and care for them and you know why are you why are you confronting me about this? I don't know you and anyway. So we we can think wisely but primarily this would be in our in our circles of relationships that we have. Yeah, Greg. I was just thinking about uh thinking that comment along the lines of um, you know, well Jesus did rebuke, um, but he did loving you. Um, I was wondering about anger. Um you know I mean some of his review reviews are really harsh. Um really, really startling as hard as he can be. And you know, I mean, we're we're told you'd be angry instead of not. And is there a point where you Anger is appropriate? I mean it seems like there is, but it's it's where you just gotta be careful because it easily goes into sin. It can easily cross that line Yeah, yeah. Um when I when I say that Jesus rebuked lovingly, I don't necessarily mean that he always always you know, soft and you know, treating people with cotton on his hands and you know, I just don't want to uh hurt anybody's feelings. Uh again, you just look to um Matthew twenty-three And you see that clearly. Or what he said to Peter, you know, get behind me, Satan. Um but at the same time when we read those words, we shouldn't read into them Um lack of self control, right? I think that's where we struggle because we're not s sinless, because we we do have mixed you know, we might have righteous indignation over someone's sin. You know, they they've caused great harm uh in another person's life or in our life or um You know, they they've done something that is just a um a significant betrayal of trust or, you know, something like that. And we we can have true righteous indignation where we're angry um for good reasons, but uh we just have to be very careful to make sure that we're not uh sinning in what we say. Um Now, you know, again, you think about the words that Jesus used. Um if I were to say those words to someone, I would characterize those as um kind of tearing someone down, you know. But um we have to remember a couple of things. Number one, they weren't believers They were uniquely positioned to um lead God's people spiritually, uh to teach God's word. And You know, to say they failed is an understatement. They led people astray and they made people say twice the sentence of hell as as they are. So his rebuke to them is is uniquely strong. And not to say that we shouldn't ever say such things to someone, but we just have to be very careful. And I think our tendency is to speak off the top of our head and to speak out of our anger without reflecting on on truth. And uh and so we just need to be careful. I g I guess it seems like there there is a time for anger, you know, where maybe that's the only way someone will listen to what you're trying to tell them But I mean, you know, and it it's kinda like Proverbs twenty-six, which I just was you know, do not answer full according to his polyless, you could possibly like him in in verse five. answer a full according to us C D Y something. Having that discernment, I guess, of how do you answer is Yeah. Yeah, and and again just to be clear, no I know you're not saying this, but uh just to be explicit about it, when we say speaking to someone in anger Clearly we cross the line into sin when we are not having self-control, when we're screaming and yelling, when we're cussing out, when we're actually sinning with our words. So, you know, we can You know, we we can have even, you know, a a stern red face, we can have you know, almost visible, uh shaking out of our anger, but but be still self-controlled in what we say and have someone realize, man, this is This is serious, right? Any of us who are fathers or mothers, uh we've had to say things to our kids in a way that um this isn't just a a typical, hey, stop that. Like, no, this is serious. And so um we we we can do that. Um and you know w when we're in the midst of a situation like that we need to be praying, asking for God's help to to not sin. Um Um so yeah, th th there's definitely a place for that. Uh we just need to be very, very dependent on the spirit uh and careful Well how yeah, Scott. Well wasn't his anger more against he was angry about the offenses against God, the Father, not against Personal offense, right. Personal offense. Right. Yeah, and that's certainly a key marker of righteous indignation that that you're angry about the things of the Lord, you're angry about uh the way someone has sinned against God. Uh and I would also add sinned against others rather than personal sin. You know, Jesus never rebuked. Um um the Pharisees for how they treated him other than anticipating, you know, you who killed the prophets, you know. Um But uh but overall it wasn't their treatment of him personally that that he rebuked them for. James is pretty James is pretty loved on that, right? About about the context of our seat anger and Right. It's just it's exactly your point, right? It's about the source that the Lord was not unrighteous in things forever. Right. Um and yet our encouragement is to judge it out. Like to be you know what I mean? Like more often than not, to be slow Slow to speak quick to hear. Yeah. Yeah. Well let's keep going and we'll we'll we'll keep thinking uh along these lines here How should we discern when rebuke is needed? So okay, we've talked about ways that we do it wrongly, so how do we decide when it's important and necessary to rebuke someone First of all, we can say when the person is trapped in sin or a pattern of sin or is in danger of it. So Galatians 6. 1, if anyone is caught in any trespass You who are spiritual restores to one in a spirit of gentleness. So the idea of cut there is being caught in a net. Uh they're trapped. Uh they can't get out of it on their own, and so they need someone to come alongside, whether they realize they're caught or not, they need someone to come alongside and cut the rope, if you will, and help them out of that trapped condition. So if you know someone uncharacteristically says something harshly to you or, you know, they express some bad attitude, you know, in the morning um before they've had their coffee and uh and that's just not you know, it's uh It it's not a characteristic of other life, it's not a pattern, it's just no just a a momentary thing You know, we don't need to necessarily go through an extensive rebuking process and say, you need to repent. Uh we can we can just let let that go. Uh unless There's a pattern. Right? Unless every morning uh fac you know, I ha I had a lady um when I was working at a software company and uh one of my coworkers uh Uh it came up that in the conversation that I drink coffee and she said, I s uh yeah, I drink coffee. She said, Oh, you must not love your children. Like of all the things you would expect to hear in response, that was not one of the things I was expecting. I'm like, Well what do you mean by that? And she's like, Well, my dad, you know, when he didn't get his coffee he would be so angry and he would mistreat us and you know, whatever. Um, 'cause I guess he'd he was addicted, get a headache, you know, and then he wouldn't be loving You know, yeah, I I I don't I don't do that. That's not been my experience. So if there's a pattern of sin, uh and and there's a uh a clear indication that they're not recognizing this, they're not aware of it, they're not aiming to overcome it, then it would be appropriate to address uh their sin Or if it's not maybe an established pattern yet, but there's the potential for it, there might be a need to address their sin. And uh, you know, in in that case it may not n need to be we can talk about sin in a spectrum here. It may not need to be a full confrontation, it might might need to be just something like, hey Yeah, just keep an eye on this issue because if if you don't kind of keep that in under control, that can really lead to something more sinister. Um Again, this is not a sin issue, but just by way of example, uh one of our kids when they were younger I mean they're all young, but when they were even younger, uh was getting into a pattern of daydreaming. And I was really concerned because if you let that go uncontrolled, you could start to live in a dream world and you know kind of let go of reality And uh it I don't know if that sounded crazy when I just said that, but but it it's true. I mean there are some people who just they live in their daydreams and they don't live in reality And uh I don't know, maybe it's because I'm a counselor, I'm more sensitive to that. Um So I just, you know, I didn't review it and say, oh you're you know you're sinning for doing this. I'm like, hey, I just you know I really want you to uh control your thoughts. Just remember to to not allow yourself to go hours and hours and hours uh with just you know living in your daydreams. So, you know, we'd be riding the car, you know, an extended car ride, I'm like, so what you think about it? You know, so I'm not rebuking. I'm not saying, hey, come on, stop it. I'm just trying to help them learn to to think uh wisely and and control their thoughts. So it could be something as as simple as that, you know, that's not a sin issue per se, at least it wasn't yet. Or it could be something much more serious where we say, okay, I need to help this person see that they're on a on a trajectory here. And I want to help them now so that they don't get too far down the line. Also, when the person may welcome such a rebuke, Proverbs 17, 10, a rebuke goes deeper into one who has understanding. than a hundred blows into a fool. So it may be that someone sins in a way that's really not characteristic, it's not a pattern, and it's not necessarily even all that destructive to the relationship. But you just know this person and you know that that they love Christ and they want to grow in Christ and so they're re they would be receptive to uh confrontation, to a a a rebuke. And so you say, you know what, I'm I'm gonna tell them about this because I I I don't have to, but I know they would appreciate the opportunity to grow in Christ. And so I'm gonna I'm gonna talk to them. So that might be a situation uh where you rebuke. Or when the offense is especially serious, as indicated by the lists of sins in Scripture. So, you know, we we know that from one perspective every sin is the same. Every sin earns us eternal hell. Uh but there are some sins that are more destructive than others. There are some sins that, as we see here in Proverbs 6, God says are an abomination to him. And he doesn't list every sin that's possible. But haughty eyes, right? That's pride Lying, hands that shed innocent blood, murder, the heart that devises wicked plants, malice, feet that run rapidly to evil A false witness who utters lies, lying again, and who spreads and the one who spreads strife among brothers, so divisiveness. So these these are six seven specific sins that God hates in a unique way because of their uh destructive power. And so if we see someone sinning in these ways, we ought to uh confront them and help them to see their sin. Or you have a couple passages that talk about uh how um Those who commit these sins habitually where this is the pattern of their life, they will not enter the kingdom of heaven First Corinthians six, do not be deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swidlers will inherit the kingdom of God. So if we ever encounter uh someone who is engaging in these sins, it would be right uh to rebuke them as a brother or sister in Christ, to help them flee. Because scripture is very clear, if you continue in this pattern of sin in an unrepentant way, you will not inherit the kingdom of God. You can't live a lifestyle of these things and still be a true Christian. And so we want to warn people against that. Or Romans 1, 28 to 31, where Paul lists out, I think it's 21 sins that are the result of the debased mind that God hands sinful man over to. Just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind to do those things which are not proper, being filled with all right unrighteousness, wickedness, greed, evil, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice. There are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, arrogant, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, without understanding, untrustworthy, unloving, and unmerciful. So I think these are things that would be wise to treat seriously and not just let go and say, oh that's that's not a big deal. Um that's not going to be a problem. These are serious sins. Uh or another reason to rebuke would be when your relationship is severely strained, undermined, or broken. So if they've sinned against you and That sin has created a a division, a chasm that now you can't relate with them either because they're they don't want to relate with you or you don't want to relate with them or there's just tension in the relationship You y you don't you don't overlook that. You say, I want to restore this relationship. I want to repair the the terror that's that's taken place. And so you address it uh with uh confrontation and rebuke. Yeah. Just backing up a stuff. So in Romans one we're looking at people who are locked and what bikes people Grace of God there go eye. So when you're you're talking to an unbeliever, I guess on the one hand you say they're they're sinners, they're acting acting like their nature and yet is it that maybe you can point out this is an offense to God and use that as a gospel moment because you can't accept Right. Yeah, so in including that passage, I'm not saying that we need to confront unbelievers about those things. I'm just including that as a list of sins that uh might be characteristic in a believer's life that needs to be confronted. Uh now we we could certainly have a gospel conversation if we see someone characterized in that way, um, you know, help them to see the destruction in their life that's the fruit of their sin and and give them the hope of the gospel. Uh so evangelistically that would totally be uh legitimate. But I just include it here because um it's not uh there aren't a ton of passages in scripture that actually list sins out. Uh yeah, I've given you three, there's several others for sure, but uh but there's not a ton of them. So when God lists out sins, that means those are specific things that he uh uh views as worth mentioning uh above others. So uh that's what the reason I mention it So Jesus said there in Matthew 5, therefore if you are presenting your offering at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your offering there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother then come and present your offering. So he's just talking about the priority of reconciliation over worship. Even. I I don't think this is a passage that has anything to do with the Lord's Supper and don't take the Lord's Supper if you know if you're not reconciled with someone. Uh this he's just talking about uh If you're uh worshiping God, make sure you're in right relationship with others. Um, James says you can't not James, um uh John in 1 John 4. You can't say you love God and hate your brother. And so if we're in a in a strained relationship with someone, we should address that as quickly as possible. And then another reason to rebuke would be when the person is hurting himself or herself, undermining his Christian witness and ministry usefulness. So again we see that first Timothy five passage regarding the regarding an elder. Uh but doesn't have to be an elder if someone is bringing uh damage to themselves, whether it's to their reputation, uh, to their ministry usefulness, uh, to their own uh person, uh, we want to address that and rescue them from causing more harm. Uh if if they are let's say you're in the workplace and you know other another believer who is bringing repute on the name of Christ, it would be right for you to address that person. And lovingly confront them because not only are they ruining their own reputation, but they're ruining the reputation of Christ by their sin among unbelievers. Uh a personal inside and uh not judgment against anyone that wants to put a fish on the back of their car or anything like that. But early in my relationship with God I didn't wanna uh ruin my witness so I knew at at the beginning I had road rage issues so I didn't want me to damage that by having oh what the guy with the fish on the back of his car whatever oh yeah that's mission. So that's why kind of uh avoid kind of putting it out there and let hopefully you know more Christ like action uh reflect on God. Yeah. That's why I don't have a fish on my car. Then I'd have to drive the speed limit and You didn't hear that. Strike that from the recording. And then finally there were the re reputation of God, Christ, or his church, or when the health and unity of the church is threatened injured or disrupted. So there's the example there of Paul confronting Peter. He says there in Galatians, but when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas in the presence of all If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews? So Peter was giving mixed messages. At first he was eating with Gentiles, which typically a Jew would not do But then Jews were coming uh from uh Jerusalem and so he removed himself from from the Gentiles because he didn't want to offend the the Jews. There was a fear of man there and so he was giving mixed messages to the Gentiles. Wait a minute, why You were just having lunch with us. Why why are you now refusing to eat with us? And so he was confusing the Gentiles with regard to the nature of the gospel. And so where we see that kind of effect taking place, um, again, whether it's in the workplace or elsewhere, uh we ought to address sin. You know, when when you're in a small group and you hear people uh being divisive in the way that they speak about other believers That's something that you should address with them privately and say, you know, I don't think that was promoting unity for you to talk about so and so in that way So we want to guard and protect the unity of the church and the reputation of of the Lord. Any other thoughts about when you should rebuke? I just want to make sure I'm so clear about um Robert's like in a letter and their expression makes them explode with anger. It is to glory to overlook a transgression. So this falls right in this area there. Right. So the so the question is if I'm trying to decide is it right for me to overlook a transgression I I can ask myself these kinds of questions and say if if none of these things are an issue, then maybe I can just overlook it. And you know, in the course of life, we're not nor normally going to have these questions in our mind necessarily. Uh the hopefully the spirit as we grow will help us to discern moment by moment when things are a serious issue But um I mean I I I think we've all probably been in situations where there's been some kind of sin committed and we're wrestling with like I say something uh do I talk to this person? And that's when we can give in intentional thought uh to uh to whether or not to rebuke them. Uh but many times, you know, in the course of The daily interactions of life, there's a lot that we can overlook. And the way that we overlook is not necessarily by sweeping it under under the carpet overlook uh or ignore it as we're stepping on the Legos, you know, walking across the room, but is by intentionally forgiving in our heart, like we talked about before, of of that um attitudinal forgiveness that we just give that to the Lord. Just give that to the Lord. And not not hold and harbor bitterness. Because the problem is sometimes we overlook and we overlook and we overlook and before you know it there's uh you know this carpet that's bulging up from the ground of our heart and we trip over it and we realize we haven't really overlooked, we've just swept it to the side and now it's It's bubbling up in our heart to mix metaphors. Um so does that answer the question? All right Alright, so how should I prepare? Let's say that I have decided, okay, I need to talk to this person. How should I prepare? Right? We don't want to just charge right in and say whatever comes to our mind. We want to think carefully. We want to prepare. So first we can ask ourselves, have I thoroughly examined myself and confessed my sin to God and others seeking the forgiveness. So have I done Matthew 7, 1 through 5? Have I taken the log out of my own eye? Have I addressed my own personal sin? Have I confessed and sought forgiveness for my sin? Uh am I coming with the spirit of humility uh in in uh in in the process of addressing this person so that I'm not coming uh judgmentally or uh with pride Uh secondly, am I forgiving the other person attitudinally? Right? Have I am I am I ready that if they seek my forgiveness that I'm ready to forgive. I'm hoping that they will seek my forgiveness. Or am I just hoping again that they're going to uh feel my pain and feel hurt and know uh know the problem they've caused and that's all I'm I'm wanting to accomplish. Am I embittered? Am I holding a grudge? Or am I am I forgiving the person attitudinally? And then do I understand my goal is to reconcile the relationship, not defeat an enemy Right? So critical. Am I going to them because I want to win an argument? I want them to know how right I am and how wrong they are? Or am I wanting to reconcile with them? Those those questions there along with the subsequent ones, but those questions will really shape your words and your attitude, your tone. uh and everything about the confrontation. So those are critical things to to think through. Am I convinced this is the most loving action I can take? Again, is this absolutely necessary? Is this the m the the thing I can do to love them the most in this particular situation? Uh am I cultivating and expressing the attributes of a peacemaker? We talked pretty early on the portrait of a peacemaker, uh love, patience, gentleness, humility uh tolerance, all all of those attributes, am I seeking to cultivate those in my own heart so that when I'm interacting with them, that's the the mode, that's the tone, that's the shape of of our conversation. And am I willing to consider the next biblical step that God might require if necessary? If they don't acknowledge their sin, if they don't repent, am I willing to follow what Jesus says in Matthew eighteen? And, you know, maybe try multiple times. If need be, take one or two others along and as you know, if they continue to refuse to repent, am I willing to to go uh through the process that Jesus describes. If I'm not willing to do that, then maybe I shouldn't start the process. Um but we need to think, you know, n while not thinking the worst about them that they will refuse to repent, we need to consider uh subsequent steps So if all of those are in line, here are some preparatory steps you can consider. Carefully think through what you are going to say. and how. I would just encourage you don't wait for that moment uh to uh determine what you are going to say. Consider writing it out verbatim. Even if you don't read it, read what you write out. At least you will have thought through uh what you're going to say and even some specific ways that you're going to say it. At least have bullet points that you can use as you're talking so that you make sure you address what needs to be said. You know, how many times have we had a some kind of a difficult conversation or serious conversation or important one? And we walk away and like l you know hours later or the next day we're like, oh, I forgot to say, and I forgot to tell that and whatever. Well, have bullet points so you remember all the things that are important to communicate in that moment. As you prepare your thoughts, take note to avoid accusations of their character or motivations. Focus on what you can see and allow the Holy Spirit to convict them of what you can't see. So again, we are limited by our perception, the things that we've observed, the things that we've heard come out of their mouth. So focus on those things. Don't assume you know what's going on in the heart and confront them over perceived motivations or our perception of their character. Rather, just address what what you can definitively uh say that you have observed. As as you have thought through those things, you might decide, you know, I need to be because I just want to make sure I communicate effectively You might decide I want to read something to them. I want to read this letter that I've written. Uh I've done that where I've I've read it, uh which is kind of weird in a conversation, you know. You don't typically do that. Manuscript your conversations. Um but I just wanting to to be as as careful and thoughtful I've read it and then I've given it to them and said, you know, you can take this and, you know, if you need to think about it. Um but that's that's just really helpful. Uh other times I've just used bullet points and it's just important to think through what you're gonna say As you prepare, you want to pray that the Lord will help your heart to be right, and that the other person would be prepared, that the Lord would be preparing them to receive what you have to say with humility. You know, the the way they respond is going to entirely depend on how the spirit works. Maybe the spirit uh is going to work in such a powerful way that they receive the rebuke, they confess their sin, they seek forgiveness, there's reconciliation, transformation, and we can rejoice in the Lord together Maybe the Holy Spirit is going to harden their heart because He's doing other things in their life that you're not aware of. But you want to just pray. Obviously you want to pray for the best. We want to pray for God to be working in both your heart and their heart. And also pray that the Lord would help you to respond to their response graciously and humbly. So you can manuscript out what you're going to say, but you have no idea what they're going to say. So that's where you're entirely dependent on the spirit. And you can't say, you're not supposed to say that. I didn't prepare for that outcome. But just Lord help me to respond graciously and humbly to whatever they say. Perhaps ask a close friend or family member to pray for you. Now, without necessarily giving all the details so that you don't gossip or slander, but just say, hey, I'm going to be having a hard conversation. Can you just pray for me? I pray the Lord helps me to walk through that in a way that's pleasing to Him and then afterward report to them again in appropriate terms the outcome of that conversation So those are just some steps to take to prepare. And again, this is something we don't typically do, but is really important. Yeah, Daniel. I I was just going to say, and sorry if I interrupted a little cast. I really appreciated Greg's point actually about what's the place for anger and because would you say that ensuring that you are going into a concept Well I think the process of preparing, you know, whether that's five minutes or five days or however long it is, that will temper our emotions and help us exhibit self-control so that whatever we're feeling in the moment it will be control. We might, you know, still feel the righteous indignation over the sin that's been committed. Um And so the goal is not to be emotionless. The goal is to communicate the reality of sin, the the impact of sin. Um but to do it in a way that's uh gracious and humble and loving, but that doesn't mean that it's there there may not be uh uh an emotional visible uh manifestation of righteous indignation. So yeah, these things is hard to talk in in the abstract, but uh um I I think what I'm what I'm appealing for is let's do it thoughtfully and carefully so we can be wise because our tendency as sinners is to be foolish, rash. sinfully angry and you know all the rest. Um so I don't know any follow up thoughts, yeah. I think um At least for me the anger for for me I really have I have to sit down and think of everything and and everything that you're giving right now and writing out things and truly Be intentionally slow to anger. Because when you're trying to bring someone to Christ and you're angered a little bit displaced. It becomes a master situation. And therefore you're no longer you're they're unable to really see Christ in that Because now they see the flesh. And then I find myself having to repent. Because too much of myself is involved as opposed to Christ, as opposed to glorifying God. And so now I have to take a double step. It's like you're trying to take a step forward, but then you find yourself taking two steps backwards because now you have to deal with your own self and the sin is Issues. And that's what really Christ wants us to be consistent in our walk with him. And it's I find myself more in pain over my own sin of anger than trying to resolve what I really than trying to bring someone to Christ Right? Or and it builds up and and this is where it requires patience because we're not like trying to have someone come closer to Christ, but Christ is also trying to have us closer to Him as well. And it seems like I'm reading all these pages like, wow, this is as much work for me as, you know, in confronting someone as it is the person I'm confronting. And it requires a lot of prayer, walking in the spirit patience and examining my own heart before I can go off to someone. And even though especially as a parent, because it's For me and I'm gonna I'm just trying I'm just being real about this, but one I'm tall, I mean I can be overbearing, you know, or it can be intimidating Right? And so I'm trying to position myself not only physically but spiritually in a manner that is so humbling Even though I may have righteous indignation of anger and I have to examine myself about that to make sure it's not my own flesh in anger But to come in a lovingly matter as Christ. Which makes me always think if you think that a Christian is is week. Because walking in Christ as a man, it takes a lot of discipline. It takes a lot of self control. It takes a lot of humility. It takes a lot of dying to sell it. And I find that my in the past my anger has just totally messed up. So many things When my intention is not to do that, but I'm not examining the word close enough to to really walk in it and apply it To really give God the glory. And so I could say I'm mad at that person, but that person can be rightfully mad at me and angry with me because of how I handled it. And so anger I'd rather stay away from anger, not even be snow-toed, but just literally stay away from it. Because that's a weakness of an For me. But yet I want more than anything to draw loved ones and friends to Christ That that's w that has to be the number one goal and and not a speck of myself in it. Yeah. No, I appreciate that. And you know, I right there with you in terms of uh I don't have a struggle Uh well let me rephrase that. I don't have a tendency to be righteously angry. Like I just that's that's not my bent. My bent is to be sinfully angry to have knee jerk reactions, to have snap judgments and so that's something that I've had to work on and Yeah, I I I think in the normal course of our lives as we interact with our those that live in our home, those that we work with, go to school with, those who are you know, under us as employees or over us as bosses, uh all all the context, you know, sp especially in the life of the church. Um There's not mo mo most of the sins that are committed are not sins that we would um have the same kind of response to that Jesus did the Pharisees. Most of it's just the normal day-to-day uh friction that we have and uh the the tone and the the emotional response we should have is not one of righteous indignation but just of gentleness and grace and forgiveness Um that's not to say that that's all sin. You know, there are definitely grave, serious, destructive, powerful sins that that we ought to be righteously righteously indignant about. But um So we want to allow for that, we want to recognize there's a biblical place for that. Um but again just be very careful to say Spirit, how should I respond? Help help me to respond rightly uh to this situation. Amy. Sometimes it seems like Sending up and then having an apology afterward means more than then doing it right in the first place. We don't want to get an apology. Well, yeah, whether it means more or or it's as significant for sure, yeah, uh think definitely there's um Be because as a as a people, as human beings, we're so bad at doing these kinds of things, when we do it right, I think I was like, oh wow, that was that was actually helpful. That was that was really good. Uh thank you. Thank you for doing that. Uh or, like you said, when we mess up and need to ask for forgiveness, oh wow, you know, thank you. Yeah, you're you're right, that wasn't very helpful. And I appreciate you recognizing that. Either way, I think uh the Lord um can bless or does bless those those two things. So critically important uh to do either one. Obviously we want to aim to to uh be as honoring to the Lord as we can uh the first time around. Uh well what steps should we take to confront the person, to rebuke the person? First, contact the person privately to express your desire to talk with him or her privately and face to face, either at that time or at a mutually convenient time later. Um you don't want to necessarily spring that conversation, you know, in the middle of whatever is going on in that person's life. You want to try and arrange a time where you can have a a focused, uninterrupted conversation. Um I think When I redo these notes, the do not there is going to be in in bold underline italic uh size 100 font. Do not confront via texting or in any written form unless it is impossible to do otherwise. Unless it is impossible to do otherwise. So, you know, I can't lay down a thus says the Lord on this. Um obviously Paul rebuked via letter in scripture in the New Testament. But uh if there's any way that we can do it in person I think that will be a hundred or a thousand times better because there's so much that goes on with the nonverbal communication, the facial expressions, the tone of the voice mannerisms, just everything. You know, as you're talking to each other and you're responding with your facial expressions, there's so much communication that is so vital in a difficult conversation. that in person is is most ideal. And if that's not possible, which with FaceTime and Zoom and Skype, I don't know how that could ever not be possible. But uh but over the phone, next best thing where you at least hear tone and there's you know, pausing and there's you know, just that normal verbal interaction that we have which which has so many different components to it other than just the bare words that we use. But but when you text, one of the problems with texting and really any form of communication, but especially texting, is if you're uh in a frame of mind where you're being thoughtful, you're being prayerful, you're you're you know just seeking to do everything uh as well as you can uh you have no idea what is going on in that person's life the moment that they receive your text Um, you know, what are they in the middle of? Who are they talking to? How's their day going? Uh, you know, just what are the things that they're dealing with in that moment? And so All the effort you put into wording and crafting a message by in written form can just be totally obliterated, not for your own fault, but just because they're receiving it in a moment that that doesn't enable them to to receive it in in a helpful way. So I just want to plead, plead, plead. not to confront over texting uh or written form. Now letter, which obviously is extremely rare these days, to write a letter and mail it to someone, that's different because um usually people are focused on their mail when they're reading their mail. You know, you get a a letter, a personal written letter from someone, uh you don't just read that, you know, while you're going about your day driving in the car or whatever. You stop, you sit down. Wow, I got a letter. Somebody wrote me something. You sit down, you're focused, and there's a unique aspect of that. So that that um is uh uh possible but uh I would just encourage you as much as you can face to face or on the phone or or you know FaceTime or something where there can be the visible uh nonverbal communication. What do you think uh Jesus thought on texting our say in the Bible the woman at the well, what do you think he was busy scribbling in the sand? Oh that wasn't the woman on the well, that was That was John A. The WomanCon Adultery. Yes. I don't know. I don't know if that could quite count as texting. It was 140 characters or less. Yeah, truly. And uh texting All grammar goes out the window and you have no idea how you can use interpret that. Another you're more thoughtful in terms of Text grammar, so I'm sorry about the technical aspect of that, but it's amazing how many times you can misinterpret it too. So yeah, I'm just dying inside as you say that because you're so right and you know I don't know if people do this to you, but people send me uh screenshots of the text that they have with other people. Can you believe they say this, you know? And I'm looking at what they said, uh, and like, oh I can't believe you said that and oh there's this typo and that typo and grammar issues and like oh man Uh it's just awful. I mean I've seen you know course uh correspondence between spouses via email and between texting that it's just reinforces this and I was just like please don't ever do that again Because you're just making it worse. That's usually what happens is we just make it worse. So please, please, please. Alright, be mindful of the environment when you're meeting in person. Don't confront serious sins in the foyer after church or other in environments where interruptions are highly likely. Be mindful about time frames. You know, as as your spouse is walking out to go to work in the morning, don't don't bring things up then when they're needing to head out. Make sure that there's ample time. When you meet, state your concern humbly, gently using I statements. And you see some examples there are running low on time here, so I'm going to go a little bit faster You know, the the point is not to be self-centered, but to avoid language that can be construed as attacking, you know, instead of saying the other day I saw you, how could you do that? Um you know, some say something like, you know, the other day I saw something that concerned me and I wanted to see if you could help me understand it. I was doing this and it looked like you were doing that. You know, did I see that accurately? Can you help me understand what was happening that day? Even our own perception, you know, we can think, man, I experienced this, I saw this, I heard this, therefore I know what happened. But I can't tell you how many times, both in my life and in the lives of others, the perception was skewed. Right? And and you you entered into a part of the conversation, didn't hear the full context. Uh you you you may have experienced something from someone, you know, and said something and they ignored you and of course you're like, well why did they ignore me? I can't believe they didn't say anything Uh and you know, if you're humble enough and to ask they might say, Oh, I I'm so sorry, I d I didn't hear you You know. Uh they might have had earbuds in their ears that you the that you didn't see. I mean there's just all kinds of reasons why we might misperceive something. So we want to ask questions. We want to acknowledge our the potential that we've misunderstood. Or misperceived. Ask about the appearance of offense, don't assume or and do not accuse. And then listen to answers with Christ-like compassion and wisdom. And interact wisely with them with the goal of clearly expressing your concern and inviting them to repent. So you want to listen, you want to ask questions. Start your answer, your response by restating what they said to ensure you understand their position accurately. How many times have some somebody said something to us and we responded like no no no you're not getting what I'm saying? And so if we can start by what I'm hearing you say is And then give them the chance to affirm or clarify our understanding. Uh, that will indicate to them that you really are wanting to uh communicate effectively So ask questions and then be quick to affirm if they've brought up something that you didn't realize or that you missed and seek their forgiveness for any way you might have sinned in ignorance. So just engage and interact with humility, right? Don't don't just be jumping on them uh with their responses and and piling on. uh with accusations. What should I do if the person repents, seeks my forgiveness? Well, of course, grant them Forgiveness if n if it seems like it might be helpful, not always, but if it seems like it might be helpful, um explain what you mean when you say that you forgive them And even if their expression of repentance isn't as clear or thorough as you would desire, listen for the heart behind their words, right? But you can tell if someone is insincere And if they're just trying to end the conversation. And you can also tell if if they're recognizing, but maybe they just Yeah, they haven't taken this class. Or they just, you know, they don't really know how to express their confession or repentance in the fullest way. So listen for their heart uh not just what they say. If appropriate, ask them if they would be willing to go with you to another believer to help in growing the relationship, to to seek uh a form of counseling together, reconciliation, help. What steps should uh we take in a forgiven and reconciled relationship? Well the last bullet point there is to see the notes for next section section. We'll talk about that uh next week But basically live out the promises of forgiveness. Be intentional about engaging with a person in appropriate ways. Don't avoid them or be distant. And then finally, what should I do if the person does not repent and seek my forgiveness? And that'll be two weeks from now, the final session. And the key there is to remember that their sin is f first and foremost against the Lord, and He will deal with their sin. He is even in their heart and smart He's working on them, He's doing something in their life, and so we just need to be patient uh for the Lord to work and to pray for them out of love and humility. All right, well let me pray at