There we go. So we g we're into the actual covenants. Um we will be. we have a one to discuss. Um I hope you've been kind of reading through here and we I won't we won't have the time to really goes through each of the passages. Um I I mean there's a lot uh uh w we could draw out. I'll try and I like to draw out some of the things that um have been brought to my mind as I uh did this study. But uh our our point is is um what are the promises and and what were the commitments, what is God tha that's our topic, right? Covenants. Uh but there's a lot in here. a lot of detail. You know, God's Word is so much there's so many layers we could get to and there's so many layers we're gonna skip over. I just wanna say that up front, just recognize that that that uh we're going through this in a in a uh a rather uh fast pace. So I have some preliminary uh thoughts here, the the threads just to keep up um what we've been doing. Abraham has demonstrated his faith by leaving his land, his relatives, his fathers, Uh now in Genesis twelve seven, uh he shows that faith by building an altar. Uh we never really looked at that. Um we we spent all our time last time on on Genesis uh twelve one through three. Uh And uh uh just uh Genesis twelve seven. The Lord appeared to Abram, he said, To your descendants I will give this land. Uh so he built an altar there to the Lord who appeared to him. uh I the point I wanna bring out is that, you know, all through this A Abram and later Abraham is demonstrating his faith, uh uh uh to God. So, um uh you'll see why uh In chapter thirteen, um uh fourteen uh through seventeen. Uh yeah, we have the the story with Lot, you know, and um uh Uh and so somebody want to read uh chapter thirteen verses fourteen through seventeen. Somebody read that for us. The Lord said to Abram, after what had separated from him, now lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward. For all the land which you see, I will give to you, I will give it to you and to your descendants forever. I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth, so that if any Anyone can number the dust of the earth, then your descendants can also be numbered. Arise and walk about the land through through with life and breath, for I will give it to you. I want you to notice one thing, I mean, and this is the technical part. I mean y y when you're looking at this exegetically you can say, Well he didn't say covenant here and he didn't. And so you could say it's a promise. uh but let's pull back in a way. Uh yeah, technically right, but when God says something right, his promise is as good as a uh uh a a technical covenant, is it not? The covenant's not really for and I'm kinda gone off script here. But the government's not really for God, is it? It's for us. Okay. And and I I think I'll draw that out. But um just some quick things. Y you hate to uh uh y I Hopefully, you know, um assuming I'm talking to the choir here, you all know the scriptures here. You know the story between Abram and Lot, they come back with all this, they have to separate, right? Look at verse ten though. Well, I just wanna point out some things because um again we're we're just skipping over this but look at verse ten. Lot lifted up his eyes and saw the valley uh better get my own eyes out here uh and saw the uh valley of the Jordan uh that it was well water Watered ev uh everywhere and it was before this was before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as you go to Zor. So Lot chose for himself all the valley of the Jordan. Uh Lot journeyed eastward, thus he separ the thus they separated from each other. And look at uh the uh and I just want to show you Hebrew uh God's word they call it Hebrew but you know, uh the Hebrew mind and God look at a parallel. God loves you see the parallels through through all here. The Lord said to Abraham, after a lot of separated from him, right? Lift up your eyes and look. You see the parallel? Lot lifted up his eyes and looked. Abram lifted up his s eyes and looked. What's the difference, right? For uh all the land which you see I will give to you. And what Lot chose you know, these are just Like anything used to kinda re think of these recurring themes, right? And we can make a uh an example out of this or you know, a and it's c but it is kind of a thing, isn't it? You know, what do I choose? Talk about looking for a pastor. We have to be careful we don't choose. Lift up our eyes and choose. Right? And God's you know, Abram Abram, think about it, he let Lot choose first too, didn't he? And he was a superior one in in this uh uh uh kind of uh relationship. He you know? It's faith. He's trusting in God. That's all I want to point out. I mean think about it. He's doing this all throughout. Uh 'cause um So what did I put down here for notes? The events in chapter 14 set the stage for God's covenant with Aram to reveal the faith of Abram further. Notice this time the contrast between Abram's dealings with Melchizedek. His death. Uh this is in chapter fourteen. Uh uh the king of Sodom Abram would not accept bounty from the king of Sodom. Uh uh again, um Uh I don't want to spend too much time because we have a lot to get through. Uh but y Abram, right, uh the the kings came, they they took over Sodom Gomorrah. Abram went after him because he wanted to get his his uh nephew, is that right? Lot out of uh captivity, comes back, he's victorious. So he's met with Melchizedek, right? Um uh Then first seventeen uh uh chapter fourteen. Then after the return of the defeat of Chadur Chadalomer, uh the kings uh who were with him, uh the king of Sodom went to meet him. in the valley of Shaba, uh the King's Valley. Uh Mokizedek, the king of Salem, brought out bread, wine. Uh he he wo now he was a priest of the God most high. Uh look he blessed him. He says, look, he blessed him and said, Blessed be Abraham, God of the Most High, possessor of the heaven and earth, and blessed be the God most high, who has delivered your enemies into your hand, and given a tenth, and he gave them a tenth. So Again, look at the contrast. This man comes out, gives him bread and wine. Abram gives him a tenth. Uh right, the king of Sodom wants to give him he says, Oh, you can have all these goods and all the booty you took from him And uh uh Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have sworn to verse twenty two, I have sworn to the Lord God most high, possessor of heaven and earth, that I will not take a thread or a sandal foam or anything that is uh that is yours for fear that you would say you have made Abram rich. Again, trust me in God. Uh here's one representative from the God most high and again, y you uh I'm probably pouring into this, but we know the king of Sodom is a representative, right, of who? Probably the god of this world, right? Um uh Abraham might be not be articulated All that. Um, but again, you know, it's this kind of thing. He goes, I am not going to take anything from you. I'm not going to be uh bound to you. So and that transitions us to real the real we really are are uh going and that's uh the this uh promise uh w to Abraham uh verse fifteen or chapter fifteen. Uh would somebody read me uh we're gonna go through the whole chapter chapter real quick. We again we're not gonna be able to pull out the details, we're gonna pull out the essence of it. We just don't have time because uh the goal is also to go to chapter seventeen and we we we uh wanna get through this covenant aspect of it. So would somebody read uh ch uh chapter fifteen, verses one through eleven and I'll pick it up in verse twelve. You said fifteen, one through eleven? Yes. Okay. After these things we will change to eight. Abram in a vision, saying, Do not fear, Abram, I am shield to you, your reward shall be very great. Abram said, O Lord God, what will you give me since I'm childless? And Erothon house is Eliezer of Damascus. And Abram Abram said, Since you have given me no given no offspring to me, one born in my house is my heir. Then behold the word of the Lord came to him, saying, This man will not be your heir, but one who will come forth from your own body. He shall be your heir. And he took an Outside and said, Now look toward the heavens and count the stars. If you are able if you are able to count them, and he said to him, So shall your descendants be. Then he believed in the Lord, and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. And he said to him, I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess it. He said, Oh Lord God, how may I know that I will possess it? So he said to him, Bring me a three-year-old heifer, and a three-year-old three-year-old goat, and a three-year-old ramp. and a turtle bell and a young pigeon. And he brought all these to him and cut them in two and laid each half opposite the other, but he did not cut the birds. The birds of prey came down to form the carcasses and Abram drove them away. Mel verse twelve. Now when the sun was going down a deep sleep fell upon Abram, and behold, terror and great darkness fell upon him. God said to Abram, Know for certain that your descendants will be strangers to the in a land that is not theirs, where they will be enslaved and oppressed four hundred years. But I will also judge the nation whom you will serve. And afterwards they will come out with many possessions. As for you, ye shall go to your fathers in peace. You will be buried at a good old age. Then in the fourth generation they will return here, for the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet complete. He came about when the sun set, that it was very dark. Dark and behold there appeared a smoking up a smoking oven and a flaming torch, which passed between the pieces. On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your descendants I have given you. in this land from the river of Egypt as far as the great river, the river Euphrates. The Kenite, the Ken Kennesites, the Cabanites, and the Hittites and the Pe and the Perezites and the Rephaim and the Amorite and the Canaite and the Gerdesites and the Jebusites. So this is an important um event that happened with Abram. Uh these event lead uh and to again the events that lead up to God's promises, right? His assurance by a uh this formal covenant, uh that these promises will come to pass. God assures Abram uh that he should not fear because God is his shield and his reward. Abram will have a child and his heir would not be Eli Eliezer. So th again, as we just talked about uh with Lot and and uh uh after he captured him he doesn't take the uh the uh bounty from the king of Sodom. A and look at the after these things. So the Lord is is this is the context he's telling After these things. He says, Look, do not fear, I will be a shield to you. Melchizedek reminded him, Look, I'm the one who uh delivered them. He said, God has delivered these people into your hand. hands. He's reminded him that he's his shield. Uh he's also his reward. You your reward shall be very great. Again, he he's demonstrated his faith and his obedience. He hasn't accepted uh the reward from man. He wants the reward from God. So uh I I just again we want to s look at some of the the detail and what God is doing for him. Um so Abram asked God God how he will know and uh he's gonna have an heir. God tells Abram to prepare animals uh uh for a covenant. God is affirming uh visually his promise to Abram. I don't want to get ahead of my notes, but um So uh in verse six, and I think I picked this up later, but you know, then um verse six that that uh uh quote I guess m a lot of us are familiar with. Uh then he b Abram, this is then he, Abram, believed in the Lord and it reck and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. Uh if you many of you are familiar with the Bible, it's quoted in Romans. We chapter four. It talks about the whole thing, about faith of Abraham. Uh Galatians chapter uh three. talks about you know the law and Abram, right, the promise. James picks it up when he talks about, show me your faith by your works. And he and he quotes this again. Abram believed that. But the point The point that uh uh the commentators want to point out is it's not just this one-time faith. Oh, he at this point he believed God. Uh uh actually w uh the uh Hebrew and and uh the the that it's uh the form and all is put in. I it's a collective faith. Uh this is your faith. You've demonstrated it again. You you've been faithful, okay, and your faith is reckoned to you as righteousness. Uh I I had a lot of thoughts on this, but i again th pe people will ask, Well, how do people in the Old Testament get saved? We we get confused with uh the kind of We almost make it like a a a role or a technique or something like that. It's always been by faith. And I said this earlier when we first started the class. It's a faith that God reveals to uh whatever people at that time that they believed that. Uh Abraham did not believe Jesus, my Lord and Savior. He wa you know, he came and lived a perfect life, he died, was buried, rose again on the third day. That's not his is he's he's not that's not his gospel that he has at this time. Uh it's the faith that God gave him. He believed God. Uh and and so just keep that in mind because I think that a lot of times You know, this revelation is progressive. We have a lot more revelation than they had back then. Again, I've I've said this before. time. I thought about bringing this up, I'll bring it up while it's on my mind. I know I forget these things, it's not in my note. Remember too, at this time with with Abram and All the way up till when? The Exodus. There's no written word either, right? Remember, this was written when? Moses. After the Exodus, after the assume it's completed just before they're getting ready to go into the land, right? So this is all verbal it's uh this has to be passed down to tradition or whatever. Uh w we have no recorded thing, you know, that w that was written before four. Uh it was written so again, uh this has to be passed down through uh families and and through culture. And we can remember we kinda talked about that uh w i in uh Genesis twelve eight Abraham is starting a new nation, a new culture, a new they're even gonna end up with a language, aren't they? When we talked about, you know, a a people group, a nation, a land, a culture, uh it formed, right? God is forming a new so it ha it it was pretty much culturally had to be spread before that. And again it's just something to keep in mind as we're reading through this what they how how their eyes were were seeing us. Yes. Would this be the moment that Abraham gets saved? Uh like uh no. Because this is not again, uh most of the commentators would say uh Uh this is not this is uh uh not when Abraham first had his faith. He had faith when he when he when he left the land. Right. And he and and he you know uh we you know when did he actually get saved, we don't know, but he had faith. He was trusting in God. He demonstrated that faith several times and that's kind of what w we were doing collectively. Alright? Because re i that's what God's looking for, right? He's not looking for the law and and it's that thing, the law. Do I keep the law? Do I guide a good am I a good person? Do I go to a church? It doesn't save you, right? It's your heart, it's your faith. Are you what are you trusting in? God again, it's that one thing. We can't identify who has faith, God can. We can look at the fruit. That's all we can do. And so again, uh we have to be careful with that. I don't know. Uh it's Sometimes difficult to tell people that 'cause there's a lot of people that know a lot of Bible and believe that God went to uh was buried he was you know, God and Jesus was this and he was buried and rose again from the third but it's not necessarily necessarily saving faith. It's amazing how close people can get and and not e and not necessarily be saving faith. That's and so we could talk about that for a long time again. Yeah. sometimes say we're not we're not judges. God God is the judge. Absolutely. Absolutely. And God. But but we are fruiting the factory. Absolutely. And and and Right. And it is or not, again, it's not to judge, it's to maybe give 'em the gos give an opportunity to make sure they get the gospel. Are you uh it's one of the things we talked about yesterday. Um are you a lot of people thought They were uh saved and and it came up in the uh evangelism. Uh uh when we did uh I know we're off and hopefully we'll get through this and uh uh but when we were doing jail ministry, the ones especially down in Prince Georges County, uh it was optional. They could come whoever wanted to come. Uh so and a lot of 'em had a lot of Bible. I mean they would ask you questions, you're like, Well, I've got to think about that one, you know, they were they were good questions. But you see the fruit, you're going like I they know the Bible, but I don't think they they don't seem to be believers. So yeah, we need to make sure we gave them the gospel and and and ask the hard questions. Are you in fact trusting and ge you know, 'cause if somebody didn't say the First thing you really have to do is get 'em to a point where they're going, I got a problem. No one's gonna no one's gonna look for a savior if they think they're okay. That's enough for that. We could go on for that forever. But it's true. You know? And it's kinda the gospel, right? You need you need salvation. Again, let me s uh point out something. Um let's see where are we at? Um uh let's see. Verse seven and he said to him him, I am the Lord he brought you out of the Ur Yeah. He said to him, verse seven, I am the Lord who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans, give you this land to possess it. He said to him, um Lord, how can you uh how can I know that I'm possessed? So he said to him, Bring me a three year old uh uh female goat, a heifer, female goat, three year old ram, total dove, pigeon, said So he brought all these things and he cut them. Now some will say, look, this is a uh excuse me. Uh this is a typical uh kind of a covenant that uh Abram and that whole culture would have been familiar with. This is this isn't something new. Uh and in fact i i it's an argument from silence, but he says that God never told him to cut these things. How'd he know what to do? He he and they would attribute that that Abram would have been familiar with this covenant. Um that's a hard point to press. But Abram in this culture, uh i i it w this kind of covenant was prevalent. Um it was just a and we say cut, um The word is cut. Um uh when uh he said um so he does all this, verse thirteen, God said to Abram, There for certain your descendants will be strangers in the land uh that is not theirs. Um he he's giving 'em he's telling 'em what's gonna happen in advance. They'll be enslaved four hundred years. Uh but I will judge that nation whom they serve, right? This is Egypt. As for you, you shall go to fathers in peace. Look at a blessing he gives. Remember we talked about this, uh w what are the blessings in in in Genesis twelve, right? There's a blessing for uh the the land, the nation, the people, uh the Gentiles and there's a blessing for Abram. Abram was blessed. And that blessing is for Abram, it it's not for us. It it's it's for that time. And and he's blessing them here, as for in verse fifteen. for you you shall go to your fathers in peace. You will be buried at a good old age, and in the fourth generation they will return here, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete. I remember reading this um I think this is uh huge thing. It tells us a lot about God, doesn't it? Um let me pick up with my notes again. A covenant uh establishes a reciprocal relationship between two uh between uh should be T W O, shouldn't it? Two parties, uh, but God alone, uh, in a symbolic representation of himself, went through the pieces. Man does not stand in equality with God, so he graciously condescends to Abram that he will do what he has promised. Um again when when he goes through this and um in seventeen it came about But when the sun had set and it was very dark, behold, there appeared a smoking oven, a flaming torch, which passed between these pieces. On that day the Lord made, and really you can put in your Bibles there, cut. a covenant with Abram saying, To your descendants I have given this land Uh and he tells them what it is from the river of the Egypt to the river uh Ephraides. He tells them what the land area is by the different people groups. that they're gonna take over. Abram did not go through this. God alone went through this. In this covenant God he he descended, right? He promises descendants and a land. There are no conditions here. Right? It's stated in these covenants. God alone would fulfill this. Uh and God alone uh participated in this covenant. Abram fell asleep and he And he did this as a representation of going you know with the flaming torch, smoking pot. A covenant is between two people. Typically, right, they we both agree to a contract. We say covenant. Cut a deal, right? That's kind of where we're taking it from. Made there is the word cut, really, in in Hebrew. Uh they cut a deal. They they cut a covenant. Uh this is a a pretty common terminology throughout the old the old testament. But it this is this is important. We're we'll build on this as as we look at this uh progressively as we go through. But God did this. Abram doesn't participate. in this. So it's not up to Abram to to fulfill this. We'll see this bear itself out uh again as we look at it at other things. When you think about it, how could man and f fulfill. We we we're gonna see that in the uh uh Mosaic covenant, right? Um do this, I'll bless you. And That principle kinda works throughout, there's no question. Uh but again, w when I and when when we started this I said these is the this is the big picture of what God is going to do. And w our problem is is that we think, okay, seeing how he seeing how he says he's gonna do this, that means these people i the problem is we don't know which people and which times he's going to do this. But This is his plan. And that's what he's telling us. He's given us his plan. We know it. We believe in his word. Um think of the covenant in the New Testament, the New Covenant. It's it's the same way. It was all it it wasn't based on anything that we do. It was all based on what God did. And that's why the communion communion is helping us to remember that covenant that God made with us as an individual. Communion. Right. You're cutting the covenant and remembering what God Yeah. Right. And and you know, the the last communion Pastor Fumley really pointed that out. Remember when he talked he said, you know, let's talk about this again It's a remembrance. Uh and that's what it is. It's uh it becomes if there's any uh uh holiness or or any of that that's associated with it, it's only because we're believing believers and we are uh recognizing uh what God has done for us, right? It's it's a matter of the heart. A and again that's always the the thing. So i w we look at God's uh working and and dealing with people in different ways we s we see that but remember it's always about faith. No matter what how he's working. Uh uh in the law with the cross, the the law wasn't gonna work for him, right? It's only those who believe, oh well we're doing these sacrifices, it points to what God God is holy and I'm not. Um again. Um so let's uh let's read Again, we have to move at a pace because we're going through Genesis chapter seventeen. Uh we're gonna read um uh let's see. Probably up to nineteen We're almost gonna do the whole chapter. Would somebody start to read uh Genesis uh seventeen verses one through I don't know, say eleven's a good stopping place. Well actually just did s somebody just uh read Genesis seventeen one through uh eight and then we'll have somebody else pick up in nine. Thank you. When Abraham was ninety-nine years old, the Lord attended Abraham, it said to him, I'm God Almighty, what you call me and it will, and that I may make my covenant between me and you, and me must supply you greatly. Then Abraham fell on his face and God said to him, Behold thy covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of the multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abraham, for your name shall be Abraham. For I have made you the father of multitudes of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations, and things shall come from you. Seven. I shall establish the covenant between me and you and your offspring after you plot your generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I'll give you and I'll give to you and your offspring after you the land of your two. joining all the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession and I will be their God. Thank you. Would somebody want to read from uh verse nine to four through fourteen? Sure. Thanks. God said further to Abraham, Now as for you you shall keep my covenant, you and your descendants after you throughout the their generations. This is my covenant which you shall keep. keep between me and you and your descendants after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised, and you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, and that shall be the sign of the covenant between me and you. And every male among you who is eight days old shall become Shall be circumcised throughout your generations. A servant who is born in the house, or who is bought with money, from any foreigner who is not of your descendants. A servant who is born in your house, or who is bought with your money, shall surely be circumcised. Thus shall my covenant be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. But an uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskins, that person shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. Then God said to Abram, As for Sarah, your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but you shall call her Sarah, shall be her name. I will bless her and indeed I will give you a son by her. Then I will bless her and she shall be. She shall be a mother of nations, king kings of people will come from her. Then Abram fell on his face and laughed and said in his heart, Will a child be born to a man a hundred years old, and will Sarah, who is ninety years old, And Abram said to God, Oh that Ishmael might live before you. But God said to him, No, but Sarah your wife will bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac, and I will establish my covenant with him for an ever. Everlasting covenant for his descendants after him. I'm going to go ahead and just finish the chapter. As for Ismail, I've Ishmael, I've heard you. Behold, I will bless him and I will make him fruitful, and multiply him exceedingly. He shall become a father of twelve people. Princes, and I will make him a great nation. But my covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to you at this season next year. When he had finished talking with Abram, he went up from Abram, then Abram took Ishmael, his son. and all the servants who were born in his house, and all who were bought with money, every male among uh the men of Abram's household, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the very same day as God had been. Now Abraham was ninety nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. And the very same day Abraham was circumcised. And Ishmael his son. All the men of his household who were born in the house or or bought with money from the uh from a foreigner were circumcised with him. So again we need To go through this, we'll look at some of the uh uh aspects of this covenant. Uh so the Lord appears to Abram, he reaffirms his covenant with him and and gave him further details and assurances. Uh the word covenant. is used. It's thirteen times in here. Do you notice the re repeating uh covenant, covenant. Three times is called an everlasting covenant. Verse 1, the Lord calls A uh calls himself God Almighty El Shaddai. Uh Essex states uh uh that uh this term uh for God is primarily used in the context of a covenant, but more specifically to persons who were to be obedient to the covenant. requirements. He lists uh uh several other verses uh uh uh as an example of this. Uh as a study he did when he pulled it out he saw that that m most of the time this term El Shaddai has to do with obedience. Um, God is powerful to fulfill the covenant promises, but submission to God's commands by his servant must be uh followed in order to receive the blessings. God commands Abram to walk before him and his standing in the presence of God he would be blameless. Uh you think about this. He he says an and we we use these verbs and and uh you know walk according to the spirit or you know, walk to God. I i it means to be following God, to be paying attention to his his laws and his commands. It's a it's an obedience uh thing. If you want the blessing, uh, you know, walk in that obedience. And the you notice again, it's it it's the same thing we keep talking about over and over again. a and God uh will make him blameless. You won't be blameless. That's the the fine line we get because of our our our our nature uh uh I'll walk this way and I'll be blameless, you know. W again, y we're we're putting ourselves uh i right in front of God's power. It's like, uh, God will make me blameless. It's his grace. Um It's so easy to get the two confused. So this is not a second covenant. Moses uh he's recounting parts and again, this is why uh w uh we call this progressive revelation. He gave him uh some revelation i in in in uh th the first major uh theme we saw and the paradigm or the pattern we saw in in Genesis twelve one through three. And now he's adding detail to this. Right? Sarah's uh he's changed the names, uh uh he's he's named the son who's gonna be the heir. He's getting Isaac. Think about this is perfect I mean and this is got God's power pattern throughout. Uh it doesn't mean that uh it it's different, it's just it's uh again we we're we're we're gaining uh uh information, gu uh wisdom from God. Um So while giving uh new details of the commands, um obedience to the covenants, right? Uh number one, the obedience of Abram and his seed require uh to experience the covenantal blessings in in seventeen one, uh you know, we see that, you know, he's he's walking re he's ninety nine years old, uh, walk before me. Okay. Uh nine through fourteen, the sign of the covenant. He was obedient to it, right? uh uh self obligation to the Lord to multiply uh Abram's descendants, uh who o occupy the land. Uh God's gonna do this, uh uh he He's going to bless them. See it's seven two and four through eight. Uh I will establish my covenant, I will multiply you exceedingly. Okay? Uh so it's not because of Abraham. Again, this is God's will. This is the sign uh of the covenant being circumcision. Um we mentioned that before. There were three s there were the signs. Uh you should be uh Uh verse eleven. And you shall be circumcised in the flesh, your foreskin, and uh it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. Uh again it's an obedience thing. It's it's a reminder uh who God is. And and that's with really all the cultic things. I mean we're gonna get to a li they get into a laborate cultic thing with uh uh in the law. But it it's they're all word the kind of word pictures or you know, uh action pictures of of Christ and his holiness. They're there are signs. Uh it's it what what'd he say? The Hebrews look for a sign, the Greeks uh want wisdom, you know, uh this is the Hebrew this is the uh the mindset. This is the way God is revealing himself. Isaac is descendant is uh being the recipient and avenue of covenantal fulfillment. Uh Ishmael uh is going to be blessed, but the spiritual seed, the covenant, is going to go through Isaac. It doesn't mean that Ishmael couldn't have had faith. But uh this is God's plan. The seed, the generations. We we see this uh uh in genealogies and everything uh, you know. Abraham, Isaac and then what? Jacob, right? We're gonna see the the continuing narrowing down. We're gonna look at the Vedic covenant, David, right? Uh we we saw it with with the priests for reveal. Is it that when we once we get past the Mosaic covenant about the the priests that are gonna be blessed? Um Yes. What's the significance of the Lord changing their names? Uh again, uh uh Abram, uh it sounds i it's very close to father of many nations. It doesn't actually m i there i it would be Ab uh Haman or something like that. So, uh he's had this name change and he has no children. So you can imagine what that would be like uh around his service and everything else are going, Hm, that's different You know Sarah. Good question. Um uh I I'm sure I looked at it. I d I don't know off hand. Anybody just the meaning of their name. Yeah, no, I know. I I I don't I couldn't give it to you offhand. I think every time you heard his name you had to remember his God's promise. You know, 'cause we had no children. So every time you heard his name, it was a remembrance of God's promise. Anybody have a there's probably a study bible in here. Somebody's um um I'm looking at Strong's I can't remember what's uh Strong's and he says that Abram means exalted father. And I haven't got to Abraham yet. It's it I I did look at that. Uh it's um it's very close. It's Hebrew, it's it's uh it's Haman. It's not bra uh bra. Uh-huh. But you know, Hebrew does that a lot. They they'll use words that are similar. Uh uh they they love w I I guess God does. They they use word plays. That's one of the things we miss. Um people that are good with Hebrew and are really you know, reading this uh uh you know, uh a lot of scripture, uh th they see the how close the words are together. You know what I mean? Abraham is the father of a multitude, according to Strong. Yeah, right. Very close. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. Abraham is w yeah. There there are uh Abraham is not necessarily a Jewish name. There are lots of Arab names. Well, I mean after all, the Ishmael and and they they trace you know the same same same roots, exactly. Well and they in the the languages are very similar. Right. In the Quran They they're they're point that out. Yeah. Uh this this is an amazing passage of scripture. Uh you you talk you talk to uh uh Arab believers in Israel and they will tell you that that that this that that uh the promise of the land was not was not per permanent but perpetual. Of course. They get it wrong. Of course. They'll say, well, because they deserted the land, but they forget that they were forced off the land. They didn't deserve it. Well God God uh it's judgment. God took 'em all he did uh it's all part of it's all part of Satan's plan. Satan is doing everything in his power to circumvent the second coming of Christ. Right. Getting getting Israel off the land is all part of it. The the Quran is part of Satan's plan to circumvent And again, l let's pull back, okay? Yeah, and let's pull back. Whose land is it? It's God's land. Exactly. And and i Israel is what? Well the word Israel means Israel is what to the land? Pardon? Israel Yes, exactly. I mean it's so easy for us myself, I assume you all feel the same thing. Put me forward. It's not their land, their Stewards. You're a steward as long as you behave or you know, are obedient, right? You do you think this is your land? We know what he did to like to call um Israel nowadays, um they call 'em occupiers, you know, or they don't want to address them as a nation, so they call 'em, you know, the occupiers. Right. But let's be honest, they're just occupiers of the land too. We all are. Right. So one who gives you breath. Yeah, that and that's the thing. We it's so easy to forget. Um uh yeah, it all comes from God. easy to say but it's hard to remember and live accordingly. Uh uh yeah. And this is a really important thing. I know we're off of of uh covenant, so we're w I I I'm probably gonna stop because we've I've got um I posted these late, I assume a lot of you didn't get 'em. Um I'll just show you uh because I've taken these less and we'll we'll get into this next week, we'll finish What what they've done is they they pulled out um so get the notes. They they pulled out all these covenants, these are the promises. And uh different men have used different lists. Um uh I kind of used a combination. This was primarily a guy named uh uh Fruchtenbaum. But uh Pentecost, Ben Ware, all these all these guys that that write on this have have uh they all have this list. of these different promises. Uh I kinda combined them because I thought, well, uh Fruchtenbaum t is Jewish and tends to uh uh even the book he wrote is Israelology. So I mean i I mean it's for it is and he's look looking at it from the uh perspective of of Israel being the sea. So uh we'll get into that next week. And we're also gonna have to draw out we just go through uh Genesis real quick uh uh a couple couple of mentions there and uh eighteen and twenty two. And then we're going to draw out, okay, so what do these covenants mean? And you'll see that in the notes and this is what we want to contemplate. W what were all these promises? What were what was listed out. Uh uh and and w what are the implications? Uh what does it mean uh for for God's part and was it mean for the successive generations? parts and who's the two. And some of this is going to emerge. Uh so get look at the notes, we'll finish this up. It is important to think about these lists and and um I was I've listened the verses so we're not just pulling 'em out. It would take some time. I I could a uh maybe what I could do is is print these verses and add them to an addendum for you. So make sure we look at 'em. 'Cause where did he come from? Where do these promises come from? You know, i it's a lot to put together and think about. Um but um this is these are we've gone through the major cover it so far. Uh this is the Abrahamic we call 'em. Uh we we saw the progressive. Uh we'll try and wrap this up so it it makes uh we can start to br this is an overview. Okay? You can spend a lot of time obviously you can see the detail that's involved in here. Um but this I'm trying to bring overview so we see the major highways so to speak. We're not gonna get all the secondary roads and everything that that feedback into this 'cause the the detail is just incredible there. So uh that's what we'll do next week. Let's end in prayer