Let's go ahead and open with a word of prayer, and then we'll jump into our lesson this morning. Father, we thank you for this time together. We thank you for the opportunity that we have to to study your word and to fellowship together as believers in Christ. We thank you for the joy of being able to see in your word clarity regarding who we are created in your image and likeness and and we thank you that as men and women we can reflect your character, your traits, uh in a way uh that would present Christ to the world. And we just ask, Lord, that in the opportunities we have of living out our Christian faith that you would give us opportunities to speak the gospel and to continue to encourage believers to trust in you and to see themselves as your vessels uh to communicate your saving grace to the world. Once again we thank you for this topic that we're looking at which is biblical manhood and womanhood, and we thank you for the joy that your word is clear. And we continue to ask that you would teach us Even in this hour, we thank you in Christ's name. Amen. All right. We uh have been covering uh quite a bit in terms of some of the details related to uh how we are created in the image of God and we're starting to get into uh the differences. So we've looked at how we are equal in the sense of being created in the image of God, uh, but we are starting to look at some of the role distinctions and some of the ways in which men and women are different. Last time, for the last couple weeks, we've been looking at uh the difference between masculinity and femininity and we've been seeing just general categories of differences uh between us. Now once again I just want to put that caveat in there that this doesn't in any way the differences don't in any way uh cause us to think that one is superior, one is inferior. The issue is is that we're created differently. And today, um, as you know, we live in a culture that's trying to erase all of those differences. Um and it falls under the general uh category or the the terminology of being egalitarian. If you remember egalitarian acknowledges that we are created equal but it doesn't see a distinction between men and women, both in roles and in character and Primarily they would look to New Testament passages uh such as being created in Christ, there's neither me male nor female, as justification for that. We'll look into some of those verses later on, not today, but later on. But the issue is that in today's society, in today's culture, the distinctions and the role differences are trying to be erased. Um and it's really becoming so much more confusing, so much more chaotic, uh, just because once again it is a denial of the truth that God has given us in his word but also in his revelation um of creation. So when we look at men and women we don't just see biological changes or differences, but we also see um role d distinctions, we see character traits that are different, and all of this speaks to the glory of God's creation. that again we've been created in his image and in his likeness to reflect his character in the world. Now one of the ways in which, as I told you in the very beginning that we uh can accentuate that that glorious creation is in is in the context of marriage. And we see that from the very beginning, that when Adam and Eve were created It was very good at the end of the sixth day when God said creation was done. And I again as you look at the passage, it was man who was created at the very end on the sixth day And when woman was created, that's when things were very good. Um so what a joy it is that we live in a in a world and in a creation that ultimately is a reflection of God's beauty, his His glorious design, and we can praise him, we can glorify him for those distinctions and those differences. But again, when Adam and Eve were brought together in the bonds of marriage together, they really were able to reflect the glory of God. by showing those distinctions and those role differences. Now again, as we are men and women, just in creation, especially in Christ We have the joy of being able to show those distinctions. But what a beautiful thing it is in the context of marriage. It just seems to be accentuated. And uh so we want to look at the role differences in marriage today as we continue our study of biblical manhood and womanhood. So we're right now into lesson four And we're going to look at the issue of roles in marriage. And I don't want to take a lot of time on this, but at the same time, it is an important issue for us to discuss And so we're going to look at some scriptures in this passage. If you have your notes, it's on page 19. But the very first way in which we see there being roles in marriage is that We see headship and submission being displayed or demonstrated to the world. Now again, headship is a wonderful word. Likewise, submission is a wonderful word. We don't want to look at these words as negative. They are actually words that help to express the role differences that men and women have in the context of marriage. And so we know, just looking at Scripture, from Genesis all the way through to the book of Revelation, we see headship and submission being accentuated in the Scripture. We see it not only as we've discussed it in the Trinity, but we also see it in in creation as well. And so when we start to look at this issue of headship and submission, the first thing that we need to acknowledge is that this is God's design. This is the way God has ordered the universe the creation. And so we see in many passages here accentuating this idea that this is God's design. So for example, in Genesis chapter two, the Lord God said, It is not good for man to be alone. I will make him a helper suitable for him Um i it's funny when I look at that passage and I think a suitable helper, um, there isn't a sense where men are are just lost without a woman And I know having been married now for thirty-five years that I can say honestly I'd be lost if I didn't have Sharon. Um she is she exceeds when it comes to being a suitable helper uh for me But again, the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man. He slept, and then he took one of his ribs, closed up the flesh at that place. The Lord God then fashioned into a woman the rib which he had taken out of the man or taken from the man, and then he brought her to the man I love that. That that's that really speaks to the design of what God has done in creation with men and women. Uh we need each other. We're designed for social relationships, but in this particular instant, very clearly God brought this woman to this man in order for them to enter into a very intimate relationship together. And once again the man said, This is now bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh and she shall be called woman because she was taken out of man. Again, the complementary nature of the relationship between the man and woman is being accentuated here And this is a wonderful thing because once again this is the way God has designed it from the very beginning. God did d did not design the intimacy of this relationship between two people of the of the same gender. This is complementary in the fact that it completes the person. And so there's a completion, there's a one-flesh principle that is at work here. And this is God's design. Likewise in Ephesians chapter five, wives, be subject to your own husbands as to the Lord, for the husband is the head of the wife As Christ is also head of the church, he himself being the savior of the body. But as the the church is subject to Christ So also wives ought to be to their husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless. So husbands ought to love their wiv their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. Nevertheless, each individual among you also ought to love his own wife um even as himself and the wife must see to it that she respects her husband. What a wonderful thing when Husband and wife come together by God's design and operate under God's order that you see this complementarian role being lived out and so much so that if it is done according to God's design, his purpose, his will, what you see is a is a reflection, a proclamation of Christ's relationship to the church. And that's a beautiful thing. And that's why in the past I told you that really the marriage relationship is one of the greatest proclamations, it's one of the greatest presentations of the gospel to the world. Um you are living out if you're married, you're living out what it means to have Christ uh proclaimed as to his relationship to the church. There is love, there's headship, there's leadership, there is submission, there is this complementarian role um in the sense of we really see Christ as being the the head of the church, us as being submissive to Christ And that then is lived out in the context of a relationship between husband and wife. And let me tell you, for those of you who have children, what a testimony this is to your children, that this is the gospel. This is the glory of Christ. And so as you are married, think about your marriage in the context of a presentation of the gospel, that you are living out God's design. And again, it's one that reflects his design in all of its glory. So, once again, Colossians chapter 3, verses 18 and 19, wives, be subject to your husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives and do not be embittered against them. Once again, there's this joy of coming together and seeing this relationship operate in such a way as to complement one another, but yet to be a reflection of Christ in the world. Now there are many texts that keep going on. You could look at 1 Peter 3, 1 Corinthians 11, and then there's many others that you could look at. uh once again to go back and to see that um headship and submission in marriage is by God's design. Uh this is not something that's cultural It is not something that man has established or designed. This is God's design. And that's what we need to proclaim So once again, this is huge in regards to accurately putting on display God's ordered design and creation for the world. Now, some practical implications of headship and submission in the marriage include things like this. Men are accountable to provide for their families. While the husband should seek and value his wife's advice and insight, the ultimate responsibility for decision making uh in the family rests with the man. Again, it doesn't mean that he needs to make all the decisions. It doesn't mean that every decision that he makes is going to be a good one. The issue is that Ultimately the man is responsible. He's accountable. He is what we call in the Bible the representative head of the family. And so when it when the bottom line comes down, the man assumes the responsibility and accountability for it, even if it's a huge mistake. Um, we take that kind of responsibility because we take headship very seriously. And once again, it's a reflection of the of the uh relationship that God the Father and God the Son have in the Trinity as well. So just keep in mind that the practical implication of headship is that there's an accountability and leadership that is built into that. And so we need to again remind ourselves of this wonderful responsibility that we have And uh thank God for our wives because they can help us where in where in areas we may fail and stumble. So a second implication would be this that if the husband doesn't follow the humble advice or even appeals to his wife, she doesn't bear responsibility before God for any errors that are made She fulfills her responsibility by submitting to his leadership. A loving wife also um this this would imply that a loving li a loving wife would refrain from sarcastically saying to her husband, I told you so. Once again, she may not be the primary responsibility uh for whatever decisions are made. She mu she's not the she's not the designated leader in the family, but that doesn't give her a right to again denigrate the husband for um bad decisions that are made or perhaps errors that are made in decision making or even bearing the responsibility. The issue is that men, you need to look to your wives for that kind of support and advice and counsel, but at the same time, uh, wives, remember your husband does bear the responsibility. He he is the leader in the home. And uh and we we only see that because this is God's design. And so again And it was terrible, terrible, when Adam said it w to God it was the wife you gave me who deceived me. That was horrible. That is not the way you take responsibility and leadership. And sure enough uh that lack of faith in that rebellious nature um ultimately uh sent the whole human race into the fall and the curse of sin is now alive and well and there's times when we go back and reflect what Adam and Eve did And uh we need to we need to take a step back and again understand what the roles that we have in marriage are Um and again I I take very seriously the decision making in our home because I know that just as a pastor uh is accountable for the shepherd or the sheep that he shepherds, um I am responsible for the leadership in my home. I am the one who ultimately is going to give an account to God for this And I take it very seriously. So men, you ought to do the same as well. And women, please be supportive of your husbands. Amy. Um, so can you clarify a little bit about the decision you you know, you're responsible for the ultimate decision. Now is that like are we going to McDonald's or KFC? Or like at what point do you Just work together and you you know what I mean? Like what what are the things that you're truly gonna re um answer to how to be accountable for for your family? Does that sound like it does. Um My position is I take leadership in delegating that responsibility to go to McDonald's or wherever to my family. I'm kinda I'm kidding, really. Um but no no no I fail in that miserably in terms of making that choice. Um so Yeah, that is a very good question. Um you know in the day-to-day decision, the decision-making process that we have, I think there's a joy in celebrating the the um the family environment of being able to share those decisions together. But again, when it comes down when it when it boils down to the big broad decisions in the family, I take responsibility for those. So even if it was in a you know a minuscule r uh decision making where we're dis deciding where to go out to dinner, um once again I love being able to delegate to the family, but they're looking to me for the lead And so uh sometimes I'll make the decision of where we go and everybody hates it. But once again I've made the decision and I've I've stepped up as the man to uh take responsibility for that and that may even be um the choice of saying I blew it in terms of not consulting my family or not appealing to my wife um for her choice in that but Once again, the responsibility comes down to me uh for all the decisions that ultimately are made. It's just that once again I share that responsibility with my wife And even with my children on some of those decisions. So I think you just clarified something for me because I think um it When it comes down to CSV Vers and McDonald's or something, there's a heart issue that's going on something in your life. And it she's constantly like going against you, then there's a problem there because of things. It's not about McDonalds. So I would think that that's where you have to sort of look around and see, hmm, so I must not be loving her the right way or something because if she's buffing against that Yeah. What should I be doing? And I think it's more just like When in my heart I'm thinking, he doesn't know what he's talking about or he doesn't know he's not with the kids all day. You know, and I'm starting to feel kinda ugh you know, briefly I guess against him or something. Yeah. Then to me there's a problem in our relationship that we need to get worked out that would just cause us to to kind of dissipate so that we can be a team. So yeah, definitely, and I would agree with you a hundred percent. It's about relationship. It's not about agendas So I don't want to be pushing my agenda all the time because once again it's being it's it's not really reflecting the type of leadership that God has designed in in a complementary relationship together. I mean I can make an ultimate decision on certain things, but if I've not consulted with my wife on that and really appealed to the relationship that we have together in making that decision, then I have failed in my leadership with her. And that's something that yes we definitely need to consider. I mean I I have a favorite restaurant that I like to go to all the time. And I'd go there all the time if the decision were left up to me. But once again in those In those decision-making processes, uh what ends up happening is there's much more of this like-mindedness and relationship bonding when you can do it together. And you don't always have to defer to your your final decision. The decision that you make to to discuss this with your spouse um really is part of the joy of being able to then with confidence myself making the decision but also to have my wife support my decision. And that's why the relationship is just so important. Again, it's not about agendas. I would never want to characterize leadership as pushing your agenda. Because once again, that's plowing over the relationship and that's not living with your wife in an understanding way. So it's it's one of those things that we really need to take to heart. Yeah, you wanted to say something? Um speaking from uh uh male responsibility Um you know, any couple can work out the intricacies of who makes what decision when, kind of thing. But in that particular example, whether it's KFC or McDonald's should there become uh some either moral issue, safety issue or something like that. And if something goes wrong with the decision that you agreed that someone else in the family should make, it's still the man affairs' responsibility certainly. So there is a sense where there is still male leadership and male responsibility governing the entire situation. Uh we you know we work it out to where my wife makes certain decisions, that's great, but it should something go wrong in the end, it's gonna be my responsibility. Exactly. Yeah, I would agree. Oh, go ahead. I was thinking about the fact that what uh Amy was mentioning as far as a a like a calls on woman or woman that's just disagree. Yeah. And um one of the things you said earlier I thought was really interesting is that marriage paints the picture. of Christ in his church. Alright? And so Christ has already like established a pattern of love and sacrifice and all that stuff. But I think when we look at the Titus II for the older women It says older women likewise you have to be reverent in your behavior, not malicious gossips and slave, much wine. Teach 'em what is good so that they may encourage the younger women to love their husband. Like so I think in some ways if you have a wife who is maybe very disagreeable. It would be wise to like maybe put her around other women who are older because maybe the pattern that she's seen in her life is this is how Americans operate But maybe she's not had a father in her life to see how a wife needs to submit to the uh the loving leadership of her husband So it's like it's almost like a pattern like how do I learn this? How do I like I love my husband, I want to submit to him, I want to develop with him But I don't have any range. And his range, he's a man. So you're not looking at it from the perspective, well, he's really telling me the right thing. You need to see another woman coming. form into that pattern. So I think it's a matter of also what the church is doing for the younger ones. Yeah. Definitely. What the moms are doing with the daughters. You know what I mean? So Yeah, definitely. I think one of the things that's missing in the church today is that mentoring role that women, older women can have on younger women to help them understand some of these practicalities of what it means to be submissive. Um I love that the scriptures are are very clear. I mean when you read that passage and the word reverent was um stated, that's a word you need that's like a that's like a spotlight. You need to understand what does that mean to be reverent Likewise, husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church. That that word love is a spotlight on the man to say, How are you indeed loving sacrificially your wife? so that in the day to day decisions she sees that love being worked out. Um because if you're just making decisions for the sake of making decisions and you're not considering or again respecting your wife uh for who she is, then then let me tell you that that's not going to help the the relationship That is not going to be a a testimony of what it means to lead. And so definitely w Older men, you need to be pouring your lives into younger men. Older women, you need to be pouring your lives into younger women. And we need to provide an atmosphere for that here in the church And uh I know that there are some young, godly women who would love to have older women helping them. Sure. It's so important that these wives really embrace the fact that the responsibility falls on our husband because being a nurturer I care centrally for my husband and so that having that knowledge in my mind all the time really makes me think about what I might urge in a decision making process. You know, recognizing that's a heavy responsibility that I don't have to bear. And so we as wife need to take that seriously and be the helpmate. Be the you know, help to bear the burden in a sense. And make sure that we're not nagging or selfish and trying to get things just to go our way or or think we know better, which is from the curse, you know, would be use You need to recognize that you both bear the responsibility and God given me the ability to be that head. And so even if I think I might be making a better decision, I can present my case and then support you in whatever decision is decided. Um anyway, that's just me really that we can help support our hostes in that responsibility by recognizing it and sharing it Yeah, and just oh go ahead. Sorry. In the best case scenario is what Amy brought up. Yes, the man is responsible for the outcome of whatever happened for dinner. And yes, if the wife is quarrelsome, there's probably a problem there. But in the best case scenario, when it's happening happening differently, if the wife is pushing towards McDonald's and a husband It's loving his wife, he's gonna understand there's probably a reason to that. Exactly. She might have given the kids fried chicken the last too much in the last two days or so it's gonna be some pushback if it's or whatever. I was gonna say McDonald's or KFC, why not Chick-fil-A? So but it's close on Sunday. I try and tell you, if you want GorkyOC, there's it's going to be a stressful situation. And a loving husband would say You know? I see that there's tension there, I see there's frustrating there. Yes, I'm responsible, but I'm gonna love my family in love with my realize that the best case scenario my wife might know what the family needs better for dinner. Yeah. And let's just do it down And so yes he's responsible for it. But I feel like in the best case scenario the husband is loving his wife and saying, Okay, let's do the nasty cheese further instead of Yeah, definitely. And just to add to a little bit of what Sharon said as well, that I think what a joy it is for us guys, we don't have all the facts And sometimes, you know, consulting our wives on decision making like this will help us to make the better decision. What a joy it is to again be in a situation where a decision needs to be made and you consult your spouse on it to then come back and the man to be able to say, okay, given all of those factors, here is the best decision that we can make to have the wife then come and say, I'm fully supportive of that. I mean that that just shows the again the relationship how it's being worked out. And I appreciate the question, Amy, because Once again, it is an issue of relationship. Um it's not an issue of pushing an agenda. And uh I think that's something that we need to try as men to consider each and every day because we get into our our goal mode of getting things done, task oriented. And oftentimes we can make quick decisions that are the wrong decisions. And maybe we need to just take a step back and just ask some questions first before we make statements. And uh and that can That has application in every area of life. Counseling someone, it is not good when somebody comes to you for help to just lambast them with a bunch of statements The best thing to do is get more information. We call that collecting data, but you know again we're collecting information to help us make a better decision on what kind of counsel that we would give And uh that happens in the home and it happens outside the home. It happens in so many different relationships. But again, in the husband and wife relationship it's so critical because once again it helps to accentuate that complementarian role that we have together. I don't make all the best decisions Sometimes my wife makes much better decisions than I do. But what a joy for her to come alongside, help me in making those decisions, and then be able to be supportive of that. Um it's great. Yeah. Um in that context, my brother would be compared about the book. So like that could be the last hundred times he didn't care, but then suddenly he can't. And I think on the other side, if your husband doesn't take that role, then the wife kinda steps in and then It can go a complete mention. Oh, hang on, now you're really up. Absolutely. Yeah, that is Genesis chapter three at the heart. Um once again Because of the fall, because of the curse of sin, we are very imperfect in how we live this out Um but once again it I've seen relationships where a believing wife is married to an unbelieving man. or husband and where the wife comes in in a very submissive way to the point that she can. Where if there's a s a decision that's being made that perhaps has the consequence of sin involved, I think a wife should say absolutely not. She has every biblical ground for being able to say, I will not agree to that decision making. But where there are just general life decisions being made if the wife can come in in a very submissive, loving, godly way to support the husband That is one way that the testimony of the wife is winning the husband perhaps to Christ. And once again, God is the one who saves, but what a joyful testimony that is When a wife is supportive of her husband, so far as she can be supportive of her unbelieving husband. And likewise a man to an unbelieving wife Once again, these are the dynamics that are just difficult for us to make in a fallen world, but with the clarity of God's Word, we can have the principles before us to be able to make the necessary decisions and lifestyle that we have to have. So I appreciate that. I I had uh unbelieving parents and neither of them Either of them considered God in the decision making and the relationship was just a mess. And I didn't have that as a role model for me. And so I was looking to other godly men for um how I ought to operate as a godly as a godly man, a a man who came to faith in Christ And I was so thankful for those men who really did lead biblically and it was helpful for t me for me because then it helped me as a son in my family's relationship to be able to respond to my parents better. Um, so yeah, uh it's that is such a challenge. And uh We need to be praying for those families that are unequally yoked, um, because we need to help them to understand that there is a design in this, there is there is a purpose for this, and God has you there uh for the greatest um opportunity to present accurately what it means to be a believer in Christ. And again it speaks to this kind of an issue. So but yeah. Any other comments All right, let's go to the next implication. The next one is husbands are wise to delegate even major areas of household management to their wives depending on their relative strengths and weaknesses. We've talked about this, but this does not undermine his headship as long as he assumes ultimate responsibility and they communicate regularly about their agreed upon decision of or division of labor. For a long for the longest time um I can't remember who started it out in our marriage, but I think I was the one responsible for the finances. So I was kind of balancing the books, making sure bills were play paid, um, kind of looking at our finances, and then there was a season of life where it made much more sense for Sharon to do it. And Sharon, oh my word, she surpassed me. And it was I was so grateful for it. But when she surpassed me in that There was the decision that I had to make was, is this good for her to do this? And again, it it wasn't an issue of um, you know, right or wrong, it was an issue of okay, what's what is beneficial for our family at the time. And we realized that it was good to share that responsibility because then it came back to me for a time and then now it's gone back to her So I love the fact that we have dialogued all through that process of, you know, who's gonna handle the finances in the home. And it's not just the finances. You know, there are there are areas of discipline with our children that we needed to discuss early on as well. Decisions about income and taking a job. You know, all different sorts of responsibilities that we had d had to make a decision on, we had to to dialogue about But ultimately it came down to, okay, Mike, what is the best exercise of your leadership in this position? And I was so thankful because based on all the dialogue that we had, it was clear that I could make a decision and Sharon could support that decision in such a way that we were both comfortable with whatever decision was made There were times when we had to make a quick decision and each of us bore the responsibility and the consequences of that decision. But once again, we try really hard to dialogue. Because I realize that this is more again about the relationship than it is about pushing who's better at what. Um now in a in decision making there may be a situation where one person the s the husband or the wife is much better at doing these kinds of things like changing the oil and doing work on the house or you know other things although We had to uh repaint and and basically repair uh an old home that we had and sharing her attention to detail. Oh my word made that house absolutely gorgeous compared to what it was. It had been me, oh my word, we'd have had another job to do with it. But it would have gotten done, it just we would have had to uh go back and really fine-tune everything. But once again, decision making with dialogue will help us to divide up the labor and then be able to exercise the supportive nature of our relationship by my taking the lead and her submitting to ultimately the decisions that are made by me. I don't know. Do you guys know of any other situations where this might be applicable? Yeah, I'm gonna go through my question for a time You're gonna boast on your husband. That's great. I'm nursing a baby, the toddler screaming. It just felt like utter chaos and like he saw me in my struggle and he suddenly like sacrificially for a really long time. I wouldn't say like a year because my husband made all the meals. That's why I was making all the meals, I'm happy. I like 15. But like that was awesome for a whole year. Like I didn't have to worry about dinner. I got my kids to breakfast and lunch and then dinner I was like, He's coming He's coming to rescue me. I just got to focus on keeping them alive until that and like but that'll make that And like what people what I think I think people are they're quick to sign tasks to like headship and submission, which I understand. Like yeah, I I I like cooking, I like doing I I guess what would can be considered more feminine tasks. But I think that was That was him loving me like Christ left the church. That was him doing something self sacrificial. He works all day and he does manual labor. And then to come home, he's tired. He doesn't want to make dinner, but he did because that was having yeah struggles and I was really happy that my husband took over that task for so long so I felt stable again but he said That's great. Joel and I spent the first ten years of our marriage with me doing everything at home because he was working so much and training. So we got to the point a year and a half ago when we moved here and okay, now that you're homested, what are you gonna do? Because I was used to my friends would make fun of me, they're like Jesse, you do all the man chores because My husband's never home, like, I took out the trash, I did the lawn work, I did this, that, and the other. And so now we've had to step back and be like, Okay How are we gonna do this together? First of all, I can't do that. Oh. Like I can't do it all. Yeah. That's great. That's great. Well what a joy too for Joel for you to be working outside the home so that you don't have to. You don't have to provide for that income. And uh that's just such a glorious thing when there's a again an agreement on what you can do task wise to help build the other spouse up and it's such a joy. And now to share the responsibilities is great. I'm I'm experimenting with doing some cooking. Trying to. Chris? We need to talk. I need to learn I need to learn from you. Um but this is your McDonald's. I'm not sure that's what my wife was hoping for that because you can now cook, you take them out to the restaurant. No, that's not good. Um But no, it it's such a great thing. And there was one thing that you said that I want to kind of emphasize too. We need to be careful about assigning tasks to a particular gender. to say that, oh, that's the woman's task, or that's the man's task. That is not what is being accentuated here in leadership and submission. So let's kind of put that out there just so that we're understanding each other. There are certain tasks that women are better at. Nurturing children You guys are just designed to do that much better than men. And that's something that really is accentuated in Scripture as well. And what a joy it is. It's one of the reasons why the blessing of motherhood is to bring the next generation into the world and be able to present the gospel to them. Uh not that the man can't, it's just that you guys do it so well. And once again it's a reflection even in the church because Paul often would say, you know, like a nursing mother we came along. That's an acknowledgement of what's been designed in creation. So we just need to be careful about assigning certain tasks um, you know, day to day chores or tasks as that's the woman's job or that's the man's job. Um no, we don't have to do that. There are times that I'm I'm gonna say this and um don't shoot me for this, but um there's times when I love doing the laundry. I like it. I like folding the laundry. I like watch it. Um there's other times when I hate it. But it's a shared responsibility when we can do it together. And uh it's something where again in the relationship as husband and wife It's like if I'm doing a task that you've done for the last ten years, um, is this a situation where how can I express my leadership in this? How can you sub express your submission in this? And how can we do this in such a way so that we can be a testimony to our children? Yeah, no, these are great great examples of ways in which we can complement each other. And it once again, um broadly speaking, some of the tasks that we do can have a d a real testimony over what it means to be a leader and what it what it means to um be submissive in those relationships. So but again, this is uh I love the fact that it states here that um this is an agreed upon division of labor. Um it's terrible when one spouse says to the other, you have to do this. This is your responsibility. Um no, that's not necessarily true. Uh maybe I don't have the time because I'm away um and I can't do it, but that doesn't mean that I can't step up and help out and do that. And so once again The dialogue between husband and wife really accentuates that relationship that we ought to have together to accentuate God's creation and his design for the marriage. Number four, headship involves not just authority and responsibility, but also leadership. The husband is to lead his family, and here's the catch. By example. Your words are not enough. You need to lead by example. By his teaching, by his prayers. by pursuing godly goals. You know, are you being the spiritual leader in the home? Are you being the the one who is demonstrating what you'd talk about in leadership in the home. Um if that's not happening, then, you know, again, it's the wife I I Sharon comes to me and says, Mike, you need to lead in this area, in this way. And that's something that, again, we need to take to heart. But the key here is that are we doing this by example? So these are issues that, once again, in terms of leadership, this really accentuates what it means to be a leader. And hopefully you'll understand that in a way that again reflects not just the strength of leadership, but the humility, the grace the kindness, the love that you have for one another as well. So once again, headship involves not just authority and responsibility but also leadership. Number five, although wives are to submit to their to the loving leadership or headship of their husbands They share with their husbands the responsibility for nurturing, training their children. Children are to obey their parents equally. Um, if I remember correctly in Ephesians 6 The word they're used for um, I think mostly translated as husbands, actually is a word that can be translated parents And so this is a shared responsibility that we have together to nurture and to train our children. It's just that once again, wives Having that responsibility at home with their children, wow, what an opportunity for them to not just nurture and train and care for their children, but to point to the headship of their husband and be able to say, this is why we're doing this, because once again we're doing this ob in obedience again to the parents, but it's a reflection of our obedience to Christ. our obedience to God the Father. So this is very, very important that again, it's not necessarily a task that is designated for the wife It really is a a a task designated to parents. And where leadership and submission can come into it is where you're doing it in such a way to discipline your children to reflect uh an accurate testimony of what it means to be husband and wife. So very, very important. And an implication of God's design. He designed it this way. Now the dangers associated with with distorting God's design in marriage are kind of interesting, and Alan has put together a little graph here, but I think it's pretty uh it's pretty accurate. If you'll notice in the middle, well on the left side there's husband and wife, but in the middle you have the biblical ideal of with the husband um loving, humble headship, and then with the wife joyful, intelligent submission Taken to its extreme in both directions can really provide a danger in distorting the relationship So with the husband, if he is not lovingly and humbly leading in the home and being that representative head, uh he can often be viewed as a wimp. And uh it's not a good thing to be a wimp. Um because ultimately what happens is there's distrust, there is a lack of um confidence in the husband and ultimately there can be uh a situation where the wife again in our fallen state can usurp that kind of role and it's it doesn't It doesn't help in painting an accurate picture of what it means to be a husband and wife by God's design. And ultimately it's a terrible testimony to the world around us. Um, but likewise if the husband goes too far in his headship and leadership he can be viewed as a tyrant, the one who's constantly demanding his agenda, the one who's demanding his decision making in roles and this it has to happen this way because I said it That's not good. That is not a good example. Certainly not for the example for the spouse, the wife, in the husband and wife relationship. But even worse for the children, because the children are looking to the parents for the accurate role model that they need. And uh I think it's one of the reasons why we have families just torn apart today in society. Likewise, the wife. Joyful intelligence submission is the ideal. If that's not exercised in the relationship, oftentimes the wife can be a doormat and the husband just wipes his feet on her. And she's the yes she's the yes woman all the time. Yes. And that's terrible. It's terrible. Um, but likewise, taken to the opposite extreme, the danger is that she can be a usurper. She can step in and do the role of the husband and maybe do it well But it's not how God has designed it. So in essence, it's not good. She may be able to do it because she's able to do it But if she steps in and does that, is that being a good testimony of what God has designed? It's not. So once again, if you have a husband and wife living within the framework of a biblical ideal of proper headship, proper submission, you know, joyful, intelligent submission, loving, humble uh headship There can be real peace in the home, there can be tranquility, there can be the the home can really be a place of refuge for both the husband and wife. And um that's what we're striving for. Uh it's terrible when a husband comes home to a conflicted, chaotic home because he just came from a place that perhaps is chaotic and conflicted and and it just doesn't provide for the best opportunity for for love and again relationship that can be restorative and helpful and and joyful Likewise the wife, you know, after a chaotic day with the kids, would love the husband to come home and again set aside his agenda and help and be supportive to once again joyfully love his wife the way Christ loved the church, which is sacrificially. And when that happens, there can be real peace brought to the home So ultimately that's what we're wanting to provide for again an example to the world around us that when you come into our home It's a place of peace. It's a place of tranquility. It's a place of real joy, of service to one another. It's considering the other person is more important than yourself. And when that happens, that's a tremendous testimony of Christ. So again, this is the danger associated with distorting God's design in marriage. Um and again, I think one of the things that it does Most definitely is it it provides for a terrible testimony to what it means to be in Christ And it really is not honoring to the Lord. It's bringing shame to the name of Christ when we distort the design that God has established for us. All right, that's the danger. Either or both of the spouses could distort God's design by being too passive or too aggressive in their role. And we looked at that. in that di that um the schematic that um Alan provided. Well here is kind of the result of that. That if the husband is a tyrant and the wife is a usurper, what happens? Friction sparks a conflict takes place. And it really is a con it ultimately it's a conflict over control. It's not expressing through headship and it's not expressing true submission. What it's doing is it's basically saying I want to be in control. And that's conflict. If the husband is a tyrant and the wife is a doormat, what's hap what happens to the extreme? There's abuse There may be emotional or psychological abuse, but worse, there could be physical abuse that takes place. If the husband is a wimp and the wife is a usurper, you then have distorted lifestyles. You have a a role reversal in such a way that even the likeness that an image of God that's in us becomes so distorted that we start to again act like the opposite gender. Alan has in here that there's the potential of sons being led into a homosexual or effeminate lifestyle Why? Because the woman is the stronger person being expressed here, and that's what they're learning from. Now it doesn't always lead to that, but the issue is that If you do have a role reversal here where there's not true headship leadership being expressed in the husband, and there's not true submission and again this this design of being supportive of her husband uh in the relationship, then the the roles become distorted. Um you you begin this to not see what the ideal is. In fact it really blinds you to what the ideal is. And we just don't want to present that kind of lifestyle to the world. Um, if the husband is a wimp and the wife is a doormat, nothing ever gets done uh indecisions. We would drive around every day trying to find a restaurant. I mean if we're constantly deferring to each other and nobody makes the decision. But again, there's this aimlessness, this indecision that takes place. Ultimately things get procrastinated to the point of never getting done. And that's not healthy. That's not healthy for the relationship. So once again, these are things that we need to look at in terms of the implications of distorting the roles. And it's not good for us to do that. Now, letter our number two in this roles and marriage is care for the family. Again, we talked a little bit about that, but once again in God's design there is this aspect of how if we live according to the way God has designed us to be then there's real care given to the family. The husband was designed to have the primary responsibility for protecting or providing for the family What a wonderful joy it is for the wife to have this confidence in the husband when he is providing for the family. There may be a season of life where the husband can't provide for the family and the wife steps in. That is a season of life where there can still be this support of the role in the roles in the family. It's just once again, um over and over and over we see in the scripture very clearly that it's the man's responsibility as designed by God to lead and to exercise this headship and how he does that is he provides for his family. And there is great joy in a husband having a job doing a job and ultimately providing for his own family. There's something within the design that God has made us to be where there's fulfillment There is real accomplishment for that, for the man. And and I remember we had some friends who the roles were reversed and the husband wasn't working, the wife was working full time, and Oftentimes we talk about how difficult that was for the husband to say, I want to be the one to provide for my family. And we would kept we would keep praying together that he would get a job and be able to do that. Um and he's now doing that. But once again, it just in the dialogue that we had together There was this, once again, recognition of, wow, this is something where I just feel purposeless when I'm not providing for my family. I get that because I've been there as well myself. Um but again this is the way God has designed us to be Likewise, protecting the family, there is no greater joy for me to step in and be the protector of our family. to make a decision that would again ensure the safety and security of my family. God has put that into our design, our DNA, to want to do that. And I think when we start uh putting these responsibilities aside, that's when we start distorting the relationship between a husband and wife. So again, the providing, the protecting is so critical. Um the next one is the wife. The wife was designed to have the primary responsibility for bearing and nurturing children. Now I kinda laugh here at the bearing because we can't. Uh men. Um so and don't enter don't let anybody in the culture say that a man can. They can't. Biologically it's impossible. Um But once again, this is the distortion of the roles that we're seeing in society. But the primary responsibility, and I say primary responsibility because once again This is how God has designed women to be. Um that there is this bearing and nurturing of children that is a joy. Now, when they're in the terrible twos, maybe not, but once again it's one of those joys where you look back on and say, What a joy it was. for myself as a wife, not me personally, but for my wife, um, to have had that joy that responsibility and also pleasure of being there for my children to not just bear them but to uh nurture them in such a way as to really see God working in their lives. And what a again, what a privilege that is for women to be able to do that. That's how God has designed you to be. And you should take joy in that. Number two, caring for the home. Once again I love Sharon's feminine touches to the home. Um, it makes the home not a Um I just lost the word. Uh a practical not a prison, but uh yeah, that's too too strong of a word. Um but a guy can can make a house livable and you know functional, but a woman brings beauty in aesthetics and joy in Uh coming home to a home cooked meal. Wow, what a smelly candle. A smelly candle. Yeah. Um there's just something about uh a woman caring and developing a home that is a refuge for men. And boy I tell you, I didn't appreciate that until after I got married. And that was so good to be able to come home and help but just see what she has done. Now, forgive me, but Sharon loves to change things around, remove walls So when I see her with a sledgehammer, I say, okay, where are you going next? Um not sure that I want you to do that. Um you know, we work together and dialogue together about it. But All the feminine touches that she gives to a home make a home a home. Um and really make it a home. Again, guys can be functional, we can be, again, very um cognizant of how to design something so that it's functional and it works, but when you have the feminine touches on a home, that's what a home becomes a home. And it's not just what she puts up on the wall, it's how she's treating our children, how she's treating me, how she's again conducting herself in a way that it looks like she loves what she's doing For the longest time Sharon and I both worked outside of the home and we always had in the mind in our minds that if I ever got into a vocational job that our goal would be that she would be at home and I would be working and we wouldn't have to share the responsibility of of working outside the home. And I remember We did that and she was at home for a long time and I finally said to her, Is this okay with you being home? I mean I know you found pleasure in the job that you had, but is this working out? And her response to me was, I am so s I am so fulfilled. I'm so satisfied at being home because this is where I want to be. And then when we adopted our children, wow, what a joy that was. It was like it was just the fullness there in our home And I was so appreciative of it and it gave me a joy in knowing that when I would go to work, I was doing this to really help her to be fulfilled And likewise her being home was helping me to not worry about the things at home. And it's just great. It's it's wonderful when that happens in the relationship. So caring for the home. Now, let's look at some further reflections on having different roles in the context of equality. It is good for us. I mean that that that's so clear in especially in Genesis, but also throughout the Bible. Um having different roles for each other It is good. It is so so wonderful that that complementary role that we have towards one another can actually bring fulfillment for the other person. And so this is good for us. This is not anti-woman. It's not pro-man. This is an issue of what is God's best for us. Functioning as a husband, functioning as a wife, truly in God's design, this is a good thing So even in the difficulty of a relationship or a situation or circumstance, you should be able to take a step back and say, even though this is hard in this season of life This is good. This is a good thing that God has designed. And so don't look at it from the perspective of um if a season of life where the wife has to work outside the home, it's this is not anti But it's not anti-woman or an or pro-man or anti-man or pro-woman. This is an issue where we are just trying to make the best choices the best decisions for our family at the time, but to do so in a way that accurately reflects the relationship as husband and wife. I just think the emphasis here on it's good for us is massive. It's equitable. This is what God has ordained for us. This is a wonderful expression of a quality that really supports the design that God has made. And so it works wonderful for us as husband and wife to be under God's design, to have these different roles, and to understand that we're yet equal. Um, it's great. It's a mystery. This is patterned after the Trinity and the relationship of Christ to the church. It is something where I guess uh in one sense I could say that we don't know the full ramifications of it, but when we look to Christ's relationship to the church or we look to God the Father's, um role distinction from that of the sun, we can begin to see how leadership and submission really ought to be lived out, ought to be reflected in the relationship that we have. So this is a mystery, but it's a mystery that's being worked out in your life. And hopefully in a marriage relationship, the longer you are uh married together, the more this mystery becomes something that's revealed uh rather than hidden a mystery. There are still things I don't know about Sharon, uh but All I can tell you is after 35 years of marriage, I cannot imagine myself without her. I cannot imagine um not having her as my best friend my faithful companion, my suitable help maid, and my wonderful loving wife. This is this is something where, wow, uh I know enough about her now that I can say as we age and grow old together it's the relationship is becoming much more meaningful and deep. and much more expressive and I just love it. So it's a mystery, but it's a mystery only in the sense that we can't know the full ramifications of it. It's beautiful. It's absolutely beautiful. This is God's design. This is this is the wonderful expression of creation that when God said it is very good, it was very, very good. Um this is the way God designed it to be. Um and we need to look at that as a beautiful thing. I know it's hard times when you see the other the spouse maybe not operating the way that he or she she should or maybe there's circumstances that are providing for more conflict in the home. Um there may even be this loss of attraction physically. Once again we need to remind ourselves that we're not we're not in this relationship to get something from it. We're in this relationship to give We're in this relationship to really reflect our love for the Savior and our submission to Him. And so the thing that makes this relationship so beautiful is that you can see God at work in it. So when God is at work in your in your relationship together, that's when you can truly say, this is beautiful. This is the way it is supposed to be. And once again, uh it may take some time to get there in some situations, but if you can take a step back and really see God's design and order and creative handiwork in a husband and wife relationship, then you indeed can step back and say, This is a beautiful thing. And really tell your spouse that. Because that would be such tremendous encouragement. It's a matter of obedience to the Bible. This is not subject to the culture, it's not a preference As we said in the very beginning, culture doesn't dictate the husband and wife relationship. It doesn't dictate who we are as man and woman. It is this is God's design And ultimately we need to be submissive to his word. We need to be we need to be doing what he tells us we need to do. Why? Because the end result is such a wonderful, um, glorious intended purpose for our lives. It is what it means to be a new creature in Christ. Prior to Christ, without Christ, we were subject to the fall, subject to the curse of sin, but in Christ we can get a glimpse of what paradise was. and and what it will be in the future. And so once again this is a a matter of obedience to the Bible. It's an obedience to God. This is not a preferential thing. This is not a um thing that's subject to culture. Very, very important. Um All right. We've got just a few minutes left and I'm going to leave the rest of, well, the next lesson for next week, but any comments on what we've discussed today Any thoughts that you want to share? Is this helpful? Oh yeah. Okay. Great. Well let's go ahead and close in prayer and we can Have some extended time of fellowship. Father, thank you so much for this time together. We thank you for your word and the clarity of it. We thank you also for the design and the beauty of how you have made us to be, and especially in Christ Lord, we just pray that today as we remind ourselves of these role differences and the distinctions that you have made between husband and wife that we can not just glean and learn and apply what we have studied today, but Lord, we can praise you and glorify you for them. I pray that you would help us in our for those of us who are married in our relationships with our spouses, that you would help us to be able to um support and love and again be submissive uh to um women for uh their husbands but leadership for husbands to wives, that we could do this in such a way as to really show our care and concern for each other. And where those areas that we need to repent Where there's areas we need to confess our sins. Lord, may us be may we be quickly to do that. May we just take some time every single day to confess our sins and to again just accentuate the joy of being in this relationship because it is your design. For those who are single and perhaps looking to get married in the future, I pray that, Lord, they would be able to look at at strong, faithful, godly couples as examples to them of what they should be practically But I pray that all of us would look to your word to see how it is that you are moving us in a direction to be more Christ-like. and to be expressive of the designs that you have made us to be. But Lord, provide in areas where uh there is need, help us to again be submissive to you and help us to ultimately trust you. for the future in all of these areas of our life. And I just thank you once again for the time for us to discuss this and to be a support to one another in this. And I pray that those of us who are here as part of this class We can be a tremendous testimony to the rest of the church because of what we're learning here. Thank you again for this day. Thank you for this time. We pray for all these things in the name of our blessed Lord. We give you praise in in Jesus Christ. Amen.