Okay, so today we're gonna get through mosaic color. Um Again, we're going overviews on all of these. Uh as I look at this, there's just so much there. It's it's so rich. Um again, most um Studies on end times eschatology don't cover uh this covenant because they uh you know, we see it being put aside or um Yeah, put aside. That's pretty much what uh Hebrew says. Book of Hebrews. Um you know, with the with the church, right, God's assembly of this age. And yet I think it l adds to a lot of confusion. Uh we s you know, we go back, well, what does that mean we just toss the law out? No. And again, and and that's kind of what we're gonna look at today. Um Really, like I said before, and I'll say this up front and we'll start. Um The moral aspects of the law were were really there in the narratives. I mean, uh look at the life of Joseph. I mean, he was a godly man. Uh he he put God first. So the the law is was kind of a an elaboration or or an uh uh a articulation, a stating of really the moral code that that man kinda already knew uh anyway. So it isn't like it's something totally brand new just out of You know, this is all a new brand. It it was uh uh again a a a formal statement of it. So I read the intro last time, maybe we should do it again. Uh Covenants of God, uh this is uh uh Barracks uh kind of s summary of it. Um uh the covenants of God which he made with Israel all have five concepts in common The authority of the covenants resides with God alone. All the covenants came at a time of crisis. None of the covenants nullifies a previous one. Salvation from sin is not obtained by keeping any of the covenants. Significant negative events followed each of the covenants after they were instituted. Uh the theological context is God's choosing his election, right? If you wanna get technical, to be faithful to the promise of his plan to make a nation from Abraham. Uh by his grace and redemptive power he delivered Israel out of bondage of Egypt. The content uh follows the pattern of uh Suzerainty, I guess that's how you pronounce it. Uh it's suzerain treaty, uh where a conquering king would uh detail the laws by which the vassals would obey. We talk about that, Israel was a vassal state really all throughout their whole time, right? Under Rome, Greece, they We're allowed to vassal states a lot of times they would conquer, right? They would take over, they go, Okay, you can run your own government but here's the things we want. Usually it's paying a tax or, you know, you're gonna support our nation, we're gonna you you pay us. You know, those kinds of stipulations and other things. But uh they allowed a lot of times uh the uh whatever state or nation they took over to go ahead and have its whatever social mores they wanted as long as it didn't conflict with the conquering kingdom. So obeying the laws would bring blessing and disobedience would bring cursing Mosaic Covenant was addressed to Israel alone. It was instituted for the practice of righteousness. The law cannot be separated. We talked about this in the moral, civil, ceremonial parts. It is one unit. Right we we was it James two ten. If you break the law one place, you break the whole law. The law cannot be separated. I did that. The law has no authority over Christians because Christ's death fulfilled the law. Okay, so let's start to break some of that out. God is the source of the covenants. So God uh let's while I'm reading this, go ahead and turn to Genesis 17. Uh We're gonna look at one through eight. God unilaterally prescribed the terms and condition of the covenant. This is not a negotiation or a bartered agreement between two parties. The covenants were imposed and enforced by a sovereign God. And I'll just read this one. I mean again you can look at this in a lot of different places. I'm not going to read it verbatim, but let's let's uh we went over this before. Uh we did the Abrahamic covenant. But l let's look uh um verse one, I am God Almighty, walk before me. It's a command, walk before me and be blameless I will establish my covenant. God's going to do it. And I will multiply you exceedingly Verse four As for me, behold, my covenant my covenant is with you. And you you will be the fat uh you will be the father of nations. Again All of this is one-sided, is it not? Just pay attention to the simple thing. But sometimes we read this just uh you know, so uh we get so familiar with it we forget what's going uh happening here Verse 5, no longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name will be Abraham. He's going to change, God changes his name. I have made you a father of multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful. I will make nations of you, and kings will come from you. Verse 7, I will establish my covenant between me and you. your descendants after you throughout the generations. Everlasting covenant to be God and uh to you and to your descendants after you. I will give to you and your descendants after you the land of your so of your sojourn, excuse me there. All the land of uh Canaan and for an everlasting possession, I will be their God. Again, it's kind of like the uh I wills of uh of Satan says I will, I will. God says I will. Yeah uh just a quick note, uh just something that that I thought about this as I was looking at this is um most of us know Ezekiel. I will uh give you a heart of flesh, I will take away the heart of stone, I will put my spirit in you. But if you read that chapter There's 20 plus there's I God's I will all throughout Ezekiel. What's that? 36. God says I will, I will, I will. God we for He's sovereign. He's in control. Uh and that's kind of where we're going with this covenant. God instituted this covenant. Whether we're obedient or not depends on whether we get cursing or blessing. Concept of biblical covenants: God is the divine initiator. That's why we read the where we read and the Lord over the vassals of the covenant. The authority of the covenant lies with God and him alone. Secondly, covenants were delivered and proclaimed during times of great uh change or crisis. Uh God's people were being uh rescued from bondage or called out into a new land. In the Abrahamic covenant, Abram was called to leave his land and his people. We went through that, right? We're talking major change here, right? We got the we got the formation. God's got a covenant there. Mosaic covenant. Uh it came to Israel, right? They were they're coming out of Egypt. They they told uh they departed Egypt and were preparing to enter the land. Uh the priestly covenant, uh w which we got into and w we'll do uh try and wrap that back up uh when we finish the mosaic. Peace of covenant came as Israelites were being tempted to intermarry with foreign wives and join themselves to Baal worship. And that's really what what uh God's main thing is what lies behind it. You know, when we imbibe in this stuff uh we think oh this is just you know uh kind of whatever other people do, but God sees what is the the force or the nature that's behind this. It's it's it's uh it's demonic really. The Davidic Common It came uh at the ret uh uh uh Oh yeah, okay, here we are. The Davidic Common It came at the return of the Ark from the captivity Right? Uh it been captured and they David brought the the ark back. Uh and then you got the sandwich in between shortly after there you got David's sin with Bathsheba Uh the new covenant was given, right? Israel's greatest peril. They were taken this is a Babylonian captivity Uh Israel, the Northern Kingdom had already already been taken away. The Southern Kingdom is is taken into captivity. Jerusalem's basically leveled. Uh so The covenants each comes in a we're talking major changes. Uh Different actions between God and His people, different actions on the people. Uh these are traumatic these are these are new errors, really. Thirdly, no covenant uh supersedes or voids a previous covenant. Each covenant adds to and enhances the previous one. So Paul illustrates this in Galatians 3. 17. What I am saying is this. The law which came 430 years later does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God. so as to nullify the promise. Why then the law? If the Abrahamic covenant was not uh was not nullified, Galatians three uh nineteen Why then the law was added because of transgressions, having been ordained to angels by the agency of a mediator until the seed would come to whom the promise had been made Obviously the seed is Christ, right? It it's and it's is instituting aspects of the of the uh new covenant there. Uh We don't think the new covenants fully uh uh been uh the I guess I'm tipping my hand, but this is where we think the new covenant's going. It's uh uh again, the promise was to Israel It's it really was uh a remnant came to fate, but that's it. Uh Israel wa uh by and large was not uh saved. I mean we look at large numbers during uh Pentecost, five thousand, three thousand, that is a big number, right But how many people came to Israel during the feast during that time? There was population was well over a million in in Jerusalem during those feasts when people came back for Pentecost and uh Passover, things like that. So you're looking at a small remnant that got saved. The case will be made that the law was to be a means for Israel to d uh to discipline themselves, to practice uh to practice the righteousness of God and receive the blessings of the Abrahamic covenant. Fourthly, there is no salvation for Israel or anyone by obeying any of the covenants The covenant revelation gave promises and instructions for godly living and worship, but not salvation. Instruction included how people were to treat one another and how they were to serve God. Okay, fifthly, after the covenant, uh individuals, uh uh after each covenant, individuals or the nation experience apostasy and rebellion followed by divine judgment. Again, you'll you will you'll see that as you go through. Uh they right, they come out of uh Egypt and uh you know what happens, they they keep rebelling. Uh David gets a blessing in the Davidic covenant and then he he virtually blows things up with Bathsheba. Uh his son, Solomon, r uh God was faithful to him. He was really faithful. I mean see think about it, Solomon brought in all kinds of the high places really. And they never left. If when you read through the Bible we just we just been those of us you've been going through it you remember or you keep saying And the king was good, but uh and he got rid of the altars or the the bowels you know, things, but the high places high places were always there. They were still worshiping that stuff The most of them never cleared that out. There was always uh they they were living in both worlds Uh finally God demonstrated his compassion, mercy, and grace in restoring his unfaithful c uh unfaithful covenantal people. We and we went through that last time. We went through Leviticus twenty-six. several times. It's it's an overview. Also if you look at um if you want a history, a quick history of Israel, um Uh look at Psalm 105-106. Goes through both and he talks about, hey, look, I'm still faithful to my people. Okay, both of those Psalms pretty much give you a history of Israel. So what's the theological context uh to worship? Uh I said serve there and we're going to look at that. The covenant on Mount Sinai was the beginning of a new era for the promises of the Abrahamic covenant were about to be fulfilled. God revealed to Moses that the experience at Mount Sinai was to be focused on worshiping God. Exodus 3. 12 And he said, Certainly I will be with you, and this will be assigned to you. That is, uh I who have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall worship God at this mountain. Uh the word translated worship, uh Abad in Hebrew, uh Uh uh it means to work, serve, uh if you could be a slave or a servant. So the service can be directed at a person or a place or a thing to whom or what we serve can be our God and enslave us. So here's our I uh translated this is I use the ESV because they use the word serve here. And this is what it could be in some translation worship. Okay, uh again, it it's uh the word of bot. And and you have to do that with these older uh texts, Hebrew and Greek. They're the words have a range of meaning. Um But a serve a and you read in context, it's a serve God. So uh let's look at some of these. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I the Lord your guy and your God And a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation, to those of those who hate me Exodus 23, 24. You shall not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do, nor do as they do. But ye shall utterly overthrow them and break their pillars in pieces. Ye shall serve the Lord again. Worship the Lord, serve the Lord your God, and he will bless you. And uh He will bless your bread and your water. And I will uh take sickness away from among you. Again, the same thing with here. You shall fear The Lord your God, you shall serve him and hold fast to him, and by his name you shall swear. So again, you look at this serve. And you can a lot of times you see serve in there, you have to You can look it up, see what the word is behind it, i if it is a bod. Um yeah, uh again, and read it in context. To serve the Lord is to worship the Lord. Faith, uh we'll get into this a little bit. Faith without works is dead, right? The law and the cultic worship procedures were not instituted for salvation. I know we're I'm repeating myself, but it's so important. But were to promote the believers' worship and reverence for a holy God. Obedience to the law would not bring salvation, but it would bring blessing. Barracks summarizes the concept well. The distinctive characteristic of the Mosaic Covenant is its setting of God's law. Regulating Israel, Israel's life in a framework of theology of election of Israel by grace. Again, what we're going to point out is that really the law and the obedience to it and the the Mosaic Covenant is really fulfilling the Abrahamic covenant. It's it's faith. If you you you have to have faith to do all those things that they the regulations that they went to Um I didn't believe it. I was it was hey, it was difficult, it was stringent. The Lord demonstrates his grace, mercy, and faithfulness in that he redeems Israel from the bondage of Egypt before he makes the covenant in Sinai. Think about it again, we talked about this with Abraham. Abraham went out to the land and then he made the covenant. But then he the covenant was not based on a promise. This covenant was made. He brought the people out. They were complaining all along the way. He still made the covenant. What we're trying to bring home is the covenant, if it was dependent on people, how right? Would it work? If um if salvation salvation was dependent on people, would it work? No. It's a hard lesson to learn. It's hard to comprehend. I mean we we know this, we hear this in church, but My mind and you have to be careful, your mind slips back into what I do. Right? Oh and we we it's funny. W it it it's And that's the difficulty with this religion, isn't it? God says, I'm going to do this, but I want you to be obedient. There's this Where does again where does that stop? Where does God's sovereignty stop and my will begin? And yet somehow our will works in there, does it not? Philippians 2, right? Work out your fet salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God who is at work in you both to will and to do for his good pleasure. It's both sides. I doubt we'll ever figure it out, but it it is both. Alright, so Exodus 3, 16 and 17. Go and gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham Isaac and Jacob has appeared to me saying, I am indeed concerned about you and what has been done to you in Egypt. So I said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaite and the Hittite and the Amorite. and the Perizite and the Hivite and the Jebusite to a land flowing with milk and honey. Again, he's g he's telling them what he's going to do before it's not dependent on them. Content of the covenant. The pattern in the Mosaic Covenant follows the culture of this period is not necessarily based on this uh suzerain treaty uh of the day. Uh conquering king, uh obviously we talked about this, we proclaim a covenant or a treaty with the conquered people giving instructions of how they were to live their lives. And Mount Sinai, the Lord, who had conquered Israel enemies, is now ready to enter into a covenant that will govern the social and spiritual their social and spiritual lives. So Exodus 19 through 24 really is the lame of this covenant. Uh it's uh here's kind of an outline that follows. It's and it's uh this is something that uh Barak uh is uh put into here. I'm not gonna go through all these verses, we'll we'll look at uh probably one through six uh uh exodus nineteen one through six a little bit later uh uh so the events that lead up to the covenant is Exodus nineteen one through four General statement of the covenant, Exodus 19, 5-6. So the regulations of the covenant, Exodus 20, verse 3 through chapter 23, 19. The proclamation of the covenant, Exodus 24, 4-7. And the blessing and cursing is Exodus 2320 through 23. So the the the controversy, if anything, is the conditionality of the covenant, right? If you obey me keep my words, etc. Uh and th and this is I think a thing that uh uh adds to it Uh is it um conditional? I would have said yes it is before after looking at this it uh uh I would agree with with uh uh uh uh Barrick and some others assessments of this. I is this really conditional. Um Let's look through it. I I don't think it is. I I thought it was, but really it's not conditional. It's um Let's see what the argument is here. The covenant more than others seems to be conditional in light of God's declaration. Exodus 19, 5. Now then, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be my own possession among all the peoples, for all the earth is mine God would bless those individuals and nation if they were obedient to God's word. He would also curse those who did not obey. Consequently, it is argued that God's grace work to reward and and to discipline. The disobedience of the people did not nullify the covenant It must also be noted that uh this covenant uh dealt specifically with how the people of the covenant of God should live. So even though Israel today is not behaving as a holy nation and a kingdom of priests, a generation of Israelites Will yet do so in accordance with God's uh irrevocable promise. And Again, that's uh a lot of this covenant we'll look at the I had originally thought this was gonna be Two classes we're gonna have to do it in one. Um so Again, we're we're gonna kinda look at this. The the disobedient nature, some of the blessings and the cursings. Uh but uh again, I I think we'll see as we look through this, this really the this covenant uh i is not um really conditional I think. Uh people say in Hebrews, well, what about the new covenant? Didn't it just abolish the law? It said to set it aside, so uh we'll look at that. And again, this is a theology w and I'm assuming a lot, but but what Yeah. Um how c how can we say that and when we get into that, again, big picture. Um we we are in as progressional progressive uh kind of theology. We're looking at these in different errors. Okay? We had what what they did under uh the No Noah Covenant, Noah Covenant, right? They Abrahamic covenant. We had the law. Israel, and this law was to a nation, really. Uh uh the new covenant. Israel pretty much rejected that. We but we saw uh I'm fast forwarding but but I want us to see this as an error. It had to be a new error. We don't do sacrifices anymore. We don't keep the Sabbath on the seventh day. We don't uh you know, there's a lot of we're not keeping the whole law. We're in a new era, whatever you want to call it. And I and I uh I And of I don't want to put the word dispensation on it, but dispensation means that. A an a uh a working of Uh it doesn't have to be godly, even a a working of a time or a culture or a period. Uh but we are in a time now that that is different. And so We are in the church age. I think we can agree on that, right? Or we are in we are in the church, we are in the assembly. That doesn't mean that this age is gonna go on forever. And that's where we differ with so many others. So but we are definitely to now we are definitely not practicing the law. So uh so let's go through this. We'll get into some of the detail. Conditional element of obedience is directed towards the behavior of the people rather than the covenant. Israel, like the rest of humanity, is prone to sin. The law was for the discipline and regulation of daily behavior as well as spiritual guidance to prevent them for becoming like all the nations surrounding them. They were they w think about this. The one thing that really made them was a peculiar people, a nation Yeah, we see that and we' uh we're we're gonna get into that. But they're a n uh a nation uh uh holy nation, right? A kingdom of priests, right? Uh we're gonna see that in verse six when we go over that. priests are are are going to be witnessing or should be uh teaching and witnessing to others Where do I stop? Paul writes in Galatians 3:19, why then the uh law? It was added because of transgressions, having been ordained through angels. by the angel of a mediator until the seed would come to whom the promise was made. Proverbs twenty-four Those who forsake the law praise the wicked But those who keep the law strive with them. Interesting, isn't it? That's the problem with imbibing in the world You have to be careful. We don't wanna we don't wanna just not isolate ourselves from the world. We're supposed to witness to the world, but have to be careful. The world can have this Kinda come in and act like them, uh behave like them, practice like them, think like them. You see that c creeping in the church all the time. This new thing we got going on now. I have to be careful about. We are different in this um new stuff they're bombarding us with. Some of it seems logical, uh, you know, to be kind to other people and Uh but God's way is kind. It it it it uh it's radical, makes us uh we love people. It comes from the heart. Blessing and curse. Abraham a covenant characterized by number one is promised to this look at the contrast that Bar Barak makes with this. I thought this was really good. It's promise to bless, this is Abrahamic, right? The promise to bless and provide emphasis that God is the one who will fulfill the promises. God will provide a land, prosperity, and material wealth, along with offspring, and blessing or cursing. In contrast, the Mosaic Covenant is characterized. It's a legal tone, right? We need to practice this Uh requirement of human responsibility and obedience. That's the emphasis here, right? Do this, do this, do this. And and Abrahamic and the other covenants, he's saying, I am going to make you a nation. I am going to do this. And now he's he this is how this is how we you practice this obedience to me Number three, the institution of the Sabbath, the sanctuary, and the sovereignty of God Again, it was all these ritual and occultist practices were pointing to the holiness of God They had sacrifices before, but um, you know, we see it with Job. Job's sacrifice, right? Before the law. But now it's it's uh Uh it's regulated, there there's a cleanliness to it, there's a uh a procedure to it, and and God wants it done uh his prescribed way. Obedience to the law would be the manifestation of faith in the Abrahamic covenant. Let's look at James. This is uh Uh James chapter two. Because again, we talk about this. James is one of the people. Talk about um Faith, the works of faith, but he also quotes Abraham believed God and credited in his righteousness. It's uh it's uh James 2. I'm gonna pick it up in uh James 2, I'm gonna pick it up in verse 20 Everybody there? But are you willing to recognize you foolish fellow That faith without works is useless. And here we are. Was not Abraham or father justified by works when he offered up Isaac, his son, on the altar? You see that faith was working with his works, and as a result of the works, faith was perfected. And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. And he was called a friend of God. Do you see how this works, though? First thing he states was, uh, Abraham offered up his son, right? And he was doing it by works. And then he says, You see that faith was working with his works. And was a result of the works. Faith was perfected. Remember, and when we read that, uh The context, right? Abraham believed God and was recognized as righteousness. Remember, he was asking God, he says, I got new descendants. He says, I'm gonna give you descendants. So this is before Isaac. And that's what I and that's why the emphasis is. You see that? God knew his faith. It wasn't just one time thing. Oh, he believed God when he said that. No, his faith was practiced. And and That's my goal and your goal. It's certainly my goal. And it's and I say it's my goal because this is where I have to work with. I have to practice my faith. I can tell you my faith and I do believe it. Now I gotta put it into, right? The rubber meets the road I I I've got to do it. And that's what God says throughout. He goes, you're the the the doing is not the doing is believing. The only reason you're gonna do this is because you believe me But some of the things I ask you are downright not gonna work without my inter without my program involved, right? Abraham's gonna have a child at a hundred years old and Sarah's gonna be ninety. So It's it's about faith and and um disobedience. And that's really what they uh We talk about the law. The law is not to get us to salvation. We're always we we that's us, that's me centered. Salvation comes and then obedience follows, right? You're obedient from the heart God's got it and and so the law was never about sacks uh really sanctification even. It was about your your your faith walk, your obedience walk And it does discipline you and I think I believe when we when we practice that, when we go take a step, you're taking steps, right? I mean you had uh When you went to Togo, you had no idea really. You kind of had an idea because people were already there, but there's like, we'll see, right? Whatever doors open. You know God opens doors. We just need to walk through 'em. We don't we don't know where we're going necessarily. And he doesn't reveal that. Abraham the covenant was not dependent on each generation of Israel to be obedient in order for the covenant to be fulfilled. But if any generation of Israel was to receive the blessing, it would be the result of the work of faith. And I put that as result because really it's again, it's the faith that God gave us. Um you know it's it's uh again, it's it's from the heart, it's it's the motivation. God opens our heart and I need to be obedient to it his God. I need to be open to that. The focus of the Mosaic Covenant is the formation of a nation whom God would use as a mediator for the promises of the Abrahamic covenant. I don't think this does not set aside this. This is built I believe and and so does this, so does Baric and some others who've written on this Uh uh it it it's a fulfillment of the covenant. They're doing this because they believe that God is going to give 'em the land. They believe this because God is going to bless them Uh and it's everything remember we talked about that. That's kind of the paradigm uh in in Genesis twelve. It's that's a small thing and he just keeps unpacking that and adding more detail to it This is a blessing that they're it's it's not separate, it's it's it's uh a uh an expansion. It's it's uh the detail The Abrahamic and Mosaic covenants had a particular person, descendants And nation in view for God's purpose of blessing both to the nation of Israel and to every tongue, tribe, and people. These promises were for this nation. He said, I'm going to form the nation. I'm going to give you the descendants. This is a uh direct line uh hereditary uh they were related these are Israelites but it again They're blessed, uh I th I think I wrote this if I haven't read it already. They're blessed to be a blessing. Abraham was blessed Not for himself as much as he's he's a conduit or he's an instrument. He's blessed to be a blessing. Israel was blessed To bless the nations. They were to be a kingdom of priests. They were to the it's the mission of the church now W we're s to tell others, right? We have the light of of the gospel, we we need to tell people in the darkness. Israel was chosen to be a meteor, a rudet uh of God's plan. Uh uh Moses went up to God and the Lord called him uh from the mountain saying This is uh Exodus uh nineteen, three through six. Thus sh uh sh uh let me try this. Thus she shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the sons of Israel, You yourselves have uh seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself Now then, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, then you shall be my own possession among all the peoples For all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the sons of Israel So Israel, uh uh what I just said is uh Israel like Abraham was blessed to be a blessing. God chose the people to be his instrument, excuse me, an example to demonstrate the holiness of God to the nations Most important is the relationship between Israel and God when he declares. These are from what we just read. I bore you on eagle wings. He bore them. They're e you're my own possession. You shall be to me. It uh w we read the law and and the things that happen in the Old Testament, we we tend to look at God as legalistic, judgmental. But he is. He he has to be. He's a God, right? Who has to judge. Um Uh we see more grace in a in a period now. Uh he's working differently now. But he will judge, right? Unfortunately a lot of people are blinded. They think they're getting away with it. And then that might be worse than than the actual having judgment now. So at least they wake up periodically. Um Psalm 147, 19-20. He speaks to Israel as being God's chosen vessel. He declares his words to Jacob, his statue and his ordinances to Israel He has not dealt with any nation. Uh could I read it right? He has not dealt thus with any nation. And as for his ordinances, they have not known them. Praise the Lord. The point is, is that he's separating, this shows you, this is this nation is different We are, we do, uh we'll probably look at this a little bit later. We say, well, we are Abraham's children, right? Uh spiritually, yes. We are not the this we are not the uh seed of Abraham though. We're not Jewish, we're not. I kind of see it as three. I don't know if this is right or not, but you got you got Jews You have uh Christians, which could be made up of Gentiles and Jews, and then you have Gentiles. So you know, you have unsaved Jews, unsaved Gentiles. They're definitely two classes. You you've got that barrier wall where in this church age now the dividing wall's taken down. Look at that Ephesians. Uh, you know, the separation has been divided. Neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free. Uh we are all one in Christ. The dividing law, we are not separated from the promises, but we were. We see that in Ephesians. Again, uh the only way that that this kind of works is if we're in different eras. Um Anybody uh uh uh let me push on doing all right for time, I think, because w uh This is what I want to point out here. The law does not emphasize the uh the blessing to the Gentile nations But it is implied in the office of priesthood for the nation Israel. The responsibility of the priest was to teach the Word of God and thus the blessings of Abraham. And listen to what Isaiah says here. Also, the foreigners who join themselves to the Lord, to minister to him and to love the name of the Lord, to be his servants. Everyone who keeps from profaning the Sabbath and holds fast my covenant, even those I will bring to my holy mountain and make them joyful in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings, their sacrifices will be acceptable on my altar, for my house will be called a house of prayer for all the peoples. It was always the plan. I think and that's where I see the biggest thing here. Look at this as God refining and forming this nation. for this purpose. It was always to bring the other nations into. It is you know, w we begin to think, why are they the chosen people? Kinda like that. They have a privilege and a responsibility, a huge responsibility You know, we just moved my son in. He he's finding out all this freedom he gets, he gets that's a lot of responsibility I said, Oh yeah. And I said, Yeah, when you get some more wealth you can buy some more stuff and you can be responsible for all that. It never ends. Right? Responsibility is life, isn't it? Well they had a responsibility, a huge they got a blessing, yes, but a huge responsibility And you we know what they what happened to them. God chasing them th when they weren't responsible, right The Mosaic Law revealed God as the creator of the heavens and the earth, the provider of the promised blessings, the one who would give them the land. uh and the Redeemer who brought them out of the land of slavery. And you know the this is this is if you look at this all it's woven through there and he he says that over and over them Who brought you out? Who redeemed you? We see that again and again throughout the Old Testament. So Hebrews, why don't you turn to Hebrews? We'll go through a couple verses here. Barak uses Hebrews 7:11 to 28 to illustrate the principles concerning the law. So the Mosaic Law could not perfect a person in their relationship with God. Somebody want to read the uh Hebrews seven eleven. And the conviction is that if people feel the ability to preach to run direct if people receive the role, what is the need of their thing for another priest to arise after the order has been tested? Rather than warning after the order is Mm-hmm. There's a change there, right? He's gonna follow up of that. There's a change. He says the Mosaic Mosaic law could not perfect a person. Uh we we s he's telling us that. Here's the commentary on in Hebrews. Uh somebody read uh uh Hebrews seven twelve But when the priesthood is changed of necessity there takes place a change in law also. Mm-hmm. Yep, so there's been a change in the law. Uh the ordinance or commandments regarding the priesthood under the law has been set aside. 718. Somebody read that for us? Because on the one hand there is a setting aside of a former commandment because of its weakness and uselessness. So it's a setting aside. You notice you don't say a bow is there. Um uh and that's uh one of the things I I've learned uh We'll we'll try and uh flesh a little bit of that out real quick when we look at again at Ezekiel. Uh we talk about the uh Uh the priestly covenant. The reason for the change in the ordinance of the priesthood is related to the new covenant, which is better than the Mosaic Covenant Somebody read seven twenty-two, Hebrews seven twenty-two. Yeah. Even also decreases by permanently because it continues forever. Yep. So the new covenant, the chain provided is unchangeable, right? Hebrews seven twenty-four. But Jesus on the other hand, because he continues forever, holds his priesthood permanently. But here in Hebrews seven, the law that they're talking about isn't covering every single law under the Mosaic Covenant. Right. Well see see that's the whole point. And that's why I said um unfortunately some have looked at this and and I kind of was thought thought this way. It's not that I because obviously I didn't look at enough detail at it. Um uh you know, you go through these things and and this time I I went through it a little deeper level than before. And I So, to answer your question, I don't see the Mosaic Covenant being abolished is m is the point I was trying to flesh out here. Okay, the cov uh the mo uh the Mosaic Covenant as a whole unit, um it's set aside with the we we actually fulfill the law. Uh when you say uh commandments, what uh I think I have uh uh in case I run out of time, let me talk let me say it because I'm towards the end Uh no, it's not. Lo lo let me read this and I think it'll answer your question. I can I can kill two birds with one stone. I can finish up and I can answer your question. Was the mosaic in other words, were the requirements or were the stipulations, was the law just abolished? No, see and that's the problem. That's the way we look at it. Uh and I don't think that's correct. Um okay l let me finish with this. That we are no longer under the law is clear in scripture. Romans 6, 14 through 15. You'll have to look that up on your own. You you're pretty familiar with them when you read these. You you know these verses. Galatians 5 18, 1 Corinthians uh 9, 22 21 Under the new covenant, a change in the law took place. The veil was torn, and we now have access. Hebrews 10, 19 through 21. Therefore, brethren, since we have confidence to enter the holy place by the uh blood of Jesus, a new and living way which he inaugurated for us through the veil, that is his flesh. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with sincere heart and full assurance of faith having our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil content and our bodies washed with pure water. Indeed, a major change change took place, but it was not the abolishment of the entire Mosaic Covenant, much like the dietary uh regulations that were changed in the covenants. Remember Noah, right? He's allowed to eat uh meat Right? They were vegetarians before. You were allowed to eat virtually all meat, right? We get to the m uh mosaic, right? Now we have a restriction again. Uh th did d uh our argument is it didn't nullify those covenants. Um The ordinances that were altered without abolishing the preceding covenant. And here's to answer your point In Matthew chapter five, the Lord gives us more stringent definitions of the righteousness to than the observed by the law, right? What did Jesus say? You have heard it said, if you murder somebody, I'm telling you, if you hate 'em, if you think in your mind, if you call that person a fool you are uh as good as uh being thrown into the fiery uh the fiery hell. It it it really the new covenant goes to the essence of the law. And that's why we look at this and we go, Oh, do we abandon the law? No, the and again, like I said before I think the essence of the law was there before he stated it emphatically in the Mosaic Covenant. Look at uh Joseph in his example. Uh he was a godly man in a lot of ways, and I think you'll see it throughout the narrative. Uh the idea was there all along. Uh no, we don't And and so that's a problem. Well again, we're looking from our point of view, what can I get away with Now and what does Paul say? Now that I'm under grace, can I keep on sinning? No, may it never be. Do you not know that you uh been baptized into Christ? You've been baptized into his death Right? Romans six. No, we're s we're supposed because really what God's and Philippians, he says, whatever, you know, what are your thinking? What are your thoughts? Think on whatever is good, whatever is holy, whatever is righteous, you know, bears fruit. Basically the other thing he says is, whatever is not holy, whatever is not righteous, whatever is not good or good reproof, don't think on these things 2 Corinthians 10, take every thought captive. And really that is the essence of of uh growth. Uh I don't know about you, but one of the uh probably one of the best things I did for sanctification was really paying attention to my thought life. What am I thinking? And when and when you really become aware of that, because it's amazing, the you know, y we we're such habitual creatures. What do I think about? And when I would think about that is something, I'd go, Why am I thinking about that? Right? Capture it, stop it, throw it away, it's worthless. Don't e just stop it. Don't even think about it. That's what he's talking about. Take it captive. So no, I would say that this is just abandoning the law. No, this goes the New Testament goes beyond that. Right? If you look at a woman with lust in your heart, you committed adultery with her. The law said Right? It was they did not get to the asthmatic of that. Did not spell that out. So no, absolutely not. And that is our problem. That's why I keep going back to to me. This it's my brain. Maybe you think differently. My brain says, okay, what's the big picture? Where are we Yeah, we get lost in the detail. Oh, so we throw the law out? Absolutely not. But are we are we practicing sacrifices? Are we obeying the Sabbath? Whatever else you could find there. The ordinance we're not doing that, are we? No, we're not under the law. We're not practicing the law. See, but then people take away uh again the the the moral aspects were always there. Let me finish with this. I know we're out of time. Romans five twelve. Um Romans twelve. Therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sin. For until the law sin was in the world. But sin is not imputed, and that's imputation of uh when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even though listen to this, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam, who is a type of him who was to come. To me, I mean I we get off on another theological thing, but he says in the likeness of in other words Some will say, well, we were in Adam, so we sinned with Adam. Well kind of contradicts this. If we haven't sinned in the likeness at him, how are we in Adam and sinned? The the pa the thing is sin, separation is what he's talking about here. We were born in sin. We we unpacked that in other places Right? Psalm fifty one. I was my I was conceived in sin. My mother conceived me in sin. I I was born in iniquity. Right We're born that way. It's sin. So I mean that kinda goes with with all this this law thing. It isn't it isn't it we make that's why I'm trying to sh that's why I think this is so helpful. We m we react like we just toss the whole law out Or we bring it all who are we try and bring in parts that we shouldn't be bringing in. It's n legalism will not save us. It's grace. And grace he says in Romans 8, he says, if we walk by the Spirit We can even fulfill the law Verse four, so that the requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. That is the beauty of grace. We have uh just We have God's grace. Right? We can fulfill there's no way we can fulfill the law. Okay. Well I say fulfill it, not totally. But there are times we're right. We can actually be touching. Think about it. That's not because of me, it's because of the spirit inside of me. Does that answer your question? Kind of? Yeah, partially. I mean I'm so confused about passages like that Christ fulfills the law, but then we're called to imitate Christ, but then we're not doing exactly we're not fulfilling the same the same way. Yeah, right. We're we're fulfilling the royal law, right? Yeah. So trying to distinguish because again Well well again I I think I think again if you uh to me I think it answers the big picture. This he took Abraham. He said, I'm gonna make you a nation. He took the he did make them a nation. If they were down in Egypt, they were really a nation. He brought them out, but think about it, they were a nation without a land He brought them out before they ever got to the land. They got the law, the ordinances. This is how you're going to behave. You're going into enemy territory. And you they did. They imbibed everything. They they set up all the bales, right? All the asherah to poles and they they they sacrificed their kid. They the law was there at a as a specific thing to make them a a peculiar people. We don't have to we don't do you eat ham? You're not fulfilling the law. Don't eat any pork. Eat shellfish, crab, lobster. You're breaking along. Don't make the law. The law was there only to make them it's I I mean, I don't know God's plan totally, but I mean big picture wise, we can see it made them a peculiar people They were separated. When they come back from the uh they couldn't even obey the Sabbath but they come back uh Nehemiah, right? They still are obeying the Sabbath They had to tell they were it's turned to intermarry. He had to stop 'em from that. So We can intermarry too, can't we? You're not following the law. That is an illusion. N not not the Mosaic Law, you're not following it. So don't try and bring it in. But Again, read Matthew uh five through seven, right? And that's what Jesus was telling these guys because they thought they were okay. He was really talking to he's talking to the nation Israel He says the kingdom of God is light. He goes, if your righteousness doesn't succeed that of the scribes and Pharisees, you're not getting in. And those guys were legalistic and they they they're you saw their hearts, but they practiced the law a lot better than the people did. They were sticklers. What he was trying to say was, you got a problem. You need a savior. You're not you're not right with God. It's a hard lesson to learn. Like John, it's yeah. Um just a verifying question or something like this for the uh the USAF model boil it down Um to the concept of it is comes down to um emphasis on on holiness. Um I'm sorry? And warrantship? Yes. And um the recognition that we need a mediator in order to in order for with us. Um and so it's it's not so much on now whether we eat pork or or shellfish. For them for that it was an F an S uh And separateness and being God's people. And so the emphasis for us hasn't changed. Um we've been given righteousness. um call talk to live live in holiness. Um showing showing things we always been thinking about and perceived. And so that's the way that it's still um so relevant is that it is the emphasis is on is on holiness and being separate. So it's there's there's that aspect that's still Absolutely. Yeah, I mean First Corinthians, right? Do you not know your body's the temple of the Holy Spirit? Right? You see it throughout, through out, through, throughout. And it's all on the heart and not Not not just the outward parents because if your heart is right, which is your will, your mind, your your emotions, if if that is you are looking And the heart is like do things on the outside too. The spirit wants you to spirit. The input is on your heart, yeah. And then these It really always was. Yeah, you know it was 'cause he said your un your hearts are uncircumcised. We brought him along with teaching them that lesson that it's the heart Okay, all those Pharisees doing all those things on the outside, but still, you know, people don't even look at those. Hey, but hey, I've never committed culture. Exactly. Yeah, it exactly. And they were abusing people and uh uh let me read this one. We'll pick this up next week because this is exactly what you want to wrestle with. Whether we go flesh out the I mean 'Cause this is grace and this is a separ difference between law and grace. And if you find yourself we can become legalistic. Me, you, we can. I grew up in a church that said If a women wear pants, they're wearing things that pertain to a man, so you're sinning. And all the girls in the church as the teenagers tore up their jeans and made blankets out of them. I shouldn't see it. Oh but I'm just saying that an example of a modern day Thealithic church back in the you know seventy. Yeah. Let me read this real quick and then we'll go. But think of this, this is what we need to pick up with because this is these are the things we really need to wrestle with. It's it's more important. This isn't Deuteronomy. See they're just getting ready to go into the land, ready to be before. But yet yet to this day the Lord has not given you a heart to know, nor eyes to see, nor ears to hear The law wasn't going to open the heart, the eyes, or the ears. The faith will the faith does. Abraham believed God and was reckoned to him was righteousness. Faith always been faith, always will be. Under the law, under the new covenant. Right? So Paul says, he says, you're now under faith. Okay, so how about the questions next time? Because if this is what we need this is the important part what you wrest to wrestle with. The competence is all secondary. But we it's true. This is why I've pointed this out. We find we're more legalistic regimented than we tend to think we are Nied. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time