Okay. Malachi is super easy to find. We're actually not going to spend too much time reading Malachi today. I need to tee up the context for you. I will be applying uh w what we'll be discussing in these next however many weeks very directly to us. But I want you to understand that Malachi itself is written to um Israel. It it's written to the Jews. It's uniquely set in a historical context, not a fictional narrative, not a metaphorical one. Um these are well attested to historical uh events that occurred and God has spoken directly into 'em. them in particular ways to deal with particular situations. And it would be wrong for me to say, oh look, God is saying to us as I read what God said to um Israel through malice But I will be applying those lessons to us because they show us how God deals with his people. They show us the dangers of a group of people that know about God and have a structured practice. Of serving God and seeing God and obeying God, they show us how dangerous can be it can be in our lives. And in so much as they demonstrate how God interacts with his people and his people interact with him him sorry um they teach us and caution us as well. Um but I want to make sure that you understand that the foundation for this is in fact a historical, literal uh foundation. God is not talking to us here. He's talking to Israel. Um now, again, I'll I'll bring in the New Testament passages wherever I can to make make it easier. Good morning Mike. to make it easier for us to understand um how Malachi or yes, how Malachi can be applied to our New Testament context. But I wanna first ground us in the historical context. So as you can see on your sheet, we're literally gonna spend most of the lesson today uh doing a history lesson in order to get that context correct. It also uh grounds the teaching in a way that we would not otherwise understand if we didn't understand the historical context. First, so that I am not Guilty of plagiarism. I want you to understand that I took the title for this series as well as the six principal points that we will be discussing. discussing um directly from a book that has disappeared. Directly from uh this book by Michael Barrett called The Beauty of Holiness. The book itself is on uh worship, ways of methods of worship, um and and things of that nature. Um my footnote says 2017, but that must be a reprinting because I read this book a very long time ago. I actually have multiple copies of it because I hand It out from time to time. But one of the appendices is called autopsy of dead religion. And it cites six incisions in the body or the autopsy. Of dead religion. And so that's where I got the title for this from, if if anybody was wondering. And can highly recommend the book, by the way. Interesting factoid, he's a professor, was a professor at my undergraduate school. school, um went on to be a um a seminary professor professor at a another location and a pastor as well. And uh has the peculiar distinction of having gone to college at Michigan State with uh my in laws. Um so uh i interesting uh useless tidbit of information there for you. We can discover pretty much all there is uh to know about the context for Malachi. In three books and three three prophets. The three historical books, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther, really recount the full history of it. Obviously there's over overlap with chronicles as well. The three minor prophets, Haggai, Zachariah, and Malachi, describe pretty much all that we're going to study here. Malachi itself, you'll see on the backside. out of your sheet is really written. Um Malachi's ministry, as far as we know, begins in the 435 BC era, but we're gonna back all the way up to 722 um in order to get the full effect of it. And um in there right we're gonna move quickly and cover a lot of ground but I hope to give a good sense of um what is going on in the hearts and minds of the people of Israel at the time of Malachi. And by doing that, I hope to draw analogies and parallels to what may be going on or is likely to be going on in our own hearts and minds. I know you know that Israel was at one time divided between a Northern and Southern kingdoms. In 722 BC, Israel falls to Assyria. And in 612, so over a hundred years later, the Assyrians fall to the Babylonians and the Medes. each so there's a transfer of power in that northeastern area of uh the Middle East. And it takes about seven years for the Babylonians and the Medes to fully take over Assyria. And the very first thing they do in the process. As a matter of fact, while Nebuchadnezzar is being crowned um over uh to a unified kingdom, the Persians and the Medes, um, his army is besieging Jerusalem. For the first time. My note there is busted. The next note I was looking at it going, what in the world is that trying to say? That first the deportation of Judah begins the 70 years. year period that was prophesied in Daniel for the exile. That's what that note is supposed to say there. Um and Daniel's really quoting out of Jeremiah uh twenty five and twenty nine. So in six oh five BC, You have the first deportation and it begins the 70 year period until that first return uh starts, which you'll see just below the green line there in five thirty eight. Second deportation. Uh when the when the second deportation happens, it's much more systematic. Nebuchadnezzar has turned his eyes toward uh Judah. He is tired of them holding out and flaunting uh basically their um of Rebellion, and he systematically approaches their uh conquest. And so when he does that, he deports the king, the royal officials, craftsmen, and all the community leaders, as well as all the golden articles from the text. temple as well. So he basically says, All that you have that's good or valuable or wealthy, or all that you could use to perpetuate your national identity, I will take. And he takes it and he any um I don't know if you say that's an import or an export at that point in time, but he brings it up to to the Babylonian uh area, Babylonian nation. Uh when were those uh Daniel and and uh Chai Record? We checked in a minute ago deporting the first or the second deportation. Most likely. Most likely the second. Okay. Um but that's a great question. But it's most likely the second, right? They would have been some of the the premier citizens. of the nation at that time. And then in the third deportation, it's a complete destruction of Jerusalem. So all but the poorest people of the land go into exile, the city's walls and the temples are burned and they are completely cast down. Um extant other documentation outside the Bible uh records the utterance of the destruction in some detail. Um it no two stones standing on top of each other, completely devastated. Fields sown with salt, forests scorched, land just in entirely destroyed and left as a waste. So much so that it appears that nobody significant was living there um thirty or forty years later. There were people around it, but nobody actually moved into that land because of the destruction was so bad. Right? There was no point in even occupying the empty territory because it was destroyed so so badly. Maybe more important than any of those, we read in Ezekiel ten, that the glory of the Lord Departs from Solomon's temple. And they need to stop for a minute. Why was Solomon's temple I'll say it was significant or maybe And you have to go back a little bit in your Bible history to get the significance of this. Why was Solomon very much so So it signified the presence of the Lord with his people, and because of its grandeur, it signified the abundance of blessing and prosperity that was to come, that was expected as a result of God being with his people. So it completely harmonized. with what they were expecting God to do in the nation of Israel. Not only come and be with them, but in the grandest of ways, right? Nothing surpassed Solomon's temple. In all the world, nothing surpassed Solomon's temple at this point in time. There's another attribute to attribute to it that's a little bit more subtle. Who's who who was Solomon's father? David. David. What was significant about David? He was a man after God's own heart. He was. She said a man after God's own heart. Yeah. So David was there was the Davidic covenant, right? Israel that was a national covenant. That was that was their uh declaration of independence in some in some sense, if if I had to try to get maybe a poor but an analogy for it nonetheless. Warning. I'll just do it. Um i it it was a founding covenant between them and the Lord that guaranteed their national continuity and supremacy. Right? The the line Of David would be established on the throne and would never fail. And Solomon's temple was evidence that God was building up to that, right? In in their minds, that was key to obtaining this goal of the division. covenant. And when s and when these deportations happened and Solomon's temple was destroyed, in their minds God had abdicated on his covenant with them. Maybe worse, while we're on this topic, and by the way, there was a fourth deportation that's so insignificant that it's rarely even talked about in most of the history books, but it did happen in five hundred eighty one, and it was literally a time when uh some of the remains meeting uh people in Israel um ended up going and creating a problem in uh one of the local cities and as a revenge act, um, the Persians came down and and took a bunch more of 'em uh captive just to say, Hey, look We're the ones in charge here. Uh so there is a fourth one but it's it's fairly uh trivial. Airmines the destruction of the temple. And and and Ezekiel's comment about the glory of the Lord leaving took all that. Right. God left. He was no longer with him, right? The very same thing we just said, right, that God had left. And when he left, the prosperity that his presence brought left as well. And it was evidenced by the destruction of the temple. Now, confusingly, who knows how the Israelites were treated in Babylon? You're absolutely right. It was actually good. And we actually have land records of uh Israelites owning large tracts of land and businesses. Um and actually we're not going to spend too much time on it, but if you look at some of the numbers associated with the three returns, you'll find that not Not that many people came back. They weren't willing to come back to that which was destroyed when they had perfectly good lives in the other location. And you begin to see uh a deception sneak. into the national thinking right there. This was hard. And the years leading up to these deportations was horrible. Horrible. Right? And then they get deported by a pagan nation God's glory is left, the temple's destroyed, the covenant seems abandoned. And they move over here into the world and they begin to live in the context of this world. No temple, no sacrificial system, no feast. Observes observed. Potentially no Sabbath observed. It's difficult to tell. Some would say they do, some would say they don't. We clearly know from uh Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi that Sabbath keeping got left off pretty much. rapidly even after they did return uh to Israel. So I would suggest that they probably left it off in Babylon as well. Who needs God's covenant? We can be successful here. by the strength of our own arm, by the prosperity of our own wallets, by the philosophy of of the Persians and the MET, which by the way, this this is more than just a a national You know, military action. There's a philosophy here. Right? Bring the best of conquered nations. Where do you think the Romans got it from, by the way? They got it from the Persians. Bring the best. Bring them in. Treat them. Well, educate them well, promote them to senior offices within your own government, and they will become like you. And except for those few I didn't get back to you, I'm sorry, I'll be right back. Um and except for those few Examples that we see in the book of Daniel, right? The couple that would not bow the knee. Everybody else seemed plenty ready to bow the knee to the king that gave them prosperity. To the king that comforted them, to the king that fed them. To the king that ensured that their houses wouldn't be defeated. Cyrus um consolidates so it's the Persians and the Medes take over Assyria. Um Cyrus eventually. Captures Babylon in five thirty nine BC. He's he's really that entire crescent of the world now is all within his control. All the way down to Egypt, by the way. And in five thirty eight, almost the first act or edict of Cyrus after the consolidation of his kingdom, is to allow the Jews to return to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple. And some historians have gone so far as to say that they actually believe uh that Daniel or one of his descendants wrote that edict for Cyrus and allowed him to you know, he just put his hand or put his seal to it. But it's in that context that we were just talking about that subtle deception creeping creeping in, right? The covenant is lost. God God's presence is gone, the prosperity that we expected and was symbolized by the Solomonic Temple that's a hard word to say. The Solomonic Temple is destroyed. We can do better on our own. We must do better on our own because it's not being satisfied here. So you see that deception creep into the national thinking over a period of about a hundred and seventy years, if I did my math correctly there. And then the return begins. Under Zerubapel, which by the way means child of Babylon. So he was probably a younger man. He was probably born during the captivity period. And he will come back and effectively be the governor, uh as it were, uh of Jerusalem at the time, and Joshua, uh which me means what? Uh close, really close. God's consolation. Specifically, right? God saves. Um or Yahweh saves specifically. And why is Yahweh? Uh what nuance does Yahweh? Yahweh have that the God or Lord do not. It it it's inextricable from the covenant that he made with his people. To call God Yahweh says that I know that you are my God and I am your people and that we are in covenant. Okay? And so that's the priest that comes back with him, and then there's this strange reference to a guy named Sheshbazar. And we don't know too much about him, but he appears to have been designated as the prince. Of this region, you know, of the Jerusalem area during this time. And so it seems like he's the Persian appointee, and then kind of the Jewish representatives to lead the people are as a rebel bel and Jesus. Joshua. Shefbazar uh dies uh soon after the return, and Zerubbabel becomes the effective uh governor or leader of the area. You can read more about that in the passages that are given there. Um I don't think there's a ton that I want to cover in the passages. I wanted you to just see them. This is in the 538 time First thing the people do is erect an altar and reinstate the sacrifices and observe the Feast of Tabernacles. What's significant about the Feast of Tabernacles? Why do people observe it? Why do the Jews observe it? Also called the feast of foods, right? To remind themselves of their time in the wilderness. themselves that God took them into the wilderness, stayed with them in the wilderness, provided for them in the wilderness, and saw them through the wilderness, right? All of those are key in that celebration of the Feast of Tabernacles or the Fabian. The feast of boots. They laid the foundation of the temple in Ezra 3, 8 through 12. But discouragement again begins. So turn over to Ezra. Now in the second year, after their coming to the house, Of God at Jerusalem in the second month, Zerobabel the son of Sheltiel, and Yeshua the son of Yazadak made a beginning. Together with the rest of their kinsmen, the priests and the Levites and all who had come to Jerusalem from the captivity. They appointed The Levites from twenty years old and upward to supervise the work of the house of the Lord, and Yeshua with his sons and his brothers, and Cadmiel and his sons and the sons of Judah Judah together supervised the workmen in the house of God along with the sons. sons of Henad and the Levites, their sons and brothers. And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the Lord the priests in their vestments came forward with trumpets, and the Levites and the sons of Asaph with symbols to praise the Lord. What did the sons of Asaph do? Singers. That's right. Singers and poets, that's right. With symbols to praise the Lord according to the directions of David, King of Israel, and they sang responsively, praising and giving thanks to the Lord. What do they say? They say, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever toward Israel. What Hebrew word does steadfast love translate? You you must know this word. If it's the only Hebrew word if it's one of only two Hebrew words you know, you should know Yahweh. No. That's a Greek word by the way. Um Hesed. Right? There are two words for love commonly used in the Old Testament. Okay? One of the most common, if not the most common, is Hesed. And it specifically speaks. C H transliterated, right? It would be C H E S E D. Thank you. Um and if you cough and then say acid, you'll get It it's steadfast love or covenant love is the English translation. You need to remember that it's that word facid. Okay? It's the Covenant love of the Lord for his people. Um and it's right here. It's specifically not a word like we use when we say love. There is a word for that in Hebrew. And as a matter of fact, that word, uh, which looks like A H A B when transliterated into English, the love of the Lord, right, is what initiates a covenant. But the covenant love, the faithfulness to a covenant, in order to demonstrate that unique relationship between God and his people is the word chesed and it's meant So, right, start to fill in some of the context. All the bad things leading up to a uh this hundred and seventy year period for these deportations. And then they go off and they live in this land, right, under the strength of a pagan nation and pagan culture with pagan philosophies. When I say pagan I literally just mean outside of Christ, outside of God. I hope you won't turn that into, you know, somehow disassociate yourself from paganism by saying, well that's This wicked thing that gets done with all these nude art. Sure, it does. Taken to its extreme, that's also paganism. But paganism or secularism is anything outside of an obedient walk with God. And whenever We walk through our lives without a clear ambition to be knowing and serving God, to be honoring Him with our momentary activities and thoughts. You are living with a pagan philosophy. Philosophy. You are living with a pagan walk. And the first call, after restoring relationship, and that's what's significant about that Feast of Tabernacles, right? That awakening of the mind that God has been faithful to us. We were in the wilderness. We were in a pagan land. And we have now come back and we are focused on God's being with us. us in the wilderness. We are focused on God's provision in the wilderness, and we are focused on God's faithful accomplishment to bring us where He wants us to be through the wilderness. And the first thing these God ordained Singers, worship leaders sing about is the goodness of God, the Hesed of God, it endures forever toward Israel. And so you see the introduction of this. Covenant theme. And all the people shouted with a great shout, and they praised the Lord because the foundation of the house of the Lord was laid. Isn't that fantastic? The foundation of the house of the Lord was laid. The people began to expect something from God again. In 586, I got that wrong. No, I didn't. Phew. In 586, the people stopped Expecting anything from God. They'd lost hope. They'd lost confidence. They'd lost faith. Here. What do I keep putting? My page back and forth. In five thirty-eight, the people have regained some sense of hope. They have an expectation. The foundation is built and God will accomplish His promise to us now. He will return to us and He will dwell. with us and the prosperity will return as well. And the Davidic covenant will likely happen. There's an expectation now that the people have. And it causes national rejoicing and all the people Shouted with a great shout when they praised the Lord, because the foundation of the house of Yahweh was laid. But many of the priests and Levites and heads of fathers' houses, old men who had seen the first House, Solomon's house, wept with a loud voice when they saw the foundation of this house being laid. And the the sense of that is that they saw the perimeter of the house as designated by the foundation and they realized that it would not be even a shadow of what the Solomonic temple would look like. And so you see expectation mixed with Doubt, fear, frustration, unmet expectations, unmet hopes, discouragement. Disillusionment, defeated expectations begin to creep in already here at the beginning. And on top of all of it, the Samaritan neighbors Begin to oppose Judah's work and you guys know that story, so I won't uh rehearse it with you, but they begin to write letters back uh to Persia. Um they begin to harass the Jews and make life more difficult for them already. And what we find in Hagi, which is worth turning over to. We're going to come back to it later, but it's worth turning over there anyway. Gonna do a little bit of reading here as well, forgive me. Thus says the Lord I'm in verse two, one verse two. ' Thus says the Lord of hosts, these people say, The time has not yet come to rebuild the house of the Lord. Then the word of the Lord came by the hand of Haggai the prophet. Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your panel to the house? houses while this house lies in ruins? Now therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. You have sown much and harvested little. You eat, but you never have enough. You drink, but you never have your fill. You clothe yourselves, but no one is worn. And he who earns wages does so to put them into a bag with holes. Now let's stop for a minute. What happened? Well, in the first days of the return, they rebuilt the altar and they reinst instituted a covenant sacrifice with the Lord. And they were reminded and given some hope that God would do good things now, that the punishment time was over and that God was going to return and do all that they had previously expected or hoped. that he would do. And and then they saw the temple and it wasn't quite as big as they wanted it to be. And then the neighbors didn't roll over for them and just give them all that they had. Now I I didn't spend any time in it, but if you read what Cyrus did, what what he provided this first group of deportees, if you will, in their return, was amazing. Gold and silver so much so that they struggled to carry it, to bring it with them, right? And and provisions and wood and all sorts of other things. And he specifically instructed, go back and rebuild your temple to your God and observe obedient worship to him. And they got discouraged. And they stopped working on God's temple. Because what's the point of working on a temple to a God who does not meet expectations? And so God If working on your temple doesn't get me where I need to be, where I want to be, where I think you want me to be, according to my expectations, I'm just gonna go build my own house. I'm gonna work on my my own farm. And building our houses and working on our farms becomes the preoccupation of our lives. And they leave off of it for many years. years. And Haggai steps into that process and he says, consider your ways. Stop and look. Stop and look. Just look where you're at. Look at your thoughts. Look at your heart. Consider your ways. All this effort you put into it. Do you get what you wanted? Are you full? Again, in verse seven, thus says the Lord of hosts, consider your ways, go up to the hills and bring wood, and build the house, that I may take pleasure in it, and that I may be glorified, says the Lord. You looked for much and And behold, it came to little. There it is, right there. You expected much. You looked for much. And when you couldn't find it in the way that I told you to do it, or in your time, in your way, you tried to do it by the strength of your own arm, through houses and farms and and market and commerce and other things. You looked for much, and behold it came to little, and when you brought it home, I blew it away. Why? declares the Lord of hosts. Because of my house that lies in ruins. while each of you busies himself with his own house. Therefore the heavens above you have withheld the dew, and the earth has withheld its produce, and I have called for a drought on the land, in the hills, and on the grain, the new wine, the oil, On what the ground brings forth, on man and beast, and on all their labors. God is gracious in that He will not allow you to be satisfied with anything. other than him. There is one means of peace in this life and the next. And if I say, and it is Christ, you're going to go, Of course, and you're thinking I mean that instant when the Lord opens your eyes to the reality of him and your need for him. But I am not talking about that instant, or at least not that instance alone. I am talking about the instance that happens here. And each morning, when your mind moves from unconsciousness to consciousness, when you open your eyes to the day, there is one means of peace, and it begins with that instant. When your morning starts with, today is the Lord's, and I will walk in him to the best of my ability. Insert Matthew 5. prayer here, right? God is so good, He will not allow the fruit of your day to satisfy you. He will not allow the wife of your youth to satisfy you unless you do it in Christ. He will not allow the husband of your youth to satisfy you unless you do it in him. He will not allow the job that you pour. so much of your heart and soul into to satisfy you. He will not allow the family to do it. There is nothing that he will allow that doesn't begin with that first thought of the morning for you, Lord. In your way. in your time and for your glory. And if I can get off topic a little bit, and if you think that he is going to make that easy So that you could doubt that he is powerful and good and involved in your life, you've got another thing coming. He is going to lead you into an adventure every day. So that every day's adventure is a testament. To his faithfulness. Scott, I will take you today to a place where you do not have the brains or the brawn to be able to accomplish what needs to be accomplished. And yet I will see you do it anyway. So that you know that it was not of you, but it was me. So that you see the peace, so that you know the peace of knowing that I am with you. And I intend to bring you all the way. at the end of the covenant that I made with you with Christ. I intend over the next weeks to drive the scalpel of this autopsy deep into all of us. And while that may seem morbid or painful or morose or something like that, my intention is to bring you to the peace of Christ. And I do not know a way to do it without the scalpel of Malachi's incision. I do not know a way to do it that does not first begin with repentance and confession. But on the on the on the other side of that, which can be as brief as an instant, by the way, I do not think This needs to end in lacerations of ourselves in penitence. I think that repentance and confession can be almost instantaneous when the Lord opens your mind and you consider your way. And you just decide you're going to do it his way. Instead of your own. And you ask him to help you do that, because you have no idea how to even start. And I'm I'm confessing my own situation. Maybe you have an idea. I always feel stupid. Matter of fact, I regularly pray that This very prayer. Lord, you know how dumb I am. I need a brick to the head to point me in the right direction. I literally pray those words to the Lord. No idea where. I'm in five twenty BC. Haggai and Zachariah restart the building of the temple. Um so we don't have the next return yet. This is all happening in this first return. The people leave off the temple to return. rebuild their houses. You'll notice that's in about 538. So for 18 years, about a half a generation, um nothing happens on the temple, nothing happens on the city, nothing happens on the wall. And Haggai and Zachariah begin to speak into that. You you we just read that first bit out of Haggai. Darius is now on the throne of the Persian Empire. Um Haggai 113. Then Haggai the messenger of the Lord. You'll notice that comes up again in Malachi. Then Haggai the messenger of the Lord spoke to the people with the Lord's message. I am with you, declares the Lord. And the Lord stirs up the spirit of the leaders, Zerubabul and Yudah, and they restart the work on the temple. You'll notice I have it in your notes. Please don't miss this because it keeps coming up. Um although I'm not seeing it. Oh there it is. Right at the end of verse twelve. You'll see this over and over again in these minor prophets, and you'll see it over and over again in Malachi. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of this turning point. And so I just want to make a note of that. Coming back to it and enforce it. Haggai two, four through nine. Yet now be strong, O Zerubbable, declares the Lord. Be strong, O Joshua, son of Israel. Hazadak the high priest, be strong, all you people of the land, declares the Lord. Work, for I am with you, declares the Lord of hosts. I love that. He has to say, just trust. He doesn't say believe. He doesn't say have faith. He doesn't say be patient. He doesn't say be mystical. He doesn't say be calm. He says work. Fear the Lord, consider your way, be strong, and work at whatever God has given you to put your hand to today for his glory. Work, for I am with you, declares the Lord of hosts, according to the covenant that I made with you. There it is again. It's according to the covenant. God is never unfaithful to his covenant. Never. According to the covenant that I made with you when you came out of Egypt, look how far back he goes. All the way back to the Sinai, all the way back to that first covenant. I am still faithful to that one and every subsequent One that has come since then. My spirit remains in your midst. Fear not. For thus says the Lord of hosts, yet once more in a little while, I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sky. sea and the dry land. What's he talking about? When is that gonna happen? I didn't hear you, sorry. Ultimately um Sounds like an asking logical question. That's exactly right. We don't know of another occurrence where that happened in the scale that he describes, except all the way at the end. I want you to see that he goes all the way back to that very beginning covenant with his people. And he goes all the way to the end where he will shake it. And he describes it as can't read fast enough. In a little while. Right in the middle of verse 6, right? For thus says the Lord of hosts, yet once more, in a little while, I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land. I think he's setting expectations. They're like you wanted it. During your lifetime. You wanted it when you wanted it, how you wanted it, you wanted the blessing of God to be poured out right through Solomon. You thought David was going to do it, and when he didn't, didn't, you were happy to see Solomon come on the scene because even more so. Right? Wiser, great. Greater, richer, the whole world came to Solomon for counsel and for wealth. The whole world came to see what he was doing in Israel. Clearly that's it. That's what we were serving you for, Lord. That's what we have to have. That's what our expectation. Expectation is. He says, No, my my covenant is unshakable. I will do exactly what I promised. And he counts this time between 520 and that date which has not yet been set in our history books, as yet a little while. I will fill this house with glory, says the Lord of hosts. And it turns out the the temple in the New Testament was larger than Solomon's temple at the end of the day. I don't know that there's much to be said about that. It just happened to be after be building it up. I don't know what the Jews thought about it. that. And the glory that entered that temple was Christ himself, God in flesh. That was Herod, Herod's temple. It was. Temple's rebuilt. Darius decrees that the Samaritans are no longer allowed to interfere with the work, and the people celebrate Passover. Then comes the second return under Ezra fifty. fifty eight years after the completion of the temple, and we run into some interesting um references here that are worth looking at. So shoot back to Ezra real quickly. I told you it was a boring history lesson today. Skipping over a lot of detail because I assume you know a bunch of it. Verse six This Ezra went up from Babylonia. He was a scribe skilled in the law of Moses that the Lord the God of Israel had given. And the king granted him all that he asked, for the hand of the Lord, his God, was on him. Um In verse ten, sorry, I want to give you the sense of Ezra's mission here, and I think you get it from verse six and verse ten. For Ezra had set his heart to study the law of the Lord and to Do it, and to teach his statutes and rules in Israel. You will find that Malachi concludes with an almost exact quotation of that. Malachi says to the people, do this. Study the law of the Lord and do it and teach his statutes and his rules in Israel. And there's three different words used for the law of the Lord there. The first is Torah, which can be I think should be better translated teaching and really gives a sense of you know a father coming in and teaching the son, teaching him how to live, teaching him how to do tasks, teaching him how to obey and walk as a a man would walk. But in case you miss the requirement of obedience in that word teaching, he also uses the word statutes and rules, or statutes and commandments, which have a a clear, right, teaching, you don't think necessarily about obeying the teaching. You think about learning teaching. But he wants you to be aware that you are required to obey this these things. This this teaching is incumbent. It is incumbent on you to obey this teaching. Got tangled in the sentence there. Sorry. So Ezra returns, he returns with a really small group of people, only about fifteen hundred people, and it actually seems to take them some extra time to depart from Babylon. Because they're trying to convince about thirty-eight Levites to come with them. Ezra's got a mission. He wants to reform what he's hearing out of Jerusalem, and he wants to take with him a priesthood. And he's going to go and and clean up the the temple in the in the um priestly orders there and he actually is only able to get fifteen hundred people to go with him and he has to work really hard to get these thirty eight Levites to go with him. Intermarriage and the resulting syncretism are common. In other words, the blending of philosophies outside of obedience to the Lord with philosophies inside of the obedience of the Lord. Um, I have the the uh either a curse or privilege of being married to uh uh a a woman that is very invested in homeschooling and uh so she makes me read all sorts of pointy headed books. And I read a lot of them and I enjoy a lot of 'em and I'll tell you what, so many of them speak to this very thing. And as as much as I read and as much as I study and I read and study a ton, I am often convicted About my own thoughts, how I've accepted this philosophy or that philosophy, or I've settled for this way of thinking about a thing and that way of thinking about a thing. And what I find is that my thoughts are syncretistic. Where have you settled for that in your own mind? Intermarriage and the resulting syncretism are common in Israel. You find that in Ezra nine, one through fifteen. And he goes home, he goes back to Jerusalem to To be a reformer. They had begun the wall apparently uh prior to the second deportation, but they'd left it off again. So same same thing again, right? So within a generation, they were discouraged, had walked away from the temple. They spent a whole lot of time away from the temple. They finally came back and built it. They got all encouraged again and about a generation later they're they're back to being uh discouraged. They're back to trying to do it their own way. They're back to ignoring the ways that God had told them to walk and to live with him and they're doing what they want instead. It's in this context that Ezra um teaches and preaches and reforms the nation. And then you get the third return um in four forty f uh four forty-five, sorry. And with Nehemiah's leadership, the wall is completed in only fifty-two days after he gets back, which is amazing. Ezra Ezra reads the law, and it's worth turning to back to Nehemiah there. Ezra reads the law. Oh, good heavens, Scott. Eight. They read from the book, from the law of God clearly, and they gave the sense. I love that. Right? They made sure that the people understand it. And I don't have time to go there, but if you read Some of the surrounding passages, you find that the people had had wandered so far from the Lord that they really had no clue what the law said, and and Nehemiah actually, Ezra and Nehemiah actually fault the people for marrying uh women from farm gods. and foreign nations and for having children that can't even read or speak Hebrew. Now what's significant about that is not the national identity aspect, is that the God's word is only written or spoken in Hebrew. Your children have no means of even hearing the Lord's word. Any of you that are parents in the room? This is not the point of this text, but it certainly is an application in the text. Do you live in such a way that your children are able to hear the Lord speak through the Lord's word? Or by your life, does it so marginalize God's word as to seem irrelevant outside? Of a cultural benefit. Everybody likes cultural identity. There's nothing uniquely Christian about cultural identity. When your children hear you read God's word. Word. Does your life give a testimony of cultural Christianity that makes your children, makes it easy for your children to dismiss the innmance of God's Word on their lives and the need to respond to it? Does your Monday through Saturday life, defeat. The opportunity we have to meet directly with God on Sunday through His Word. It did here. It did here, and I'll I'll go further because it comes up again in Malachi. It did here, and I'll go further. The people are now left with a horrible choice. Men had gone out and and married women. From other nations that brought in pagan customs. It is wrong to be married to a woman. Flip it around, women. It is wrong to be married to a woman. That does not serve the Lord. God told them not to do that. Fundamental. It's an obedience issue. And He told them not to have children that did not know God. It's right there in the Deuteronomy page. Passage, right? You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and you shall teach your children to do the same thing. The first part was a quote, the second part was a paraphrase. You shall teach your children to do the same thing, and here they are. and Nehemiah stuck with this problem and they decide to divorce. Also not God's will. They got themselves into such a terrible situation trying to To do things their own way, that there's no right decision that they can see. And God doesn't comment enough on it in scriptures to let us know. He just condemns them for marrying them and he condemns them for divorcing them. And he does it in Malachi. Which is why this is a relevant context. Um they read from the book, from the law of God clearly, and they gave the sense so that the people understood the reading, and Nehemiah who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and the scribe, and the Levites who taught the people, said to all the people, This day is holy to the Lord your God, do not mourn or weep. For all the people wept as they heard the words of the law. Why? Because they understood. They understood. That they were to be in covenant with God and that they had broken covenant with God. Then he said to them, Go your way, eat the fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to anyone. I love that, right? You've heard my rule. I am not asking you to go off and repent in dust and ashes now. You've heard and you have understood and your hearts have been broken by the truth. Now go celebrate. Go celebrate abundantly. I love that. I love beat a fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to anyone who Who has nothing ready? For this day is holy to our Lord. And do not be grieved, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. The joy of the Lord is your strength. They remember God, they confess their sin, and they formally covenant with God to obey his commands. I'm not going to read that entire passage there, but if you did read Nehemiah 9, you see that the people enter into a formal covenant. to obey God. And this is not the first time they've done this, by the way. They did it at Mount Sinai. They did it again when Moses was about to hand the baton over to Joshua and he reads the law to them. He finishes writing the Pentateuch out and he reads it to them and they do the exact same thing again. They all covenant together and over and over and over again. Who needs to c who needs to keep making covenants? The people, not God. But it is a good caution. How are we different? How are we different? Our Protestant tradition says that we covenant once with God. If we say that at all, we don't usually use covenant language, but it says we covenant once with God. On some day. That we call the day we get saved. And then we're good. And it's done. And the truth in heaven is that once God writes your name in the book of life, that is done. His covenant with you has a always been done. It was done here too. What God had done in the lives of these people was never to be changed. And that's true of us as well. I don't defeat, argue, short that at all. As a matter of fact, I hold it up As my security and confidence in him. See the only way I know, by the way, that you can be convicted by the law of the Lord and then turn around and rejoice. You can do it when you realize that he remains faithful despite your unfaithfulness, and yet the Lord constantly calls his people to remember their covenant, to to recommit, to renew, to consider, to obey. And my challenge for you is this then the first instant of consciousness. That's when it needs to be done. each morning. And maybe more often throughout the day, depending on what your struggles are. I often have to renew it in my mind every time I get poked in the eye by something in life. Because it feels bad and I'm like, Lord Really? Like, really? What's the point? What's the point of trying to do my business with integrity if I'm just gonna get poked in the eye every five seconds? Okay, Lord, that was a stupid thought and stupid words. And renew the covenant. Malachi enters the stage during this third return, and he disputes the formalism of Israel. And he provides the last words of the Old Testament in doing that. God has worked and worked and worked and He's manifested Himself and manifested Himself and manifested Himself And the people continue to be discouraged. The people continue to move away because their expectations are not met. And God comes to speak to his people and Malachi in a particular way, a a conspicuous way that is unique in all the Old Testament, and you see it even in the introduction. Usually the prophets come and they say, This is what the Lord impressed on my heart, and so here let's go do it. But in this one it says the oracle of the word of the Lord to Israel, and then it says, I have loved you, says the Lord. Do you notice how Mo Malachi just becomes the the speak the the mouthpiece, if you will, for the words of the Lord directly? It's an unusual construct, and yet he maintains that construct throughout it. God is speaking to his people with his last words for 450 years. And he says, Fear my name, and remember the law of my servant Moses, the statutes and rules that I commanded him at Horeb or Sinai for all Israel. That's in those last two-ish verses of Malachi. What's formalism? Barrett, the guy I stole the name of the lesson series from, uh calls it when obedience becomes a matter of routine and not the heart. Merriam Webster just says the practice or doctrine of strict obedience to prescribed or external forms. And so what Malachi does is he brings these six incisions, which uniquely, again, in all the the scriptures uh strictly adhere to this disputation form. He comes to his people and he says, I have an argument with you. God comes to his people and he says, I have an argument with you. And he does it six times. That other than the first verse and potentially the last three or four verses, that's the entirety of Malachi, the six disputations. They follow a specific form. Two of them in particular use some compounding of this form, and we'll discuss. It when we get there. But a disputation always has an assertion, a questioning, a response or a proof of the assertion, and then some implication. What should be done or what should be changed? And then you see the six incisions that we're going to discuss at the bottom of this. I want you to think through this for a minute. The people had expectations about what God was. going to do with them as members of the covenant. You are in a new covenant. Does anybody not know that in Hebrews it says God made a new covenant with his people and that we are in the midst of that new covenant? rhetorical edits, assume you all do. And we have expectations. I don't know why that is the human condition, but it is the human condition. Every one of you Has expectations about what it means to be inside that covenant. And our experiences in this world, according to the scriptures, as well as our own knowledge of our own experiences, are Our experiences compete against our expectations. And because we are born in sin and live in iniquity and will spend our time struggling against that by God's grace until he brings us home and perfects us entirely, our tendency is to act in accordance with our own will and our own strength and our own understanding, despite the covenant that God has made with us. And here at the end of the Old Testament, he says, I will be with you. Walk in obedience to me. And the Lord does not seem to do anything with Israel for the next 450 years. And then Emmanuel shows up. Christ with you. And the purpose of Emmanuel's ministry, and this is a gross generalization, but the purpose of Emmanuel's ministry is that The wrath between the Father and the Sinner might be propitiated, taken care of, fully spent on Christ, so that the Spirit can be given. God will make for Himself in the New Testament. Testament, a new temple, and it's you. And his glory will return as one of the members of the Trinity, his spirit, which will speak truth to you. It will teach you, even as Ezra taught the people. And gave the sense of the word. The Spirit now teaches you the words, and he gives you the sense of them. And it's in that context that Malachi comes and speaks these six disputations. see that they consider how we think about God's grace, how we think about worship, how we think about our families, what views we have of God and His justice, how we think about giving or service or our responsibility. to pour back into the work of God and our motives for service. It pretty much covers a wide swath of our lives as Christians. And so I hope that you will be looking forward to learning how we fall victim to these same disputations, these same incisions when we do not consider our own way. Lord, let your word be useful in our hearts today. And may it be for our joy and goodness. All these things I pray in your name. Amen.