So, with all that introduction, right? Um if you have your notes, I'm gonna look at this real quick. We're not gonna just go through it uh mechanically, uh, but we are gonna talk about the uh Where are we with this Malachi? And and Scott had given you, and I see uh I've got Jeff's paper. I'm not look reading his notes, but I see he has lots of notes I see I assume he unpacked this. So where are we, right, with this? Um Malachi is is talking to what group of people? Israel is what? Where where are they in their um history, their land, their their journey through this. Uh they are They they something has changed. There there's a a new thing. Where is Israel as an as his remnant, right? Where are they now? So and I'm throwing this out. I don't really care if you answer, but I'm trying to think, okay, let me see where they're tracking. back in Israel after some dis like they've been what they went through the Syrian and Babylonian captivities have kind of returned back to Israel. Some of them like Jude and it was Judah because the northern yeah, the northern kingdom is very much it's scattered, yeah. They were scattered, so they came back to Judah. They Israel itself was actually not part of the population. Yes, and But God still looks at him as his peak covenant people, right? No, no, no. Okay, I'm trying to get big pictures here because um it helps me, okay, put a stake in where where I am with this. They've come back, right? So a you know, if you look at at his notes on the first one, right, he's got the Northern Kingdom right it falls to Assyria, uh Assyrians fall to the Babylonians, uh uh and the Medes. So in seven twenty-two, who's a maj who's one of the major uh prophets during that time? Again, I'm I I want you to think. Uh uh and that's you mean seven twenty two BC? Yeah, in seven twenty two BC, who's one of the major prophets of this time. Huh? No, not seven twenty-two. Right, that would that's why I'm confused because you're all the way back on the place. Exactly, but that's where his timeline begins. And that um I know I'm scattering this out, but We can get into the details and we can know the details, but then we go, Well, apply it to this. Where are we? Isaiah. That's why I got confused. Okay. And when's Isaiah preaching? Seven twenty-two, yes. Right, but Jeremiah's a little bit late. Jeremiah was really just before, wasn't he? As a matter of fact, they got carried off in Jeremiah, right? So 720 this is Jeremiah's a bit afterwards. They I think they might have overlapped because Isaiah had a very long prophecy. Yes. Was uh Hezekiah uh king during that time? Well yeah you yeah, he was one out of memory and he lists in the beginning of that who the kings were, right? Why am I why am I saying that? Because this n this book came to a group of people with a history. Okay, it'd be like, uh uh, if we told a story now, we'd have to know what the culture is. Uh w you're you're gonna understand God speaking to these people in any context to what they know. Okay, this is we sometimes think this Bible make it all theological and technical and everything else, but he's talking to common people too. He's talking to everybody Matter of fact, we're in a lot of the prophets, common people. We get don't sometimes we make this stuff so up in the air, too intellectual And what did Scott say during one of the themes during here? This is the he I I see it in here, he's got covenant, right? Covenant. He talked about covenant, right? Didn't he bring that up? And he talked about the formalism. Formalism, but what is a c what is a covenant? What are some of the aspects of a covenant? And again, I think most of you are probably going to think of something technical. It's what? A promise and a promise and and and that's what a covenant means. It is a promise, but when you make a promise you make it to s to Do you make a promise to just anybody? No. Now um I don't know how to it's all about asking good questions. Without giving them the answer. It's a relationship. Absolutely. And we say that real quickly, but think about it. What's all what is it we always lose? Covenant is a relationship. Yeah, these promises, and and then you go through the law and it looks so difficult because you think, no, who could do the law? Answer is nobody. Right? But so what I'm trying to do is is bring you back. So so we're we got Isaiah. You know what some of the warnings of Isaiah were. Right? He he pretty much told him they're gonna go into captivity. Didn't he even tell 'em? Uh and and we'll look at this a little bit. Uh Isaiah forty for forty f uh forty-four, forty-five. Who is he who was Isaiah talking about there? End of forty-five uh end of forty-four, forty-five. He's talking about Cyrus. He told them 170 years before Cyrus ever hit the scene, who was going to bring them out? Why do we go into all this? Because these people should have known this, even the non-intellectual, right? They were they were speaking the word, they should have been preaching the word, they should have heard the word. You know, th they weren't near as confused as our society is. They had a lot less to focus on, you know. They didn't have twenty-seven flavors of toothpaste when you can't even find what you want I hate it. Give me the regular crest. You can't find it. So they would have heard this. All this was in their psyche, all this was in there. Think about where we are at Balakai. Here they are. And aren't we kind of talking the same things again We're going back over the same things again, and that's what we're going to look at with some of these. That's where I wanted to bring you to. So Scott kinda did uh the first five verses is that where you're at? Is that where you finish 'Cause he told me to do six through nine, I'll probably sneak into ten. But he's gonna reteach it anyway, so so do not fear up. Okay, isn't that about where you finish? One through five? Yeah. The oracle of the word of the Lord. Did he say anything about that oracle? He brings up anything about that word? I don't want to reteach. It's burden. Could be burden. Could be burden. Yes. Well it's a burden it's a pronouncement. It's a burden. It it's uh in Hebrew it can be translated burden. The burden. Interesting. The the word of the Lord. Is that the statement right for uh a prophet, right? A prophet you usually saying, this is the word of the Lord. Right? Lord, did he did he mention that anything? Did he did he talk about Lord at all? The name? We talked about that. Yahweh? Well what what did you all discuss about Yahweh? I did I said something. You right? Good for you. Well because they uh you know, it the in the Hebrew it does not say the word. It wasn't until the Toludu period where they took the web that out as over seven thousand times in the Old Testament and the word is Yehuah. He has a name. He uh ev If he you know, the wording he did abhored is conceptually the so it's like it's a title, it's not his name, and he has a name. And so I feel I I'm a big proponent of that. Right But he used another name too, didn't he? What? Anybody other any other scholars in here? What other what other names g uh uh he is for God? This particular passage or in general. In general, throughout the Bible. You know this. Adonai is his Lord. That's all it is, it's a title. But Elohim is actually the world Elohim is, but there's also L uses L a lot. I'm the I M. Right. So right, uh Israel Uh okay you're using God's name, you know. So Hallelujah. Lord Yeah, and if you if you can, there's a couple of good things you can do online. Lord is a covenant name. Typically, uh one of the writers said this, I haven't checked it out. Um Uh Lord is always used in re in a relationship with Israel. Elohim, things like that, God mighty, you know, power things. Elohim is used in a relationship. Where is the first what what's the major passage and you probably looked at this? W uh maybe you didn't. Uh where is where where does God Uh in Exodus, give you a hint, where does God say use this word? And and he's talking to Moses, right? I am God. Yay, I am. And it's probably like a uh uh uh I don't want to get in the technical thing 'cause number one I'm not uh you know, it it does get technical and it's really over my head I've heard Hebrew scholars talk about this, but it's a Hebrew verb to be, right? I am. Uh Eloh Yahweh is one of the ways they pronounce. We're not sure what vowels are put in there. Um uh but anyway, uh i it they're they're a little different form. But the the Jesus said, I am, right? The verb to be. I am. It's be. Um I was thinking of this as I was studying going over this. Do you remember the slang thing that was going out there for for for a while? Maybe you haven't heard of it. What it is? Do you ever hear that expression? Yeah. It was a slang slang thing, street street thing. And I thought really it's kind of profound in a lot of ways. What it is. It's a state of being. Don't tell me what it was, don't tell me what it's gonna be. What is it? What what it is. Uh and really when G Jesus is saying that he goes, I am, right? You know John had the seven I ams and You know, I am the way, the truth, the life, right? I'm the good shepherd. G and when he when they when he was talking to the Pharisees, you know, before uh Abraham, I am Of course they picked up stone to stone. They knew what he was saying. So it's it's uh let's look at that real quick So what's important about this? I mean he is talking to these people, is communicating these people. When he is Lord, to us it doesn't mean that much Exodus chapter three verse seven. The Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people. Thirteen then. Then Moses said to God, Behold, I am going to the sons of Israel, and I will say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you. Now they may say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. And again, uh it's uh uh close to Yahweh there. And he said, Thus ye shall say to uh sons of Israel, I am has sent me to you. It's a relational, okay? And uh this is a covenant. These people were in a covenant. Uh God is faithful Right? Who isn't faithful? Us. We break the he's he's gonna keep his covenant. We break the covenant, right? And the law was part of that covenant, even though the temporary thing was part of the covenant. They were supposed to keep the law. So That's kind of verse one. So he says, I've loved you, right? says the Lord. And you do you I to I assume Scott talked about kind of the pattern It goes through here. Well Malachi is doing th he says, look at this. He goes, all right, verse two. I have loved you, says the Lord, but you say, How have you loved us? Yeah, and think about that. It is a kind of a conversation we're we're going in on and they're saying uh did anybody ever think anything about that? That the way he stated it? Well it it's it's exactly what we contend with today. You know? W uh how can there be a God if there's so much evil remote? And so they're like, I've loved you and like really you you you took us out of our land, you did this, you did this, you did this and they're constantly thinking about how do we possibly love us. Right. And so that's exactly what we contend with here. Right. So they have nothing to do. Right. And that's what we talked about. Right. And it and it's it's kind of You know, I know a lot of you uh uh not all of you, but a lot of you have had children. You know when you ask children about something and uh You ask him something, don't really answer it and he goes instead of him saying, You haven't loved me you notice what he says? He says, Well uh how kind of like Well what are they saying? Well what do you know? What are we guilty of? It's kinda like a criminal, you know what I mean? Oh, let me talk to my lawyer. Uh w w what is it you're charged? What is it you know? And the c and the and the officer on the other side trying to figure out, what did you do, right? So he you know, each of 'em is playing a game here We're we're sidestepping each other. We're not talking the truth. That's what came to my mind. And and what does he do? Is he he explains, right? Uh was not Esau Jacob's brother, right? I'm sure you went through all that So who is Jacob? Ancestor of uh the Israelites that were living in the land of that being. And so yeah, so you see and you see Israel, right? You go Well, we'll focus on Jacob, but what do I see? I see Israel. So again, it's talking big category. Esau, same thing. What is Esau? He says it pretty much in the text. Edom. Yeah, he says it right in the text, right? 'Cause he in verse four he tells him, right? Though Edom says, right? So Esau is uh progenitor or that the head, but he's he's really looking at Edom, he's looking at wicked people, right? They build, they will they you know, they say they will build, right? Uh uh second part of verse four. Uh he calls them the wicked territory. You see all these contrasts that are going on, these contrasts and everything. It's the wicked territory, eat them Well, what would that be in contrast to? Okay, we talk about Edom, you know, it's Israel. So what's Israel? Holy land. Wicked? Holy. You see, and that's the thing, you know, God wants us think, you've got to think through these scriptures and tear it apart. If you don't know the answer to something, I say this all the time, ask a question. You wanna learn something? Ask questions. It's amazing how you it's a you you you you'll start peeling layers off when you do that. You know, because it you don't you don't just Do you notice how he doesn't just put it all there? But you then you think about it, you think, yeah, he's think he's everything's in contrast here. Holy land, wicked land. It's all of God, right? So now we can kind of skip into verse six. A son honors his father, a servant his master. Then if I am a father, where is the honor? And if I am a master, where is my respect? Anybody else have a different translation besides New American Standard? Any ESV people there? That's not honors his father Fear. And that's why we read good reading on the translations. Why do they do that? These And we know what the good translation are. And he I know we give New King James a hard time, but but don't don't be hard on them. Uh sometimes th they'll they translate, I think, correctly We look at different translation. Why did they come up with that different word? Obviously it was a possibility. These guys are not heretics. We uh New American Standard, I think New King James ESV, not NIV. No paraphrases. It's not a full paraphrase, but so where is my fear? says the Lord of hosts O priests who despise thy name, but ye say how we despise your name. I didn't say this before, but in verse 1. When in the oracle, who's who's speaking here? Malachi, right? Look at who's look at who he's talking to here. Lord of hosts, O priests who despise my name, but you say, How have we despised your name? Who should have been talking to the people? The priests. It's their job to teach, to lead them. They were the uh mediators. Oh, we're talking old covenant here, right? They were the rightful mediators. Okay, you got Malachi talking to him. Again, it goes all with this this beginning. Think about this. It it's the the burden of the word. You got Malachi. They're they know they're gonna get a uh a prophet's talking. Talk prophets easier there to tell 'em I got a word from the Lord, you guys are going the wrong direction. This is God's word. Look at what you're doing. I mean if you plead on and on, it's like, Well what did they do to defile you? It's like, Well, you you sacrifice, you know, the lame the sick of blind, would you do that to your King, I'm your you know, what would he do to you, right? Right. Um, and I am the I am your king and what are you doing? So it's basically like they were back to uh formalism, which is what Scott was kind of heading on was that they were going through the motions but they didn't really believe any of it because if they really believed it they wouldn't have been so they didn't have it in their heart, you know what I mean? They wouldn't have been like that. They didn't believe he really knew what they were doing. He thought they w they were just kinda going through the motions. He didn't believe there was a God who was actually o looking at their sacrifice. Like they clearly did believe in the relationship with which they were going through the motions of and that's what he's talking about. Mm-hmm. It's like because otherwise if you actually were like, There is a God, I want to they they didn't have the spirit of God in them. They really didn't. And so they were ju and the priests who were the ones who were supposed to be teaching of the relationship they really didn't buy Right. Right. Which is the word that Cosni used earlier. And so when you look at this it's like they didn't think that God actually saw what they were doing and knew that they were sacrificed. Like they he did they didn't think that. They were like, Yeah, whatever. Right. And that's I mean, you know, this it like you were saying, this is not that difficult to really unpack, right? It's not like This is something that, you know, we have to have a scholar unfold. It's not like some prophecy. You're like, what in the world is that Or Zechariah. Uh that's my point, you know. Why did I bring up all that history? Because it's a cycle. They keep doing the same thing. But it's not. And then we look at them, you know, don't don't let okay, it is Israel. There are The example. Well what is it ultimately? It's just it's people, right? Alright, people are people You know, when you strip away all the facade the culture and everything else, people are people. Yeah, and y yeah exactly. I mean you pretty much just went to the passage for it. And that's the thing, there's not a whole lot here. So you have to un uh okay if you're gonna do this, so why? Well um you know and and but again, you said it. They they were given the Fear, that word fear there. Where is my fear? And we know that fear is not really just always just uh It's just not uh frightening like uh uh the hammer's gonna come down or my head's gonna be cut off, I'm gonna be but it there is an aspect of that But but it it's kinda like uh uh Proverbs one seven, right? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. You but you really have to believe, like you said, without that faith So if they're fearing a governor and they're not fearing God, they they're not getting it, right? We're not thinking through And that's a difficult thing 'cause the governor's there front and present. But God sometimes let's face it, if we're not really focusing on it, right? We forget him. I do. I'd be doing great. And then I, you know, next thing you know, I go off and I'm I'm on my own and and I'm not am I praying to God? Am I considering God? Am I thinking about, well God, what do you think about this? Sho you know Am I doing that? No. And and so and I catch myself I go, Oh yeah, I guess I should uh write about this. Right? Well obviously when you do it for a long period of time you see what happens. I mean, they're bringing defiled animals, right? Leviticus twenty-two talks about this. They got the whole chapter on this. Don't bring the fi he spells it out there. Um I think um even says The priest could die bringing bad sacrifices. Leviticus 22, 9. They shall therefore keep my charge. So that they will not bear uh sin because uh because of it and die. Uh then I'm butchered that. Uh they shall therefore keep my charge So that they will not bear sin because of it and die. Thereby, because they profane it, I am the Lord who sanctifies them And he goes on. He talks about animals. The Lord spoke. He says, you know, your burnt offerings, the animal must must be acceptable. Whatever has a defect, verse 20, you shall not offer. They knew this. But do you see how sin hardens your heart and when you get away from it you forget there is No faithfulness? And it it wasn't just like, well, if this is the only animal you have, you're giving it to God. It wasn't about that. It's like you have a whole flock of perfectly fine but this one is blind so you want to get rid of it so you bring it over. Well sure. Who wants to br you know, the who wants to bring the expensive stuff, right? Let's give them the leftovers or the defects. But i it's a hard thing though. And and I think that's what's you know, that's what Scott's whole uh vision on it this class was. Okay, where do we go to legalists? Let's finish through this and then we'll we'll talk about some of our present day idols. Because really, uh we have them now. The other thing I want you to think about, when Israel left before they went into captivity, they were primarily An agricultural society. When they came back, they were much more a mercantile merchant kind of a society. They'd been in a The city of cities at that time, Babylon. Did you ever think about why there's only a remnant came back. Why'd the other ones stay? Businesses and lives, but they said actually no process. Life is good. They had also been there for seventy years, so there was prevent yeah, there was marriage and children and um and they had intermarried. Which I just talked about. Well they weren't supposed to, but they did. Yeah. And I think a lot more of the intermarriage came when they came back too. And that's what Nehemiah speaks to. And that's why W when you look at Scott's background, he gives you Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Haggai, uh Zechariah, Malachi. I mean they were talking the same things. Um Zechariah uh Haggai and Zechariah had to get him to build the the the uh temple. We'll we'll look at that in in a minute. They'd stopped building. Um But when you present the the blind sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you present the lame and the sick, is it not evil? Why not offer it to your governors? Would he be pleased of you? Or would you receive, uh would he receive you kindly, says the Lord of hosts? But now, you will not entreat God's favor that he may be gracious to us? With such an offering on your part Will he receive any of you kindly, says the Lord of hosts? Oh, that there would that there were one among you who would shut the gates that you might not use Oh that there would be one among you who would shut the gate, that you might not uselessly kindle fire on my altar I am not pleased with you, says the Lord of hosts, nor will I accept an offering to you. What I when you what I read back in um Malachi 6. A son of uh honors his father and a servant his master Does that ring a bell with anybody? Does does that sound familiar to you? I know you're all familiar with Isaiah 1. The vision of Isaiah, son of Amos, concerning Judah and Jerusalem They saw during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. Listen, O heavens, hear, O earth, for the Lord speaks. Sons I have reared and brought up. Relational, right? But they have revolted against me. An ox knows its owner, a donkey its master's manger. But Israel does not know. My people do not understand. That's always the key, isn't it? You get out there, I mean w w we uh I tell this all the time, especially to y to young believers, I said, you know what you know because the you have the Spirit of God inside of you. You would not believe this. if you did not have the spirit leading you this way. It's not intellectual. There are some really smart people. I mean look at the stuff that we're doing. It's it's amazing with these Uh uh and I know I'm talking to a community out there, the mass science and you know it it's not me, but they're blind a lot of 'em. They don't have a clue where they're going God has to open the eyes. Israel is telling this is Isaiah talking back in seven to six early six hundred uh BC. Right? And he's talking to him. He goes, You guys don't know. It's the same story. God tells them he's he uh he uh Isaiah tells him he's gonna turn 'em over, but there's always uh a way back, right? Verse 18 in Isaiah Isaiah 1. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are as scarlet, they be as white as snow. They are red like crimson, they will be like wool If you consent and obey, you will eat the best of the land. But if you you refuse and rebel, you will be devoured by the sword. Truly, the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Again, you see that, the word, the mouth. He always uses word. And you notice he's using Lord there. Okay, these are covenant passages. Deuteronomy, right? Six. What is the Hebrew, what is the one thing they love in Deuteronomy chapter six? The Shema Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God. A lot of them wear bracelets with this little saying on there, or they have it. It's called the Shema. You you say the Shema. Here. It's what Hebrew word, Shema. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your might Okay, these words I am commanding you today. He says uh he goes he's telling them, he goes, uh, you should teach your children everything else. Your houses will be full of these things. He goes, When you go into the land, verse eleven, and you have houses full of all these good things you did not fill, hewn cisterns which you did not dig Vineyards and olive trees which you did not plant and eat and are satisfied. Watch yourselves that ye do not forget the Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt, the house of slavery. Verse 13. You shall fear only the Lord your God, and you shall worship him and swear by his name. You got both. Love, fear. It's a relationship. If you you know fear is is also kind of an honoring, right? Honoring, glorifying. Honor, glorify, oftentimes uh same word translated there. If it's a relationship, you know, do you care about somebody? You're gonna treat them like they were trading them? Bringing these these uh Blind and lame. Is that what you're gonna bring to your friends? I thought about this. Let's see if I get some discussion going. If not, we'll go back to the scriptures, but Yeah, w so what are our idols today? I I think it's a lot of the same things. I think I you know, when I was going through Zechariah, um, talk about leaning on the commentaries. You can I you there are chapters in Zechariah you read and you're thinking, man, unless you want unless somebody tells me what these symbols were, there's no way. You have to know the background. And one of 'em was uh materialism really. And it's gonna be and it was uh carried off. And you see uh Babylon, it was carried back off to Babylon. Remember with Zechariah, they they come back, Zechariah and and Haggai are telling them you gotta build the temple. They had stopped building. Haggai says Uh you say it's not time to build the temple, but uh basically he says, and I'm paraphrasing, what's just paneling in your houses? They probably took the they were probably that stuff was dedicated for the temple and there they were paneling their own houses. You know Laura has a sense of humor. You wanna be Oh what's the uh I know she's got panning in there. Color TV on the wall So they had to exhort him back to it. And Zechariah, Haggai kind of gave him a hard time. Zechariah gave him prophecy. He gave him a lot of prophecy, covenant prophecy. He told them uh so many things the Messiah was coming. They also told him they were going to reject the good the Good Shepherd Which they did when he came, and they were going to embrace the falk shepherd, which they will do during the tribulation. They are going to make a pact with the Antichrist. And he told him that in Zechariah. It's amazing. He also told them about their goods and how they were gonna it was gonna and there's this uh Ephah that's carried off to Babylon. And really th all those things were commercial terms. It was a bushel, uh bushel basket, a wheat, and and these other uh there was another thing that was like uh a measure, a weight you know, like on a scale or wait for a talent, you know. It's it's commercial things. And all it was going to be carried off to Babylon. When you go to uh Revelation and what follows in Revelation? Babylon has fallen The uh Babylon the religious aspect, Chapter 17, and 18 the commercial aspect Uh uh i i it's God's plan. It's the same story over and over again. We're enticed by the same things. So what I've kind of pointed out what is our enticements now? What carries us away from God? I I can I can st I'll start off by by being vulnerable. I can tell you what one of mine is, is uh Um Laura and I have been looking for a house. We've lived in uh this area for a long time and uh uh kids have grown up. uh everyth you know, it w so anyway we're on the looking for this house. Long story short, we ended up buying some land. We looked at these houses, we thought, Well, I don't like any of these houses and they're we're paying this much money for something I like's crazy. You know, uh so we buy so we buy this land, we're building this house, and I tell you the truth, it's kinda exciting and fun at first, but um But between between you and me, after a while it was like, I'm done thinking about this house. It's occup I'm telling you it absorbs you And I you know, people ask me, What about this house? You know, the ones that I you know was talking with and I'm going, I'm done talking about, to be honest with you. It's just a house I'm gonna die one day, somebody's gonna get it, eventually it's gonna be worthless. I don't care, you know what I mean? It was dragging me away from really what I what I wanted to focus on But I can see how it's enticing. It is there were aspects of it are enticing, you know. Uh God has blessed us with with uh uh the funds to do this kind of thing, but I'm thinking, all right, big deal. This is not, you know, it's I get excited. Fortunately, got it I got saved later in life, so a lot of you know my story I get excited about reading God's word, about when God gives me something in His Word, I'm going, Wow. You know what I mean? I read some prophecy and I'll go, wow, that's it because you see When I when I understand it and I know it and I believe it and I start to walk it, then I see God gets a little bigger He's huge. That was my enticement. That's stupid. We still don't live. We live in Golly's basement. We sold our other house, yes. I'm still alert so much of my time is not mine. Right. get my time. Right. There's so much to fill it with. Right. Sometimes it's hard to take that slide and really dedicate my mind to word. And you have and I bet If you're honest, you probably found if I don't make time, sh everything else will will come in there It has to be a sacrifice of time because if it's just whatever happened. Yeah, or you do it You were at the last minute and it's like well that was a waste of money. You know, it's like short, you're tired. Yeah. Yes. I can I think I'm speaking for both of us, but our jobs seem to it's not like I idolize my job. And it's not like I idolize money or like that. Um but our jobs can be very um demanding and they take us away from our ability to just stop and be excited about the gift of salvation that we've received and just to be able to focus on God and and study His Word and and and and because we're both sometimes just so overwhelmed by our work days. And I think both neither of us like that. But we find ourselves trapped by it sometimes. And that's something that we have to work on. It's it's kind of a yeah, it's tough. Um uh when Laura just went back to work, she'd been off for two plus ye what Two and a half years? I don't know. You know, it's like you know, and at first it was like, wow, we can't wait to get back to work and then you know it's kinda convenient. The uh the y telecommuting though, sometimes she'd be you know, she and this other uh colleague that were interested in getting something done, they'd be talking at ten o'clock at night and I said this I said This is you know, you gotta shut it off. Once she said the one thing one th one thing I will say, when I c commuted, when I left work, I was done. You know, I left it behind. Yeah, so you can Yeah, it can absorb ya. Yeah. Um I was just kinda thinking like kind of back to verse six where um God says, you know, you're supposed to be offering this. And it's not that the priests weren't offering something, but what they were offering wasn't the best that they had. It wasn't the first fruits. It wasn't what God had actually asked them for. Um and as priests they were supposed to know better than anyone what God wanted. Um and I think it's kinda easy sometimes to get into a breath where you're just kind of like doing the thing you don't encourage, you you the Bible study do the thing. But you're not offering God the best of you, you're not offering God what's first. And I find that that's something that I run into where it's like, am I really offering God like citizen worship? Am I allowing other things to kind of take my focus? So yeah, I'm I'm spending time in my Bible, but like I was kind of distracted by my own I'm like doing all these other things. Bible study, but like I'm not really internalizing it, I'm not applying it. 'Cause it's easy to just do the thing that you're supposed to do, but you're not really being sincere about it. Right. Yeah, your heart's not in it. And and what What did he say? He says, I loved you. You were supposed to love me. Yeah. Look at we we all know that. passage on I'm talking to a lot of Bible people here. Church in Ephesians, right? What did he tell them? You lost your first love, right? And they were doing a lot of things Uh if you look at that, if you go back and look at that, uh Revelation two, Ephesian Church, they were doing a lot of things and they they were uh uh diligent about uh Uh protecting against heresies and things like that, that they lost their first love. And it's easy to do, you know. I'm I came to faith late and I was on fire for for Christ, you know, it's like, wow, you know. Uh and I was telling everybody about it and I was driving my wife and my kids crazy. You know what I mean? Yeah, I had no theology whatsoever. I just come to faith. I was a baby and I was like trying to pull them into you know. Uh but it you know You do lose that. Um it needs to be rekindled. I I need to think about that. Um uh we're we're tall we we we're pretty much uh How well how do I want to put it? A lot of the group here is is fairly mature. We're not doing uh when I was came to f faith at forty, I was doing a lot of I mean I was indulging in worldly stuff, just trying not to have it consume me. But I was definitely purposefully seeking that, indulging it, you know. Um So uh it that was eas th some of the stuff wasn't so easy to give up. And what it's funny because one of the things I w uh I approached um uh Pastor Gabe about this. I'd heard something on the radio and it just rekindled something I I had looked at and heard of before. I wasn't focused on the family. He was talking one was talking about um pornography. And I said, you know, we almost need to talk about this on a church level. I think a lot of people uh w w we don't know how We're we're not uh most people that aren't into it are unaware of how pervasive it is. And especially because the thing that it got me it's not like I hadn't heard uh other people talk about this and in uh counseling and things like that. But each time as we move forward, how pervasive it is for the I mean the kids are being that's where their kids are being bombarded. We know that, you know, this stuff is out there. And we don't need to be stigmatized about these kinds of things. We need to be a church that's healthy and we we need to recognize they're there They're wrong. Well we need to be a solution uh to these kinds of things. And you can't do that if people are are hiding That's what these people are doing. At the essence of being unfaithful and everything else, that they think that they were hiding these sick animals from God, because think about it, isn't that what they're doing? That's what they think they're doing. Right. But isn't that what we do ultimately? We forget that God yeah, intellectually, yes, God's there. You know, in the depths of the sea. He's there when I wake, when I sleep. Well, you know, we know all these verses. But when we're doing something, it's kinda like we have this compartmentalized thing. God's not looking, you know But uh I and I I saw I saw it really that these are the kind of issues that uh we need to deal with I'm really concerned about the kids because Uh yeah, in my generation, this stuff is a click away. You you said it when you were studying, what is our problem? Stupid things. Some people, yeah, you you know that my wife sometimes will look down, she goes I go, Who you talking to? I'm right next to you, you know what I mean? But it it does and it's it's there and and I and I I think it's the enemy think about it. What is what is uh to me what is a real battle? A battle is Twofold. There's God. We had we had the the the uh separation here. We had Israel, holy land, we had the wicked land, Edom. Well what's really going on here? We have two world systems. We we are spiritual people. We are looking at what's going on behind the scenes. That's the main thing we get out of this Bible that non-believers just can't see. We get to see what's going on, who's pulling the strings behind the scenes. And we have an enemy who is purposely doing this They're may intermarrying. Why are they intermarrying? They're probably getting good looking wives, right? They they like the way the wives look. I mean It sexual is is such a a a uh primary thing. How many how often did this happen? It happened you know uh right at the fall. It it's it's a primary thing I I only say this because really we don't we don't consider it. We look at some of these things, alcoholism, things like that. Oh, I'd never do that. But Uh I I see people get into other things. It's still the s it's still w what about fear? I see I see if we're Christians, should we have fear? Did Jesus say I gave you a spirit of fear? He says, I didn't give you a spirit of fear, Roman 8. So are we trusting in God? What about anger? You ever see any angry people? I do jail ministry. A lot of them are angry. It's an adrenaline rush. A lot of them, they're addicted to being angry Anybody uh tennis fans? Anybody remember John McEnroe? You remember what John McEnroe used to do? He'd do a temper tantrum. Do you ever notice what happened after you do the temper tantrum? He easily won the next point. He was getting himself he it was illegal. He was getting himself pumped up with adrenaline by his anger. I think the fear thing is something that we all battle with. Even though it's said over three hundred times in the Bible, do not fear. Right. But I think that you know, fear, doubt, anxiety, those are some of you know, it's about praying for uh praying for peace through that. You know, paying for courage through that. Because I think God knows that we are we we we do we all I think have to struggle with that on certain levels. Everybody has different spheres that consume that That's well that's personal for fear and expression. I would agree. But you see some people w m uh worry. My uh mother in law has passed away. Um that woman mean she worried about everything. I used to tell her too. I said, well you worry about everything. She goes, well that way I'd do it for you. And I'm like, no, you don't. But uh Yeah, some of it is maybe I I should have worried more or should have had fear more. I mean you're right, it is a warning thing. Anger is a warning thing, it's not a bad thing, it's what we do with it Uh right? It's they're warning signs for sure. I I just say that to say that that there there are a lot of different things that uh we can be addicted to and aren't even really aware of it Or we're depending on. We're feeding ourselves on. Any thoughts? About going down a path that's uh But this is legalism. Think about it. Jesus wants a relationship. He came. We have. 2020 compared to what they had back then. Think about their prophecies and how difficult sometimes it is for us to look back the other side of the cross and see Jesus there And that was what he was pointing to. Uh but we have the revelation, the full revelation. Um so I guess the takeaway, my takeaway, is is always the same. It's like Okay. Pastor Leek wanted us to live biblically. And he didn't just say that. I mean he really wanted us to practice it And his his idea was most churches aren't. We say and there's some good churches, I mean, w with with good teaching and that kind of thing. But to really live biblically, think about that. I do. And I think, hm, yeah, I got a long way to go. But we don't want to. Right. But you know But it I don't know about you, I want more Jesus. To get more of Jesus I have to be I have I I y I have to grow. I have to become closer to him I have to walk. My my um ministry thing, people have certain verses, you know, what's your what's your verse, what's your life verse? Um It took me forever to go. I thought, I don't know. I to me it's walking in the light. There's uh he says it in Ephesians, um he says we're not children of darkness anymore. You walk as children in the light The fruit of the light is righteousness. Uh 1 John, you know, uh God is light in him, there's no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him, walk in the darkness, we lie, we don't practice the truth If we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another. Uh it's e that's the bold move to me. Bringing my stuff. After we read these passages, bringing my stuff, carry Through the light, where am I in this walk? And that's because uh who wants to admit it? But at the same time, that's how you grow. You have to bring it number one to God, you know. These people were walking in darkness, bringing sick animals and everything else. They weren't trusting in God. They didn't know Him. They don't know me. You'll you'll see God say that over and over again. They didn't know me. There's a remnant here as you move forward that that uh Malak I talk about that do know him. The the majority, right? Did not know him. That's the gift we have. We can know God.