So Barrett's statement is inconsistent with this context. It is true that God's love is not to be measured. by the nature of our circumstances or the amount of our possessions. But singularly based on the relationship that we have with Him, which we talked about a lot, it's a covenant relationship. But that is that is not the sum total of what's being discussed here. And for those of you that have the the updated notes, if you will, from this morning, I have that little sidebar there and it says The very fact that this is a rhetorical disputation format, meaning that it falls into this category of rhetoric Emphasizes a dialogue. It it emphasizes the fact that one person will speak and the other will respond And in particular, because it's a disputation, it emphasizes the fact that one of the party's statements will be contradicted by the statement of the other party. Such a mode of discourse is well suited to the context here in Malachi, in which Israel is portrayed as needing reassurance that God's blessing has not been withdrawn. God speaking very directly to the nation of Israel, and he didn't just say, well, just suck it up, because I told you I was going to do this stuff for you. I told you you were in covenant with me. There it is. It's written on the wall. We're done. That's the sum total of the transaction. That's not what he says. He engages these people with a series of rhetorical disputations. You are thinking about this in this way. But I want to redo how you're thinking about this. I want to correct how you're thinking about this. I want you to strengthen how you see me and how I respond to you. And how you respond to me. Next page. Malachi doesn't say we should just be grateful for relationship with Yahweh. It says we should wake up and see the reality of God's loving goodness. And we ended last week with a sampling of verses from Psalm seventy-eight where the Lord says, Look what I did, look what I did, look what I'm doing, look what I'm doing, see me move in amazing ways Throughout the history of your nation and in your own lives. You have seen with your own eyes. That phrase, with your own eyes, pops up so many times in the scriptures. I have not left you with a promise that requires you to hold on tenuously to things that are vague and in the past. I have left you with a strong assurance After studying Malachi with my small group, we moved into Luke, and I confess that I wish I could say that it was all my wisdom that did it, but it really wasn't. I was being hounded by several small group members to uh move into a New Testament passage. We've been doing a lot of Old Testament lately, and I just wanted to get into some of the New Testament. And so I picked Luke for a bunch of reasons. But as I began, and we've only started over the last few weeks, as I began that, I spent this entire last week, so you can pity the people in my small group like Carlos. Um although he didn't attend, so maybe he don't pity him too much. Um pope poke. Um Um touche. Um We spent the entire evening this last Thursday um going over some of the history that leads up to Luke's first chapter. And it was amazing because it's the history of Malachi. It it's the very same history that's here in Malachi. Luke alone creates this Amazing bridge. I even made the statement that it says, though God, and this is frustrating to us, right, days and centuries seem to make little difference in God's economy, but to us they're torturous To wait a day is hair horrible, to wait a century is is unbelievable because it's beyond the lifespan of most of us And yet Luke picks up as though the very next breath of the message of Malachi gets picked up in the story of Christ And the history is amazing, and I'm going to share a piece of it with you today in an effort to get you excited about it. But nonetheless, my point in that whole little diatribe is nonetheless you are not left with a vague and distant history. Christ is speaking to his people and he's not just saying, Two thousand years ago I did this thing in in Moses' life. Or in Noah's life, or in Adam's life. He's saying, Yeah, I did all those things. And look what I am doing right before your very eyes. And Psalm 78 ends with, and the people recognizing who their God is. continues to flatter him with their lips while their hearts are far from him Again, Barrett's statement is inconsistent. One of the challenges that you need to do today And and I highly recommend if you're if if you struggle with this the way I do, to pick up a book like the Set of Puritan Prayers call The Valley of Vision. Yeah, pick up a copy of the Valley of Vision. Turn to one of the Psalms. Where the per the uh one of the Psalms, you can tell how I think about them. Turn to one of the prayers, right? that where the author is disciplining their heart toward the enjoyment of the Lord and then practice the same thing Write down what you have in Christ. See with your own eyes what God is doing in your own life And by the way, if way off notes, if if that's not good for you You need to get out more. And I don't mean that as a mean thing, but uh Angel and I don't think are terribly involved. We we try very carefully to pick what we do and what we don't do, to to not effectively be divorcees within our own home. We see that happen a lot in marriages when people are so busy outside of the home th th that they almost function as as though they were a divorced couple when they are at home. And it affects them and it affects their children and other things. We at a very early age in our marriage uh covenanted to together to be careful about that. And so we often don't do things that we could do outside of the house. But we're involved enough. Enough to watch marriages f fall apart and disintegrate in in all sorts of ways. A woman just this last weekend at the state archery tournament that we were at yesterday With a four H club, one of the things we do get involved in. Um we finally figured out that she and the the father of the girl that's in the club are are not actually married anymore and it took us almost a year to figure that out. But they're they're not married anymore, even though they both show up to practices and stuff And uh Angela was just talking to the woman and the woman said, He's just he's just so annoying, I couldn't take it anymore. You you got divorced because he annoys you with his questions, which is what she said effectively. And on the flip side Um we uh another kid and his parents divorced and uh it's abusive And it's ugly and it's cruel. And uh I mean it's just all over the place. And then we've got all sorts of things in in the middle, right? Uh young women that have clearly been abused by their parents that are Or fathers that are now uh living with grandparents. I mean it it just doesn't take long to look out and see what the world looks like without without the protection of the Lord on your life. I guess that's where I was going for that. Right? All you gotta do is walk out into life. All you gotta do is go to work and listen to somebody talk about how they manage to get themselves through their day. These are the things that are important to me. These are the things that I set my mind on. These are the priorities and the goals. These are the things that I derive value from my life. And you listen to them When you know the truth of Christ and you think, how pathetic. How many of you take stock of what is good in your lives? How many of you fight Those feelings that you get maybe at the end of a hard day. How many of you fight those feelings with the truth of what God is actually doing in your life? It's what Malachi calls these people to do in this next passage. And I I like my next example here. I don't remember whether I got it from a commentary or if it just occurred to me as a result of some other study. So uh it was in my notes without any uh reference to another place, which I try to be really astute about so that I'm not a plagiarist. Um Rachel and Leah helped me understand the problem with Barrett's statement. Both women were in covenant relationship with Jacob. Thank you. Jacob. Um so the relationship was established and it was fixed. Right? There there was no getting out of that relationship, right? It was a fixed, established relationship, and we never read that either woman was in any way abused by Jacob. So it was a fixed and sufficient relationship. Physical needs were met, families were perpetuated, everything that needed to be there as a part of a covenant relationship was in the relationship between Rachel, Leah, and Jacob. You say, are you saying that's a great way to go? No, that's not my point. I'm just saying it satisfied Barrett's definition of being in relationship. Right? Barrett's contention is we shouldn't have to worry about really the quality of the relationship and how it it plays out in the benefit toward one of the people in the covenant. We should just be focused on the covenant. And he challenges us to approach the Lord like that. And I'm contesting that using this example from Rachel and Leah. Leah was miserable in the midst of that relationship because she understood that her husband loved Rachel. And for a time Rachel was miserable in that relationship because she wasn't bearing children. She wasn't able to receive the the fruit of the covenant. Right? She was in a relationship. She had a good piece of it. She had the heart of her husband when her sister did not, but she still did not have the fruit, the benefit from the covenant that she had expected to have Both women speak significantly to something beyond just being covenantal in relationship They need the blessing of the relationship. They need the love of the relationship. They need more than a legal document that establishes relationship and bounds for the relationship. And we do too, when it comes to Christ. And luckily I don't ever see a passage in Scripture that tempts us away from that. God always comes to us in the midst of His love. Both the the love that is a familial love or the love that is a a a very typical when we say the word love we think about an emotional love, right? He comes to us in that love and implements a covenant and then he stays in that love right, using covenant love, that steadfast love of the Lord. So it's all over um the work the Lord's work in our lives You see it again in Jess Jacob's wrestling with God. He says, I will not let you go unless you bless me. You notice that. He doesn't just say Well, promise me that you will do what you covenanted with me to do previously. He says, I cannot let this engagement, this interaction I am having with you, I cannot let it desist. until you convince me that you will bless me as well. I need to know that you will be good to me. Well it's more implied in Malachi than not. It is here at the end of verse 2. It says, Is not Esau Jacob's brother declares the Lord? And then this very short phrase, yet I have loved Jacob. And I think that that's short there. And then he immediately turns to look what I've done to Esau. And when I went through this with the small group, I think I told you this, they all turned around to me and said, you know, it's not very satisfying When we're wondering if the Lord loves us and he just turns around and he says, Look, I hated this other person. Right? That that's not really, you know, that really wouldn't fly with, you know, our spouses or our mothers or, you know Have you loved me? Well I hated this other person. You know. You know. But the love and hate here are really more words that have to do with covenant and less about emotion. And he uses this small phrase. Yet I have loved Jacob. And we're left to believe that what the Lord is saying is, look what I have been doing. In your lives over the last 100 years. And not just a hundred years ago, but over the last a hundred years, right? I brought you back through the work of a decree of Cyrus. And then Darius reinforced it when it kind of got muddled in over time. And then Artaxerxes twice. did additional things. And and you know I I'm keeping it short because I want to keep moving, but it is so much more than just a decree. They opened up treasuries, they provided resources, they provided armed protection for people to go. They chastised enemy nations around Israel that were thwarting their efforts to build the temple and to build the wall and to build the city and there was just so much more being on uh there was so much more that was going on here pagan kings in a pagan nation that had previously destroyed this country. And God is using these very same people to build them up and bless them and provide for them and resource them. And even in some senses it it's a little vague from the history, the the best I could understand at least. But in some cases it almost seems like these these distant kings are chastising Israel a little bit like I I told you you could go home And rebuild your temple to your God. I think you should do that. Like, why are you staying here? And when they slowed down, why have you slowed down I gave you wealth and resources and a command, an edict, to ensure that you can do these things. And you have you've left off the job. Like, get back to the job. Here's some more resources to try to instigate you moving forward. I mean, it's amazing what God did in the lives of these people. And you just cannot understand the desolation of this entire region at this point in time. Right? Jerusalem at this point in time is in the midst of of a complete geographic de uh what did I just say devastation that's the word I'm looking for The the Babylonians, the Assyrians had just destroyed this, and what they had not taken, the Bedouin tribes The Nabataeans on one side and I can never remember the ones that were on the southern west part of uh the Saharan Desert, but they just descended on this area after it was destroyed by locusts and took everything they could Took, destroyed, enslaved. I mean they just decimated it. And yet God is protecting this little nation in the midst of it. And he calls them to look at it He calls them to pay attention to what God is doing in their lives. Yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated Genesis twenty-five twenty-three uses those same names for the two brothers, and it's very clear that he is talking about two nations instead. You see the same reference used there in Numbers during the Exodus when Moses, and you all know the story, Moses tries to go through Kadesh and he sends a letter in and he says, Look, we won't take your cattle or anything else will stay on the king's road, meaning we'll stay on that road that's guarded by the king's troops and supported by the king, you know, very conspicuous, very obvious kind of place. Stay on the King's Road. We just want to pass through. If we do so much as take a drink from one of your wells, we will pay you for it. And the Edomites say, no way, man. And they amass a large army on their border to make sure that Moses and the exiles from Egypt are not able to pass through. And again that same language is used there for Jacob versus Esau. Language of love and hate were used to indicate alliance or enemies among nations. You will not have to look hard for a massive study of this language. throughout the scriptures. It's just a very common reference. It's picked up in Romans 9 extensively and puts it in the context of God's sovereign plan For his glory through election and predestination. But those are covenantal terms. They're they have much less to do with, you know I really adore you and I really despise you. And it has to do with I I have chosen to enter into a covenant relationship with you And I have not with you. And Romans 9 picks that up and says, Well, that seems so unfair, right? And the response is, Who are you, O man? Who are you to question what the Lord does? But you are to see it, and you are to respond to it. Jacob is you know Jacob's the second brother. Does he have a right to the inheritance? No. And then he's a thief and a crook besides, right? He's a deceiver besides. Does he have a does he have a legitimate right to the inheritance? No. But God was merciful. And God chose Jacob. even before he was born, right? That's the the promise that he makes um to Jacob's mom And you see the Lord work a lot like that in Scriptures. Abel's sacrifice over Cain's. Abel was the younger brother. And how did they know what to sacrifice rightly anyway? But Abel's sacrifice over Cain's, and then the line of promise through Seth, which was the third brother, you know, didn't revert to Cain when Abel was dead. God created Seth. And Seth is the son of promise. Rachel is chosen over Leah, Joseph over his brothers, David over his older brothers. God delights In choosing his people for his own reasons. And then we transition to the uh work that he does in um Esau's family, Edom. But Esau I have hated, I have laid waste his hill country and left his heritage to jackals of the desert. If Edom says, We are shattered, but we will rebuild the ruins, the Lord of hosts says, They may build, but I will tear down. And when they will And they will be called the wicked country, and the people with whom the Lord is angry forever. By contrast, he often is angry with his own people, and there's often a judgment or a punishment associated there. But he always says, My anger is but for a little while And I will forgive. And I will restore. One author calls the feud between Esau and Jacob a bitter Consistent and permanent blood feud. Um I have a Jeremiah reference there. If you have the new notes, I don't want you to be confused. Hazor is in the north really above the the Sea of Galilee. It was one of the largest cities that were ever in the Israel Jordan area. Uh Solomon actually did a lot of work there. It is still an Israeli national park that you can go see some ruins in uh which has some really interesting archaeological implications for uh the veracity of ecclesiastes as well as some of the other history um in the scriptures I used it as a reference because it was such a large and powerful city, but at some point in time fell under uh foreign rule. And Jeremiah is talking about how the Lord is going to condemn all the nations that do not support and lift up his plan in Israel, and even Hazor will become a haunt of jackals, an everlasting waste. No y no one will dwell there. No one will sojourn in it. And I you know, y you never know what I I I really do do think the Lord uses irony a lot. But because it's a national uh park in Israel No one lives there. Um and it has not been inhabited for a very, very, very long time. Um so I just think that's interesting as well. So I added that just to describe to you how this form of a curse is frequently found in the scriptures. The same thing are said here of Edom. It shall be destroyed. Jackals are always associated with chaos and death in the scriptures, and even more so in many of the ancient writings of this time. Associated with chaos and death may indicate the warlike Bedouins, probably the Nabataeans again on the uh southern southeastern side of Edom Uh that that ended up destroying uh Edom. And in about a hundred years Uh give or take, the timelines are a little hard because there's not a lot of record. There were a record of trading with the Edomites up to this point. And in the historical record that we have, very little is then found in the 50 to 70 years after this point. It is in fact true that the Lord erased them from the history of the world. With an exception that I'll share with you in a minute. That I never knew before, by the way. So Edom literally disappears from the record of history in this time period And then it takes a little imagination, but in this next part, Edom says, we are shattered, but we will rebuild. They may build, this is the Lord speaking. But I will tear down. And you kind of can get a a picture of this decimated people in in uh in Edom at the time. And the Jews are up there and they're getting blessed and they're rebuilding. And you can see that the you know the neighboring people might go Hey we we actually might be able to do this too. Like we might be able to rebuild. With they can, why can't we? And so you get at least in my mind, I get this impression of a group of people sitting around kind of watching the construction happen over the course of you know 50, 60, 70, 80 years in Israel and thinking, we're gonna do it too. We're we're gonna try it too And the Lord says, No, the difference here is that my hand is on the people of Israel to to bless them and to benefit them. My my plan for goodness. But this other people, that's not the way it is. Again, go to Romans 9. When the Lord talks about his electing work, he says, My hand is on these people for blessing. I will work conspicuously in their lives so that the world sees it and it brings me glory. But when it talks about the people that are not elect, they're only talked about in terms of destruction. Now the Lord does say that he still gets glory from those people. That's right out of Romans 9. Very specifically. I made them for destruction. that I might be glorified. So he still says that same thing, but he always talks about the destructive work and the destructive judgment that he will do in our lives. And it's always contrasted with the blessing that he will ensure on the lives of his elect. And they will be called the wicked country. And the people with whom the Lord is angry were ever. The New Testament picks up a thing theme with Esau and it says though he sought for it for with tears, he found no room for repentance. And if you're familiar with Romans 118, it's a passage that talks about the ability to know God from his creation. That's 20 and 21. And in eighteen it says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who, by their unrighteousness, suppress the truth. I want you to just think on that for a minute. We are in a passage studying the reality of God, right? In contrast to the way we approach him through formalistic religion, dead religion. Religion that has the appearance of truth, but none of the substance of it. Religion that speaks the words And puts on the appearance of, with none of the heart. It's an untruth. It's a deception that gets played out in our lives. And Malachi is coming and he's laying the truth before us, that I have loved you instead. And it's contrasted Jacob and Esau, right? Those are the two sides of this. And look at the condemnation that we see of the unrighteous in Romans 1. That they suppressed the truth. And if you keep reading in Romans one, it's those that see God's power in creation and respond to that. with gratitude and with joy and with thanksgiving, who are experiencing the election of God. Your own eyes shall see this. And you can so there it is again, right? Your own eyes shall see this. This this is not a remote and distant history. Your own eyes shall watch what I will do as I bless the rebuilding of my city and my temple and my walls. And you shall also see me destroy Eat the Edomites, your your perpetual enemy Your own eyes shall see this, and you shall say, Great is the Lord beyond the border of Israel. There's a lot of scripture, particularly in Ezekiel and Jeremiah, that you can read there about how God actually affects this. I already mentioned to you that it is a fact that the historical record largely leaves off any mention of Edom from about this time, plus or minus another fifty years, um, leaves off the historical record of Edom. I'm gonna switch gears here really quick and then try not to steal my thunder from the last incision in Malachi. But I want to flip forward to Luke. See if I can pull this off. Luke one verse five. In the days of Herod, King of Judea is how Luke chooses, after he introduces himself as a careful historian, he chooses to begin his gospel with in the days of Herod, king of Judea. Tell me what you know about Harry. And there's a hint. It relates to what we were just studying. Is he part of you? Is he part of what? It's part of his heritage that it's part of his either. It is. All you know about is optional. He's Edumian, starts with an I, not an E. He's Idumian. which was a a family or tribal name of a group of people that lived in Edom and had Edamic with an E. Roots. In Daniel, so really cool Luke is about to move, and he's the only gospel writer that does this. Luke is about to move into the presentation of John the Baptist, and he is going to specifically use verses from Malachi chapter 4 To make clear that where Malachi leaves off in verses 5 and 6, Luke picks up with John the Baptist. Right? And that's that part where I said it's really amazing. It's probably 450 years since then. But it's like Malachi closes his testament Or God closes his testament through Malachi. And the very next breath that Luke picks up on is look how he continues it here with Christ. But it pivots on Herod. Herod ruled from about 37 BC, and and by the way, these dates are are really pretty solid because we have a lot of of Roman records. And because the Roman record is as good as it is, we have a lot of extant corroboration for the dates and history that are in Malachi and in Luke. Or at least as it relates to this particular topic. So Herod rules from about 37 B. C. to uh four BC. Which, uh, spoiler alert means Christ cannot have been born any later than 3 BC. So you might need to fix your Christmas story there a little bit. Um Or just well, yeah, I'll leave that alone. Do what you will with that. That's free. Um 3 B C He is called Herod the Great because he has at least four sons that rule parts of Israel after his death, and many of them also have are called the same thing, called Herod. Luke's story starts with the appearance of this angel in uh the temple while Zachariah is in there uh praying, offering prayers for the restoration of Israel. That was the purpose of the priest entering the holy place at this time, was to pray for the restoration of Israel. Well, who does Malachi go to speak to? A group of people that are trying to restore Israel, and they're discouraged at the lack of that. Further, the angel comes to speak to a couple who is called righteous and blameless before the Lord, right? Adhering to the covenant relationship that they're given in Christ, but what do they not have? They do not have the quintessential element, yes. They just with my glasses on, I can read your lips. They do not have the quintessential element of the covenant, which is what? Children. If you obey me, I will perpetuate your line. Go back to Deuteronomy. And numbers, right? Don't actually do it. Go back and do the study. The quintessential element of the covenant is if you obey me and bless uh I will bless you, and I will bless you by perpetuating your family line But if you disobey me, I will cut you off. You will not have an inheritance. You will not extend your family line I will make you barren. And he's very specific. I will make all of you barren and childless. And yet this family, this two people, both of which, by the way, are from the Levitical Lineage, both from Aaron, uh descendants of Aaron, the look the tribe of Levi, that's what I'm trying to say. Both descendants of Aaron, both in the tribe of Levi But Levi, both from the priestly, which is very interesting because the very next couple of incisions, by the way, are targeted right at the priesthood in Malachi. Both of these two are in this uh priestly tribe And they are remaining steadfastly within the covenant relationship that they have with the Lord. We talked about it last week. It's who who am I and what is it? And it's the stipulations section. And when the Lord says in or when Luke says in in this first chapter that uh Zechariah and Elizabeth walked blameless before the Lord and were were deemed righteous before it It means they remained in the covenant and they followed the stipulations to the best of their ability. The best of their capacity. And this angel comes to talk to them while Zachariah is in the temple praying for the restoration. And we find out it's the angel Gabriel, and he says, I will send uh you are going to bear the messenger that was promised in Malachi chapter 4, verses 5 and 6. The one who is to come, that is Elijah, who will come in the spirit of Elijah, it is John the Baptist, and he will prepare a way for you to do this. And I love the symmetry of we're we're we're praying for the restoration of Israel, if you will, in Malachi, and we're frustrated because we're not seeing the blessing of it. And in Malachi, they are not walking according to the covenant. They're walking according to formalism. In Luke, you see this family that is doing their best to remain in the covenant and demonstrate um the goodness of God in their lives and they're active in their service. And Gabriel comes. Well, we see Gabriel three times in the scriptures. We see him as he gives prophecy to Daniel. We see him as he uh enunciates the birth of John the Baptist, and we see him as he does the same thing for the birth of Christ. When he talks to Daniel, he has a really amazing prophecy. And his prophecy really walks through history and he does it by talking about I I should have come to you sooner, I would have come to you sooner, but I was delayed. And he begins to talk about who he was delayed by. And ultimately you're given the impression there. Um I say impression, that's not true, you are told about the reality of the spiritual conflict that goes on in ways that we can't always see, and yet it does happen. And he says, I was delayed uh effectively by by the um I I don't want to use the word angel here and I don't really want to use the word spirit here, but we're we we're delayed By the spirit of the Persians. The Prince of Persia is what it says. But but in the reading you you're very definitely given the sense that it's a a spiritual prince, not a manly king that sits on the throne. And he begins to elaborate on that. And I just want to take you through this really quick. The Greeks Conquered this entire region of the world, and this is all in Gabriel's uh pronouncements to Daniel. He said, The Greek Empire is gonna delay me. And after that the Ptolemaic Empire, which was really just a fracturing of Alexander the Great's kingdom. Four generals, Ptolemy was one of them, Seleucid was the next one. Uh Ptolemy takes control of Israel for a short period of time. And then the Seleucid general takes control of this region for a period of time. You have the period that is more familiar to many of you because of the desecration of the temple called the Maccabean Revolt. And so the uh family of Maccabeans takes over And they do an interesting thing. They claim to be kings of Judea, but they always make themselves the high priest Um and that ends up uh through uh I don't know, I can't remember exactly how long, but I think there's like seven say brothers, but it's a uh uh you know a family tree type thing. Um and the last one is really pretty weak And gets manipulated a lot by the um the nation of Israel itself and a lot of the surrounding kingdoms, as well as the growing influence of this uh small upstart at the time called Rome. And um that last guy, John Hyrcanus, ends up taking counsel from uh a wise guy uh a a wise man that he knows in a neighboring region. And that wise man ends up uh showing up on the radar of Rome when Rome gets tired of the Maccabean foolishness uh constantly revolting, constantly sticking their finger in the Roman eye. And the Romans get really tired of him after a while. This John Hercanus guy And they finally get a hold of this wise man whose name always looks like antipasta to me, but you know it's it's obviously not antipasta. Um But because I have that in my head I can't actually remember what his real name is, I would just think antipasta when I say it. So I I'll get it for you later and we'll correct the record. Um And that guy says, I know just the ruler that can fix this for you. Loyal to Rome. Really loyal to Rome and really smart and has all the same ideas that you have about colonization. Here's this guy named Herod. And Herod steps on in onto the stage and very uniquely, what is Herod most uh I might say what two things. But what is Herod most known for historically? Building. Building in general. I didn't expect you to say that. That's an awesome answer. Most people say building the temple And that's true. That's absolutely true. But really it's his the scope of his building work is what is most notable to history about Herod And it was what was most loved about Herod by the Romans. At some point in time there's a revolt uh in the Roman Republic. Um you guys know all this history, but I just I love it, and this is what I did on Thursday too, right? I love the way real history plays into this. God doesn't wave his hands at all this stuff. He gives these very specific prophecies in Daniel so that we can see them played out in the extant historical record. This is a real God with real fingerprints and real footprints all over history. It's the reality of God's work in the recorded history. We know these things more surely than we know most things that we think we know from yesterday. The amount of testimony for these things is absolutely amazing. And when we look at it, I think that we should be inspired to see God's awesome hand constantly providing for his people in ways that as they look back they they could not have imagined God doing And so God raises up this guy called Edom, uh called Herod. Right? From the Edomites, for heaven's sake, the worst enemy. And Herod begins to build And one of the things he begins to build, let's see if I can find my quote here. One of the things that Herod builds is the temple, and he builds it larger than it's ever been. And while I read and quote from Josephus a lot, I'm not thrilled with his I'm not thrilled with the way that he holds truth fairly loosely. But nonetheless, I think his characterization of the temple here is probably right on. And Josephus describes the extraordinary nature of the temple. It wanted nothing that could astound either mind or eye. Remember, he he quickly left Israel and spent the rest of his time in Roman cities This guy knew what grand architecture looked like. We are still traveling the world to see the ruins of that grand architecture, and we still call it grand. Josephus was not a novice. He was not innocent in what great architecture looked like and great beauty. And yet he describes the temple as wanting nothing that could astound either mind or eye. Being covered on all sides with massive plates of gold. All that was not overlaid with gold was of pure Purest white. Malachi leaves off with a really encouraging passage that says 4 verse 2. But for you who fear my name, the son of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go about leaping like calves from the stall. You shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet. On the day when I act, says the Lord of hosts. And then he says, Elijah will be a forerunner of that day. Right, that was that last word. And then here we pick up in Luke with a description of this guy, Herod, that built this temple so that when the sun came up over the horizon, it burned. Right? A burning temple of righteousness to declare God's presence and sovereignty in the land of Israel. Herod the Edomite Said that he would build. Some suspect, I don't know if they get it from something that was written or not, I didn't have enough time to do that research, but some suspect That Herod actually tried to get the people of Israel to believe that he was the Elijah that was promised. And that that was why he rebuilt the temple. This Edomite whose nation had been destroyed 350, 400 years ago, decided that he would be the one to fulfill the prophecy and to restore God's presence in Israel. And he built this phenomenal temple. And the Jews went along with it. Why not? But God's promise here in Malachi, they may build, but I will tear it down. And they will be called the wicked country and the people with whom the Lord is angry forever. When Christ spoke, he did go into the temple to teach. But when he sent John the Baptist, there's a really interesting phrase that we mispunctuate when we translate it into English. It starts off with, Behold. The one crying in the wilderness. Right? He's talking about John the Baptist there. That's not actually how that sentence should be read. It should be read, behold the one. And then put some punctuation in there that makes it clear that that's the introduction to the next statement. And the next statement is, in the wilderness Is one saying, make straight the path for the Lord. And the distinction I'm trying to draw there is God wasn't interested in entering into that formalistic religion manifested by the Edomite king in the temple. And so he sent John the Baptist out into the wilderness. Now why people went out to the wilderness to hear from a guy as weird as John the Baptist, I will never know. But they went in droves. They went to find Christ out in the wilderness, not in the midst of their formalistic religion. The temple was all about where you meant God. And by the time John the Baptist shows up on the scene, he finds that formalism have so cancered the religious practices and minds and hearts of the people, that the last place you would go look for God is in that temple. It was beautiful. Nothing that did not astound the mind or the eye. Covered in gold. Surely this is the place of blessing. Look at it. How could you say that God has not blessed this? Greater even than Solomon's temple. Go out into the wilderness to hear the one, the voice of the one that is calling you to Christ. And God destroyed Herod, and God destroyed that temple, and it has never been rebuilt. I've always wondered about that. Why not? Right? 1870, destroyed by the Romans. Utterly destroyed by the Romans. Why was it never rebuilt? Certainly there was time. My answer is simply that God fulfilled the prophecy here in Malachi 1. Right? You chose to serve an Edomite king. You chose to serve an Edomite king. with a religion that was so empty of me that in the New Testament we often make the foolish mistake of viewing all of God's work in the Old Testament as though it were exemplified by the formalism of Pharisees, which it was not But they certainly refined that formalism to a height that had never before been achieved in at least the testimony of the scriptures. And so God destroyed, destroyed them. Destroyed the temple, destroyed those people, and they have never been rebuilt. And it's in that that Christ arrives. It's in the midst of that that the testimony of the cross is heard. And if Christ's life isn't a testimony of experiences in contrast to Expectations. I don't know what is, right? Christ's life is a study in the contrast between one's experience and one's expectations. We expected Christ to come and rule and reign on an earthly kingdom and he said, I am doing so much more. I am doing so much more. And every author in the New Testament that picks that up commands rejoicing and joy and testifies to rejoicing and joy in the midst of that. There is no religion that does not celebrate the goodness of our God. Any other testimony in your heart is a testimony of formalism. is a testimony of you wanting it your way in your time. I hope that you will be challenged by the historicity of God's word today. I just love the the historicity of it, right? So much evidence. So much And so detailed in such a way that I can't imagine any human author ever being able to do it Or tee it up, because you would have needed multiple authors just because the expanse of time represented by Malachi and Luke, right? How could that have been manufactured by men? And, you know, obviously my bias, it couldn't have been. But I love the historicity of it. And I love the completeness of it. God fulfilled his promise by destroying Edom within fifty years of this prophecy before the very eyes of the people that he gave the prophecy to, just like he said he was going to. But four hundred years later, he did it again, and in a bigger way. And this time Christ walked onto the scene and declared the fullness of all that was promised in the Old Testament. I hope you are encouraged, encouraged in your faith, encouraged in God, encouraged in his work in your life, not satisfied to believe that God will be good only in the grand things while you cling to some desperate empty covenant, but that he will be good to you and faithful to you in your lives, potentially through suffering. This is not a hope, wealth, and prosperity Health, wealth, and prosperity, gospel, potentially through suffering. And yet doing a work in your life to enable rejoicing and joy. And enabling you to see him without the foolishness of formalism. I hope that you will see that in Malachi.