We do have a lot of notes today, but the back three are notes that some of you should actually already have from um previous classes. I think I've used uh that same Uh excursus on the suzerainty treaty form in previous classes. I know I used it in Sans because uh I just pulled it out of my notes from the class on Psalm. Um So we'll see how far we get today, but I promise I won't Make this an interminable march. Or I'll try not to make it an interminable march. So we begin with our first incision today. We spent the previous two weeks prepping it, and here we are in incision one in sensitivity to God's grace. And it's a short passage in Malachi chapter one verses two through five. And it introduces really the core of all six disputations, and that is God's covenant with his people. And so that excurses on the suzerainty treaty form is intended to try to introduce you to the idea of covenant in the Old Testament. And it's funny I didn't bump into such a systematic study as I've uh got in these last three pages until a few years ago while I was studying Tesson in the Psalms. I wanted to understand that covenant love better And so I began to pull out some books that I keep on the shelf for reference, but frankly rarely open. They're pretty pointy-headed and hard to read, but I found some really good material in them And one in particular is uh effectively a theology book by a guy named Frain, who's a Reformed Presbyterian. And he had some great material, but I have to say since then I have uh I have bumped into uh uh a lot of material on the topic, uh so much so that this morning even I found one uh by one of the commentaries that I'm using to study Malachi actually, one of the one of the authors of uh one of the commentaries I'm using to study Malachi. I wrote a whole book on this student treaty form and and covenant as it exists in the Old Testament and how that really uh shapes the theology that we have from beginning to end in in the Bible. And so I can't say enough about reading it. I don't know how many people do read it, I guess I'm losing my voice. Could be a good thing. I just hope you'll spend some time with those last three pages. It is super important to understanding much of the scriptures. uh but particularly these six disputations. Um I'm not gonna teach through 'em, it's just it's too academic and uh it it just seems abusive in this short time we have on Sunday mornings, but the notes are there. It's what I use when I want to go back and refresh myself in it. So I think they're complete enough for you to get a good idea All six disputations really speak about a covenant-keeping God. And it's contrasted with covenant-breaking people. And so I want to stop for a minute at the subtitle or title of the section is God's Grace. And I have to Just to give you some, you know, don't want you to feel like I'm deceiving you, right? I'm I'm gonna press on our definition of grace this morning I think we have a a broken definition from gray uh of grace. And while I'm grateful for uh Martin Luther's uh reformation of the church and really the restoration of the um primacy of scripture above traditions of man. I'm not convinced he got it right when it came to grace Or I'm not convinced that he described it in such a way that we get it right when we try to rehearse what Martin Luther said. And so I want to I want to press on grace a little bit this morning And to do that, I'm going to ask you to exercise some courage in light of what I just said, and tell me what grace means to you. Give me a definition of grace. Undeserved blessings. Undeserved blessings. Certainly, certainly a facet of grace, right? And maybe the dominant facet that we think of when we talk about grace? Mistakenly. But definitely a facet of grace, undeniable. Well I say mistakenly, my humble opinion, right? What's he gonna say? Oh, I I think that was a tremendous foundation, but can anybody add on that I heard of grace often as the power and the the desire and the power to do as well. I I I love that. It's often overlooked, but I often define grace, particularly when I'm teaching a very young audience. Infant, infant audience. Since you're all so very young. Yeah, I often describe it as God's strength in you. So again. Super important, right? Not enough though. Both need to be parts of our definition, by the way, not dismissing either part. Both need to be part of it. I just want to make sure we have the fullness of grace It's such an important word, and we often only mean undeserved blessing. And then some of us, when we're really in particular need of enablement, extend our definition to include God's strength in us, to do or to obey. But there's still more. Dovetails nicely And and very scripturally with Marius comment, right? Undeserved blessing God's riches at Christ's expense. Why do we get that undeserved blessing? Because it was bought for us. It was purchased for us, right? And all true statements, by the way, right? None of these are untrue statements, right? Again, just just not enough. Let me give it another second or two to see if I can get you engaged, but uh I'm gonna move on. Good morning. So I think um there's an aspect of God's commitment. God's what? Commit. Commitment. Right. And that that kinda that maybe connects with the um undeserved part of it, but it It's God chooses to show us grace because of who he is, not because of what we do Also good. Also good. The dimension that we often miss, but is actually foundational, it it it precedes, if you will. Um matter of fact it it necessarily precedes All the parts that we discussed here is God's command, or God's covenant, or God's stipulations. If you want a word that you'll find in the notes in the back of what I provided you today. When God enters into covenant with his people, he declares who he is. He he establishes authority as the ruler, as the king. A suzerainty treaty just means you you have a king And you have the rest of the people. That's what that word suzerainty means, right? You're underneath this king. He establishes name, he establishes his kingship, he establishes his right to rule. He establishes his love or loyalty, right, for the people that he writes this covenant with, or decrees this covenant to He creates a series of stipulations. He establishes the blessings for obedience to those stipulations, and he provides the continuity of the treaty Throughout. So you'll find those spelled out in more detail in the end. Grace is all of those things, but in the context of covenant. Grace is God's strength in you required in order to obey the stipulations of the covenant. That's why we need it. Right? That's what makes Christ and the spirit that he gives us unique in the New Testament. spice the Old Testament. Although maybe not as unique as we'd like to make it at some point in time. Meaning it he still enabled people in the Old Testament to satisfy him as well. They didn't do it all by their own grit Unmerited grace, unmerited favor, the procurement of propitiation that we require when we break those covenant stipulations. The commitment of God to forgive and restore and renew when we break those stipulations. Or, frankly, just undervalue them. The view parents know exactly how infuriating it is. And and you know, this is me taking my human heart and human intellect and casting on a God. How dangerous is that? Right? But foolishly, I'm gonna do it anyway. Um You know, as parents, how infuriating is it w when your children disregard your authority? You know, you look them dead in the eye and say, get this done. And they just they act like it doesn't matter. I would rather say this, but if you repeat it to my sons, you will force me to come down on them extremely hard. I would almost rather somebody just tell me no At least it has enough courage to interact with me as a real person, but to disregard it feels infinitely disrespectful. I just don't care about you or your authority or your instruction. It's just not part of my priorities. And I want you to think about that a little bit. I want you to think about covenant. I want you to think about grace in that context. Because I think it makes These passages more real in our minds. You are not safe because you don't think hostile thoughts against God. You are not safe because the particular disobediences that we are going to read about in the six disputations of Malachi don't happen to be yours. We don't have a sacrificial system. So when we come up next week or the week after about the polluted sacrifice, you're going to go, check, not doing that one. Yeah, no kidding. No kidding. But what is your sacrifice for the Lord? When Christ comes in the New Testament, he says, I'm tired of your sacrifices. What do I care about? He actually said it Isaiah and in the Psalms and a bunch of other places too. But when he comes in the New Testament, he's very clear about it. I am done with your sacrifices. As a matter of fact, I'm going to tear the temple down so you can't do it anymore What I want is all of you, not your purchased calves. I want all of you. I am tired of your indifference. I am tired of your partial affection. I want all of you. God's grace It's his unmerited blessing. It's the strength that he gives us to accomplish that which he requires us to do in his providence or in his sovereignty It is the procurement of what it's Christ's procurement of God's riches toward us both now and in eternity. And it is absolutely the covenant love of the Lord in the face of our covenant breaking. But if you do not appreciate the fact that it is within the context of covenant, you cheapen grace. See Dietrich Bonhoeffer, The Cost of Discipleship. Great, great book on the topic. And so all of Malachi, although it speaks infinitely to God's love and God's grace for his people, it's this it's this fatherly care. By its own words, it's a fatherly care for a covenant breaking people. But the people are absolutely covenant breakers. And you see that little table there, right? Look at the language. And I just pulled out three. There's actually more in Malachi, but I don't want to beat a dead horse more than I want to do. There's the priests in uh Malachi two, one through nine. You have corrupted the covenant of Levi. And when we get there we'll magnify the meaning of the Hebrew word that's translated corrupted there, but it's gross, frankly. The general populace of God's covenant people profaning the covenant of our fathers. And then husbands and wives, you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. Not sure why I have a separation between the Y and the Our there, but uh I'll blame that on four thirty or something. Um and your wife by covenant, right? So all through this is is talking to a group of people that are not in not adhering to the stipulations of the covenant. Told you there's six disputations and I think in the first week we went over what a disputational form is and so I just wanted to show you how it works uh here in this first incision. It's it's fairly uh fairly easy to track and and follows cleanly the disputation form. In some of the later ones there's some compound forming going on so it gets a little harder, but I just wanted to show it to you here. I'll probably do this each week just to let you track it. And it's pretty much right out of uh adapted, but right out of one of the references that I'm using. So you see the first part of verse two is an assertion by Yahweh, I have loved you. They always have to have the four parts, right? The assertion, the question, the response, and then the implication. The second part of B is the question by Israel, how or in what way have you loved us? The third part of verse 2 through 4, Yahweh's response Yahweh's choice of Jacob Israel over Esau-Edom, the desolation of Edom, and the futility curse. on Edom and I put a footnote in there that is worth you tracking down at some point in time. That arrow is not misplaced. I just wanted to make sure you looked at the footnote. Um and at least with my old eyes I can barely see the two, but the red line I can see. Um Um and then the implication is in verse five. And we're gonna spend uh hopefully we're gonna spend uh uh a little bit more time than this brief statement to go over that. Yahweh corrects their perspective and declares what is true See what the Lord is doing. And just in case those of you that were in Psalms class with me will not be surprised by this, but uh I've used uh the word, the name, the covenant name of God here to describe these things. And I've done it intentionally, right? Lord is ambiguous. It it it just means king or ruler, uh effectively. And and as such it's actually that's the Greek word that's used when they want to translate Yahweh in in the Septuagint. They just use the word Lord or King. But in order to keep our minds on the fact that he is talking to his people in terms of covenant, I want to use his covenant name. It's important to do that. We in the New Testament era cannot help ourselves. We hear the word covenant, we translate that to law, and we immediately throw it away. That's not us. That's not a part of what we do. That's fine. You do what you want with that for whatever reasons you want to do it. I'm going to stick close to the scriptures. And he calls himself a covenant God. He names himself and describes why he's doing it extensively in the Old Testament as Yahweh is what my covenant people call me. and it means that I will meet with them in a way that's peculiar in all the world and in all history. And when that falls apart, because his people are rapacious covenant breakers, He makes a new covenant through Christ. And he says, it's a new covenant. So I'm going to stick close to scriptures and talk about whether or not I'm in the covenant with the Lord in the way that the Lord intends and realizing the blessings of being in that covenant. Vice is vice to discipline and judgment. You say, how can all of that be in the covenant? Read your Bible. Read your Bible. I have an extensive bookshelf. My wife has started literally um she she doesn't like to buy anything ever. And all she's talked about for the last several months is, we need more bookshelves now. We need more bookshelves. We need I'm tired of looking at your books stacked on the floor someplace, right? And a a lot of them are not, you know, just Bibles. I love to read theology and doctrine and philosophy and all sorts of other long-haired, pointy-headed Stuff is not in the scriptures. They all speak about truth. They are not truth in and of themselves. John 17, 17, thy word is truth. Don't tell me what I'm allowed to say. I love it when people tell me what I can and cannot say because it doesn't fit a doctrinal statement. If it's in here, I'm going to say it. And if I get it wrong, one of you needs to stand up and show me the truth. And it better not be out of one of the theology books. It better be out of here. We are in covenant with the Lord. And there are stipulations. And it is a blessed place to believe. The covenant is the place of blessing. You are my people And I am committed to caring for you. And here are the stipulations of that care for your good, for his glory. And in our covenant, it will continue for forever. How great is that? Nobody will ever defeat our king. There is no covenant in all of the world that has ever been like that. Every covenant was upset by death or defeat. But not ours. There's no surprise. There's no lack of expectation on the part of our king. There's no failure of resources. Nothing diminishes the covenant that we have with the Lord. What? Let me stick a magnet on that thing and close the door so you guys just don't know what time it is. Well here we go. We we can begin the the disputation here. I have loved you, says Yahweh. And I'm sorry for the rudimentary English lesson here, but it's a bit important, so I'm going to spend a second on it. We don't have the verb tense that is used here in Hebrew. in English. And so I've drawn some pictures to make sure that we understand the distinctions here. And to tell you the truth I'm an engineer, not an English guy, right? So uh this was helpful to me actually. Um I have loved you in English is a present perfect And out of one of my pointy-headed books, which you can see based on the definition there, it expresses an interior action that leads to a state relevant to the moment. So you scratch your head and say, how is a definition useful if you can't even understand the words used in the definition? So I drew a picture, because you know, pictures help me. Pictures I can cartoons I can I can get my head wrapped around So the present perfect, which is used here, is the one on the right. An anterior action is a thing that happened previously, you know, just before. That leads to a state relevant to the moment. And it is contrasted with the way we usually use the past tense in English, which means the thing just happened in the past. Right? It was fully encapsulated in the past. It happened, it's done, there we go. Right? And it may have a result, but you still talk about it as though the action were fully complete in the end We don't really have a good verb tense. We do it with this present perfect, but we don't really have a good verb tense that says that this action began Previously, it was effective in what it attempted to accomplish, but the action is continuing, and it continues to be effective now and into the future. But that's that's the Hebrew verb tense that is used here. It is not a past perfect, it is a present perfect. You say, what's the point? This isn't God saying, I loved you, and then you disobeyed. You stepped outside of the stipulations of the covenant, and now I'm coming for you. That's not what he's saying here. He's saying, I began to love you, and what comes next comes directly from a continuation of that love. I entered into a covenant with you, and I told you that the continuity was permanent. And so I'm coming to you to reestablish the covenant. You are outside of the covenant, and it is not good. And so I am coming in my love. To re-establish the covenant with you. And then I'd mentioned this to you previously, the word he uses for love here. Um Is uh is uh a love that creates a covenant. The uh commitment to loving is the festive of God. The love that creates a covenant, the love that has a heart for a people that says, I wish to enter in, I wish to commit myself to these people and have them committed to me, is this aha. Or I have. Do you have a preference on whether I use a long or a short valve there? Okay. I think I've heard it pose. That's why I wasn't. Um It always includes the blessings of God toward his people, and it always includes continuity. It includes more than that. See the pages at the end Makes the affection of the Lord the earnest familial love for the uh the subject of of his assertion here, right? This this is this is God reaching to his people, like a father to a son or daughter. And what's terrible here in the context of this first incision is like in Hosea, the people don't even understand that the goodnesses that they do have come from the Lord. Skip forward a little bit. Let's go ahead and hit some of these verses in uh that second bullet. When, how, has Yahweh loved us, right? So the the people reply, How have you loved us? God says, I have loved you, starting in the past and continuing up to this point. The people say, How have we loved you? Excuse me, how have you loved us? And so I want to look at a couple of these passages here. Deuteronomy 7. Say what, if I get three people to turn there, who can do Deuteronomy 7? Okay, you got that one? Colossians one you got that one and first Peter one You got that one. Six B through nine. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his own possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. The Lord did not set his love on you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any of the peoples For you were the fewest of all the peoples. But because the Lord loved you and kept the oath which he swore to your forefathers The Lord brought you out by mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Know therefore that the Lord your God He is God, the faithful God, who keeps his covenant and his loving kindness to a thousandth generation with those who love him and keep his commandments. Pretty self explanatory there. Um Colossians one strengthened with all power according to his glorious plan for the attaining of all strength, passions, and patience, joyously giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us. To share in the inheritance. For he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us. To the kingdom of his beloved son. And whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sin. Yes, the inheritance idea there is important, particularly in this one as we end up getting down to Jacob a contrast between Jacob and Esau, so I wanted to throw that in. I wanted you to also see delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved son. Right? What a discouragement it must have been when this entire nation and and if you know your history at all, there's so many stories that you've been told over the years, I'm sure, about how horrible the Babylonian conquest of first the northern kingdom and then the southern kingdom was, right? It was bad enough so that at some point in time they were eating their own children in Jerusalem in order to survive. So I I feel like that that goes all the way to the bottom, right? It it just it just was horrible. Led away to Babylon. Where's the next time you read about Babylon in the scriptures? Right? Toward the end of your Bible. Right? It's this signification of what's all the things that are against God, all the things that are depraved in the world. And the Lord says here, I have given you an inheritance. That's pretty much synonymous with covenant I have transferred you from the dark domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of His beloved Son, in whom we have redemption and forgiveness of sins. Notice that that transfer includes our strengthening with all power according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience. And what what are the next two words? Now how can you be quiet? All you have to do is read them. It's not like it's a trick question. Verse eleven. What are the last two words of the verse? Patience, joyfully, with joy, right? With joy. Yeah. I want you to see that our time here is in fact filled with trials, does require obedience Does require us to live by faith, which means absolutely trust in God's covenant relationship with us, despite the fact that our experiences seem to compete With the truth that God loves us. But what marks God's people in the midst of those experiences is joy. And then first Peter 1, 3 through 9. Blessed be the God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The resurrection of Jesus Christ before. To obtain an inheritance which is imperishable of the Father who will fate will preserve in heaven for you. who are protected by the power of God through faith, for the salvation ready to be revealed to us. This you greatly rejoice, even though for a little while, if necessary, have been distressed by various trials So that the proof of your case being most precious thankfully perishable, even though testified by to be found to be results. praise and glory to honor the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, and though you do not see the losing great rejoice. The joy inexpressible and full of glory taking as the outcome of your faith the salvation of your souls. Yeah, I wanted to go to that passage because I told you in the first week that I want you to be very careful not to mishear me These disputations that we're reading about in Malachi are for a particular people in a particular context in a particular period of history. And it would be wrong for me to abscond with Malachi's direct disputations and say, There you there you have it. That's us. Well, no, it's not. It's those people at that time in this in that covenant. But we can learn from that. Learning from a thing is different than identifying with a thing or making it synonymous. We are they. We are not they But we are they in 1 Peter. And do you not see the echoes of this same thing here? We live in a time when our experiences are at odds with our expectation in Christ. We know God is good in all that He does. We know that we exist for His glory, but for our good. We know that he says, All you that are weak and weary and heavy laden, come to me and I will give you peace. And we have the promise of good things in Christ. But our experiences exhaust us, tire us, fatigue us, bore us, whatever the case would be. And we have ups and downs. There's times of goodness and times that aren't good. I mean, just they're they're just not good by any stretch of the imagination. And we get weary. We've been called into a covenant. Here's this word inheritance again, right? That's the New Testament equivalent of covenant for the most part. I say for the most part, because in Hebrews he's very clear, he made a new covenant. So it's very specific. But it's equated to inheritance, and it always is in the Old Testament as well. An inheritance that's imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, the fullness of which is kept in heaven for you, right? You don't have it all at the moment. There's still more to come But it and you are being guarded by God's power through faith. For this salvation, this fullness that will come in the last time. And in this, here it is again: you rejoice. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. I think I shared with you last week, it's just been a hard couple weeks, and I caught myself sitting at the the dinner table. I'm I'm trying to get to what what's the point? Why am I taking you here? Because I'm studying these things all on my mind, this covenant love of the Lord, and my need to respond to that covenant correctly, to not be one of these priests, to not be one of these people, to not have my marriage affected in the way that these people's marriage was affected or destroyed. And all that's running through my head and all the experiences of work and church and everything else, right, that makes up the good and the bad things in my life. And I'm sitting there at the table and I I know I told you this I think last week Thank you, Lord, for the food. Thank you for the good day. What a hypocrite. What I meant was, I'm I'm not feeling thankful, Lord. I'm tired and I'm weary, and I wish you'd just hurry up and either kill me or bless me But standing in the middle is painful. And I I'm tired of that, or at least on On these particular weeks, I think we've had a conversation like this sometime in the past, right? And I don't think we're alone, by the way. If that makes you feel any better, there's a bunch of others that are in misery too. I meant that tongue in cheek. Mostly. Mostly. Mostly. And here it is in the New Testament to us too, right? Yes, yes, Scott. Your experiences are at odds with your expectations. Your experiences have pressed out what capacity you have to do this by your own strength. And so we need God's strength in us. And it's gonna have to be undeserved because I already confessed to you, I I'm screwing it up. And it has to be secured by something greater than me, or I won't believe it can be true. And that's what was procured for me on the cross. And because his commitment to his son is inviolable, I can know that he will also be committed to me. But it has to be in the bounds of his stipulations. And those stipulations are, you must walk in rejoicing. It is your light. It is your salt. It is your testimony before the Lord. It is the purpose for which he saved you. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. I just want you to think through that sentence for a little bit. I don't I don't know if this works for everybody, it works for me. I I I do a lot of things. What does that mean? It means that I'm often having to buy a tool to do a job that I think I can do, but I've never actually tried. Welding is my new one right now. Um too long of a story as to why, but welding's my new one right now. And as is often the case, I I go out and I try to find a tool that someplace between you know those cheap Chinese knockoff things that you can get for nine ninety five and the one that costs nine thousand dollars because you know everybody needs Picasso when they weld. Um And so I try to find a decent tool. And about 30% of the time, you spend a decent amount of money on the tool and you start to use it And it fails right in the middle of your job at the most critical joke. You know And it's so disappointing. I do not want to be found in the judgment day like that tool. I do not want to be found like that Scott, your faith had the appearance of being substantial. But it was not. In your heart, you didn't trust me. You didn't trust me enough. You didn't love me enough. You didn't pursue me in the right way. So that the tested genuineness of your faith may be found, may be revealed, if you will To result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. That's Malachi in Sision 1, through the mouth or pen of 1 Peter. And we're gonna stop with 2B is what we're gonna do. So if you were panicking that we're never gonna make it, you're right, we're not gonna make it, and I'm not gonna try. Um I have loved you, says the Lord, but you say, by the way, notice who says that. It's not Malachi with his prophecy, right? Malachi is writing these words, and we spent some time on this, but I just want you to be really clear. This is a fairly unique construct in the Old Testament, but I love it. The Lord is coming to his people almost like he did on Mount Sinai. You will hear my voice, not mediated through a prophet, not mediated through some other means. I want to engage you directly. I have loved you God says, and they have the temerity to respond, How have you loved us? To be fair with these people, they were facing difficult economic times, and likely, because of the mention of Edom here, were being persecuted significantly by Edom. But also just the economic part you can find in Malachi 3, 9-12, but it's also all through Ezra and Nehemiah. You can see it in Esther as well. as is localized in Babylon still, but um you you can see that these people do have real struggles. And I don't want to diminish or or make light of that. These are real struggles. These are real people with real circumstances that in fact seem to be in contradiction to the good expectations they have about being in covenant with their Lord And they have a right to those expectations because half of the book of Ezekiel says, Okay, I brought you here because of your disobedience, but I'm going to take you home and abundantly bless you. in that, right? So there's some real reason for their expectations. I do not want to caricaturize these people as just foolish people. They are real people With real life circumstances just like you. And we don't have the time for it this morning, but they got themselves into really stick sticky situations that I'm not clear that there was a good way out of. And we'll touch on that some more when we talk about them intermarrying with some of the um pagan people around them. There were pests and plagues in uh chapter two, verse seventeen. And it's worth turning over to Isaiah real quick just to take a look at what I think, and you know, right, Isaiah is contemporaneous with this time. Uh where am I going? I can't talk and turn in my Bible at the same time. Isaiah fifty nine, nine to eleven. I'm sorry for not getting that reference in your notes. Therefore, justice is far from us and righteousness does not overtake us. We hope for light. and behold darkness. We hope for brightness, but we walk in gloom. We grope for the wall like the blind. We grope like those who have no eyes. We stumble At noon as in the twilight, among those in full vigor we are like dead men. We all growl like bears, we moan and moan like doves. We hope for justice But there is none. For salvation, but it is far from us. So the people have a difficult plight. So when it comes to understanding this question, how have you loved us? I think it's only fair to um consider two possibilities. One, it's an insolent question, expressing doubt or implicit indictment. In other words, Lord, look at my circumstances. Look at this. This is not good. And even if it's my fault, it's not good. Isn't that the point of Christ? You're supposed to cleanse me, forgive me, and bless me. And I'm not seeing that. And while we would never have the courage to say, God, you're just not good. We just stop paying much attention. We move him from that thing that's of uttermost value in our lives, and we we move him down here. The kids become more important, the marriage becomes more important, our identity becomes more important, our financial success becomes more important, the size of the house that we live in or the condition of the furniture that's in it become more important. The cars and vacations, the way people perceive us at church or in our social settings, the trips we take, the experiences we have. The health we enjoy. The things our kids go on to do when they leave our home. whether or not we are in relationship with other people or another person, as the case may be. Those things just begin to crowd out our thoughts for the Lord. If He won't help us do it, if He won't bless us with it, then we will pursue it by our own strength in the best way that we know how. And we'll try to do it, you know, kindly, nicely, gently. according to, you know, the the gold rule and all the rest of it. But we'll do it in our own strength. So it could be an insolent question like that. It could just be a painful cry from the midst of a suffering people like Job's. Job spent a lot of chapters just crying out in misery, right? And the Lord doesn't condemn that initially. It's not until he persists with it, when it begins to congeal as a certain sort of insolent question in the later chapters that the Lord redresses him And I love, I shared it with you before, I keep saying it because I love it so much. I love that when God finally gets a hold of Job's mind. and speaks truth to him, his response is, these things are too wonderful for me. The rest of the disputations make it clear that no matter what the cause, the people's attitude towards God has become sinful. And in in all the rest of what we will the rest of the five disputations, this this is very clear in strong language. Independent of which of those two types of questioning you think you see, the people's questions question reflects a deep-seated conviction that their expectations are not in harmony Excuse me, that should be their ex- Well it is their experiences. I just can't read. That their experiences are not in harmony with their expectations about God and His love. They could only see the valley despite the many miraculous blessings. And then the rest is a cut-and-paste error. Erase that next line. Oh wow, a whole bunch of cut-and-paste errors there. Erased, what, four of those lines? Five of those lines? Six of those lines. Wow. For the record, I do correct these and repost them when I'm done. Barrett is uh where I got the you know the idea for these six incisions from And he makes an interesting quote in a study guide that he has to his book. He taught a class out of it actually at one point in time. And he makes this interesting statement. He says, God's love This is kind of his pastoral summary on this section. He says God's love is not to be measured by the nature of circumstances or amount of possessions, but by the relationship we have with him. Is that a true statement? Is that statement true? Come on. Come on, come on. God's love is not to be measured by the nature of circumstances or amount of possession But by the relationship we have with him. Honestly, I no, because it's not about us. It's about Alpha for us in spite of the relationship we have with him. I think it's it's giving us too much room despite the relationship we tend to have with him, and his relationship with us But that's my first thought when I read it. I had not read his statement that way, but now that you've said it I I see what you're saying. I I just assumed that he was reflecting on the merit of God's relationship with us. Meaning the treasure that we have is God's relationship with us. Not I wasn't I don't actually know what he meant. I didn't get to ask him. But I I hadn't thought of the part where it's like, you know, our relationship with him. I guess that was the first thing I think. Yeah, no, I mean interesting that's why I asked, to get the perspectives right. Anybody else? Alright, well I mean obviously those of you that are sneaky in the room are already looking at the next couple bullets. While the comment is true, it is not sufficient and it is not consistent with the context Malachi doesn't say we should just be grateful for relationship with Yahweh. It says we should wake up and see the reality of God's loving goodness to us. And we'll close with these passages from Psalm 78. So flip over there. And this should be encouraging to you. You don't have to walk out of this room going, okay All my problems are still here, all my griefs and trials and woes, all my frustrations and despairs, all my, you know, whatever it is, and I'm just supposed to suck it up because God loves me. That is not the message of the scriptures. That is not what a covenant says. Covenant says, I am your God, and here are the stipulations for our relationship, and here are the blessings associated with those stipulations. And here is the continuity of my covenant. So it's important to keep that in mind. Psalm seventy-eight I'm only I'm gonna skip around to those verses you see there, so stay with me. He's talking about basically the goodness of the Lord, right? Asaph is a singer in the temple. proclaiming the goodness of God, helping people understand who God is and approach him in right worship. And he says, we will not hide them the the the the things that God has done previous, we will not hide them from their children, but tell to the coming generation the glorious deeds of the Lord That's Yahweh there again. And his might, and the wonders that he has done. Skipping to verse seven. So that they should set their hope in God and not forget the works of God. but keep his commandments. Do you see that? God has been good and done great works, and we will teach that to the next generation so that they will set their hope in that God and obey him. There is no part of that that says, so that they will be stoic and in the midst of experiences, in contrast to expectations, they'll just keep going like robots. There is no part of that that is here. What is here is let's make sure that we are putting the truth of God before our children, before the next generation, so that they can truly see what God is doing. If you live in this world, you consume a steady stream of misinformation. And what you need most on Sundays is God, of course, right? But if we put a finer point on that, we need the truth of God. You need to see your life as he sees it. You need to see your life in the reality that it actually is in, instead of the context of the misinformation that you live in. Verse 8, and that they should not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation. Who days after they were brought out of Egypt were complaining about the food they ate. God, you don't care for us. What are you talking about? Did you see the Red Sea? Yeah, we were But we're just like them. Lest we be too condemning, right? I I would be the first to tell you. They tested God in their heart by demanding the food they craved. Not the food they needed, not the food that was good for them, but the food they craved. In 19, they spoke against God, saying, Can God spread a table in the wilderness? Will God be good to us in the midst of this wilderness? Well Therefore, when the Lord heard he was full of wrath, a fire was kindled against Jacob. His anger rose against Israel, perfect in the context that we're reading, right? Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated. That's right here in this disputation. Because they did not believe in God and did not trust his saving power. It's not that they didn't believe in God. That's if if that's all you get from that, right, you're you're not reading the passage correctly. They didn't believe that God would be good in the midst of their That's what they didn't believe. That's what the author is saying when he says they didn't believe God. They didn't trust him to be good. We're out here in the wilderness. Yes, they were. Things are difficult. Yes, they are. We cannot see how God could provide goodness for us in the midst of this situation. Reasonable enough given the situation. And so we don't believe that God will be good to us according to the covenant that He made with us Um sorry I lost my place. Do not believe in God and do not trust his saving power. 2232 In spite of all this, they still sinned. In spite of all that God did with his wrath and his anger and his goodness, he rained, you know, verse 27, he rained meat on them like dust. They ate till they were filled. They were satisfied. In spite of all this, they still sinned. Despite his wonders, they did not believe. I am going to submit to you that it is not the scarcity of God's goodness in your life that causes you unbelief. It is the hardness of your own heart. And when God refreshes us in his truth and he opens our eyes to be able to see the good things that he is doing in the midst of our trials. Said in 1 Peter that we will be grieved for some period of time, but it does not say that we will be grieved without the goodness of God And in the midst of that grief, it tells us to rejoice, and I can only conclude that it's because of God's goodness in that grief that we are enabled to rejoice. We see his goodness shining through those circumstances and situations. We trust and look for and are able to find his goodness in the midst of those situations. And that's what allows us to rejoice. That's why he can command us to rejoice and call it a sin in the New Testament when we do not. 35 through 37 and we're finished. They remembered that God was their rock, the most high God, their redeemer. But they flattered him with their mouths, they lied to him with their tongues, their heart was not steadfast toward him, they were not faithful to his covenant. Do you see that? Do you see that? They remembered that God was their rock, the most high God, the Redeemer. But they flattered him with their mouths. Yes, Lord, we're yours. No, you're not. I want you to walk out of here today, remembering that a loving father has tried to put his hands on your shoulders or maybe wrap his arms around you this morning. And say in whatever tone of voice is most necessary to the circumstances of your life, I have loved you, and I am loving you now. And I will continue to work whatever is necessary in your life, whether it's blessing or judgment or trial or whatever, I will continue to work it into your life. But I demand That you recognize my goodness in your life. I demand that you stop with empty worship I demand that our relationship is according to the covenant, where I am fully yours, surrendered my only son to secure all that I desire for your life. Because I knew you would be insufficient to the task. So I have already made up the gap and provided a way And now I am calling you back. And he will say in another disputation or two, return to me, and I will return to you. And the grammar is one of quickness, like anticipation. Just Just take the one step. The one small step. And though it may not work for many of you, I I just picture a small child. Like just trust me. Take the one step. And even if you fall, it honors me because you trust in me and I will catch you. I hope you walk out of here encouraged. Yeah, there's a lot of sin and hurt, but it's on the side of not responding to this the right way. Not not on the side of just going, oh Lord, show me your goodness. I am empty. And I recognize according to Malachi and according to Peter and according to all those other passages That that emptiness I see is being fed by the disinformation of the world and by my own uh self-sovereignty And I put it down. I want to put it down. One of my own prayers is, Lord, I'm so dumb. I know that I have a hard time opening my hand even on the things that I recognize. I have identified. as not valuable for my life. And since I was in college, somebody preached a sermon on it. I can't remember who it was or what the text of the sermon was, but I do remember this. I remember going back to my dorm room at the end and going, what a great prayer Lord, I want to be rid of this thing and cannot unfold my fingers from around it. So I need you to do that too. I need you to peel open my hand, and I need you to take this from me, and I want you to do it because I recognize that if you can make that happen in my life, it will be good. And I hope that is something that you will go home with today. I hope you'll be refreshed in Christ. Lord, thank you for your word.