And say, hey, look, you know, somebody that's gonna read this is looking for you to create a concept in their mind of success or failure, viability or the lack of viability But the simple transactional ones are plainly evaluated. It is the perfect one that he calls us to. I only know how to be a husband. So I'm trying to make sure that you're seeing the narrative consistent with scripture as a whole. But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast saying, God be merciful to me a sinner Taking something and keeping it from its owner is robbery. So these are people that are active about involving themselves. I'm skipping for the sake of time. And for as long as you can stay in that house and as long as they'll feed you, stay there. You're getting sucked into their lives. I guess we call them growing disciples, I still call it Sunday school. I did and I'm gonna come back and we're gonna talk about using the wealth that God gave us for God's glory and how that reflects our heart. Angela asked if she could share it with me and she she did share it with me. of your proposal. If you think about the efficiency of the scriptures, they're tremendous. that that narrative is rarely lost. I stand up to teach a particular set of verses. Sometimes it's myriad, but how it does those things, but still never lose the overall narrative. And then he says, return to me. um in the past, but for purposes of not wanting to distract you with uh confrontational speech, I'll say I dislike the word spiritual. to the commands that he requires as evidence of our love for him and his love for us, we're very uncomfortable again. It's there, right? Oh, does our simple transactional obedience confirm our confession in Christ? flips that metaphor the other way around, given the way that we often think about faith and works, like the body of works that's animated by the soul of faith sort of thing, but James does do that or accept it with favor from your hand. Mrs. You know what that looks like. Godly grief produces a repentance. To salvation without regret. For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you. Look at all this progress we're making. To some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous. So we're not compelling you, just do it. I'm I'm almost a pseudo-heretic on the law. that predicates that. I don't know who actually made the rule up, so I'm gonna be a little careful here. uh are spoken of most dominantly in the New Testament. for these other three and so I'm gonna share them with you. At the intersection. And not see how much time he spends on collections for those that have needs, normally within the body of Christ of his sovereign work in your hearts to share the gospel with you. And then by the will of God to us. Before you have a blessing, you shall not be able to be attained. Then the third thing that shows up in the scriptures, collection of the poor, minister deserves his living, care of family. Because it wasn't a a Hebrew word for offering that I was familiar with. to the gods over men. Testament example of giving it always involves people and their needs, which I think is very interesting. And we have six or seven other missionaries that we have supported for over 25 years. One of the challenges that I see made over and over again is uh you know we get a like a statement of work or something from the government, a list of requirements And so I always basically criticize those people, uh, hopefully in productive ways, but uh And I'm always concerned that you're going to miss, or that I'll miss in how I teach it, how it fits into those overall narratives. because we don't know the original context in some places, or we don't know it the way you would if you were there. The Lord has said, you have continually turned away from my commands. It is all of our physicality, it is all of our emotions, is it all of our intellect, it is all of our soul, whatever that word happens to mean, right? You know, Scott helped me with God's sovereignty in election and the grace that's there and the effort of men in obedience and in the sovereign So I uh it's just something I've been thinking about last week. that we we kind of put that transactional nature in there even though there's so many times in scripture where God gives us that And other similar types of scenarios, you know, where God says, you know, if you do this, I will do this, that doesn't involve money, we don't often have the same sort of transactional relationship to where we don't seem to see it in that same light if then kind of scenario um things involving you know heart attitude or so many other things that don't involve that. that Malachi th this isn't disagreement. Notice that Malachi does not take the issue of the heart. What you told you personally? challenging individually. Spend like this, don't spend like that, all the lists that we find in the New Testament about what the behavior of Christians looked like. And we are further drawn up into Christ. tied together. lest they should hear the law and the words that Yahweh of hosts has sent by his Spirit through the former prophets The Lord of hosts had sent by his Spirit through the prophets. according to this passage and in many others as well, but that was one of the best one. by faith. Things there. I had taken you to Old Testament tithing. something that didn't happen every year, but but more m more infrequently than that. The fourth is such a foolish argument, I can't bring myself to share it with you. to demonstrating that we have a valid relationship with Christ, you're going to have to struggle with what I just said, which is tithing is not a requirement in the New Testament. down here, but we always put them up here, maybe because it's more attractive than sticking them someplace in our intestines, which is where we most often feel things, right? in simple elementary ways as a result of what we read in Malachi 3, so that we do not rob God. Let's go again. Theme verse for the cost of discipleship. I think he lives an honest life. And Paul writes him this other letter, and he's like, no, no, don't do that. Thanksgiving is the consummation of a mind and heart in tune with the reality of Christ. The minister deserves his living, 1 Corinthians 9, 1 through 14 again, and Luke 10, 7, for the laborer deserves his wages. Take a few dollars and help somebody out. But uh either a tradition or a a uh what's the word I'm looking for for a a law that's not one of God's laws. Christ condemns the Pharisees for their use of Corbin. the word that is used for offering in um the Septuagint um um in this passage in Malachi. Like that's what we're supposed to be doing. uh satisfy these requirements for this and it has to be in you know roughly this number of pages and and things like that. And uh people generally fall into this, well I call kind of uh either machine gun or shotgun responses to it. And the Y is usually pretty skinny and filled with words that you know, excellence and experience and superlative and blah blah blah. They agreed your proposal, but they still want the narrative. stuck with that oh well if you know so much why don't you help us or why don't you key up the story for us, yeah. Right? They are packed with information. About our relationship with Christ that is not fundamentally physical. You adhere to the tax that I told you you must pay. But the four taxations of the Jewish nation for the provision of the church, the church's people, and the impoverished of God's nation, if you will, you know, Israel. And then above and beyond the Thanksgiving one as well. Perceptive question, it's a piercing question. hoping to avoid offending you, but also not willing to retreat from what I said. Like show me I mean again overly transactional. We are fine being spiritual with the Lord. There is no such thing as, oh, I have this great heart for God. You cannot ignore those and say you have a healthy spiritual life. Trains and teaches us what's inside the spiritual, the heart, the emotional part, becomes conformed to the image of Christ, and we are further enabled Not not the way I think it should. Faith is here, but works are also part of that. at all. to secure what we could not get for ourselves through the means provided in the Old Testament. to serve his wife. But you know it. what you do. I love the Lord. You parents should know this first and foremost. And that drawing is directed by what you see in their lives. With stumbling and bruising and failure and discouragement along the way. do this for you. Levites actually paid to the priests. The people paid the tithe at the festival, and the people paid the charity tithe. Uh I'm not going to say it wasn't required, but the amount of it was not established. Please let that never be said of me, and treated others with contempt. That would have been very expensive to be seen publicly. way is much more comprehensive than it was in the Old Testament. Accordingly, I mean that that doesn't leave any room for anything. It would be easier to follow a bunch of rules. For you were bought with a price. Everything you require, everything you need, everything you experience, that's your body For God's glory by displaying God's goodness. All of our wealth. Or costly. I said ten percent because that's just what we say all the time, right? But you don't get away with a ten percent rule, you get a hundred percent rule. their fault in this particular instance, but they lacked a mechanism to convey that gift to the people in Jerusalem. The people had, for instance, committed to making a collection for the church in Jerusalem, and yet at some point in time, after maybe a about a year or so of collecting it, and I don't I don't know that it was Withered as soon as there was some sun. will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully. It's the hugest, actually. the ministry of this service. And it goes with what I said earlier about people that say one thing and do something else, even if it's not contrary to what they're saying. Have you ever noticed how rarely you see a leader pick up trash? What do they suggest about the ownership of your life? About whether or not you were in the race and hopefully what direction you were supposed to be running in? And suggests an amazing immaturity that you don't even know where you're going. 27 call it. And all that I have in every good work for God's glory by displaying God's goodness. And above all that, people are dirty. needs. And by the way, it always comes at the worst time. are in the context of this overall narrative that really sells it to the customer. And I reject that. And in this particular call, he just says, you, I can evidence how you have departed from me by simple physical obedience. That's too legalistic. transactional one. together is really summarized in James 1. I think parallels is probably the safest word if weeds is potentially dangerous. First Corinthians six, nineteen through twenty, or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? Now, does the New Testament Does the New Testament talk about ways that we're supposed to use Actually I know I didn't do that. Who he is and what he is and what he's promised us and how much he cares for us. Um and the Lord condemned that because you should be caring for your family, your extended family in this case. To establish the preeminence of the one worshipped. Efforts of our lives in order to meet the needs that God has given us to meet, right? I um I write a lot of proposals, fairly long ones for uh work and um But please don't miss the narrative here. not necessarily uh heartfelt or earnest. Right? But I reject any notion of a relationship with Christ that is not first and foremost utterly physical I don't need to go all the way to the root. Then I can evidence your utter departure from the Lord, your abandonment of the Lord. But we do struggle with the basic transaction ones. Second Corinthians nine, six to eight. Wilson's question last week, right? Please, please. of enjoying your marriage, that service is a delight and it's abundant. You show me a person sitting in the corner idly, and I'll show you a person that lacks earnestness. Until he manifests that. Luke 18, 9-14, the Pharisee that pays taxes, and the beggar that pleads mercy. That they were righteous and treated others with contempt. Same definition we came up with when we were talking about it earlier in Malachi. What do I have more natively, more intrinsically than this? In the New Testament, like there was in the Old Testament. That takes learning and experience. Um but I delight to use money, resources Are you taking something that belongs to God and keeping it for yourself? Both uh words that are used in this offering word group express the precedence accorded I have never have you have any of you ever run a race? It was in here in the passages, I'll have to leave it to you, it was Romans uh 12, 9, specifically 13. Small groups is a part of it. Not uncommon for a missionary to say, I have a desperate need, can you send fill in the blank with a dollar value? of religion and its insufficient giving. um spirit being wind, right? But not my words. say oh like the a piece we won't be filled and then walk your like walk away. 3. Why? A sentence structure that is parallel. talk about the one without the other. And a young man that says one thing and either does nothing or does something different is just a liar. See God these lot of talks, a lot of thought thought you know a lot of talking and a lot of thoughts that seem separate from scripture. Justice and mercy and faithfulness. I will make the summary statement that tithing isn't required in the New Testament. Right? Is not just supplying the needs of the saints, but overflowing in thanksgiving for God. That's what it means, right? Simple obedience. Say what's the point of that one? Are are the simplest thing in the world. I bought a case of them to hand out. It's hard. Like how do I get to the place where the rest of my short to the point satisfy the requirements type statements? volumes packed with it but they they set it up and they tell it in such a way In simple physical obedience. Um I would prefer we use a Greek word for it because at least then I would know what you meant And any handling I do with them in order to reconcile them will inevitably lead to diminishing one or both of them. And I thought of several of you that I've had conversations with in class previously. Sometimes we need to look at talks of tithing in the Bible as very transactional because it's involving money. This is wrongly, by the way, but they leave us a ton of space to decide, well, is my heart okay? And we we throw in ugly words like legalist. Do not taste, do not touch. And they had not stopped covering the Lord's altar with tears. They didn't stop asking him for what they wanted regarding his favor. so that you may abound to every good work. In the gospel, and the abundance of our obedience as a result of that grace. that that grace may effect abounding in good works. It is the most disgusting thing for a man to be. Or my own pet philosophies. Matthew 23, 23, also the parallel passage in Luke 11, 42, priests that are tithing mint and dill, rare herbs. Complicated theological thoughts onto body. So I don't know what you think it means when the Bible talks about your body, but it just means everything you do, everything you say, everything you feel, everything you think, everything you want. with people across the world. Please don't turn that into the loveliness of a health, wealth, and prosperity gospel. But even that is not to be reluctant or under compulsion, and God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times don't ever miss that word. For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints, but also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God. There are more uses for our money in the New Testament, but these are the dominant uses. A loophole in the law that allowed God-honoring care of family, meaning the money that should have been going to God-honoring care of family, to flow instead into the coffers of the temple. These are all normal demonstrations of obedience resulting from God's grace. 100%. a journal from one of the women uh she's married, but one of the women that was thirteen years old and it it just saves. Okay. And so are there practical ways here that we can do this elementary obedience thing as we practice and learn this all of us principle? Let me make one more comment. It's not a hard question, I have some of you like, oh my word, I don't want to answer it. Now, i it it often is unrelated to finances, but there's no such thing as getting involved in somebody's needs and not having to bring your wallet along. Missions is another way to get involved. Our missions board isn't personally our missions board is invested into the lives of the missionaries. And then the deeper more meaningful one maybe? That tends to set men and women's lives on fire for the glory of the Lord. Where do I get this dead religion from? Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites, for you tithe mint. And that verse should not be there. Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. For God's glory by displaying God's goodness. It's the worst thing you could do to somebody. They provided for the needs of others. So I I'm not gonna do that topic justice this morning, but I wanted to introduce it and lay it on your minds and just leave it to you to kind of think through the scriptures that you know where, oh yeah, all the time. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, to use the wealth and uh Rosaria Butterfield called The Gospel Comes with a House Key. And I think that just as a contemporary church, we often like if you ask a missionary what their needs are, they will always serve as prayer needs because it's like often not acceptable to serve as physical needs. It just landed on me like a ton of bricks this week. And so I say that to say I'm going to go back and we're going to talk about tithing, and we're going to look at some specifics, some details, some truths, some propositions. But regarding Zechariah seven, eleven through twelve, I want you to notice these people who had turned to stubborn shoulder and stopped their ears that they might not hear, and made their hearts diamond hard, lest they should hear the law and words of the Preeminent grace. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death. Just do it. At the end of this, I'm going to come back to this with some summary and try to give you some practical ways by which we obey the Lord. So that's not necessarily poor. But was entirely consistent with the promises of God. You show me a heart that's like my own often, by the way. Change those disgusting air filters in each vacuum that's on the on the roof. Or is I I have a job to do for the Lord. Now, a lot of times it's 99% sweat and $1 to go with it, but it still needs a wallet. Community neighbors. Don't panic. And you say, well that's not your job to be convinced about up somebody else's life. There's a reverse that I thought you would have here. Your most real reality is confined by the boundary of your skin. Of others way far away. had such a confidence in God and such a compassion for others that they did what didn't make sense transactionally by the steps in a race. 7b to return to me and I will return to you, the Zechariah passage there, but they refused to pay attention and turned a stubborn shoulder and stopped their ears that they might not hear. And then the one positive example of tithing in the New Testament comes out of an Old Testament context, and it's that Abraham pays the tithe to Melchizedek. This author makes the statement that offerings involve setting aside a portion as a symbolic offering and both And he's like, you can't have the profession and and say, oh, I believe this and then on the other hand be leaving everyone out of that. Now, I think some of you are mapping all sorts of complicated, interesting, eloquent, fascinating. Not exactly a uh an expected sentence, is it? have overflowed in a wealth of generosity. The simple transactional obedience of using our wealth for God's glory in the ways that He has described in Scripture or the ways that He has burdened us with the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives Check your own thinking. Stop talking. Yeah, I I'll I'll argue that I wish we could go back to it. If you take and keep that which is not your own, you are a robber. Galatians 2. Don't at the end prove that you were like the word implanted, or like the seed implanted on the stony soil that sprung up quickly and then perished Demonstrates the reality of our relationship with Christ. There's a footnote right below that, and it's there to it's secular author, don't care what he thinks or what he says, but in looking up That's why the one author calls this an autopsy of dead religion. And he says, we you know the question is, well how how have we abandoned you? I I don't I don't feel any need to diminish that. God's grace, Paul says, the guy that said so much about grace alone, right? Why? I don't know anything about being a wife. Okay. It's just you. We give back to God what is his. And we talk about violating a person's body, and I'm trying not to get ridiculous here, but it's like an ultimate desecration, isn't it? Make for kids that grow up to think that their lives are spent in the pursuit of attaining sufficient glory so that they no longer have to do those bad tasks Running short on time. Religion that is all talk, by the way. Yeah, I let me let me that's great. I don't s I'm not suggesting that if if I don't open my mouth, God's narrative isn't heard here. When we talk about somebody's ministry, we we mean their the outcome and the purpose that is intended. Say, don't they have more important things to do? Second Corinthians nine, one through fifteen, the point is this. Not reluctantly or under compulsion. So if you go back to page three, right at the bottom there, are you robbing God? What does your use of all that you are, but particularly in this sense this the simplicity of your financial transactions, what My time, my efforts, and any money that's associated with the need of the expenditure of those time and efforts. If God owns all of you, how much of your life is focused on hospitality? And to do that it has to tell the story. I just want to point out that that's a transaction. Every people that separates confession from obedience has dead religion. Right? All of that belongs to the Lord. Your thoughts, uh one author says, talks about your skull is that circular bone, and then he adds usually other some sort of satirical descriptions to your brain. I reject everything about that word in the context of my confession of Christ. And I think it's interesting, exactly like you said, that we don't seem to struggle with the issues of the heart That's excellent. And so if you have in in this particular instance he wasn't in huge trouble. But it's just a series of verses on people not tithing if you don't put it in its overall context. Says int in mine. Those are the only example of tithing in the New Testament. And that passage goes on in a continuous theme, a continuous vein, and gets to verse 13, and it says, Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. It's very difficult. Fathers that like to delegate the the boring bad jobs to their kids make for bitter kids By the way, it's costly. Not wrapped in flesh, not experiential, or able to be experienced by the five senses. Thought of your wife's question last week. And I'll show you a dead marriage. This is really coming, I'm working on that return to me on page 2, right, 37B. Don't judge me. But it's not the guy between, you know, 95 and 175 there that rolls the old lady out in the wheelchair that by the way if you go by at the right time you can see her skipping down the highway on the way to her car after she's done getting money We're supposed to be leading the the needs of the church because that is right Provide that narrative. I don't think he's making a root cause argument here in hiding. Yeah, I mean so uh we have learned good truths, the narrative has not fallen apart, but the simple obedience required in the New Testament, as you will find is often the case by the way. There is no 10% rule. All that you are, and if you will not do that, you cannot be my disciple. Maybe harmonizing with the reality of Christ is better. Uh well maybe I am, but you know what I mean. Right? You also know that when you have been in the flush, if you will, or blush, if you will, Page three. Now, again, pagan author, right? It's painful. They are the elementary evidences of the health of our religion, if you will, the health of our relationship with Christ said differently. We've covered these, so that's why I'm going shortly, right? Thank God for grace and forgiveness. And not different than that in Malachi, is it? 10. It popped up in a conversation I was having with Angela this week. Fellowship groups in the church is a part of it. Right? Um And James had mentioned that to me last week, so I'm not gonna take credit for that. Can't take a few moments and do just simple, ordinary obedience kind of things. There's too much of me in that Scott, and I'm too uncomfortable with it. I'm only looking at you because you were talking to you by the way. Those are the elementary obediences. Why is it grace alone? First simple and I I mean this first simple transactional obedience And there's a difference between that son and the one that says something, does it fallibly, right? The people prayed to the Levi prayed. Check, check, check, check, check. Not the way the Bible says it should, as I understand it. You know, about the sovereignty of God and election and my need to run hard after God. Paul makes clear his ministry is to Gentiles and that there is a priority of remembering the poor. If you don't remember, she talked about uh and I don't remember her exact words, but she basically was like uh in a wonderful way, right? You know when you struggle with it in your own marriages. It takes the education of the Holy Spirit in our lives. Is your thought about finances? Shucks. Missions is another way to do it, and while I encourage you to engage the missions board in this church more directly, you would be surprised at how personal We'll touch on it more as we go through. This is just a simple plea. I was having this discussion with my younger son the other night. There's the collection for the poor, and that's anybody that needs the money, by the way. Simple obedience. And so we know that we have departed from him. I'm I'm trying to actually amplify what you said. He draws to himself in a marriage relationship that is the example of every other marriage. Go to page three. It's a particular look. In all things, at all times, you may abound in every good work. So is the physical. He that would confess Christ, it says in the New Testament, shall be saved. It is absolutely your job to be looking at the life of your children and to be drawing them to Christ. So glorify God in your body. And they have needs. Do my simple transactional, I'm just using that word because it it it offends us, and I want to go ahead and just deal with the offense, right? And that marriage is demonstrated through obedience You don't know how much I love the Lord in my heart. We started last week on this excurses on tithing. No, no, I mean it's fantastic, right? Your thoughts are encapsulated in this circular bone and your feelings, I don't know why we do this, are probably more focused If we can't, so map this on the Malachi, right? Poor are people that need it. I was like, what? But what's not difficult, or at least it shouldn't be for us, is to just write a check. But you can't take Oh giving an assessment. They had shut their hearts and they had shut their ears and they had hardened themselves. Right there. Stop telling me what you want to be. That's pretty simple, right? It's tiring. I'm not going to say it's never lost. So I don't know where we got ten from, but somebody made a rule up, kinda like a Pharisee in my mind Know people and be known by them and God will open to you a great ministry. But nonetheless, we know and quote often Paul's Um If you've been in other classes with me, I've said repeatedly I dislike I I think I've actually said I hate. Um like each man should give him his part what he what he's wanted to give his heart not to aggressionally have features. He that does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. That that's our thing, right? Notice that the context there in chapter 8 is, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity. It was reflecting on the discussion that we had about God's sovereignty and grace and our need to obey God. Have any of you ever uh had to write a proposal or or write a paper that had kind of limitations on it? The Lord is calling people who have, who are going through a diligent in some cases, diligent means lots of activity. We feel uncomfortable with the physical. Did I get were fixed or do you have W E R? Page five? Don't give reluctantly or under compulsion as though, you know, well this ten percent rule. I've been thinking about it all week, actually. Somebody made the rule up. I don't know, maybe. They're no more pleased with their shotgun requirements than they will be if you spit them back at them and uh sort tell a story. There are four types of tithes, the Levitical tithe, the priestly tithes with tithe which the uh I'm good. And by the way, we we live in a small world with communications mechanisms the way they are, right? It wasn't one of the ones that I've previously written about. I was just reminded of James um because it literally says pretty much what you were just saying, like Why is it grace at all? Just obey. You have to have a narrative, right? That is an awesome doctrine of the Bible. I love that diamond hard metaphor before there, right? Well it it's much more exhaustive here, right? It's you in every sense of you. You proved so much, you demonstrated so much. So to the gods over men, he's just speaking culturally, Greek context, Roman context, whatever it is. But amazingly impactful. It's a particular requirement, if you will, if I mapped that onto my previous metaphor, right? Like how much of that is us human beings being so tied to finances Uh let me s springboard off of that actually a little bit just to say that I want to come back to notice We are further alive in Christ, if you will. James 4, by the way, is where a lot of that is, although it summarized that entire argument that we just uh had Yeah. Some would finally argue that I'm a fallout heretic on the law, but um Filled with love and service, unbelievable. We started page four. There's an example of tithing in the New Testament. No such thing back here. I take that to mean that people that understand how hard poverty pitched At any age have any of you ever run a race? It specifically says that. And I submit to you, it's because the issues of the heart leave us a ton of space Return to me and I will return to you and the New Testament equivalent, draw near to me and I will draw near to you, right? And so I used his own words, right? They are packed with proposition. How does this fit in what the Lord is trying to accomplish? You just look up the definition of robbery, you're going to get something very similar to that. And we start talking about faith by grace alone through faith alone, which is Right there. Those you approach those two people differently. So there are three occurrences of tithing in the New Testament, and uh two out of the three are negative examples. What do you tie? You show me a heart that's struggling with that Thanksgiving, and I'll show you a heart that's struggling with the truths of Christ. It's expensive. My wife forwarded it to me and it was a kind of a survey of thirteen years of journal entries, just snippeted into like a page and a half from this lady that she sent, my wife specifically, and then When we're talking about him or uh the things of him. Show me the canceled check for heaven's sake. For those of you that are feeling desperate about the page count, flip to page 2. What's earnestness? It was easier. I find that men that can't do the simple service and obedience to the Lord can't can't People always ask me this, well how do you know that you're safe? In what ways are you bringing the full tithes into the storehouse that there may be food in my house? Um I just I please don't let go of that. I I don't know if Paul meant for us to put those that kind of abounding in equal stances there, but he used the same word and he used I'm trying to rebuild the momentum from last week a little bit. Although I I didn't intend to quote the passage uh from Hebrews. Apparently a Jewish tradition or or um Far uh I actually didn't do a lot of research on it. Neighbors are a part of it. Like right after somebody sent me a bunch of tax bills. That is fully comprehensive. Um for you tie mint and dill and cumin and have neglected the weightier matters of the law You give abundantly that which I have given you, and I will open the windows of heaven. Yeah. I'm afraid that it seemed glib, I guess, which is why I've been thinking about it all week. I'm I'm said about where you took the conversation And I kind of found it interesting that he says like just as the body without the soul is dead, so faith without works is dead. You started so well, you demonstrated so much about the reality of your relationship with Christ, the effectiveness. Are you catching that? Are you robbing God? Sometimes it's hard, particularly as it gets translated through different languages and pulled out of context. Now, in fact, it's comprehensive, right That's implied here for sure, right? Did you do it? So is the transactional. I'm struggling in the transactional obedience part. God makes all grace abound to you, so that you may abound to every good work. You are not what you want to be. I love people that are alert. Because you deserve to be remunerated for your work and service. That's always the Lord's message. How much he cares for me. Right? And rarely are those needs separate from some sort of financial transaction. They're going through a diligent exercise of religion, and they have an absence of affection for the Lord. Malachi 2. Why did we need the magnification of grace in the New Testament? Actually you're wrong. So therefore any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. I wonder, um do you mentioned last week that you know you struggle with something that's very transactional and I think that It produces death They trusted in themselves that they were righteous. Second from the top. There is only all of you and all that you have in every good work And they were not only conversant with it, but they were convinced and convicted by it sufficiently so out of their own needs And I'm gonna come back and build on that a little bit if you've been in other Sundays, I don't know if I've said it in here, but in other Because you do not do those things, and they're so easy, to just obey what I told you to do. I want you to notice that these people had not stopped naming the name of Yahweh. There's no space for good. Poor are people that have a need that is otherwise unaddressed by their own capacity. Their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty First Corinthians six, nineteen through twenty says, You are not your own, for you were bought with a price, so glorify God in your body. Very convicting. And I just read a uh um And uh as a matter of fact, the frequency of it was not established and it was practiced more often as um She's whispered, you know who did it? That is not what I mean Simple elementary obedience And it cannot be just we're excellent at this, we're excellent at this, we're excellent at this. We're in Malachi 3, verses 6 through 12. And as we grow in the Lord, as He The people paid their tithe to the Levites. Luke 14, 33, so therefore any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. You don't know how passionate I am about the Lord. There is only all of you, and all that you have, in every good work. What what kills religion? Earnestness is the visible and conspicuous playing out of what's in the heart outwardly. Romans twelve, one through two, I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. Um and they're the three that frankly just I shared with you last week, right? We were having just one of those, you know, teachable moments. Stop telling me what you think you are. Run a race, right? Read it. And I don't just mean unclean, I mean they come into your life with their problems. And he says, You've robbed me. It takes a body of believers to come alongside and help us figure that out in practical ways, particularly when things are hard. And yet these people were were conversant with the needs So that happens to me a lot. I was like, son, be honest or be a liar, but do not be one who talks one way and acts another. You say what's the point of that? You look for ways to do it, you find ways to do it, you sacrifice other things to do it I'm going to say that one more time. It was a great question. You show me a marriage where the husband has lost a desire If you say there was a failing to the law, I will argue with you, many will argue differently, and I'll just tell you that. These are all the things I'm doing with my finances, and oh I owe some money to the Lord. I I have surrendered all that I have with the Lord. Just to review the disputation form real quick You show me a person that says they're earnest that's sitting there idly, and I'll show you a liar So if you walk out of this class and you say, Scott said, basic financial transactional obedience is the first step This is Paul's words, not mine, right? I think he's simply saying it's easy enough for me to evidence how you have departed from me simply by the way I was thinking about it even when I responded. And even the draw near to God and he will draw near to you is James 4, 3 through 8, right? And a young man, I only have sons, and a young man, it's probably true of women too, but I wouldn't know, I'm inexperienced I'm trying to make sure that you are seeing this narrative. So I will make, and I told you I went ahead and checked with the elders on this before I caused a row in the church. Community is a part of it There's nothing about just just giving to God. It's very simple. That's too transactional. Like, wait a minute, that doesn't pass the sniff test. What's the elementary obedience? We are fine with God's sovereign grace and eternal election, but when it comes to the obedience It's impossible. Let's work on that first 13. And it's going to come back to this last verse here. Hearts overflowing with thanksgiving. They are packed. They are packed with truth and meaning and application. But parallels, the abundance of God's grace. I had taken you to I I think I I can't remember, but we're not going to spend much time on it this morning anyway And you know what the first thing we discovered was? And even that there's some debate about, right? Little note I added to your I am not trying to manipulate you with cute philosophies here. And that is all through the Pauline Corpus. And someplace along the line their conviction had cooled. All talk and no action. You show me a a marriage, and I I can only talk about this from a husband's perspective, or at least with the kind of earnestness that I intend to do this with, because Be careful how you you pick poor up, right? Maybe. Romans 9, 13, but hospitality. Matter of fact, I have a case of them. The Pharisee prayed, I give tithes of all that I get. Don't my editorial skills are greatly lacking. So uses of God's money for uh is for God's people, a collection for the poor The top three were required. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, men who had perfected dead religion, by the way. We have abandoned God in the exercise of our religion In every one of these disputations. Less transactional one. And you don't need me to I don't even know where that came from, but All of me I don't want you to feel persecuted. Did I fix that, or is that int in yours? Couple comments I want to make about that. First Corinthians 16, 1 through 4, and 2 Corinthians 8, 1 through 15, but they gave themselves first to the Lord. And the second thing you do, you cover the Lord's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning, because he no longer regards the offering. From Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 9, 6 to 8. God's grace abounds to you. There are only three, arguably four, but Um So in the New Testament context, how are we robbing God? And if the answer is no, or But you cannot Not really, right? So it's really interesting how that kind of You are not what you say you are. Mark 7, 1 through 13, and Exodus 2012, right, honor your mother and father. And what are you talking about? Now that call fits well for us, doesn't it? So he he used a grammar and he used a vocabulary that specifically equipped This love the Lord was your guy with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind in the New Testament, and treat others Somebody said something but I didn't hear it. He had turned that to me. And um Go ahead. It's uh Juxtaposed For whatever reason, which is not marriage class today, so I'm talking about the reasons why that happens right now And you are supposed to approach those two people differently He also told this parable, Christ. You give to the Lord, and He will return an abundance which you cannot imagine. Show up with a snake and clean the clock toilet Have you ever been confused once the the the gun went off or the guy called start? Have you ever done that? And it's something I'm concerned about every time I stand up to teach And they are the elementary evidences You're dead wrong. And I will treat him as one and draw him toward repentance and action What's robbing God? Well, the the word tithe comes from the Hebrew word. Yes or no? How real and personal Christ is in my own life. It's often thankless. But we broke it up over two weeks and I'm just not sure, right? Not not something we want to pursue. Anyway, doesn't matter. So I was looking it up, and even here And I really struggle with how much of my page count is required to set up the narrative. Taking something and keeping it from its owner is robbery So I want to, in my last few minutes, I want to come back and try to hit some summary points from this. Second Corinthians seven, ten through eleven. But it's the surrender of our bodies as a living sacrifice Is your religion so dead and formalistic that God's grace is all about you and obedience is always spiritual? It is the one possession which I expect no one to violate Hospitality, small groups, fellowship in church, which by the way we just stink at that that's not the subject of today's discussion. I pretty much already said that, but I want to be clear with that. You don't know how inside I'm like, yep, you're right, I don't know. Practical consequences of this, humble service. And for everybody in the room that's married Um 2 Corinthians 7, 10-11, godly grief produces a repentance that leads you Stop it. I gotta get that out the door. Are you running the race? I mean we make little joke videos about kids you can get used to going the other way, but that's the whole point of it. Like look look at what has been written about the scriptures. And I read them to you or at least introduced them. There is nothing more sold out, more dedicated than that But I find that men How does it magnify not only this one principle in this one way or whatever I thought, oh, I wonder how that person's going to respond, or I wonder how that person's going to respond based on the previous conversation that I had. The point of me bringing that up is to say that I'm concerned as I come back to this topic, we're going to get to this place where w we just go Well my heart's okay. But there and there's by the way, there's more, but these are the three that you know frankly speak If you want it, just holler at me. One hundred percent. But notice how that works. He that would separate confession from obedience has dead religion. I mostly introduce that because it's a little bit difficult to read Paul Return to me, and I will return to you. I am unconvinced and unaffected. Right? They take that requirement, they cut it out, they're like, oh yeah, we can absolutely do this requirement, and and here's, you know, here's why The point of that is How have we robbed you? It is not in your notes. The cost of discipleship is that you renounce all that you have Don't not do it. The point is this: whoever sows sparingly And these are not menu items that you select from. But when we say spiritual we often mean not physical It's an awesome reality, forget about funny words. All of ourselves. Come on. How do you know how you're doing with the Lord? I would encourage you to actually do it yourself. But how amazing is it that the scriptures constantly And I said, I feel no need to reconcile those two things because they're inscription They are issues of the heart. And if it's not, we need to use a doctor. Luke 1433 was Dietrich Bonhoeffer's What is the outcome and purpose of what is being done? Do not taste, do not touch. What about this passage? And the standard is so high I can't meet it ever. Lord, where are you going and what are you doing with this? And this is one of the roots of the death But we don't usually come out and say We're done with page 1. So we say tie ten and everyone's like, okay, I guess I'm time. You show me a heart that's overflowing with thanksgiving for Christ, and I'll show you somebody that sees Christ rightly. Poor is not the guy necessarily. Like I'm just trying to be respectful and engage you because you engaged me. The Levites paid a tithe to the priests Have a problem with the way they view themselves with the Lord You read Hebrews 11. The fourth was um There's always an underlying They did it Why did we need Christ? Simple obedience Humble service in the church, in the community. I I apologize for that It literally says, as you know, he's speaking to his apostles, go into the city, go into a house. No, no, no. I love the Lord. It's not a ten percent rule anyway, it's a hundred percent rule Um One I don't know who wrote the requirements. Surrendering all of ourselves. Clean the toilet, show up on the cleaning day at the church Said differently, to establish the ownership of the one worshipped. Will you keep from God that which belongs to him? It is it is everything about us, in all of our dimensions But they didn't stop naming Christ There is no ten percent rule And it's the same I was trying to get at it with that physical versus spiritual thing, right? Right? Do not be confused. You can have a relationship of sorts I have never known that experience You have continually turned away from my commands for generations and not kept them. God makes all grace abound to you. Um Well, the outcome and the purpose of this service That's that's fantastic. It's in my margin, in my own handwriting. What what's an offering? Hospitality. It's like you can't Uh no criticism here at all Notice what he goes to as his evidence is the simple And it it has no context and it sounds ridiculous and and How was Abraham justified? To apply all my effort We stepped through the verses last week. Well, what does that mean like he's calling us to repentance? I I write a check to the church, but it feels like a bill to me In all of the news We gotta stop. You are Or spend some money. I'll give you one. I can't remember how far we got into them last week. And the next thing you know, you're not only being hospitable And I would I would probably have As a matter of fact, I'm not even sure I I shared with you before that we support missions in this church And then I get Mostly because I never know what people mean when they say it Does it but not perfectly, does it, but with But it's all inside your body In what ways are you battling worthless religion as James 1 26 says? Every people that separates confession About mm just above the halfway line on this page. You are not what you say you are. How are you doing in your simple obediences? It's the it's the awesome reality of God's redemptive work. They made their hearts diamond hard I put that in there because I was thinking of And it may be the guy that is going to review your proposal, guy or woman. Oh, okay. It's just you. It's a pretty extreme statement Notice that. Even this secular guy gets the point of the offering. How are you doing on hospitality? This 100% rule Do our simple transactional How was Moses justified? That's how important I think the book is Just for in case you were Um we gotta stop. There is nothing You are not your own. And your body is not your own. And Romans twelve one says, I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercy of your And I am unconvinced That's difficult Their religion is dead It's not the imperfect ones that we have. Those whom God saved I'm not uh I won't go into them too much this week. It's all of you. So if you want to scribble it down So I don't think I need that. It's a three-letter word. It's unusual Why How was Sarah justified? Show me. You are what you do. But that's Have you ever been confused? Thank you. I guess You know you have to get to you have to It's so important. We gotta stop. It's so huge.