So that's where we're going to spend most of the day today. No, all of the day today. And uh really the theme of it is formalism. And I read you a definition of that last week. Um I'll I'll repeat it to you, but if you have a notes, you can see it Um last week the definition I gave you is when obedience becomes a matter of routine and not the heart, or the practice of doctrine of s excuse me, the practice or doctrine of strict obedience to prescribed or external forms. And I think what is impressive about this is that you'll find complaints about formalism, you'll find warnings about formalism all through the Old and the New Testament And it was impressive to me as I was preparing for this study for my small group, the breadth of scripture that includes these very same warnings And uh so I want to look at them, but I don't want to look at them in the context of, oh my word, look how much judgment is there. I want to look at them Because you can see what our hearts are like before our God as you study the scriptures, right? This is not an isolated case at an instant in history under particular circumstances. This is well over fifteen. Oh. Well over fifteen hundred years of God's redemptive history, God's work specifically in the hearts of his people. And it's interesting to me here that God, in all of the scripture we're going to look at today, is addressing his people. The people that he is drawing into relationship with himself. The people w uh People to which, in which? Mm-hmm. Losing the preposition there. But nonetheless. Um He has engaged in covenant relationship with. He has committed himself to them in a in an irrevocable way. This is not the pagan Assyrians or the pagan Syrians or the pagan Edomites or the rest of the world outside of the covenant. He's addressing his covenant people. And he did it for about a thousand years before Malachi, according to uh you know some rough estimates that I did from the history of uh the scriptures. He did it in the time of Malachi He let that word stand for 400 years with no further revelation, and his first words in the New Testament pick that same theme up. And perpetuated through the entire ministry of Christ, and then through Paul, who I have been surprised to learn quoted many of the key passages in the Old Testament that were specifically dealing with the formalism Of God's covenant believers. The observation of religious practice without a heart for God is a cancer That has killed the church. But I want to be careful here. That's a New Testament statement. We are studying Malachi. And so I must also say it is a cancer that killed the Jews. And I must ask you to remember that those are two distinct parties. There are significant overlaps between those two groups, but the covenant that we read of in Malachi is a different covenant than the one we read of in Hebrews, the one that Christ inaugurated And while I get myself in trouble all the time for making distinctions from what other people think about dispensationalism or eschatology or other things, I expect God to fulfill his geopolitical, religious promises directly and specifically to Israel, distinct from the church. And so I don't want you, I'll make all sorts of parallels between what we're learning of God's people in Malachi and how that applies to us in the church, but I want you to understand that there's a a a border there, there's a separation there in my teaching, right? As I convey it to you, I will apply back and forth. God's people in covenant with God, interacting with God and his response to those people. That's true of the covenant Israelites. And that's true of the covenant church, the covenant bride as well. And so I'll I'll make those distinctions, but I in no way intend to blur That distinction as I make it, right? There's there's infinite ability to apply these and learn about our God, and learn about being in covenant with our God, and learn about our own hearts. And the deceitfulness of it, the tendency toward formalism. But I would ask you to remember that we're studying God's people in a covenant context and we're learning from that. We are not they Okay? And so you'll hopefully see me make those New Testament references in the Word to understand that it is also true of us. We looked at this chart that I reproduced for you this week, last week as well. We talked about the kind of the books of history, as it were. that record the experiences of the people of Israel that we are reading about in Malachi, and those are primarily Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. And we record, or we have recorded for us in the prophets, God's interaction with that historical context. And we spent all last week on the historical context, and this week we're gonna talk more about that interaction aspect. Because that's really what speaks to formalism. The observation, observation, even the astute observation of religious practice, but without a heart. I got uh behind this morning. This is not in my notes, but uh I got behind this morning um in preparing my notes, which I usually do the the morning of just so that This is how I study, but it wouldn't help you at all. So uh these are the notes that I prepare for you to to try to help you. Um And I got behind this morning because it occurred to me, um Where was I going with that? Ah, the abstute the astute observation of religious practice with no heart. Tangent. Put a pause in the previous statement. I'm going to take a tangent. So Sunday nights, uh, we generally I've told you this before anybody that's been in any class with me. Uh Sunday nights uh for the last ten, twelve fifteen years. I've done a small group with a group of people I met at another church. None of us go to that church any longer. And uh we study the Psalms and we're on our Fourth iteration through the Psalms now. Um just reset, I don't know, a few months ago. And uh those were almost all Presbyterians. And so that always creates some interesting discussion from time to time as we deal with uh baptism issues and eschatology issues and and uh some ecclesiology issues and some other things. Um But uh we also work on uh catechism as well. So we've done the Westminster Catechism, we're currently working through the Heidelberg Catechism, and there's always a section in each of those which talk about baptism in the context of Pato baptism I am not a Pheto Baptist. Um a child baptizing children. Um and that uh tradition, that church tradition Not defending it. Don't agree with it. It's not in scripture. Don't do it. Okay? Just don't do it. If you walk out of here going, well Scott you know knows a lot about paedo baptism, you must you must be thinking about it. No, don't do it. I I I can't find it in scripture. I've tried. Uh I don't know why such intelligent men like RC Spohl uh you know held to that. I I can't get there. But not the point. Um They do it because the Lord commanded circumcision in the Old Testament as a sign of entrance into the covenant. And and there's a lot of scripture that does say that in the Old Testament. That this is my covenant. And if you do not bear the sign of my covenant in your flesh, then you are none of mine, and you may not enter the temple, and you will not be part of the people. It was a covenant mark. And Trump get into a whole bunch more conversation there. And so they carried that forward and they said they they you know, that they want to receive that covenant sign in their bodies and they do it to their children is a sign just like Leviticus commands of an eight-year-old Jewish child to be circumcised, they they do that uh they baptize their children uh male and female um at an early age um into this covenant family. Um And then I'm skipping a bunch of detail here because the point isn't to talk about Phetobaptism. The point is that as I was studying this religious observation or observance in the Old Testament this morning. Uh I was surprised to find how many passages uh complain about the Jews observing circumcision astutely. You all want this. You all you all make sure that you do it. You even will circumcise your children on the Sabbath day, despite the fact that that's a little iffy, right? But you're so wrapped around the axle about it But all through, starting in Deuteronomy, all through the Old Testament, but you do it with an uncircumcised heart. You do it and your hearts are far from me. Right? I command you to do it. But you do it. With a heart that says, I will be righteous by the actions of my own hand and my own reasoning and my own understanding. You don't do it with a broken heart that fears the Lord and serves him. You do it to make yourself feel right, to to justify yourselves. And so I got late this morning because I got scribbling down all those verses, so I can take them tonight and go I can't wait to get there because you know pugnacious Baptist that I am, here I come. Um that's free. Useless. Useless and free. Um but at least I can charge you for it. In addition to Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Haggai, Zachariah, and Malachi all record the Lord's interactions with his people and his words to his people as a result of their religious formalism. And we'll get there soon, but I want you to understand too, remember this is in that context of the Babylonian captivity and their return, right? And uh they were promised. They were promised Great things. And we'll touch on some of those today so that you can see it. What's the cause of formalism? And my submission or my thesis for you is it's unmet expectations. And I'll flesh that out for you hopefully before the end of the class. But um ha hey guys I I love how interactive you are, but it's funny I I'm always like, wait, wait, what did you say? Um Well, we'll see if you agree with me when we get there, but uh Haggai, Zachariah, and Malachi, just record You know, how the people interact with these challenging circumstances. Circumstances that don't seem like That don't seem to bear out God's covenant love for his people. How can you say you love me, Lord, and then take me over to Babylon? How can you say you love me, Lord, and then not give us the covenant land and sovereignty over it? Which fun fact. You know they really didn't get back until what? The nineteen Was it forty eight? Well that's when it became but they they were it coming in prior to that, but that's when it became on May 2nd, nineteen forty eight. I'm gonna go with you before I'm gonna trust myself. So uh I'm gonna whatever she said is what we're going with. But not not until recently, right, was my point Um and so that the loss that they suffered in the Babylonian defeat was not undone in that sense at least for 2,500 years. Last chapters of 2 Kings and 2 Chronicles record uh a fair amount of detail about the Babylonian captivity Um and I oh I did put it there on the side. But I would have you note in even in the midst of that, the very last words of Second Kings and Second Chronicles, although they talk about the captivity Talk about the good provision of the Lord in the midst of that judgment. Right? That was a judgment on on hearts that were not circumcised. Right? And literal out of Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel, right? Those very words are spoken in that very way. And yet even in the midst of that, Jehoiakim is pulled out of prison in the Babylonian capital, and he's given a seat at the table, and it says he took off his prison clothes. I think it means that very literally, but it also in in a figurative sense means he didn't have to act like a prisoner in that in that court. He got to act as a courtier. Right? He got to act in such a way that he didn't have to bear the full judgment and shame of being a prisoner in a foreign court. And it says he was given a stipend as he ate at the king's table God was good to him in the midst of that judgment. And I take that also to mean that God was good to his people as well, that that there was some influence that he got to bring And then in the end of uh sec I think that's the end of 2 Kings, in the end of 2 Chronicles, there is the the statement that Cyrus Will actually use the personal name of God. He will say, Jehovah has required me To build his temple back in Jerusalem, and all you that are his shall return to him. there and worship him and I love that. Even the Jews didn't obey the command that God gave to Cyrus. Only a few went back. You've heard of the ten lost tribes? You want to know where they're lost? Go north and east of Israel. And of the two southern tribes Not so many. Remember we read last week the third return was only about fifteen hundred people and they had to beg, borrow, and steal to get thirty-two Levites to come with them too. Even God's people weren't faithful to God's decree in the way that God sovereignly worked in the heart of a pagan king to use his personal name and accomplish his Providential will. Second Kings and Second Chronicles. Isaiah, Jeremiah And Ezekiel all talk uh excuse me, Isaiah and Jeremiah all talk about uh the judgment on the people, um several judgments actually to come, you know, Syrian attack and some other things. But judgments on other nations, but they all talk about the Babylonian captivity. They all lead up to the Babylonian captivity. Ezekiel and Daniel are in the um midst of the Babylonian captivity, Ezekiel actually writes from Babylon, right? If you read through Ezekiel, it says, on this day, at this place, in this year, sitting along this river, which is in Babylon And um he he writes from there, and Daniel does the same thing, and they uh forecast some future things, by the way, that would have been in the minds of the people that Malachi is now speaking to Um and again building up this idea that there were expectations that were at odds with the experiences of the Jews. Amos speaks directly of the judgment and captivity of the northern kingdom, Israel. Micah, Habakkuk, and Zephaniah warn Judah about the coming judgment of God through the Assyrians. Just want you to see for a moment the amazing breadth of Scripture that speaks about the hearts that do not love the Lord with all their might and with all their soul. These were God's people walking around with the marks of God's covenant with hearts that were far from it. All of this scripture interacts with that mega theme, if you will. And there's it seems ridiculous to call anything the scriptures a mini theme, but I think you understand. a secondary theme, maybe, right? Um So I just again I I just want you to see the scope of this as we get into Malachi. It's a small book that's structured in an odd way with these six disputations. It's unique in all the scriptures. Malachi doesn't occur. The word the name Malachi recurs no occur recurs occurs nowhere else. Did you get it? Okay. Um occurs nowhere else in scripture. It's a bit obscure. But if we study this Without realizing that God spoke for a thousand years to his people about their propensity to move to formalistic religion and be satisfied by it. Or to at least claim to be satisfied by it, then you miss the strength of the passage, or you miss the strength of the study. You missed the amazing importance of the first words of the angel to Zechariah in the temple when he foretold the birth of John the Baptist Malachi means the messenger. So much so that because he's not named anywhere else in Scripture, there's been a long debate about whether or not it's a proper name or just kind of like a title: the messenger. And then the first person we meet in the New Testament, ostensibly, Is the messenger, Elijah, who is John the Baptist. Right? And then God picks up the same thing and he carries it forward. His ministry In his sermons, in Matthew in particular, right? Just keep coming back to this over and over again. Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in your name? Have we not done all these mighty works? In your name, depart from me. I never knew you. You flatter me with your lips, but your hearts are far from me. What is a Pharisee other than a formalist? Right? Somewhere in my notes here I have that the formalism that Malachi speaks into in his age was perfected. was reduced to its essence by the time Christ shows up on the scene. There is no such thing as parity in the Old Testament. You mean the title is not recognized to the same thing? The Talmudic uh formalism that was developed was done in between especially after Maccabees when the c the Hasmonians came in. And that's when because the because like it that's when it all happened. There is no such thing as a Pharisee. Just thought I'd share that 'cause that's really um Magnifies that idea, right? That they had they had refined it and systematized it. Yeah, yeah, that's that's fantastic. Alright, back on track here. Got off script. No, no, no, I mean I got off script. I didn't mean you did. That was great Yes, I just wanted you to see that that preponderance of scripture, right, that spoke to formalism. I wanted you to be able to recognize it for what it was I got into this study and I mean I I can study a NAT for hours and enjoy it, right? So it's not unique for me to get excited about interesting details. But I was most impressed when I realized how much of Scripture talked about this. I was most impressed by the implication that for f at least fifteen hundred years of scripture, if I take that end of Kings, end of Chronicles period and move it forward to Matthew, that's about fifteen hundred years of history. I was most impressed when I realized that what God spoke to about his what God spoke to his covenant people most about during that time period was formalism. was religious observation without a heart. Now what did it lead to? It led to sexual immorality, it led to idolatry, it led to uselessness for the glory of the Lord. It re led to intermarriage with pagan me. It led to all sorts of things that that we study a lot and we we appreciate as we go through. It's what we think about when we think about the judgments of Isaiah and Jeremiah and Lamentations. And Ezekiel and the Assyrian captivity. And when we think of all those things, we think of all those, the results, but the cause of those sins was religious formalism. Naming the name of Christ, with no heart for Christ And to be clear, when the scriptures talk about a heart for Christ, there are two words that are always used next to it. Who can tell me what the two words that demonstrate a heart for Christ what the two words that demonstrate a heart for Christ are. I'm just trying trying to get my agreement there. Obedience is one. Obedience is one. Why am I not surprised you got that one? I could say subjections but I don't know. Not far off, but there's a a better a better a a more scriptural word I'll say. Oh really close. Those come from something, come come from a response to God. It's that response I'm looking for. I'm sorry. Repentance. Again, you you guys are in the right area. I think we hate this word as a New Testament church, but it is the word that is most scriptural. And so I will stick with it. Oh, fear God. Every time the Lord talks about turning the hearts of the people and their children to him, he says, Fear me and obey me. And in the Old and New Testament alike, I want you to be careful with what you hear me say next, but my statement is nonetheless entirely true. And in the Old and New Testament alike, right after, he says, Your hearts are far from me, fear me, obey me I will come and judge my covenant people first. Do you know that that statement is in both the Old and the New Testament? See 1 Peter. Hebrews as well. I just Peter was in my mind because I've just been studying it. It's in several places in the New Testament. It is not isolated. It is not at all isolated. But there are some very clear passages in both the Old and the New Testament, and Christ says, I will come, and I will bring judgment into my own house first, with my own covenant people. And it will be different than the judgment I bring on people outside the covenant. And he always talks about a redemptive work inside the judgment that he does inside of his covenant, and there is no redemptive work ever to be done or promised, or hinted at. in those outside the covenant. So I hope I flesh that out enough to save some of you from walking out of the room thinking Scott's a complete heretic and doesn't understand grace, right? Um but those statements are true. And way off script. Now I gotta get back on. Um So I pretty much said the next thing that's read red underlined there, ultimately the message of this vast perspective on Scripture is that God's people must put off formalism and return to the Lord with all their hearts. Isaiah 29, 13, and the Lord said, Because this people draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me. And their fear of me is a commandment taught by men. Do you understand that? He's saying you don't actually understand what fear of me looks like. You fear me the way men have taught you to fear me, and it is invalid. It is accurate, and it leads to formalistic religion. You think the fear of me means there's some box of rules, and if you stay within that box, you are safe. And he says, I want all of you New Testament verse, right? He that would not surrender everything cannot be my disciple. I want all of you, every tear, every drop of blood, every trial, every joy, every hurt, every blessing. Every passion, every revulsion Christ quotes this very same passage with some slight nuances that I don't have time to dig into, although they're seriously interesting. Christ quotes this same passage from Isaiah in Matthew 15, 8 and 9. When confronting the refined religious formalism of the Pharisees, this people draw near to me with their mouth, and they honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me. Isaiah fifty-eight really spreads that one out. I mean it's it's like it takes that thought and just extends it. And it tries to do it in very real ways. You you go and you eat and this is the situation, and you go and you drink and this is the situation, and you go and you farm and this is the situation. And he just keeps talking about how everything in their lives Is this empty formalism? Ezekiel picks it up as well. thirty three, thirty-two, thirty-one. Your people who talk together about you, this is you know like a third person, you know, uh monologue here. He says, Your people who talk about you by the walls and at the doors of the houses. And they say to one another, each to his brother, Come and hear what the word is that comes from the Lord. And they come to you as people come, and they sit before you as that's supposed to be sit, sorry about that. And they sit before you as my people, and they hear what you say But they will not do it. Do you see the ordinariness of this? Everybody stands by the wall. All of your people stand by the wall and sit in the house and they talk to their brother all the time. Let's go to the house of God and hear the words of God. They talk about you all the time, but they don't do it. There's a way to approach the Lord. It starts with who he is, right? And the only where the only places we know where he is definitively is in the scriptures, we also have general revelation. But specific and general revelation teach you about who God is, and all truth stems from that. We're not so bright at the end of the day, and so we need some help with that. We need help to get the truth of God into our intellect, and we usually call that in religious circles illumination Right? God turns on the light for us in a dark place and helps us to understand the truths of God as given to us through the scriptures and general revelation. God, intellect Emotion, which most of you are going to think I'm nuts, getting this one backwards with the fourth one that I'll give you. God, intellect, emotion. God teaches you to love him above all other things. And he refines that love over the course of your life. That's that progressive sanctification by grace that God does in your life. He teaches you to value him more than those other things. How many of you have ever had the experience of thinking you valued something until you either got too much of it or you got it in the wrong way or something like that? And the next thing you know, you hate it You wish you'd never pursued it. Right? God does that with our values. He teaches us to hate the things that are hurtful to us and to him. That's called sin. And he teaches us to love the things that give us peace and liberty and freedom, that unrestrain us, that pacify every hurt. That excite every boredom, right? God is the best. There's no way for me to, I mean, I could stand here for hours and try to extend that, but there's no way for me to accomplish how good He actually is. And so he changes our value system. God, intellect, emotion, he changes our heart, he changes our value system, what we love, what we adore, what we prize the most. And the last thing in that is volition. Formalism skips emotion. Kinda skips illumination too. Just goes, I saw the truths, I'll tell you how we're going to play those out. And here's what I will to do, right? If you want to want a translation for volition, just put I will and then blank, whatever that is. That's volition. That's these people. Let's go talk about God. Let's share Him with our brother. Let's do it all the time. But there's no emotion. And so there's empty volition. This may not be the best words. You may complain about them over time. I've been using them for years. I don't plan to stop this morning. Malachi's disputations against religious formalism are the final words of God to his people prior to the coming of Christ. I think that should matter. I'll leave it to you to decide how much. But I think when I think when God addresses his people and gives his final word for an extended period of time, it should be significant to us. The Oracle of the Word, and this is as far as we're going to get in Malachi today. The Oracle of the Word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. That's what this is, his final word for 400, 450 years. And in many cases, in many ways, this is his final direct word to his people. Right? He will mediate his word. There are some exceptions to this, so don't panic. But largely he will mediate his word through Christ. Through the apostles and through the work of the Holy Spirit from this time forward. Best of my knowledge, again I think I could argue with myself here if I wanted to, like Paul and the Road to Emmaus or something like that, although I still might argue that's Christ and not God, but Difficult distinction, obviously. Um This is the last time God interacts directly with his people. This is his m message of his last words, directly communicating with his people. And it even emphasizes it here. It's not quite as good in the English as it is in the Hebrew, but the oracle of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. It's almost like Malachi is an afterthought. Right? I needed some way to communicate myself to you and that you could listen. I wanted a man's pen to inscripturate the words. But this is all about what God is saying. And that continues, and I've described it here for you, that continues all through Malachi. God says, I am me, us. He is directly addressing his people in this context, in a way that's peculiar, by the way, even in the Old Testament. I don't think I'm gonna go too much more onto the end end of the page notes there. Pretty much what I said. Where the Old Testament leaves off on Malachi's disputations against religious formalism, the New Testament picks up. I already mentioned to you that Christ quotes Isaiah twenty-nine thirteen, right? That's that passage that talked about you you uh You draw near to me with your mouth, and you honor me with your lips, while your hearts are far from me, and your fear of me is not right fear. It's not the kind of fear that motivates obedience. Malachi describes another messenger. He is By name the messenger, but he describes another messenger, Malachi 3. 1 Behold I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple So Malachi is a messenger bringing word about religious formalism through six disputations. And there will be four hundred or four hundred and fifty years of silence, and then another messenger that Malachi talks about will come again. And and he is the one um That will talk about the Lord whom you seek, this this Redeemer, this Messiah, the Davidic king That is in that I covenanted with you to to sit on this throne for all eternity. That that Lord that you wait for This next messenger will bring you a word of him, and he will suddenly come to his temple. In Malachi four five he expands on that a little bit. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord. So they were waiting for Elijah. As a matter of fact, I If I'm not mistaken, the last prayer of uh the Passover Seder is They leave an empty seat on the door. Right? They they they open the door and they leave an empty seat. for Elijah. And so when we observe Passover and the Christian I mean when my family does it, we close the door Because Elijah has come and because Christ is here. I'm not waiting any longer. Right? But they were waiting for Elijah. And I don't know oh I do, I have them on the side. I don't know why I have the other I don't have the other passages here, but Christ quotes this very passage from Malachi in Matthew 11, 10, and he says it's John. It's John the Baptist. He is the messenger. He is Elijah. He is the one that came. And what did he say? Repent. For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And I want to we're getting there. We're not there yet. But I'm about to take you into these competitions between expectations. and experiences, right? I'm about to take you into a place that suggests what the cause of this cancer of formalism is Frustration over experiences and expectations that are in competition with each other. But you get into a New Testament context, and Christ says John is the Elijah messenger we're waiting for, and John's message is repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. What was the whole situation with Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem? What was the deal there? How were the people treating him? The beginning? Well in the tr uh yes, I guess you're right. Yes. Yes, in the beginning. As the king, right? They wanted him to institute this prophecy then. And when he did not, when he would not, then what happened, right? Rhetorical question. Then what happened? Aren't we still waiting for a kingdom? Stupid question, right? We are. How are you doing with your unmet expectations? Some interesting passages off in the margin. Take a look. Paul's letter to Timothy picks on up on the exact same formalism, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Has Religious formalism ceased in the New Testament? No. No. It's changed quite a little bit. It has. We've we've put a different context on it. And the danger, I would argue, of putting that new context on it is we suddenly don't find ourselves subject to the Old Testament context, right? We we go, well we're not those people. We know. Yeah, you know what happened, but you're still waiting for God to institute his kingdom just like they were. There's the already in Not yet. Isn't that what people say? Not yet and already? I really don't like that expression. What does that mean? But you know, it it's a thing. Um what we mean is in some sense God is already seated on his throne, executing judgment But it does not yet appear how he will fully accomplish his role as king on this earth, right? We are waiting for those events to happen. And in the meantime, we have our circumstances. We are God's covenant people walking through life as aliens, by the way, in a foreign land, right? Colossians, Peter, fill in the blanks. There's others I'm sure you could think of. Those are two chapters I've studied recently where it's emphasized heavily that we are foreigners in a foreign land. Kind of like Jews in Babylon, maybe We have the appearance of godliness, but we deny its power. 2 Timothy 3. 5. And so John the Baptist's message to the New Testament believers, or people that would become New Testament believers, maybe is a better way to say that. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Matthew 3. 2 I have a reference to the coming judgment of the Lord. It's also in these Old Testament passages in Malachi, but it's in 1 Peter 4, 16-19 if you're interested. The message is still the same. The day of the Lord is coming, and it will begin at the household of God. And just like the Jews in Matthew, Lord, Lord, did we not is not going to cut it. Depart from me. I never knew you, is the response of those people. To those people, excuse me, not of those people. To those people. There's a great promise early on in Malachi. And I'll bring it to you now because I don't want this to be a study of like th this should be This should be a refreshing study to us. Doesn't mean that it doesn't start with some repentance or confession or contrition or Fill in the blank with another word there. Doesn't mean that it doesn't start from that. But God's warning to his people always comes with the following. Return to me, and I will return to you. Ain't the New Testament he says, I would have gathered you, like chicks to a hen But you would not. No place in Scripture do you see people knocking on the door of Christ. And he goes, I don't think so. Right? He makes a way. Christ is the the ultimate way. That doesn't mean there is any other way. I just mean the He went all the way, right? There was nothing God held back on us when he opened the door to repentance and returned. And so I want this to be refreshing to you. But I want it to be the kind of refreshing that helps you to think rightly about your relationship with Christ. I want it to be the kind of refreshing that helps you see the experiences of your Monday through Saturday life in the context that God would have them in. I did these things. And if there's sin in your life and there's hurt resulting from it, return to the Lord. And if there's frustration in your life and there's desperation as a result of it, return to the Lord. If you feel constrained by your sins and by temptation, you are called to amazing liberality in Christ. Return to the Lord. If you are desperate to see God's blessing on your life and you just feel like you're in the midst of a 40-year wilderness, return to the Lord. And remember that what characterizes in the scriptures, what characterizes those 40 years, was an ever-presence of the Lord, providing for his people. in all of their needs. Not the way they wanted, not the way they expected, but the way he wanted. And I will believe the testimony of God over the testimony of man any time. And God says, I was with you there And it was good. And I provided for all your needs. And I was close to you through that entire experience. Let us not be found as those who have the name of the what is that? That's a busted sentence, is what that is. Let us not be found as those formalistic people who had the name of the Lord on their lips, but whose hearts were far from him. My remaining minutes I want to talk about. So formalism is the is the is the thing that killed the body. Right? We're talking with this autopsy of dead religion. Well what killed it? Formalism Well what caused the formalism? And my thesis is competition between expectations and experiences. What caused God's people to say readily and so repeatedly Another busted sentence. This is what happens when I get up too early. I tell you what, I I apologize. The whole point there is what caused God's people to constantly fall into formalistic worship. It was subject to his judgment over and over and over again. And while any one answer would be too simplistic, it is not um unrealistic to say that a principal cause of it is the people's frustration with their circumstances in light of their expectations. God would promise something and they would go, well to me that means this And if you don't give me this, then I'm gonna go do it myself. I'm gonna go try it my own way. I mean, for heaven's sakes, the Lord draws the Israelites out of Egypt. They're only a couple of days, at most, a couple of weeks into the wilderness. He meets with them visibly and fearfully. You'd think that would have been enough, but apparently we're thick headed. Has was it hair wingless bipeds? I can't remember what movie that's from. My kids are always calling us that. TK wingless or hairless bi I don't know, I can't remember. It sticks in my head now, every time I go to say people, I think of basically new bipeds. Um We're apparently thick-headed. God meets with his people there, and they're they're afraid of his overt manifestation of himself and his character and his nature there on Mount Sinai. And what do they do? Two two things actually. One you're gonna get right away. But the first thing they do that leads to the thing you're gonna get, I'll be curious to see who gets. So what's the first thing they do after they say, don't make us go talk to the Lord, that's too scary. What's the first thing they do? It's a little shocking actually. Right, the calf I knew you would get, right? Everybody knows the calf, right? So I knew you'd get the calf There's a thing that happens first. And it's it's it's very specific in the scriptures. I was actually really surprised the first time I saw it Because they were complaining? Yes, yes, yes, you're alright. They rose up to play. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Your response is exactly how I felt the first time I read it. I was like, what? Like like what stupid version of the Bible do I have here? I said that can't be right. Let's go find a different version. Nope. Says it there, says it there, says it says they rose up to play. They rose up to comfort themselves and to find some joy by the effort of their own hands. They went to distract themselves. In my house, we call that veggie. And it means you're going to go downstairs and you're going to turn on that little screen that we kind of worship every once in a while, right? And and your brain is going to leak out of your ear while you giggle or laugh or you know go on some great, you know, heroic mission. You know, look what I accomplished. I mean I watched somebody do it Says they rose up to play. And then they built an idol. And you know what they called the idol? This is another interesting one. You know what they call it the idol? God? Yeah. Oh God. Yahweh. Yeah. Same God. Well no it's not. No, it's not. That was in the Egyptian. But did you see that? Right. We're so used to hearing the sermon played out in caricature, we're so used to hearing this lesson played out and such a large distinction made But God was right there burning on the mountain. They weren't quite that dumb as to believe that there was some other God. But they wanted it to be their way. They wanted to be able to control the outcome. They didn't want to be afraid and obey. They didn't want to surrender. To him, they wanted it their way. So they played first, kind of calmed themselves down as near as I can tell, and then they built God. And Aaron helped them do it. My God, my way. I I gotta tell you, I had a tough week. Just on that note, right? We say that and we and I I maybe you meant it very personally, I don't know. I'm not challenging you there, but you know, we say that and it's like, oh that's what they do. That's that's That's her. Right? Just thinking obviously please don't be offended. Um I I am tough weak. Be inappropriate for you to me to drag you through all my mud all week, but I I had a tough week holiday, Monday. Tuesday didn't end. I mean I I I wish somebody would have drove by the office and shot me by the time Tuesday was over, right? It just would not end. It it was a tough week. And I have to admit, I went home feeling frustrated and sorry for myself. Lord, I've been trying to do this thing I've been trying to do for 10 years now. And for ten years I've been praying, bless it or crush it. But why do I have to just bleed out slowly, God? And and on top of all of it, you know, the insult to injury, these experiences that I've had this day, really shad And I got home and I went to pray for my meal with my family. And I was like, oh, thank you, Lord, for the meal. Because you know that's what you say, right? I was like, what a hypocrite. I was in the middle of my prayer and I said out loud, what a hypocrite. And of course everybody at the table went. So I held my figure up and said, give me a minute, you know. I could feel their heads snap up when I said it, right? And I changed my prayer to Lord. You know I'm angry and I'm frustrated and I'm afraid and I'm tired of feeling like a failure in these particular ways. And I want you to do it my way. Or at least I see those thoughts. Of course I'm studying this stuff right and the Lord's like, it's got it right there. That's it. Right? I can see my thoughts. I want you to do it my way. My God, my way. In my time, too. And so I altered my prayer. I was like, Lord, I want to I want to thank you for this good food. And this small house, but house I love. In this family, who I can honestly say I cherish. I love to be with my family. And in my experience, outside of church, that's unusual. Most men and women I work with talk about escaping their families. When I'm hurt, I go home. When I'm happy, I go home. When I'm weary, I go home. And I want all my people there with me. Lord, help me to see your blessings in your way, in your time, to the fullest. And help every other thing in my hand that's my God, my way, my time. Take it from me. And I spent the rest of the week rehearsing that in the fallout of Tuesday's events. Right? As I dealt with that fallout for the rest of the week, I had to keep saying that to myself. And interestingly enough, I I don't even remember how it happened, I had an opportunity at least three, at least two times, to have a similar conversation with a coworker Interesting opportunity for the gospel there. As a result of these hard circumstances. Again, I have no idea why I said that. I hope that was edifying. Moving on. Um Thank you. Um Ezekiel Hagye is Haggy. Haggai. It's not going well. Zachariah and Malachi all point to a people whose experiences seemed in their minds in conflict with their expectations. So they responded in ways contrary to faith. And I want you to notice I underline that word because that is the exact word that is used in the Old Testament when it describes it. You did not live by faith. You did not trust me to be faithful to the promises that I made to you. Our expectations are legitimately enough based on his promises. But when we turn those promises into my God, my way, in my time, that's where we get caught up into this religious formalism. studying Luke for my next small group study. And in studying it this week I discovered this really cool link with faith and expectations and promises in um the uh the angel are are we told that it's Gabriel? Are we told that Gabriel is the one that approached Zechariah I thought we were too. I have that in my head, but now I I'm trying not to lie to you at the same time. But so I'm gonna say Gabriel and if I'm lying to you I apologize. Um when he approaches Zechariah, he's got this really cool uh statement in in um well actually it's Luke 113. The background for the statement is uh in 1-7. And it says, but they had no child because Elizabeth was barren and both were advanced in years. Circumstances were at odds with their expectations. Zechariah believed that if he served God, God would perpetuate his line. That was a blessing to be able to have a son to perpetuate the line, particularly a priestly line. Gabriel. It was Gabriel? Okay. Didn't shoot my credibility by lying, Dave. Thank you, thank you. Um And then an angel comes to him, Gabriel comes to him and says, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard. And your So notice this. Your prayer has been heard This old guy, who is well beyond childbearing years, is still praying for God's blessing. Your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John, the messenger. He's the one that's gonna bring the word that says repent. And I just love that, right? You want to know how how much this idea of Experiences in competition with expectations plays into religious formalism. Well, the last disputations of the Old Testament are ones about formalism, and the first words in the New Testament are about faith in the midst of circumstances that do not agree with our expectations. And what does Zechariah do? Does he have faith? Right? He gets struck mute because he's like, Well how can this be, Lord? What what were you praying for, you old codger? Right. And I can say that because I already confessed to you how badly I did this week. And then John shows up on the scene and delivers the call to repent and live in the confident reality of believing in all the footn fullness of all God's imminent promises Problem is experiences in contrast to expectations. The time Malachi writes to these people, Jerusalem is still under foreign rule. There is no prospect of the Davidic king, and I cannot emphasize enough in the remaining time how important that was to the nationhood of Israel. God's covenant was so wrapped up in the promise of of a Davidic king that in their minds that was synonymous And to be a part of this small new city called Jerusalem with the small temple and all this other stuff, but no king and under foreign rule was just crushing to them. And Haggai sets the Lord's promise and encouragement in contrast to the people's heart. Haggai comes to them to encourage them, pre-Malachi, just pre-Malachi, to encourage them. with what the Lord is doing. And I'm going to let you read those verses. I'm running short on time. I'm going to let you read the consider your ways. I am with you, declares the Lord. I will fill this house with glory. Let's skip down to Ezekiel's So even out of Haggai they have all this encouragement. Right, I am with you. Uh the latter glory of this temple is going to be greater than the former glory, and I will give you peace, and that is not their experiences, and they are frustrated. And we read in some of the history last week that they kept putting down their work and going off and doing their own things. They went to build their own temples or their own houses and their own lands and farm their own stuff and gain their own uh grain and and do all this other stuff. And the Lord keeps coming to them and saying, stop doing that. Do you see that that never satisfies you? Said differently, they went to play and to have God their way in their time. If you won't bless us, Lord, we will bless ourselves. But it left them feeling empty and it snowballed on them. The emptier they felt, the harder they tried to get it for themselves, and the harder they tried to get it themselves, the emptier they felt. And so they they instituted these uh complicated systems of formalism to try to give themselves this this idea that we we are Abraham's children. We are David's sons. We are the covenant people. Because of and fill in the blank, I don't even know why. Ezekiel's Temple Vision, you can read about that and Ezekiel uh well all through Ezekiel. Actually Ezekiel is a really interesting book. It's like a seesaw. It starts off with no hope because of all your judgment, and he's sitting there on the bank of the river in Babylon in the midst of the no hope. And the whole latter part of it is this amazing picture of hope An amazing picture of renewal and resurrection. An amazing picture of what God will do, some of which we have not yet realized. So they had that that in their mind, right? They had all the prosperity promises of Haggai, which we just read about or we just alluded to. They had the restoration hopes of Zechariah. There were some tremendous promises there in Zechariah. Return to me and I will return to you. Zechariah 1-3. Behold, I come and I will dwell in your midst. And many nations shall join themselves to the Lord in that day, Zechariah 2. So all of these great promises, all of these great expectations. A small temple, picked on by neighbors, still not sovereign over their own land. Wall just finished being built, but smaller than it was before. There's some economic struggle here that you can get from this even the first passages of Malachi and even in the first incision. Apparently Esau is still harassing them, meaning the nation of Edom is still harassing them because they're the first ones they get interacted with in this first incision. Their experiences are not consistent with their expectations. And so they have adopted religious formalism with a heart that is far from God. And God sends Malachi to call them back from that, to warn them. In second Timothy four three we see a similar warning. Religion becomes a means of manipulating God to do what we want him to do. And worse than that, we accumulate teachers. that tickle our ears with words that reinforce our religious formalism. And it just grows and grows and grows into a shallower or a more refined and emptier religion all the time. And so we have very little ability to even know God for who he is. We have an idol that we call God, but it's so unlike what he is really like I'll just go back by a last word of encouragement. to where Malachi goes. And I I just love it, right? It's this it's this simple. Hear the word of the Lord. Over 1,500 years of history, not to mention the New Testament passages that we reference. Hear the word of the Lord, be warned, and be careful. Right? Hear the word of the Lord, be warned, and be careful. Lord, I pray that you would encourage hearts with your word today. I pray that you would also excite us to be able to see such a grand perspective of thousands of years of your work with your creation. With your covenant people, your long patience to draw us back and make a way for repentance, to make a way for renewal, to make a way for peace. We thank you for your words and the fellowship of believers to discuss it with. Let your Spirit fill us with good truth and understanding of the things we have studied and learned and the practical nature of them. These things I pray in your name, Amen.