All right, let's go to page one in our notes, and uh welcome back to the book of Romans. We are today in lesson three, and that is Paul's confidence In the gospel. Woo! Paul's confidence in the power of the gospel led him to do four things. to praise God, to pray for opportunities, to plan to preach the gospel, and then to actually share or preach the gospel with others But those four things are based not on Paul's abilities, but his confidence in the gospel. Let me read the text to you. And what's beautiful about this particular text. is that you would have the same experience studying to prepare to teach it as I would, which is the outline is so clear in the text, you just go with that. And I've just underlined some words that are so clear that became my outline for this. Let me read that for you in Romans 1, verses 8 to 17. Paul says, first I thank my God, which I've called praise here. through Jesus Christ for you all. Because your faith is being proclaimed throughout the whole world. For God, whom I serve in my spirit in the preaching of the gospel of his Son is my witness as to how unceasingly I make mention of you always in my prayers, making requests, if perhaps now at last by the will of God I may succeed in coming to you. For I long to see you so that I may impart some spiritual gift to you, that you may be established. That is, I may be encouraged together with you, while among you, each of us by the other's faith, both yours, and and mine. I do not want you to be unaware, brethren, that often I have planned to come to you, but have been prevented so far, so that I may obtain some fruit among you also. even as among the rest of the Gentiles. I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise, And to the foolish. So for my part, I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first. And also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, but the righteous man shall live by faith. The outline is simple. Other than the that Paul didn't say the word praise, he said, I thank God. He praised God for the work that God had done in the lives of the Romans. Verse 10, he prayed for opportunities to be with them to speak. He planned to do so. He preached, but this was all based on verses 16 and 17 For, because I am confident in the power of the gospel. For because in it the righteousness of God is demonstrated. For it is the power of God unto salvation. So this this particular text, essentially in big picture So that we don't lose where we are in the So we don't lose where we are in the big picture of the book. I want to remind you, and especially today, and I will see if I can fix up. Where we are in the book. Remember, there's five sections of the book of Romans that we're going to be covering, and we're first of all looking at the issue of sin. And that is, Paul will present a court case against every human being, against Gentiles, the moralist. Is there too much feedback? You know, the Apostle Paul had this happen to him in Rome. In fact, that's why Paul never went to Rome. He's like their audio system's terrible. Okay, welcome back. Can you hear me still? Okay. So there are five parts of the book of Romans, and just a refresher of where we are, we're actually in the prelude, which could be called salutation. And we're in verses 1 to 17, which is Paul is priming us to understand what he's about to do. Today we finish that, Lord willing, on the hinge verses of 16 and 17. Paul's not ashamed of the gospel. And then his explanation of the gospel is going to be these five things. And in it, he's going to share with us. He shares the gospel. He prays for opportunities. He plans to it. But then Paul's going to address in the rest of the book of Romans, why doesn't everybody believe it then? Like Paul's like I'm a gu I go out there, I witness, I do all this stuff. And then he's gonna tell you, uh there's a problem People don't want it. It's sin. And he'll go through why everyone is rejecting it. But then he's going to explain to us then how does God save people who don't want it? Because if we just had these verses, I'm not ashamed of the gospel, and we just preach that, the message today would be, leave here, preach the gospel, it's going to be awesome. But Paul wants you to know, I've been at some places where they didn't think it was awesome. I've been stoned, I've been shipwrecked, I was thrown out of places, I was left for dead, all because I am not ashamed of the gospel But that doesn't mean everyone wants it. Okay. He'll then explain how does God save, and then what are the implications of a saved person, what will happen. And then he will go back now. And sovereignty is his section that explains God's eternal plan to save people. What was the big picture? What's the origin story on the gospel? What's the background so we understand what God's big picture Why are certain people saved? Why aren't they? Why do certain people things happen? What about Israel? What about church history? Where's this thing going? And Paul will address the backstory. And then finally the implications of living the gospel out in terms of that. So that at least to bring some of you up to speed where we started the post. Any questions at this point or I'll jump back in? Yes. Yeah, salvation misspelled three times. Yeah. Yeah. No ma'am, I went to school in Virginia. Sorry, I I grew up in Fairfax County. It wasn't as good as Howard County. All right, so we're on we're on page one then. At the bottom of the page I have a little outline picture here for you Again, confidence in the gospel. And just to remind you of the outline at the bottom of page one, confidence in the gospel is based on God's power and righteousness. Confidence in the gospel will lead us to do four things. It will lead us to praise God for His work in the lives of others. It will lead us to pray for opportunities to minister to others. It will lead us to plan for opportunities to minister to others. And it will lead us to preach eagerly to all. Alright, let's go to page two. And here's what I'm trying to do today then. I'm starting with verses 16 and 17, because as I said, Paul says, it is because of my belief and the confidence of the gospel that I do these things. Imagine for a moment that the gospel is a medicine. And imagine for a moment you have a little vial that you've gotten from the pharmacist and it has an RX on it And you've got pills in it that you're going to take for whatever your ailment happens to be. And imagine for the moment that the gospel pill is in that little vial. What does that thing even do? Who should take it? How do you take it? And there'll be the explanation, right? Have you ever been so sick that you're like, Just give me the thing or whatever. But then the instructions are this long. And they're in four-point font. And you're like, I have no idea what this does. You don't know what you should take it with or whatever. On there though, the good doctor has put, take with a meal, take twice a day for seven days. The instructions are very clear. Imagine that what Paul is about to do is to begin to explain what the medicine is, the gospel does, and what it doesn't do. Because frankly, what Paul's not going to say is this gospel medicine, if you just take the top off, put it in your hand, and give it to somebody, the gospel medicine doesn't work. on everybody. It only works when taken with faith. So when he says, I believe that the the gospel is the power of God to save, it is not magic power. It must be accompanied by internal faith. The reception of faith is the only way that activates the gospel within. But then Paul will then tell the backstory later of, but God the great physician is working all of that together to cause the medicine to work. Imagine if it was that today we could get a pill. Just go with me, a physical pill, that you could leave this building and it would do three things. that it would make people well, no matter what their illness was, it would have it would make them well from the illness they have. Secondly, that pill would then activate a wellness that will lead them to health, outrageous health. It will cure their ill, it will take them to outrageous health. And then thirdly, that same pill, once it's been digested and used and waited on, will eventually make it so that you can never be sick again. Now, if I had such a pill, and if you did, and go with me, you know where I'm going, I'd be pretty excited. What would I do? I would do the four things Paul did with the gospel. I would praise God every time someone took it and they got well. I would be praying for opportunities to share that pill with people I'd be like, man, I gotta go tell somebody, Lord, give me an opportunity. I would make plans. I'd be like, I'm gonna be down at the mall today Anna Rundamol, I'm yelling on there in a big speaker. I have a pill that if you will take it, you will never be sick again. And then I would preach it everywhere. That's what Paul did because of his confidence in the pill. He believed that thing, when activated by faith, which God causes faith. When activated with the inner faith that God causes, that pill will do those three things. It's justification. It makes you ill it makes you well from the sin you have. It's sanctification. It makes you healthier as you go along. And it's glorification because you will never sin again when you get in heaven. Okay. On that note, let's go to page two Let's talk about the gospel that Paul was confident in. For I am not ashamed of the gospel, Paul says, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first. And also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as is written, but the righteous man Shall live by faith. Let's break this down a little bit and look at the key words here in terms of gospel and not ashamed and power. Remember last week we talked about the U-angelion? Okay, remember, ooh angelion. The Greek word for gospel. God's good news that sinners can be justified by grace alone, through faith alone. In Christ alone. The content of the gospel is found in 1 Corinthians 15, right? Paul says simply, the content of the gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. for our sins. First Corinthians 15 then. Now I make known to you, brethren, the gospel which I preach to you, which also you received, in which also you stand. And by which also you are saved, if you hold fast the word which I preach to you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received. That Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day, according to the scriptures. So let's just do this together. Paul's confidence is in the power of the gospel. What is the gospel? It's the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ for our sins. Number two, or B, he's not ashamed of the gospel. What does that mean? Well, if I just take the Oxford Dictionary to begin, when we use the word ashamed, we mean embarrassed. Or guilty because of one's actions or characteristics or associations, reluctant to do something through fear or the embarrassment or humiliation. Paul's not ashamed of the gospel. What is he talking about? Is he talking about I'm not embarrassed by the gospel? Or he's like, I'm not fearful to share the gospel? Well, ultimately I think, and you probably will agree, that Paul is saying, I'm confident that it does what it says it does. And so that I'm not ashamed to share it with other people because it is actually the thing that works. Now, this may be a silly illustration, but I have found in life that there's very few pot products that can actually buy at Walmart at work. And you usually they're cleaning products or something. Super bowl cleaner, waka waka. And you take it home and you're like, that doesn't work, man. You actually still have to scrub it, you know You actually have to do something. This doesn't work, you know? But has anybody ever used Lemmy Shine? Oh yeah, that'll change your life. Lemmy Shine, best product ever at Walmart. Man, you put that in and it will make your dishes pfft and it will take all the grime up. The stuff they say it does, best product ever bought Write down, go ahead. Let me shine. No, okay. And so in the simplest way, and I know I'm starting simple today, but in the simplest way, if I like that product and I know it works, and I have confidence in that, I'm not ashamed to tell you all. You ought to go get that product and use it in your house because I know it works. That's the point that Paul's making. It's simple, but to say, if you know the product works because it worked for you. That's back to my first thing I said about this book. This is personal. Let me shine is something you put with your dishwasher. Right, and it it brings it shines your stuff, it takes the grime off of it. It does cool stuff. It's a rinse. But anyway, what I'm gonna do an hour exposition. I know. You know what? Actually, that's a great segue. This is my wife Carla, by the way. Because the point is Paul's whole book explains how Lemmy Shine works. You see what I'm saying? He's like you all oughta get it, because I'm confident it works, but there are a lot of people who don't like Lemmy Stein for all their reasons. But guess what? Lemmyshine works and here's how it's gonna and okay But there's a reason why the Lemmy Shine was created and who can mu okay and why it's in short demand and all that. Was that good? That was good. Good. All right, yeah. So Paul's not ashamed of the gospel. Think of Luke chapter 9 when Jesus says, For whoever is ashamed of me and my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed of him when he comes in his glory, and the glory of the Father and of the holy angels. Paul didn't preach the gospel simply because he was obligated. We're going to get to his obligation. But because he knew the gospel works. It does. And also we're going to look at the issue of Paul had never been to Rome, and he's going to ask the question you're going to ask the question, why do you never be in Rome? And he says, I can't wait to preach in Rome because I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Perhaps some thought he was ashamed of the gospel. Perhaps some thought, hey, in Rome, you're not big stuff. This is the epicenter of the entire empire. You're no big deal. Out there in Hunky Dunkyville Out in Corinthville and all that, you're the man. You come to Rome, we're a little more sophisticated. Okay? Yeah, Dave, you've been in California. with the surfers. But this is DC, baby. This is DMV. Is Howard County's not part of the DMV? You you still part of that? Oh okay. Yeah, yeah. Virginia. Yeah, we can in school we just say Shazam All right, see. Paul's not ashamed of the gospel because it is the power of God for salvation. Now we all know it's the Greek word dunimos. Some have said like dynamite, and yes it's sort of the backdrop of that. But the gospel isn't like dynamite in that you light it up and you throw it in a room and it blows everybody up, right? It doesn't do that. It's a demonstration of God's omnipotence. That is, that God is able to do all his holy will. It is the power of God. Again, when water is applied to this product, it will work. When faith is applied, That then will activate this dunamas and it will become the power of God in a person's life to heal their sin, to make them more in the image of Christ, and bring them to God's glory. It's going to do all those things when it's activated with faith Romans 1. 4. Who has declared the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead? Romans 1. 20. For since the creation of the world has invisible attributes, his eternal Dunimos and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood through the things which have been made, so that they are without excuse, in 1 Corinthians 1. For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing But to those who are being saved, it is the dunamas of God. Do you see that? For those who are rejecting it, it's no dunamas But for those who are being saved by faith, it becomes the power of God internally to do those things. But to those who are the calls, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the dunamas of God and the wisdom of God, to the elect it is those things by faith. All right, page three. Good morning, everybody. So Paul says, I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God unto, top of page three, salvation, selterii, or serterie. That means deliverance, preservation, safety, salvation. Theologically speaking, our salvation is both past, present, and future, as I've explained. We've been saved from the penalty of sin. You all know that, justification. We're being saved from the power and the pleasure of sin, sanctification. And we will be saved from the presence of sin in our future glorification. Again, simplistically, Paul's confidence in the gospel is that we'll do all three of those things. You see, even later Paul will say I'm so confident that this is going to be true of you that he even speaks in future language of things that have not yet happen, I'm sorry, current language of things that have not yet happened. He's so confident that that is true of you, that he'll speak on that. Do you have any questions? I'm kind of moving fast because some of this is review by the way. That's a setup. I sent that to Jesus. Yes, ma'am. How much is the limited job? Whatever it is, it's worth it. Yeah. Supply chain. Alright, so back to the top of page one. Thank you. I'll just move. Justification is to be saved from the eternal penalty of sins. Glorification means to be saved from the power, pleasure, and presence of sin. And of course Sanctification and glorification are the promised birthright of everyone who is justified by faith alone in Christ alone. Let me stop. The picture below this, this little diagram with the guy who looks like a statue of David made by Michelangelo. Left to right explains, perhaps, for you, if you read the whole book of Romans, Paul's going to go through all of those words and all of those concepts that are left to right on that diagram. And what it's called when theologians talk about it is the Ordo Salutis, the order of salvation. That's the Latin term. If you're R. C. Bull fans, he always uses Latin terms. The point of it is this. When we get into conversations with people and they say Well, I'm a Calvinist or I'm an Arminian. I believe that God saves people, and the other person's like, well, I believed. Well, who's right? How can you prove it? Those kind of things. The order of salvation is an attempt to take Scripture's teaching. And to put order of who acted first, the causes that created the effects. And so you might think of it this way. You might ask the question, if you went to the gardens down uh you know in DC and you saw that in the middle of a garden there was a statue. And two of you were visiting first time. First time you ever saw the statue together and the person said, Why is this statue here? Man, there's a lot of things you can talk about. You can talk about the mundane cause and effect. Well somebody rolled it out on a cart. You know, these men put it on a cart and they why is it here? Because they were instructed to do so. And if you just ask the workers why is this statue here, they could say, because we were told to put it here. Yeah, but why were you told to put it here? Well, the person who, you know, directs this museum or whatever wanted it here. When you start to trace back why a statue is in a garden, you have to ask questions like, who created this statue? And well is that the thing? Well, the material that it's created from, you could talk about cause and effect. It had something, an instrument. How did this become a statue in the garden? Somebody did this with it and made this statue into what it was But even beyond the instruments that were used and the power to do it, the cause is also in the mind of the sculptor The ultimate cause for it, I'm not using the classic causes, but the ultimate cause of a sculpture being there is that in the mind of the sculptor and the the design to do it, it started there. It then worked out to the physical material causes from which then the efficient causes, how it was done, and then it moves down to the other causes, and then there's a thing called the final cause for which everything Why was it done? For the glory of the sculptor or for the enjoyment of art. You see what I mean? When you ask the question, why am I saved? How is that happening? It depends on when a Calvinist and Arminian, if you don't know those terms, you will by the end of Romans, right? But why do people argue about that? Because they're often arguing about different causes. They might say, I had faith. That is an activator that caused a reaction of justification. Why did you have faith? Because it was in the mind of the great sculptor. It was God's eternal plan to save you, and that the statue of your faith would be in the garden of his joy. But that's God's eternal plan to bring you there. And the final cause is Romans 8, 28-30. It's basically why did all this happen? For whom he foreknew he predestined to be conformed in the image of his son, etc. For his glory So all of this is done for his glory, final cause. The efficient cause or the effective cause is God's personal design. But all the causes in between have a cause and effect. Did I cause my salvation? No, because faith itself is a gift. So you see where we're going with this. Okay? So in the big picture then left to right, what Paul will address is the causes of our salvation. left to right in the book of Romans, and that is the cause is the election or the determination of God in eternity past to do his will in saving some. And then the cause of the atonement. Without the atonement, nobody gets saved. And then God calls people, right? He called them externally, and then he calls them internally to come and be part of his glorious garden. But then the resistance is overcome by the regeneration of God, because the people who are going to be in his family are dead. And so God overcomes that with regeneration. And then comes the experience of conversion. My faith and my repentance are part of a longer Ordo Salutis. My reaction to the statue, I'm mixing metaphors, my reaction to the thing is an effect caused by a cause that was greater than myself. I still had the effect. I did it. I was not a robot. I wasn't a machine. God didn't believe stuff through me. But God's causes created in me the mystery of my faith. And then finally, once that's done, there's a cause and effect. Once you're a believer, then the pill takes over. And there's justification, sanctification, and glorification. Okay, that's the big picture. Romans 8. 28. And we know in the box there that God causes all things to work together for good. To those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. For those he foreknew, election slash foreknowledge, he predestined, determined their eternal destiny To become conformed to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. And those whom he predestined, left to right, he called. And those he called, he justified, and those he justified, He glorified. It's a short ordo, but Paul's going to fill in all the other parts of the Ordo Salutis in the book of Romans. That makes sense. They're all going to be in there, but in Paul's Romans 8, 28-30, he just does the beginning and the end. God's election and foreknowledge. And his predetermining where you're going to end up, he called you in time and space, and then he justified you, and he will glorify you. The other pieces are just fill-in. If you see where we're going So at the bottom of the the page I've just said, do you notice, or in the box, so certain is God's completion of this final purpose for which you exist. That Paul uses the past tense to describe a yet future event. And those he justified, he glorified. Paul says, past tense of your salvation. So certain is the work of the gospel and the work of the Spirit. It's already something that's clear. So at the bottom of page 3, much more then, having now been justified by his blood, we will be saved from the wrath of God through him. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son, much more having been reconciled, we will be saved by his life. Paul's confidence in the gospel. Now so Paul says For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation to all who believe. Now we get to the activator on the on the Bible. Anybody want to take this by faith? This is going to work for you. What is saving faith? Good and godly Christians struggle with this. Say really? I want to go back to membership interviews. Okay? Membership interviews part two. Some of you, I'm looking around, I did your membership interview. You you're not the people I'm talking about. You were the good people. You're members now, right? You're the saved people, okay? Membership interview part two. Where you say, explain to us what it is you believed in, or how you came to know Jesus as your Savior. And it can get murky out there. It can get murky. Because there's two parts or three parts of saving faith. Saying that I have faith in God is not sufficient. Because it doesn't have the gospel content in it. So there are three parts of saving faith. Knowledge, assent, and trust Uh this is the way the Christian Church has said this for 2,000 years and since the Reformation Protestants have used these three words except for the Latin phrases of them. But knowledge, assent, and trust is necessary for saving faith. What do we mean Knowledge that you must know that Jesus died on the cross, he was buried, and he rose again the third day for your sins. That's the content of saving faith. In membership interviews we'll say, so what is it when you say I have faith in Jesus, what do you mean? Well, I just believe in him. The devils believe, but they're not saved There's a difference between belief and trust, right? I just spoke at the Hope Academy chapel on Friday and I just did a little illustration with a bar stool that you see a picture of here and I just talked about the difference between believing in Jesus and trusting him. Right? That's the difference. You must know something, but then you must assent to it. You must accept it as true, to be convinced, to see yourself as a sinner who cannot save themselves, right? It's possible to know Jesus stuff and say, I I think that's true historically, right? But you've never assented personally to, oh, that's about me. I'm the guy he died for. I'm the person who needs that. I can't save myself, right? But you're still not saved if you believe in the facts of the gospel. And even if you say, I know that I need that See, how do I know that? Well, I have at least one illustration in my life, my brother John. I came to faith before my brother John. Uh he was ten years older than me, and I spent years trying to witness to him And he was always like, no thanks, no thanks. We both grew up Roman Catholic. He had seen, you know, his religion. He was like, I don't need any of that And one day there was a breakthrough, at least what I thought, and I was talking to him on the phone and he and I said, So, you know, John, what are you thinking about Jesus and the gospel and all that? He said, You know what, Dave, I've come to believe that that it is true that Jesus is God. He came in human flesh and he died on the cross for for sin I said, awesome. He said, and I also believe, maybe not in so many theological words, that that's the only way to go to heaven. Boom! And this is what he said. And I could care less. Right? Because m you're not changed by knowledge, nor by the ascent of the the idea of something. You're saved by the work of God to cause the moral decision. to choose to repent and believe and to cast yourself on the finished work of Christ. Now in God's grace, and many of you already know the story, but in God's grace my brother did come to faith in Jesus Christ years later. But that was a point where I was like, ooh. Okay. So what is saving faith that requires trust? I usually use the bar stool, I forgot to bring one, but just a reminder. Oh I'll use a chair. Oh yes! Yes, that's safe. Best thing ever, thank you, Lord. Um okay. Just a reminder when we're preaching the gospel, the difference between believing and trust. Okay, when you're when you're speaking to somebody. Imagine that then this is Jesus, and what's the relationship to it? Oh, I believe this chair can hold me up. Right? Yeah, you're getting there. Right. I've got to sit on it to trust it. But there are people like I've seen other people sit in that chair and it seemed to have held them up. I I I've even come to the place where I was like, this chair is really cool. I've got a book that I take to my chair meetings that talks all about sitting in chairs. It's awesome. I love it so much I got a chain and I put a picture of it around my neck At our home we put it up on the s on the wall and then sometimes we sing about it. Oh chair that holds me up It's pretty bad, I know. But look, you're still not sitting in the chair. To trust in Jesus is to believe that on a life I never lived and on a death I never died I stake my entire eternity. You must sit in the chair. The last part is when you're religious, it's really hard to see. Because religious people are leaning on the chair. But their feet are still the power of their feet are off the ground. Uh I'm trusting in Jesus plus. Okay. I once gave this talk and I didn't sit in the chair and people were freaked out. You know? A couple of OCD people in the room were like, I'm going home. Until he sits in the chair. Okay, I'm gonna sit in the chair. All right I hope. Wait, it doesn't work. No. Alright, my feet are up off the ground. I'm trusting this chair to hold me up. There are many people who attend evangelical churches they have knowledge of God. They might even assent philosophically, but they've never come to the place where they've recklessly abandoned their hope of salvation in themselves or in their religion and have cast themselves completely on the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus, save me. You are my only hope. Yes, ma'am. And Jesus Absolutely great question she asked. And Jesus gives you the trust to actually sit on the stool. That's right. It's not your built-up confidence in the trust. But God's work to bring you to the confidence of that. It's actually it's a mystery, but that's the mystery of faith. It's a great question. Why am I doing this? Yes. Um it seems to me that there are instances where people circumvent the first two steps. Knowledge of the afternoon. Yes. Yes. understanding there in the case of them perhaps not. Yes. But the third part, which is the trust, yes, seems to be fairly well defined. Okay. Or the first one up. Right. The uh if if I can repeat your question and if I'm not repeating it properly, let me know. It's something like that. It seems like people understand largely that trust means trust. But that sometimes teaching and and whatever that the the knowledge and the ascent part is fuzzy with people, but you're asking the question, I think you're asking, can person actually be saved with fuzz? Yes. Yes. And here's why I'd say that. It's not the strength of your faith, it's the object of your faith that saves you. Right? You throw yourself on Jesus and the facts as you know them. But not on a false right, because you can use the word Jesus and and then say, Jesus saves me through my works, Jesus you know what I'm saying. There has to be content But the amount of faith doesn't save you, and you don't need to know everything about the virgin birth or the five points of Calvinism to be saved. It's not how much, it's, you know, there's a very clear gospel But can I be fuzzy when I come to it? The faith is the uh uh uh faith the size of a mustard seed can move mountains. You can be saved by very little faith, and then your faith will grow On that point too, I would say this. Uh people make too much of repentance for salvation. Hear me out. You have to repent. You have to change your mind about what you were trusting in. You have to say I'm a sinner. I can't save myself. I repent of trying to save myself. All that But you don't have to have tremendous contrition. I grew up Roman Catholic. There's a movement within our own movement today that makes repentance almost like a work You didn't feel bad enough about your salvation. I must not have repented enough because I'm still struggling with sin after I I confess Christ. They've made it almost not a work, but they've made it a a gospel work. And it's not how much you repent or how strong your belief is, it is the object of your faith. You know, Peter on the walked in wall walking on water, you know, Jesus just grabs them. You know, the illustration, the thief on the cross He wasn't thinking about justification that day. Uh we don't even know what his response is, other than he was like, this man's innocent. But Jesus said, You'll see uh you'll be with me today in paradise. So again, there's content. But god saves sinners. We're not theologians, you know? So Henry, yeah. Same, same. Okay, go ahead. Theologian to theologian, go ahead. You're just saying that the pretension may not be as we would expect or want to see, but there is dependence. Whatever defense uh repentance is defined as, like faith has yes, I am saying you have to repent. What repentance is might be a question we need to to talk about, but it's not how much repentance, and I say that by contritionalism is the the sin of the day. You didn't feel bad enough. You didn't remorse for your sins. You didn't name them all, who knows, whatever. Um and just in pr very simple picture. We we we all know that in practice, if you've been a Christian any length of time, your faith has grown since you became a believer. And your repentance will grow as well. What is saving faith and saving repentance? They are turning from what I believed in and trusted in. And the belief that I was okay, and whatever religion uh inf in Thessalonians, Paul says, to turn from idols to the living God Whatever those idols of belief and whatever to the living God. But it is your faith that saves you. In that the object of your faith, your repentance doesn't save you technically. I know I recognize that it's interchangeable in certain passages But repentance is a negative it's what I don't believe in. It's what I don't trust in. Faith is what I do trust in. And so both of those need to be what there's content to both of those. There's content to repentance. It's not contrition. And that's what's happening today, is that everybody knows there's faith content. Jesus died on the cross, etc. What is the content of saving repentance? Wha okay. But that's a thing. That's an idea. What do you have to be sorrow about? Uh you're talking about the Corinthians passage, right? Okay. Godly sorrow. Now, Greg, if we and I won't open the can of worms here, no, only for time's sake. But in that passage, I'd encourage us both to look at it and talk about the order of which one comes first. Uh the repentance of the godly sorrow and in what regard to them. And so yeah, Julie. It wasn't training at all. So we were twenty I learned that I'm a sinner. I learned that I knew I was going to hell. Yes. And Jesus was the only way I was Right. And I had to come to a choice And I knew that if I didn't receive Christ I was going to help. I did not know he was God. I did not wasn't. Hadn't studied the virgin birth. Right. It was like I I knew I deserved death. Right. And without a thing. And that would it. That would be extended. That's right. So threatening it, just stay with me for a minute because don't don't hear a negation that there is no repentance My warning is that faith is clear what you have to believe. That Jesus died. He was buried. He rose again the third day for my sins. That is the content of saving faith. If you put anything else in that box and remove those, you're not going to be saved no matter how much faith you have. There's content to saving faith. I'm asking the question, what is the content of saving repentance, if you will, and that, Frank. That Jesus died, was buried, and rose again the third day for my sins. Paul's taking the entire book of Romans to explain that So you don't have to know everything. But you have to believe that in its germ. Not just the words, but that's for my sins. You know you're a sinner, that's all implied in that. Yes, ma'am. That's good. That's really good. That's a bringing together something actively part of the job. That's good. So I think that's really good. That's helpful. Um right, why don't we just blow it off and do and Paul's going to address that in Romans six, right? He's like, should we just do whatever is exactly right. There'll be one added addition, or I put a little asterisk there to your thing and One of the reasons that being forgiven of your sin doesn't lead me to just say, I'm forgiven, I'll do whatever I want, is I have legal forgiveness, if you will. I won't be punished for that law breaking But I still have a relationship with God and that's where you are going. That needs to be kept up. And so it's not a one-time forgiveness of everything I ever did wrong relationally. It's a one time forgiveness of everything I ever did legally against God's justice. And and those are different. So yeah. Yes, sir. Paul, as you mature, you realize more and more how wretched Absolutely. Absolutely. And seven poor wretched man that I am. That's right. So when we're first converted, like That is perfect. The more you're in the light of God's word, the more it exposes the heart, right? You know, I was saved at eighteen and now I'm three hundred and twelve years old. Okay. And I'm I'm sixty-three now, I was saved at eighteen. But I could look at my life and say that very thing is much more aware of my sin and the relationship and how far I am from what God's salvation would be and the more need to repent. Put yourself up in the face. Well, I was talking about repentance, but you're right, Frank. Yeah. Thank you. Up here I'm in dog ears. I'm in uh Okay, so let me make one other before we go on. I just I just want to make one other clarification of what I'm saying, because the whole book of Romans, we're going to talk about faith and repentance and talk about the nuances. Here's what I'm saying about repentance. Repentance today has the pastorally speaking, many put and not on on Greg, but my point is, godly sorrow has become in the evangelical Protestant movement another word for contrition. That is, how bad did you feel? How much godly sorrow? Did you have enough godly sorrow? What is godly sorrow? Because if we went around the room, because I've done this in other environments on this question, I said, just tell me the one-minute version of how you came to know Christ. What happened that day or night or morning? And I will guarantee you that by certain people's standards in the room, that other person did not show enough contrition. I will guarantee it Well, you must have felt bad for your sin. Ask C. S. Lewis his testimony. He was in a motorcycle on the way to the zoo with his brother Warney, and he came to intellectual reality that Jesus was who he said he was, and he came to saving faith. When asked about it, he's like, How bad did you feel about your sins? And Lucilla's Lewis says, Well, I knew I needed a savior, but you know, it wasn't an emotional, contritional experience. It was an ad adding up of to to make it all contritional is to bypass that some people are much more affected by the mind than the affections. But everyone's will has to be engaged. And to to make it a universal contritionalism, I'm just saying faith is clear. Repentance is murkier. Yes, ma'am. spent a lot of time working on it before we get things. That's right. And we put a lot of things in our patches because a lot of experiences that sometimes that when the homework was That's right. And um you know, it may be a small subset of those things in that one moment and then we keep reflecting back and we keep seeing them. That's really good. That's like the book of Pilgrim's Progress. Right? Toker's progress is like it takes six thousand chapters for him to throw the burden down. You're like, just do it. But that that's a Puritan way of describing that. There's God's work of the soul Till the weight of sin and then eventually it's let go at the cross. And and there are parts of is it Erica? Okay. I I couldn't I'm trying to picture people I've met. Okay, yeah. Henry, last one we'll go back. Yeah. Oh oh oh. Okay. All right, let's move on. Um uh whatever evangelical obediences are necessary in order for faith to be activated is in the word trust. It's just implied there. You have to know the gospel, you have to know that you need it, and then you trust in him. So the mechanics of that is not much point here, but yeah, okay. All right. Middle of page, whatever. No, you can't ask questions. I don't even know what your name is. Jeff. Uh this appointed button. Yes, sir. If you want to wait, that's fine. No, go ahead. Um it was either nineteen ninety-six or nineteen ninety seven. Uh live interview. Robert Stewart. No, but yeah. We lived about ten minutes from the Crystal Cathedral in California. So yeah, yeah. My favorite church. Yeah. Robert Schuler believed that. Yeah. Yeah. So it was right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So we both know, Jeff, that in our next talk in the book of Romans, Paul's gonna say, uh-uh. That's that everyone's without excuse and nobody gets in by their ignorance. So there is a there is there is some clarity of knowledge that must know. Okay, so let me say this because I may uh I'm new to teaching here and you're new to me. So and I tend to Sometimes be funny and sometimes okay. Let me make this really clear what I'm saying. Uh because the fuzzy part, adding fuzzy to what I was saying is to admit that there's some mystery, that everyone's comprehension is not equal. There's IQ, there's abilities, to understand that the comprehension of the facts of the gospel Might be a better way to say it. The facts of the gospel have to be crystal clear in the mind of the saving the person being saved. You must believe that Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again the third day for your sins. So you can have to understand what is sin. I am a sinner. That Jesus is was in your place. It's not just words. You don't understand the words. You have comprehension of what the words mean relative to you morally. What does that look like? Intellectual capacities are different But so when I say fuzzy and when I agree with fuzzy, it's not fuzzy about the words or the reality. Fuzzy to me is more levels of comprehension But there's a point at which there's no fuzz without which you can be saved. Is that clear? Okay. Took the fuzz out of the fuzz All right. Alright. Bottom of page four. There's no way I'm getting through all my notes today and that's good. I'm teaching people what's that? Yeah, or Fuzzbusters, yeah. Alright, middle of page uh four. So Paul says that he is not ashamed of the gospel for is the power of God unto salvation to all who believe, to the Jew first. And also to the Greek. Of whom is he speaking? A Jew is a physical descendant of Jacob and the twelve tribes. A Greek or Gentile is everybody else. Whether you're Samaritan or you're whatever, or even somebody from Las Vegas Okay? A raider fan could be. Romans two is very clear. There will be distribution I'm sorry, tribulation and distress for every soul of man who does evil, for the Jew first and also for the Greek. I'm going to skip the Galatians passage for time's sake. G, the righteousness of God. That will mean the OCD people will begin to read it, and I will just keep going. So Paul says, who believed to the Jew first and also to the Greek, for in it the gospel The righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. By what does Paul mean righteousness of God? Again, we talked about Luther early. We talked about this. There's intrinsic righteousness of God, and there's the imputed righteousness of God. The intrinsic righteousness of God is his character. God's character. He is righteous. But the imputed righteousness of God is God accounting the righteousness of Christ to your account, legally speaking. so that you have an infinite amount of righteousness on your ledger of your account, but you do not have an infinite amount of personal righteousness. God has personal righteousness. He is righteous. He acts righteously. But he accounts the amount of that to your account. That's imputed righteousness. So looking at those two distinctions. God always acts in accordance with what is right, and that he himself is the final standard of what is right. But imputed righteousness is an accounting for term, to think of as belonging to someone, and therefore to cause it to belong to that person. God thinks of Adam's sin as belonging to us. It therefore belongs to us. And in justification, he thinks of Christ's righteousness as belonging to us. And so he relates it to us on this basis. So salvation at the bottom of the page is a result of justification, which is a result of imputation. And imputation is a result of faith which is the result of grace. So said another way. We are saved by grace, but through faith. So let me make one last point, and you can turn to page five, but just to refresh your mind, and the next page is scary. As Luther's problem was about Romans sixteen was if the gospel is good news and it brings forth the righteousness of God, then the gospel's not good news if it's the intrinsic righteousness of God of God, because if the gospel simply tells you that God's righteous, you already knew that. And the whole Old Testament already told you you're unrighteous, but God is righteous. But the gospel is good news because it's about the imputed righteousness of God. It's an accounting thing. He puts on your account the righteousness of Christ, the merit of the righteousness of Christ. When you trust in him. Alright, page five. What's up? You guys probably all got up this morning and began to read the Westminster Confession of Faith. It's my normal thing every day. Hang in there. Page five. Justification of the Westminster Confession of Faith. Here's a few things. Those whom God effectually calleth He also freely justifieth in King James language, not by infusing righteousness into them, but by pardoning their sins, and by accounting and accepting their persons as righteous. Not for anything wrought in them or done by them, but for Christ's sake alone, nor by imputing faith itself, the act of believing, or any other evangelical obedience to them. as their righteousness, but by imputing the obedience and satisfaction of Christ unto them, they receiving and resting on him and his righteousness by faith, which faith they have not of themselves, it is a gift of God. Number two, faith thus receiving and resting on Christ and His righteousness is the alone instrument of justification. Yet it is not alone in the person justified. It is ever accompanied with all other saving graces, and is no dead faith but worketh by love. Christ, by his obedience and death, did fully discharge the debt of all those that are justified. He did make a proper, real, and full satisfaction to his Father's justice in their behalf Yet, inasmuch as he was given by the Father for them, and his obedience and satisfaction accepted in their stead, and both freely and not for anything in them, their justification is only of free grace, that both the exact justice and rich grace of God might be glorified in the justification of sinners. God did from all eternity decree to justify all the elect, and Christ did in the fullness of time die for their sins and rise for their justification. Nevertheless, they are not justified until the Holy Spirit doth in due time actually apply Christ unto them. And then five, God doth continue to forgive the sins of those who are justified. And although they can never fall from the state of justification, yet they may, by their sins, fall under God's fatherly displeasure, something of the direction the young lady was mentioning. Next to Anne. And not have the light of his countenance restored unto them until they humble themselves, confess their sins, beg pardon, and renew their faith in repentance. The justification of believers under the Old Testament was, in all these respects, one and the same with the justification of believers under the New Testament. It's good theological stuff. responsibility on our part. Yeah, uh the question is the humbling themselves a responsibility on our part, yes. In uh God making us I mean God causing makes it causes us to be humble too. It's a great question. The God causing and us doing In the simplest fashion, because we all know we're going to go on to this, is in saving faith, it is God acting first in what people call monergism. Mono, one, Jasmine. God works first. He's one person acting, causing our faith. Our faith is real, but we're not meeting God with faith and his action. His action causes our faith. But once we're Christians and we've been made new and we received the Holy Spirit and we're now alive, our mind, will, and affections are open to God. We're no longer under bondage to sin, blah, blah, blah. In that freedom is now what we'd call synergism and sanctification is the work of man and God together in creating that. God is ever the cause in the but We are now assisting God in sanctification. We do stuff. You pray. You believe. Those are requirements. Those are commands. And God is not acting alone in sanctification. Okay, at the bottom of the page, the three great imputations of the Bible. That is considering someone else's uh uh debt or credit on your account, all of us know that Adam's sin was applied to us. Now, once in a while even a believer will say this. I've heard unbelievers say this. But once in a while a believer's like, that's not that's not okay. That's not fair. I wasn't there. I didn't make that choice Yeah? What's up with Adam? You know, Adam blew it for me. I look, I'm a good person. You know what I mean? I would never have done that. That's Adam's fault. Why am I being blamed for Adam? Just understand, and I'm not saying it explains it, but just understand the the the scales of this. then don't also ask Jesus' account to go to yours. Because at the end of the day, imputation goes both ways. Adam's sin is on us. But the righteousness of Christ is applied to my account as well by faith that takes away the imputation of Adam. So then on the cross, the sin of the elect was on Christ. And then Christ's righteousness is applied to us when we believe. Okay? Now for some of you who may be hanging on that thread of Dave, you're popping the word election and all those things in here and atonement and I'm not sure I agree with all that. There are other churches, so don't don't worry. Let me say real. Real time. I don't know everybody in the room. There's a lot of you are members long term at hope. There's some of you are new members and there's some of you still exploring membership here and trying to figure out what the deal is. Good and godly people disagree about how election works. Good and godly people who love Jesus and are going to go to heaven are not all Calvinists or five-point Calvinists. I mean, we know that we get the special houses. Okay. Let's be real. Okay. So hang in there and let's see if the Book of Romans will convince you, not Dave. Okay? Let's see if the work of the Book of Romans will help you make a decision or confirm where your direction is because you disagree. Okay? But please feel free to ask questions. Please feel free to be wrong. Okay? It's all good in here. All right. Page six. Yeah, I'm I'm there. You know, I have a principle about teaching to do unto others as I want them to do unto me. I think we've covered enough today because page six is a whole talk in itself. I don't mean twenty minutes, but it's I have seven minutes. That's not right. That's plenty of content today. You're gonna also hear a sermon. You're gonna worship God. We've covered a lot of good ground today. All right? We'll pick it up there, Lord willing, next week. and move into verses 18 to 32, finish chapter 1. And then the pace that I am intending to go is much quicker than the pace we've been in, because I've taken three messages to get to there. But I hope to do two per chapter, okay? And keep the pace So all right. That's thank you for coming today. I thought it was a good conversation. Let's pray and ask God's blessing.