We are here worshiping the Lord even during the sermon time. This is part of our worship to hear God. Worship is central to all we do as redeemed people Nothing is a higher priority in the local church and in the church universal than worship Because our greatest ministry is not to the lost, though that is an important ministry. Our greatest ministry is not even to each other or to the poor. Though those are important, our greatest ministry is to God. That's the church's greatest ministry. It's the one ministry we do now that we will be doing forever. We will be ministering to God's greatness. Worship is the church's ultimate priority. It's the only activity we carry into eternity. Malachi chapter 1 is our text, verses 6 through 14. In this text, we are all, I think, being Made acutely aware that even from Old Testament times God was very in tune with the worship of his people. And he observes it. And as he observes it, he either approves it or he disapproves of it. And that would be true of our worship here today. Let's read it, and uh, for the third time, we'll refresh our thinking in it and then launch into where we were. Verse 6. God speaking, a son honors his father and a servant is master, then if I am a father, where is my honor? And if I am a master, where is my respect? says the Lord of hosts to you, O priests, who despise my name. But you say, How have we despised your name? You are presenting defiled food upon my altar. But you say, How have we defiled you? In that you say the table of the Lord is to be despised. But when you present the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you present the lame and the sick, is it not evil? Why not offer it to your governor? Would he be pleased with you? Or would he receive you kindly, says the Lord of hosts? But now will you not entreat God's favor that he may be gracious to us? With such an offering on your part, will he receive any of you kindly, says the Lord of hosts Oh that there were one among you who would shut the gates that you might not uselessly kindle fire on my altar. I am not pleased with you, says the Lord of hosts, nor will I accept an offering from you For from the rising of the sun even to its setting, my name will be great among the nations, and in every place incense is going to be offered to my name. And the grain offering that is pure, for my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts. But you are profaning it, in that you say the table of the Lord is defiled, and as for its fruit, its food is to be despised. You also say, My, how tiresome it is. And you disdainfully sniff at it, says the Lord of hosts. And you bring what was taken by robbery and what is lame or sick, so that so you bring the offering. Should I receive that from your hand? says the Lord. But cursed be the swindler who has a male in his flock and bows it, but sacrifices a blemished animal to the Lord. For I am a great king, says the Lord of hosts. And my name is feared among the nations. Well, I guess we can say that when uh Somebody's words about his dedication to God differ from his actions. Which one would you believe? His actions, right? What are your actions in worship? What is your commitment to worship and to God that reveals what's true about your heart, not your words alone? Section is a great section. The main point of the section, I think, is that God is great. And because he is great, he has a great name. Because he has a great name, his worship is to be great. And when we don't worship him greatly, we dishonor his great name. It's pretty simple logic, isn't it? When we offer things that are weak and defiled, when we're disobedient in our language, languid offerings, lazy attitudes, that does not honor God. That's not proper worship. This is a message for the people of God, not for those that are worshiping false gods, but those who are worshiping the true God poorly. It's a message for us. We noted before that in verses 5-15 it divides into five phases, sort of an argument that the people are having with God, or God is having with the people. We've already covered most of it in our previous two messages. And the first uh phase of it is God's charge. Then I'm back in verse six The charges that God's people, and particularly the leaders of God's people, the priests, were dishonoring and despising God's name. The second is the people's objection, or even the priests' objection there, but you say, How have we despised your name? Their how shows that they're not really buying it. And third then comes the reputation from God in verse 7, you are presenting defiled food upon my altar. That's the main point. The priests were despising God's name. How? By taking bad offerings and presenting those offerings as food to God on his table. In his temple. But then still comes forth the further objection from the priests and the people whom they represent. In the middle of verse 7 there. But you say, how have we defiled you? They obviously again don't see anything wrong with what they're doing. involved in worship. Why would God have a problem with that? They're not worshiping idols. What's the big deal? And then now we're in this longer section where God presents all of the evidence that shows the poverty of their worship and their defilement of the sacrifices and of his name. The direct answer to their question comes at the very end of verse 7, if you look at it again, he says, In that you say the table of the Lord, that's referring to the altar of sacrifice. is to be despised. What a terrible thing. They stated that the altar of God, where the sacrifices were made, that table of the Lord was to be despised. That's a very strong statement from God to the priests And we began the supportive evidence for that last time. We gave supportive evidence number one. This is what God said. And really it amounts to bad offerings. Verse eight, When you present the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you present the lame and sick, is it not evil? God didn't want that. They presented to God what God had not prescribed, what was mediocre or worse Rather than their very best. They wanted to be accepted in their worship. They wanted to be called worshipers, but they were mediocre in their worship, and that dishonored God. For us, we learn from this that coming to church and singing, coming to church and giving, coming to church and even serving does not show that you are pleasing to God Only if you give your best. Only if it costs you something, is it the kind of worship that God receives? The rest is unworthy of God, and so they are bad offerings. Supportive evidence number two also we covered last time. Just in case you think that what you're offering to God is good, then here's a little test. The last part of verse 8, why not offer that to your governor? Take what you're giving to me and give it to your governor and see how he responds to what you're giving to me. Would he be pleased with you? Would he receive you kindly? The answer is no. It's a rhetorical question. Even if you think your heart is good and coming to worship, look at what you're actually doing and giving, and then ask yourself if a dignitary received from your hand that Would they think you're giving the best? Would they think you're honoring them or dishonoring them? Cheap offerings, skimpy service reveal a low view of God, less even than human rulers. Two of the pieces of evidence that God offers to his people. Here's where we're picking up. And uh we're going to be unfolding Evidence number three, four, five, six, and seven from the rest of this passage. Supportive evidence number three, verse ten. God would rather have no worship than mediocre worship. Verse 10, look at it. Oh, that there were one among you. Probably talking to the priests. who would shut the gates that you might not uselessly kindle fire on my altar. Notice how personal he takes this. Remember, this is the period of the second temple that was rebuilt by Zerubbabel in five fifteen BC after Solomon's great temple. was destroyed by the Babylonians. The doors are the doors of entrance probably into the court of the priests where the altar was there for making the sacrifices. The fire is the fire of the offerings that were to go up to God. And as the fire was going up towards heaven, it was an act of worship and the fire was to symbolize that they were having fellowship with God because of their sacrifice. The sacrifice was Burning, it was being consumed, and it was going up to God, and God would look at it, and he would be pleased, and he would be honored. But they were not really honoring him, and he was not really pleased God is saying that to come into his temple to bring something he didn't want, offer it on the altar and have it burned and go up to him, expect God to receive that. He said, No, stop it. It's without heart. It's without obedience. You didn't give any thought into it. It didn't cost you anything. There's no commitment in it of you towards me. Therefore there can't be any love towards me with it. There's certainly no fear of me. You don't fear disobeying my commandments. So it's all vain and it's useless. Stop it. God was not enjoying the time of fellowship. They might have thought that he should, but he wasn't. They brought their second rate. And so the worship was really without any purpose at all. The sacrifices were so bad, there's a yearning on the part of God. He said, would somebody Some priests somewhere just go to the doors and shut the doors and stop the people from bringing these offerings to me I would rather have no worship at all. I'd rather shut the temple down and have no business going on than to have mediocre worship brought to me, these bad offerings. And these foolish priests that keep taking these offerings and offering them to me, oh, this is personal to God. He takes this personally God is not just out there somewhere uninterested in what we're doing here and what we worship. You know, you can't see him, touch them, smell them, and so you think, what does he care about? My heart attitude and how I sung this morning and what I'm giving. Oh, he cares. It's personal to him. Dr. Unger says this verse is an impassioned cry of the Lord of hosts, the sovereign Lord of the universe, outraged by the despicable attitude and conduct of the degenerate priesthood. The leader should have done better. They should have rejected it. Extending that, look into the latter part of verse 10. He says, I am not pleased with you, says the Lord of hosts. Nor will I accept an offering from you. When people are not getting what God is saying, He tends to get a little more blunt. Do you hear that in there? I mean that's like, wow. I am not pleased with you. Lord, are you pleased with us? I am not pleased with you. No, I will not accept your offering. He's getting as flat and blunt here in this verse as he can. Take it away. I don't want it. But aren't you okay with this kind of worship God? Isn't this better than doing nothing? No. Is there anything unclear about that? It's so clear. Imagine in the very meeting that you were to be honored. Maybe it's a meeting, a retirement party, you know how those are. or a graduation, a promotional ceremony of some kind. It's your big day, you're called up front and something that skimpy thrift store kind of thing is handed to you and it looks ugly and it smells ugly. And there it is and everyone up front is kind of going like that You would rather them not have had the ceremony at all. Yes? That's how God feels when we worship him inadequately. Right here. That's how God feels. It's really revealing of how important worship is to God and what kind he wants. Better to not give it at all than to give back. That's what happens with mediocre worship right here on Sunday. We gather in the presence of God. We've gathered here to do what? To fill the seat? We've gathered here to honor God, yes? Right? Amen. This is to honor God. God notices. Well, we're hopeful Bible church. We're biblical. God loves our church and He cares about our church and we're all just wonderful here. Not if our worship's not right. Our God would rather there be no worship than thrift store worship. Worship is our ministry to God. It's more important than evangelism, it's more important than discipleship. If worship is directed toward God, then where else would worship be directed toward, right? And if the whole purpose of worship is to please God, and of course it is. Then, if God is not pleased with your mediocre worship, then the worship has to either change or what? Stop. Do you agree? Do you see that? I will not accept these sacrifices from you. We're not bringing animals, but we do bring other things, or they are best. Don't be deceived, people, with thoughts like, Well, at least I came to church today, they ought to be happy I'm here. They ought to be happy. At least I sang the songs. At least I said a little prayer. At least I put something in the offering plate. But it's God's prerogative to look at your worship and say, I don't accept it. He does not like it if it's not costly to you. Worship is meant to be one area of your life where you are extravagant. Where you go in excess. You say, what? Yes. Remember Mary of Bethany? How impractical she was, taking that very costly perfume, right? Years worth of uh wages and just pouring it out on the feet and the legs of Christ. What a waste. Judas picked up on that, right? We could have sold that to the for the poor. Give it something to the poor. And Jesus said, oh no, this is an act of worship. This is good. Be extravagant in your worship. Mary was. Remember the wise men traveling a very, very long distance just to bow before a baby and present gold, frankincense, and myrrh. Way! I mean they're nuts kind of extravagance to do that. He's being extravagant Remember the Apostle Paul? He said in Second Timothy when he was about to die and he knew and he he'd been living his whole life for Christ. This is a man who'd been shipwrecked and stoned and yelled at and every kind of persecution, and he knew now he was going to have his head chopped off as a Roman citizen, and he says in his last epistle, in the last chapter of his last epistle, I am being poured out as a drink offering to God. And he was happy about it. Him offering my entire life, literally, they're about to chop my head off, the blood is going to pour out of my veins, and all of that is a drink offering to God. I fought the good fight, I finished the course, I've kept the faith Worship is to be extravagant. Think about how you prepare for Sundays. Is there preparation? What do you bring on Sundays? Where's your heart towards God in this time of corporate worship that God has expected and commanded? What is the service that you will render to your Lord and eternal Savior who saves you from all of your sins as you leave the worship service and extend what your worship is by your hands and your service? Is it half-hearted? Is it inexpensive? Is it convenient? God is not pleased. Christians today Turn the great offer of salvation and the Lord Jesus Christ into cheap grace. I will sin today. I'll go light with God. I know He's forgiving. No biggie. God will forgive me tomorrow. How irreverent is that? How can you even sit in here with that mindset and pretend that God receives your worship? You don't know the Lord your God very well at all. That was King Saul's thinking. Remember that guy? Well, at least I worship the Lord here Yeah, look what I did, you know? I worship the Lord. I'm here worshiping the Lord. But Samuel had a little bit of a different message for King Saul, didn't he? Has the Lord as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heat and the fat of rams, don't do all that stuff if your heart's far from me and you're not going to obey what I say. Please don't misunderstand. It is not that God is against ritual. He's not. It's not that God is against formality or some order of worship. He's not against that. The procedure for Old Testament worship was what God gave to them. He laid it out for them. He told them of those rituals. Coming to church is a ritual, singing is a ritual, praying in order of a worship service, passing the plate. None of that is wrong. What's wrong is doing it half-heartedly. That's wrong. It is your dedication to do your best for God and obey God with your worship. That's what matters to God. He doesn't really need our money. He doesn't really need our voices. He wants it. He commands it. He draws it out. Give your best in every area of your life. Just keep your finger in Malachi and turn back into minor prophets to Amos. Just to see that this is a message within the prophets, not just in Malachi. Amos chapter 5 Just a few books backwards. Past Jonah, Obadiah, you come to Amos chapter 5 Verses 21 through 24. Here they're doing all the religious things, and look to how the Lord responds to it. Amos 5, 21-24. I hate, I reject your festivals, nor do I delight in your solemn assemblies. Even though you offer up to me burnt offerings and your grain offerings, I will not accept them. And I will not even look at the peace offerings of your fatling. He doesn't even want to look at it when it's offered. Take away from me the noise of your songs. I will not even listen to the sound of your harps. But let Justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever flowing stream. Don't be disobeying me all week long and come in here and worship me with all of this grand music and think that I don't see it. Oh my how you dishonor me To the message of the prophets. All of you in our music ministry, you have a solemn responsibility to prepare your heart before you step up here on this platform. You are not a musician, you are not a singer. You are a worship leader. You are to prepare your heart and come and give your very best in your talent of music. You are to train and practice and be ready to go because you lead in the presence of God in order to lead the rest of us in worship. What your face looks like, what the condition of your heart is, the best that you offer brings out the best in us You are not mere musicians. I remember asking someone who used to do special music here at uh Hope, and I asked this person, do you know the difference between entertainment? And worship. And a person was honest with me, said, no. Great singer, but didn't get it. Entertainment is for man, right? It's for us. Wonderful. Do it again. I'm pleased. I think I'll come back next week. This is good. Pass the popcorn. Worship is for God's pleasure, right? It's a ministry to God. There's a huge difference in what the whole motivation is in it, right? But it doesn't mean that we don't give our very best in worship. It doesn't mean because we're worshiping God we should be flat and lifeless and show no emotion. God wants the emotion, but he wants the emotion to come from an obedient heart, right? Sometimes people say something like, well, God doesn't care if the music is good or not. He just listens to people's hearts. Well, there's a lot of truth to that. I mean that's one reason I sing. And uh I do the best I can. Don't laugh so much, Carson, I don't know that you're that much better. If that were true, God just cares about the heart and not the product, then why did God say to bring the right sacrifice? You say a picture of Christ, that's true, but it still had meaning. The heart, if the heart is good, brings what? The best. You can't say your heart is good if you don't bring the best. It's just a cover for the heart not being good. It's another justification we make that we're not bringing our best to God on Sundays. Why? Because our heart's not really in it. We want God to kind of fit along with what we have. We kind of have our way of what this is the way we're going to live the Christian life. And we're not all that oriented towards God. We're a little bit oriented towards God, but we're really not all that godly. And God isn't really the center of our life Monday to Saturday. Saturday, so we just kind of roll in here, do what we need to do, and then go on out. God is not pleased with that. Of course, God cares about the quality of what we offer. It's not that we have to have Nashville quality here. We give our best, right? Whatever our best is, in the congregation, from us, in music, in decor, in The worship during the Lord's Supper, in our financial giving, in our everything, from the bulletin to the ushers, everything we do should be the highest quality. Why? Because you're not doing it for the pastors. You're doing it for Christ. You're doing it for the pastors. I can understand why it's mediocre. You're doing it for Christ. I can't understand that. I cannot understand that. Clendon in his commentary says, religious activity performed without genuine love and gratitude to God is not only useless but repulsive to him, because it slanders his character. God does not need our gifts or our service, and his favor cannot be bought. Gifts that are offered reluctantly or under compulsion, 2 Corinthians 9. 7, humiliate the recipient and place him under obligation. The God who can transform stones into followers, according to Matthew 3:9, wants no part in such a transaction. Don't put me under obligation with such weak worship. That's support of evidence number three. Number four, the God we worship is great. Verse 11, look at it. For from the rising of the sun even to its setting, my name will be great among the nations And in every place incense is going to be offered to my name, and a grain offering that is pure, for my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts. Twice he says it Now, this is a little bit of a positive exclamation point in the midst of a long corrective and negative rebuke. It is meant to put God's strong corrections to his people in the proper framework Why is God coming down so hard on the Israelites for their poor worship? Because the greatness of God's name demands that they bring exultant and costly worship This verse promises that even if the nation of Israel failed to worship properly, God's name will still be exalted among all of the Gentile nations. Despite the priest's sins and Israel's sins, God would not leave himself without honor. Isn't that nice? If we don't give it, God will make sure it comes. God is great. God is committed to his own honor. God is more committed to his own glory than we are. He will make sure that his name is glorified. Just listen to Isaiah 42, 8, if you don't believe that. I am the Lord, that is my name, I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven images. Wow is jealous for himself. Isaiah 48. 11, for my own sake, and he repeats it, for my own sake I will act. For how can my name be profaned, and my glory I will not give to another? Ezekiel 39, 21 And I will set my glory among the nations, and all the nations will see my judgment which I have executed, and my hand which I have laid on them. Well, this text here in Malachi is also a prophecy. It's a prophecy that the reign of God will extend all over the entire earth. Notice how it's written, from the rising to the setting of the sun. What does that cover? That's language particularly designed to show that every corner of the earth The whole globe, every part of the planet, no countries left out, no islands exempted everywhere. There'll be no remaining rebellion to God anywhere. There'll be universal worship Of the true God by his true name all over the globe. That's a prophecy. Psalm 113, verse 2. Blessed be the name of the Lord from This time forth and forever, from the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of Yahweh, the name of the Lord, is to be praised. It's his covenant name with Israel, and that name as Israel's God, that is what will be praised. Isaiah 45, 6 That men may know from the rising to the setting of the sun that there is no one besides me. I am Yahweh, and there is no other. What an amazing statement. Now, a little bit of a side note here. Verse eleven is not teaching universal salvation. Some of a more liberal persuasion have looked at this verse and actually thought it was teaching Universal salvation, that everyone one day gets saved. It's not teaching that. And it's not teaching that the worship of other religions to other gods is actually the worship of the true God. That's how some have interpreted this. Well, that means everyone that's burning incense and doing all kinds of worship all over the world, they're really worshiping God and didn't know it. No, that's not what it's saying. Buddhists and Hindus and Muslims are not worshiping the true God. This verse does not say that And it does not say everyone's going to be saved. It says there will be a time in the future when all who are on the planet will be saved and will be worshiping from the heart the true God, the way God says, and He's going to make sure of that so that His name will be praised. Listen, if God is rejecting the worship of those who worship Him under His true name, done by His own people when they're not doing it properly, do you think He would ever condone the worship? Of false gods done by other people who are not his people. The logic there is kind of nuts. There's not a chance. The prophets of God always had a very negative view of the worship of any and all the other gods. Just look at Malachi chapter 2, verse 11. briefly hints at, or the story of Elijah and the prophets of Baal. That's enough to prove that. A be again to Clendon and he says, It would be totally illogical and utterly confusing to the readers that pagan worship in the name of pagan gods in pagan temples would be pure and acceptable to God. While Judah's sacrifices to the Lord in the Jerusalem temple were useless. The Universalists twist this verse to say what it does not say, and they ignore the rest of Scripture, which condemns all other religion. But there will be a day. There is coming a day, yes, there is, when the whole world on this planet will sincerely worship a true God, Yahweh by name. That is what it actually says When is the fulfillment of that? That fulfillment is not talking about the Jews when they were scattered throughout the world in what was known as the Diaspora. Remember when they were pulled off of the land, first the ten northern tribes, then Judah, and they were scattered throughout the world, different places. It's not talking about that because first of all it's referring to the worship of God by all the Gentile nations, and also because in the Diaspora, even though they were distributed, they weren't distributed everywhere, certainly not all over the world Nor can this be referring to the Church of Jesus. The Roman Catholic Church loves to use this verse that everywhere the mass is used throughout the world today has now fulfilled what What Malachi has said. That's not true because most places in the world today, and really throughout church history, do not worship in the name of Jesus Christ. And many who do worship in the name of Jesus Christ worship wrongly. And so this isn't a fulfillment of that. The Church certainly has begun the proclamation of the King of Israel to all of the nations, and our hard work in the church counts for the kingdom, will populate that future universal kingdom, but this is not the fulfillment yet. This is a prediction of a future time, a time that will occur during the Messiah's millennial reign. Notice that God is referring to this present earth and not the future, not a new earth. Dr. Stephen Miller in the Holman commentary writes this: Certainly God has followers throughout the earth today, but Jesus the Messiah will never be honored by the majority of this world until he returns in power and glory. Sacrifices would be offered in worship in every place, notice, not just in Jerusalem, and the sacrifices would be pure, not the present ones that were defiled and defective. There will be a millennial temple, and the worship will continue into the millennium. Even the New Testament says in 2 Thessalonians 2 verse 4 that there will be a future temple that is built in Jerusalem. But not in that temple alone will the worship be given. In the messianic age, they will all worship as they ought to worship. Again, the prophets are very clear on this. Zechariah 14, verse 9 The Lord then will be king over all the earth. In that day, the Lord, that's again Yahweh, will be the only one, and his name the only one. That hasn't happened yet. Zechariah 14, 16. Then it will come about that any who are left of all the nations that went against Jerusalem will go up from year to year to worship the king, the Lord of hosts, and to celebrate the feast of Booths. Jesus agreed with the Old Testament prophets' view of the future kingdom when he graphically described the geography of the kingdom in Matthew chapter eight, verse eleven. I say to you that many will come from east And west, and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. Kingdom of heaven means kingdom of God, not the kingdom in heaven, but the kingdom of heaven on earth. The imagery is east and west and it's on earth. So this is the first messianic prophecy in this book of Malachi. The day when everything would be set right, God would do it because he's committed to his glory, even if sometimes his own people are not. His greatness would go way beyond Israel. Again, back to Dr. Unger. In the kingdom age there will be no longer any Buddhists, Hindus, Taoists, or any of the pagan religions or the cults and heirs parading under Christianity But all peoples will offer the incense of prayer, Psalm 141 2, and Revelation 8 3, to the Messiah, who will then be recognized as God incarnate. Supporting evidence number five. The priests were fed up with worship. Verses 12 and into the beginning of verse 13. The priests were fed up with worship. This is amazing. But you are profaning it in that you say the table of the Lord is defiled, and as for its fruit, its food is to be despised Verse 13. You also say, my how tiresome it is. And you disdainfully sniff at it. says the Lord of hosts. This hosts is referring to the captain, the the armies of heaven, of which the Lord is the captain over all the armies of heaven. Think of him with all the the angelic armies before him and how he is to be feared, and this is how you treat someone who could easily come and wipe out everyone here So, really, the indictment against the priests is being restated here. The but you is emphatic, it's showing the great contrast with the way it ought to be. Profane means, as we've seen before, to treat something that is special as common. Something insignificant. It's holy, but now it's being desanctified and treated as common. blemished sacrifices. Rather than enhancing the name of God, they were profaning it by their actions. Again Kaiser says, What a pity. The priests and people had retained the traditional form of worship But they denied the power of God. We don't want to do that here. Now, since the livelihood of the priests in those days were dependent upon the offerings that the people brought, it's possible, this would be reading a little bit between the lines, That the reason why the priests continued to offer up all of these bad sacrifices is the people said, Look, we are in hard economic times here in Jerusalem. You know, we're having a hard time, you know, making ends meet, and this is what we're bringing, and uh either you accept this or nothing. And of course the priests were dependent upon getting their food and their financial well being from the people, and they might just have feared the people more than they feared God, and so they capitulated to the people and said, All right We don't like it, but if this is what the people are offering, we'll just get by with it. It's tough times. God will understand. Just think how many attitudes are like that today. God will understand it's okay that we do it this way. If I ever say that in this pulpit, just take me out of it, okay? Just get me out of here. That's not representing God. Notice the attitude of the priests. How tiresome this work is. They're bored with the work of God. They despised it. It drained their energy. They didn't really want to do it. Well, I'm a Levite. It's what I gotta do. When leaders are bored with God, uninterested in worship, unmotivated The whole thing breaks down, doesn't it? If people have to remind you, come and worship the Lord, something wrong Are you going to church today, honey? I don't know. Maybe. Is it Sunday? I guess. I kind of forgot. Their words go along with their hearts, no heart for God. Just complain to have to do it. Have to do it. Have to get there early. Have to stay late. Nobody else shows up. God and religion became a burden to these leaders, not Joyce. And it even says they disdainfully snip at it. This is kind of graphic. You could see the priests turning up their nose at it. It's really what it is. Sneering at the sacrifice. Snorting, disparaging the offering of God as it was brought. The ritual had lost all of its meaning. The redemptive truth was gone from their minds. This is really a warning to all leaders, myself included, who become so familiar with church, worship, giving of offerings, the routine, oh boy, another Bible study. Another night out. Another worship service. Kinda wish it was over. Dr. Mott, you're Speaks to the heart here. He says, shoddy sacrifices, roadkill rituals, reveal what the priests think about the need for atonement and about the significance of dedication, thanksgiving, and fellowship with God. They demean God. And so, of course, they demean themselves and their own ministry. And their attitude is so powerful that it spreads of the people, resulting in rank hypocrisy. When leaders start complaining, the whole thing looks like it's not worth doing. The dangers of the pastorate, the dangers of spiritual leadership, the dangers of church leadership are many. One clearly is to treat that which is holy and sanctified as common and every day. Or like those leaving church, walking out in a parking lot, maybe you're in the car, driving down the road after church I didn't get anything out of that today. I didn't really like the music. It wasn't my favorite. Man, that message dragged on. Contrast that with our scripture reading, Psalm 100. Shout joyfully to the Lord, all the earth, serve the Lord with gladness. Come before Him with joyful singing. Know that the Lord Himself is God. Here, their disdain for the Lord is seen in the way they do their service to God carelessly Same thing for us, to do your church work, which is volunteer work, to do it carelessly, to do it without thought, without trying to do it a little better the next time. With just getting it over with, it reveals an irreverent heart. That which is holy is common to you. In fact, it may be less than common because you do better at your workplace. And we have that here at Hope Bible Church. We have that because I know that some of the service, I know some of the service that is offered is second rate. I know that. It's not your best, and you know it. You know it in your conscience. I praise God for those who sacrifice and give. When they're tired for God, I praise God for them. I praise God for them. I can tell the Lord's pleased with their life. I can see they figured it out. Life's not about them. So much of life is I I need wisdom. I need wisdom to know how to live my life. No, you want wisdom to know how to make everything comfortable. It's not comfortable. It's hard. And you want wisdom to try to figure out how to hit the plateau and coast. May that never happen for you. May your ways always be high and hard. Because in that sacrifice, now you're pleasing to God. How you serve in church reveals what you think of God. Again, I say you're not really serving the pastors, are you? Is that really in your mind? I'll do this because that's what they asked. The quality of how well you prepare anything as service flows from worship, anything that you do. I mean this is true when you're in your supposed secular job, which is not secular, everything sanctified to the Lord, but it's particularly true When you're with God's people and you're doing any kind of a ministry relates to that, it should be something you work the hardest at. You do the best at. You should do better at this than you do at your job. You should be more skilled at this than at your job. This is holy. This is sanctified. This is more important. How you get the sound system ready. How hard you work at getting that sound system ready for Sundays or whenever As an usher, how prepared are you? Trained, ready to go? Is it your best? You really are putting forth the best? This is the place where you guard the temple, so to say, in a New Testament sense. Handing out monies or handling the monies, preparing the CD, working on the bulletin during the week. Cleaning the communion trays, getting the baptismal pool ready, decorating the worship center, preparing a sermon, whatever it is, highest quality for our God, yes? All that is important to God. If you don't want to listen to me, please listen to the text. God says it's important. Could this verse reveal the same attitude of some here at Hope Bible Church? Don't tell us about having to do this or do that. It's too much. Oh, it's such a hassle to get up so early on Sundays. It's not a hassle to get up early on Mondays. You know, we live so far away. Not a big deal if you landed a nice job. My how tiresome it is. I'll just take my time and scroll in late again. If you came in late today, I'm not picking on you. Every time I talk about coming in late, it's like I came in late, he saw me. I can't see that far. I don't know who came in late. I'm talking about people that regularly do this. I got rebuked once by that. Before I was a pastor, coming in late. Had the little kids. You know, why are you always late? Got the kids. She did it to me, the woman and the kids. It's all their fault. It's not me, it's not my heart. Basically it was telling me, fix it. I fixed it. Started coming on time. Wasn't that hard to fix? It was a hard attitude. I'll just do a little bit to get by. They asked for help. That that looks like a nice thing I could do. That would probably just take about what, half an hour a week. I'll just do that one. Well, what are you doing? You're fitting that into your life. God fit into my life. I've got an agenda. I'd really like to be a believer. How could God possibly be honored and pleased with any of those actions and attitudes? Convenient worship and service is only what's good for you. It's not good for God. It's supposed to be heart. It's supposed to be sweat. It's supposed to cost you something. It's supposed to Be hard. Some of you won't even invite folks into your home because it'll get messy. You let it get messy for your pet, but not for the people of God? Where is your heart attitude? I don't even get that. We had a couple here leave the church recently, and we we we try as elders to figure out why. Was it my bad breath? This church asks too much from us. That was the only response we got. I hope they find another church that asks too much from them. Maybe they'll learn that it was their heart issue. Some of you teens come in here to worship, you know? Hands in the pocket. And you're singing is is it's it's more mouthing than singing. You're in here because mom and dad said time for church. Okay. Alright. Okay. Are we staying the whole time? What are we doing this afternoon? You're more excited about lunch than you are worship. Hands in the pocket singing. The king of the universe is less important to you than video games. Come on, be honest. My Bible says God is great. Part of what you're supposed to be doing in your quiet times throughout the week is meditating on that So when you come to Sunday, it's not us picking you up to try to get you to worship. Sing it out a little more. No, no, you've been fermenting all week. You've been bubbling. Your fire has been kindled, and you're coming here and there's an explosion of praise. Some Sundays it's like that. It's a glorious Sunday. Other Sundays are not like that. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. What is all that is within me? It is what the Redskin fan looks like on Sunday. When the Redskins at home are beating the Cowboys. Sorry again Carsten is twice a grab. However they are like that, that is all that is within them. Is our worship like that? Are you a little inhibited with worship? Could you sing a little loud or anything? Could you shout more joyfully? Do you think you could do that? Could you could your clapping be a little more than this? Do you think you could do that? You think you can get more excited about that? If I could sing better, sometimes I'd push Doug and Brandon aside and say, I want to hear you yell! And then sit back down. Celebrate the Lord God. Don't be so upset with charismatics that wave their hands in the air. If they're enthusiastic about God, praise God for that If it's about God. The problem, Walter Kaiser says, is just as acute in the pew. Members of the church will sit through three to four hour operas. I would never do that. I don't know, he's in another class of society than me. Linky symphonies, maybe Or marathon sporting events, definitely. And rejoice both in the event's length and in its substance. But put those same people in the house of God for just one hour and they fidget They complain. If the Word of God is still being expounded upon more than the anticipated half hour. Evidence number six, presumptuous attitudes. Look at verse 13. We've got to go through this more quickly. And you bring what was taken by robbery, and what is lame or sick, so you bring the offering. Should I receive that from your hand, says the Lord? The offering got so bad at this point that some of the animals that were offered to God were actually taken by violence and were mutilated and mauled. Actually mauled animals were considered unfit for human consumption and were thrown to the dogs Exodus twenty two thirty-one, you shall be holy men to me, therefore you shall not eat any flesh torn to pieces in the field. You shall throw it to the dogs That's all dogs should get. Somehow my dog weasels me into giving him a nice piece of bacon each Sunday morning. My wife gives me one of those looks like, why is he getting that piece of bacon? It's a good question. The dog should just get junk. They were branded out to God. But what are you bringing? Is it better than that? You have to evaluate in every area of your life, what are you doing? Don't excuse your heart. Let your heart confess sin and move out of it. Again, their attitudes are wrong as well as their deeds, their words are wrong. Bad heart, bad word, bad offering, bad service, the whole bit. Lastly Supporting evidence number seven, broken vows, verse fourteen, but cursed be the swindler who has a male in his flock and vows it So there's a male, unblemished male, supposedly, in the flock, and he vows that to God. Keep in mind these flocks were important to these people. This was their these were their riches, these were their ownings They're going to the thing that it's like going to your bank account bank account and taking the one you've been saving for you, taking the best of that and bringing that. That's what it is equivalent here. These animals were important to them, they were dependent on that I got ahead of myself. Cursed be the swindler as a male and his flock and vows it. A vow is a promise to God, right? But sacrifices a blemished animal to the Lord. Right? Oh Lord, grant my prayer request. God grants it. And then you conveniently forget what you promised. This will do. That's what they were doing. And then again, for a third time he says, For I am a great king, says the Lord of the armies of heaven. And mine aim is to be feared among the nations. Is feared. So this rebuke even goes to those who vow to the Lord they would give a good sacrifice, they're going to give a good animal, you know. Then they get what they want and they renege. He is a nockel, a deceitful dealer. He plays games with God. Ecclesiastes 5, verse 4 and 5 says: When you make a vow to God, do not be late in paying it. For he takes no delight in fools. Pay what you vow. It is better that you should not vow than that you should bow and not pay. So we we don't bow things to God. Now, this is this is how it might go with you. Lord, I don't have a job. Give me a good job. Help take care of my family. And I promise I'll be back in church more and doing more for you. Then you get the good job and the job asks more of you and where are you? Given the little bit. The little bit should be okay. Right? But you vowed more. And you're giving this. You broke your vow to God. You broke your promise. You said it in your heart. Or the parent, Lord, give us children. Then I'll be more faithful. God grants the children. And then you're not more faithful. Because now you love your children more than you love God. And your children are of greater consequence to you than God. And you can tell by the actions. You reneg. The cheat tries to cheat God. Cheating God seems to always work because He's not down here to defend himself, right? You cheat someone else and they cry bloody murder. And you owe me something! You cheat God, you're like, All worked out fine, just go on your way. Do you think in the long run you're gonna be able to cheat God? Do you think he didn't know that? You don't think that'll capture thing about the Lord is he's kind of in control of everything. And he's been around a long time. So when months and years go by and you think like, I'm in the clear. You're not in the clear. God's got a very good memory. He remembers it all. Don't renege. Do you know even here a curse is pronounced on that person? A curse. God curses them. What does that mean? Do you remember Ananias and Sapphire? Oh, we gave all of our proceeds to the church. No, you you you held back half of it You you could have held back half of it if you told us that you were holding back half. But when you come to the church and you say we're going to give all of it, and then you keep back half of it and pretend that the half was the whole God saw it. God heard it. This time, God wanted to make an example out of it. And so Peter says his apostolic warning, and they drop dead one at a time. That is reneging. Curse is a serious thing. A curse delivers someone over to misfortune, in this case, death. What is the conclusion of all of this? The conclusion, again, is Our God is a great king. Over and over, that's the message. God is great. You've come in here and worship the greatest being in the universe. It has to get through to us as a church, as a local church, as worshippers. Bring the best. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, Psalm 48:1. It is an honor to be in the courts of the king, yes? That is one day in your courts, the song says, then thousands elsewhere. It's an honor to be here. Bring your best. When you serve a great king, your service and worship is to be joyful. It's to be excited. It's to be dedicated. Musicians, do your practice. Get your night of sleep. Come in here prepared and excellent. Preachers, do your study well. Prepare and prayer your heart well. Fathers. Prepare your family to be God-centered all week long so this is not a strange experience for them on Sunday. Mommies, help the little ones understand the importance of the atmosphere of worship to sit still. Everyone Come with a generous gift in hand, a heart that's ready to sing and pray, a mind that's alert to listen, a body with energy to serve. Now we get out there and preach the gospel after we've worshiped. Now we get out there and help the needy after we've worshiped. Now we get out there and disciple the saints after the worship. Yes No one will ever ultimately get away with things sloppy in worship. There will be a day of reckoning with the Lord of hosts, for he is, thrice said, our great King. Father, we pray for a seriousness and a joy and an energy and an understanding about the high priority of worship To your great name. Even as we go now to uh the Lord's Supper and sharing that as communion, Lord, help us to be Alert and worshiping. Touch our hearts, soften our hearts, work in the hearts of your people, from the leaders on down, that each one of us Wherever we've been lazy, wherever we've been sloppy, wherever we've made excuses second rate, put our own lifestyle ahead of yours, this might be corrected. We might find in the worship of you our greatest joy anyway And be surprised how when we give of ourselves to you, we never ever regret that. For so we prayed in Christ's name, who gave himself for us. Amen.