We're just saying, Jesus, you are my King. Wouldn't that beautiful? Jesus, you are my King Whenever there is a clear incongruence between religious rhetoric And Christian practice, the Lord is not pleased. This prophet Malachi What a thunderous message he has. He was sent by God to it to God's own people. To God's own people. To confront them, their hearted and irreverent treatment of the great Lord. This prophetic book has a timeless message, I believe, for any church, any Christian. Let their heart sink into mediocrity in their service, in their worship, in their devotion. It's a soul-searching book. It reveals your heart. As we study it and let the Lord do that. Let the Lord shine his light on your heart. Don't hide behind excuses. Let the Lord work in our lives here, your life, as we look uh through this book and again back to its same passage we are in last Lord's Day, Malachi chapter one. Go ahead and open your Bibles verses six through fourteen. We barely scratched the surface of it last week. We'll get a little further today. I began by reading it, the Lord speaking, a son honors his father and a servant his master. Then if I am a father, where is my honor? And if I am a master, where is my respect or fear? says the Lord of hosts to you, O priests who despise my name. But you say, How have we despised your name? You are presenting defiled food upon my altar. But you say, How have we defiled you? In that you say the table of the Lord is to be despised. But when you present the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you present the lame and sick, is it not evil? Why not offer it to your governor? Would he be pleased with you? Or would he receive you kindly, says the Lord of hosts? But now will you not entreat God's favor that he may be gracious to us With such an offering on your part will he receive any of you kindly, says the Lord of hosts. Oh, that there were one among you who would shut the gates That you might not uselessly kindle fire on my altar. I am not pleased with you, says the Lord of hosts, nor will I accept an offering from you For from the rising of the sun even to its setting, my name will be great among the nations, and in every place incense is going to be offered to my name, and a grain offering that is pure For my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts. But you are profaning it, in that you say the table of the Lord is defiled, and as for its fruit, its food is to be despised. You also say, My, how tiresome it is, and you disdainfully sniff at it, says the Lord of hosts. And you bring what was taken by robbery and what is lame or sick, so that you bring the offering Should I receive that from your hand? says the Lord. But cursed be the swindler who has a male in his flock and vows it, but sacrifices a blemished animal to the Lord, for I am a great king. says the Lord of hosts, and my name is feared among the nations. Do you hear the main point? Because God is so great, because God has a great name He deserves the best, the best worship, the best service. But God's people don't always bring the best, and they thus dishonor his name. They are Dishonoring his name by their defiled and disobedient worship and service. Verses 6 through 14 is quite a chunk But it divides into five phases that we call the dispute or an argument between God and His people. The first part we covered last time and Beginning of verse six, it's the charge that God makes to his people. You are dishonoring and despising God's name. But the people object, and that's the second part of the uh the dispute, and that's in the second part of verse six, they say, How have we despised your name? That's not a genuine question, that's more of a challenge. We don't see how we did that. We're not buying this charge against us. The third is God's reputation right back at them at the beginning of verse 7. This is how you've defiled me in my name. You are presenting defiled food upon my altar, the temple. And that's really the main point of God's charge. The priests, particularly, were despising God's name by presenting defiled food on God's altar in the temple. And God's reaction to this is very negative. And I hope you see that. Today, after we covered those three parts, we pick up on that and we find out why. Why was God's reaction to this so negative? And we're going to cover fourthly the people's denial once again. That's in the last part of, well, the middle of verse 7. And then God presents his proof. And really the majority, the vast majority of the chunk of this This text of Scripture is God's proof that they are defiling his name and his food. And so it goes as an argument, God making the charge Then the people objecting, back to God, then the people, and then back to God. Now we're going to pick up in the middle of verse 7 from last week, and it's really the fourth point in all of this And that is their further objection. It's in the middle of verse 7, and it's where he says, but you say. And that again kind of goes with their first objection there in verse 6. How have we defiled you? They don't really believe that. It indicates again that the priests were quite oblivious to their offense against God. They were offending God. They did not believe they were offending God. They considered their actions appropriate. Somehow, in their thinking, they thought this was okay. They were doing their duty. They were Levites. They were in the temple. They'd set up their schedules and they'd come to serve when they were supposed to serve. They were worshiping. They were practicing their religion. They were acting as priests between the people and God They were not worshiping false gods. They'd learned that lesson when they were ripped off the land and sent into exile and brought back. There was no idolatry in Israel after that. They were good in their doctrine, they weren't heretics. Why was the Lord so upset with them? They were his people. Well, we could say that denial is a problem not just with humanity in general, but sometimes denial is a problem right here in the house of God. There is a very strong gap in this book of Malachi, and you'll see it over and over again between what God sees as true and what men acknowledge as true. A very wide gap between those two things. By the way, who's right? God or man. Even if everyone gets together and has a poll and a hundred percent of us disagree with God, guess who's right? God. That's why polls don't really matter. The sinner always thinks the one correcting him is wrong. Very rarely does a sinner come under full conviction and say, You're right. I've sinned, I'm wrong, I want to change. That's the exception. The norm is when someone comes to correct you or me, we say, no, that's not true. See, you didn't understand me. See, that's not the way it is. No And we want to make it look as good as we possibly can. They're critical of those that are correcting them, in this case, God. That's their hiding place. That's how they mask the evil that's in their hearts. They try to present themselves as looking better than they are. They lash out at the one doing the correcting. They're too proud to own what's happening in their own hearts. It's a prophet's job, or today a preacher's job, to confront sinners That's what Malachi is doing. He's confronting sinners. The people of God have sinned. But unfortunately, truth and evidence is kind of irrelevant to those that don't really want to listen. Blindness is what it is. Blindness. Can't see with blindness. It doesn't help to turn up the lights when someone is blind. It doesn't help sometimes to yell a little louder when people are blind. They don't want to hear it. That's just the way it is. There has to be an inside change, a heart change first. So God has to provide a heap of evidence, and all this below is evidence. The bulk of the section, as I said, is this evidence. How have we defiled you? Okay, okay, okay, here we go. This is how you have defiled. And the rest of the whole rest of the passage is this, and we're going to be in this uh for a couple of Sundays because there's really a lot here that we need we need to heed. The direct answer to their question is at the last part of verse 7. Look at it. This is how he directly answers it and then he heaps uh on the evidence of that. Well, you've defiled me in that you say, you say, and he's talking to the priests, remember, the table of the Lord, that's the altar of God, the table of the Lord is to be despised. Now, can you imagine the priests in the temple saying the table of the Lord is to be despised? They stated that the altar of God, right there in the temple where the sacrifices are made and it goes up before God, that is to be despised. Here's that word again. We've seen it before, baza in Hebrew. God charges in verse 6, you are despising my name. They object. How have we despised you? In verse 6. God answers, You've despised my table. When you despise my table, you're despising my name. You see? You're defiling it by the wrong sacrifices. You're bringing unclean sacrifices, so you're defiling my table, and that defiles my name. This is a very strong statement by God. If you were a Levitical priest and you heard this, you're despising my name and you you're defiling my table, I imagine they were like, what? It was one of those woe moments. Who would ever really say that about God's table? Were they actually saying these words? Were some of the priests actually saying that? That's possible. But it may just be that he's pointing to their actions and when their actions are actually saying, Actions speak louder than what? Words, right? It seems what God is doing here is bringing out the meaning of their actions. Their actions mean something. You defile my altar by your actions. So what follows is evidence on top of evidence of this poor attitude on the part of the priests and thus the people of God toward the Lord Himself that results in this wrong worship of God starts with a wrong attitude. Their poor worship revealed their impious hearts. See, I think we're such a secular society, people think if I just go to church once in a while, I'm not really an ungodly person. After all, I show up on Easter, Mother's Day. Christmas sometimes. I'm there. I come every once in a while. I'm a godly person, and most people don't go at all. That's not how God thinks of godliness. We need to listen to him, not to compare ourselves with the world. This is a very strong statement. These are very godly people by outward standards. These are the people that were in the temple serving. They were dedicating their lives to this. So uh this is this is strong. Maybe we should pause a moment and ask, even before we get to the rest of the text, what is it that causes irrev irreverence? to develop in God's people in the first place? The answer is pretty simple. It's personal sin. We start committing personal sin, and in our sin it begins to put a haze in our vision of God Because of our sin, we can't see holiness and majesty and goodness the way we ought to. It's our sin that clouds our judgment, it's our sin that blocks our vision. Sin hurts that. Personal sin feeds this laxadaisical then preparation for worship. If sin clouds our vision of God, then it obviously throws cold water on the fires of worship because we don't see God the way we should. Many of you are going to get to go out to the summer and see something glorious and grand. I hope you do. the vastness of the ocean, maybe a a sunrise over that, some majestic mountain scene, a waterfall, something that will be impressive. And when you come, i it's not the same reaction as when you're going to stare at a gravel pit or something like that, a mud pit. You know you don't get your camera out and take pictures. I saw a mud pit, you know. Down in North Carolina, there's a picture of a mud pit. Send that on back to everybody else. But when you see a waterfall, all of a sudden everyone starts fixing their hair and they want to take the pictures and Little selfies and this and that. It's awesome. It's great. It's an awesome thing. Look at this. Then some people hike five miles to see something like that, right? But if your vision of God is ho-hum and he looks more like a gravel pit to you, you're not going to stand up and take notice, and that happens because of your sin, you see. You can't see God and His glory with the eyes of your heart because of your sin. You don't stand in awe of God. What really is your vision of God? When you came in here today, what are you thinking about when you think about God? What is He before you? What does He mean in your heart and your mind? Are you fearful before Him? Do you stand in awe of him? What's the picture in your mind? What's the awareness of God in your life? Treating the worship of God When the saints gather on Sunday, like any other part of your life, yeah, I do this, and I do this, and I do this, and then I go worship the Lord, and then I do this, and I do this, and I do this. That's irreverence. That's un Dann is Hurry, let's get church over with. It's ho hum, I didn't like the songs this morning. Sit down, your mind's on 25 other things that you have to do. All of that is irreverence. You wouldn't do that in the presence of a great waterfall, but you do that in the presence of God. All of this is irreverence. We have much more irreverence in our heart if we were honest and really looked at it this way. The glory of worship is not what you see with your eyes. It's not us putting on a light show up here, you know. Put on some grand display like some churches do and they go up, yeah man, we really worship today. No, you you you got entertained today Your God's so small you had to throw on this production so people would be excited about church because the people can't see God They don't have any vision of God. God's small and dinky. Let's have some kind of program up there that draws people in. I thought God was supposed to draw people in. I thought he was great. I think people feel pretty stupid about their their light shows and all the rest of that when they actually see God and see how they've been irreverent to Him. Just little glimpses we get in books like Revelation, right? Chapter 5, verses 11, he says, Then I looked. And he actually got to see this. What an advantage, right? I looked and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and the living creatures. They'd be enough to scare you, right? And the elders and the number of them was myriads of myriads. That's ten thousands of ten thousands And thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. Can you imagine your chest is just beating there? And you're like, whoa, worthy is the lamb that was slain. to receive power and riches and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing and they don't know when to stop. You just go on and on. Heaven, exciting, thunderous praise. There's energy in it, there's enthusiasm. It's not all emotion, it's not all mind, it's mind that understands, and then the emotions follow with great enthusiasm. It's how we ought to be. We ought to be thinking about joining that chorus one day. Our songs now are just to get ready for then. So there's the basic answer that God gives. You're despising my table. Now, for all the supporting evidence, here we go. Look at verse 8. Supporting evidence, number one. You want to know? You ask the question, you want to know? Well, here it comes: bad offerings. Bad offerings. That's the first piece of supporting evidence. Look at verse 8. But when you present the blind for sacrifice, Is it not evil and when you present the lame and sick, is it not evil? Those are rhetorical questions. The answer is, of course, it's evil Now last time we saw that the scriptures were very clear what God said in his law, very adamant and very clear, that animal sacrifices sacrifices that were brought to him had to be without what? Blemish. No blemish. The very best of the herd. There's your herd, there's a hundred sheep. Find the best and bring it. Not the worst, the best. Yeah, but those are my sheep. Exactly. They're your sheep. You own them. You put work and effort into them. You raise them. You fed them. You had to pay something to get them. Whatever it is. Take the best one and bring it and sacrifice. Not the worst Well, we have to say a couple of other verses to that. The Passover lamb, Exodus 12, 5, your lamb shall be an unblemished male, a year old. A year old had to be male and unblemished. Okay, this is it. Come on. This is a perfect one. Looked them all over and everything like that. And in that case, with the Passover lamb, they have to actually bring it into the house, let it be their little pet for a little bit of time. Then kill it It cost them. What about burnt offerings? You hear about these different kinds of offerings in the Old Testament. Leviticus chapter 1, verse 3. If his offering is a burnt offering, these are the instructions for the Levites from the herd, he shall offer it a male without defect. He shall offer it at the doorway of the tenth of the meeting, that he may be accepted before the Lord. Offer it this way without blemish so God accepts you. Otherwise he doesn't accept you What about the the sin and peace offering? Same thing. Look up Numbers 614 sometime. In fact, the opposite is stated. If someone did bring something and they thought, you know, uh I brought this. I hope the Lord's okay with it. I hope the Lord will be alright with this one. And then Deuteronomy 15, 21 would kick in. But if it has any defect, such as lameness or blindness Or any serious defect, you shall not sacrifice it to the Lord your God. The guy's coming is like, well, I brought this. Is this okay? It's not too bad, right? It's not too bad. It's okay. Priests are supposed to say, no, take that away. That's an offense to God. That sounds mean. No, that that's God talking. God says, I reject that, you see. Same thing with Deuteronomy 17:1. You shall not sacrifice to the Lord your God an ox or a sheep. Which has a blemish or any defect. For that is a detestable thing to the Lord your God. God hates that stuff. Detestable. So that's pretty clear. Wouldn't you say? I mean that's not unclear, right? I mean this isn't hard. If you're a Levite, you know there might be some things that are hard to figure out, but you know this. You've got this down. Just look at the animal, defect, take it out of here It's no good. Not going to accept that. But the Israelite offerers were bringing during this time with Malachi, they were bringing blemished and defected blind animals. And the priest should have stopped them and said, get that out of here. The priest should have been those that protect the holiness of God. But they're like, that's good enough. Bring it in here. Let's just slightly. This is okay. It's understandable. We're kind of poor now. We'll just do that. But they didn't stop them from bringing those things. Dr. Kaiser says God's delegated ministers had indulged their people by accepting any kind of sacrifice, even one they knew violated God's instructions. That's just the way it was. Of course, the Old Testament sacrifices were actually types of who? The Lord Jesus Christ, right? The great one-time sacrifice on the cross, yes? What is a type? A type is a prophecy in the form of a picture. Sometimes prophecies in the form of words. But God also gave prophecies of what was to come in the form of pictures, objects. And that's what these were. The picture represented Christ, who would come one day, take away sins all together, a male without defect, offered to God. So, to offer those with blemishes, God asks the question: Is it not evil? Isn't that a clear violation of my commandments? Evil is the word Ra. It just means displeasing, evil, unpleasant, bad, unacceptable. Any of those are ways it's translated. When it's applied to offerings, it means it's just rejected. It's unacceptable. Leviticus chapter twenty-seven verses ten and twelve for example. It's what God abhors. Again, let's pause and let's think about that in our worship, where we give to God. We don't bring animals today, right? We bring what? Our treasures, we bring our talents, we bring our time, we bring our voices. Our bulletin reminds us of that. We offer our treasures, our talents, and our time. Are you bringing bad offerings to God? Bad offerings. Is that what you're bringing? We have belief in the cross of Jesus Christ, so so we have that one-time offering for God that makes us with a perfect standing before God. We don't bring animals to sacrifice them. We have the cross of Christ to pay for all of our sins. So now what's the appropriate response in this dispensation for offerings? What do we do? What do we bring? The New Testament says we bring praise. We bring thanksgiving. We bring contributions to the work of Jesus Christ in the churches. We bring a commitment to do acts of devotion and meeting the needs of those in the church through acts of love. Let's turn to Philippians for a minute just to get a feel for this. Keep your finger in Malachi. Turn to Paul's letter to the Philippians in chapter 4. Hang with me. I want you to see some of this in the New Testament, just to focus you. Here's Paul talking and writing to the Philippian church here in chapter 4, and we'll focus on verses 15 to 18 And he writes this: You yourselves also know, Philippians, that at the first preaching of the gospel after I left Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving, but you alone. Wow, that's a great church. For even in Thessalica you sent a gift more than once for my needs. He's an apostle, he's dependent on the churches for meeting his financial needs. The Philippian church even did that when he was in Thessalonalica. This is a good church. And then he says in verse 17, not that I seek the gift itself, he wants to clarify his motive, but I seek for the profit which increases to your account. You're going to be blessed when you give, in other words. But I have received everything in full and have an abundance. I am amply supplied, having received from apaphroditus what you have sent. Look what he calls this financial contribution a fragrant aroma, an acceptable what? Sacrifice. Well pleasing to God. And my God will supply all your needs. That promise in verse nineteen is for givers, not just any Christian. Here's a church that gave, and because they gave, it was a sacrifice, and it was a well-pleasing sacrifice, and God said, and Paul said, My God will meet all of your needs. Let's go also to Hebrews chapter 13. Again, just to see this offering theme in the New Testament. Hebrews 13, verses 15 and 16. Hebrews 13, 15, and 16, it says, Through him that is through Christ then, let us continually, notice, continually offer up a sacrifice. Of praise. Praise to God is a sacrifice. That is the fruit of lifts that gives thanks to his name. Praise and thanks are closely tied, and they're both a sacrifice, see? In verse 16, and do not neglect doing good and sharing, for with such sacrifices, God is what? Pleased. He's pleased. That's what he wants. Meeting needs, that's a sacrifice. That's a New Testament sacrifice. Doing something obedient. Praise, thanksgiving, good deeds. Helping the ministry to prosper. These are offerings we bring in the church dispensation. Kaiser again, I want to quote him. There is a great deal of authentic sacrificial giving in the body of Christ, but there remains an enormous amount of sacrilegious giving in which men and women give what is left over, what can be spared, what costs little or nothing. This God hates That's powerful if you think about it. If you give in your offerings to God what is easy, what is convenient, what is cheap, that is a bad offering. God doesn't accept. That's the same thing as choosing a poor animal from the herd and bringing it and expecting the priest land offered. It's what I want to give. You give your time to help God's work and God's church and the building of his church. If it suits your schedule, that's a bad offering. That's a bad offering. You give two percent, four percent of your treasure to the work of God's church, that's not costing you anything. That's a cheap offering. You save your energy for hard work at home and the workplace, and you get exhausted and you have no energy left for the work of God and His church. What kind of an offering do you expect God to accept with that? What kind of a God do you think you're bringing this to? Is he a great king? In this, what you give is mediocre. It doesn't cost you anything. If your giving, beloved, is mediocre, then your religion is mediocre also. You get that? Because you express your religion in your giving. It is your giving that defines your heart and your faith before God. You may object, but how have we despised the table of the Lord? Listen, we work hard. We take care of our family and kids. It's tough living in this society. And then we come to church, at least some, and sing. Hey, listen, we have lots of pressures on our lives. You should just be grateful that we came here at all. Maybe that's what they were saying back then. Hard economic times. And you want us to take the best of our herd and bring it up to the temple and offer it to God? No way we're doing that. He should be happy we're just bringing him something. Is that where your heart is? God should just be content with my poor offerings. It's the best I'm going to bring. Now you can object all you want, but that's how God views you. And he will always view your worship that way as long as you keep bringing him cheap gifts. Your leftovers. Do you seriously think that God who supplies your life with everything that you own, every single thing that you own. To the breath that you're breathing right now. He's given it all to you. Do you think that God deserves the kind of gifts that you bring Sunday after Sunday? Have you really checked your heart and asked yourself, what are you bringing to God? Do you think he's happy with your leftovers? He's given you everything everything you own is from him. And this is what you bring to him. This is what you think he's going to receive. This is good enough for him. Just take the blind and the lame, Lord. It's good enough. You have despised the altar of God. You need to see yourself the way God sees you because whatever vision you have of yourself, it's not the vision God has of you. See, and you ought to write this down somewhere and really think on it. Your offering only pleases God. Your offering only pleases the Lord if it costs you something God wants you to pay. God wants you to sacrifice. That's why it's called a sacrifice, not a convenience. I brought my convenience to the Lord this morning. Also, please notice that your worship and your service go hand in hand. This is what uh the devil tried to trip Jesus up on, but he knew right away what was going on, right? He said, uh I'll give you all these kingdoms, Jesus, if you fall down and worship me. And then Jesus said something very interesting. He said, Begone, Satan. It is written, you shall worship and Serve the Lord your God only. Worship and service go hand in hand. Do you see that? Not to offer service is not to worship genuinely. When you worship, you have to offer service. The two go hand in hand. To be loud in praise and small indeed is not appropriate worship. Not to have a cost to your life is not to honor God. When it gets hard for you to serve, then guess what? You're only now beginning what it means to serve. You're only now beginning to enter into what service is when it's hurting you When it's hard for your family, now you're learning how great the Lord is and what he demands of your life When you're the one who has to always move the extra chair or be the one to clean the church more or unlock the doors when others forget to do it or lock them back up. Whatever small thing it is, copy the notes for someone else who is supposed to do it, fill in for that unreliable person again. Now your service starts to mean something to God. Now He's starting to be pleased with you and your service because it's costing you something, you see. It's not easy. You want church to be easy. God doesn't. Yes, it would really really be nice if everyone did Everything they were supposed to do. Things ran efficiently. Everybody pulled their own weight. I don't know any church where that happens. But if other people don't pull their weight and you have to pull your weight plus, guess what? The Lord has designed that for you to learn what true worship and service is about. Is the Lord Jesus Christ worth your best? You answer that with your actions. We celebrated our seventeenth anniversary yesterday at the picnic. I said it was a lot of fun. Um I remember just every time we get an anniversary, I remember backwards in some of the harder earlier years. If we waited to plant the church until there were enough people to do all the things that are supposed to be done well, we never would have planted the church. You just had to press ahead with the work sometimes. Sometimes when we're seventeen years into the church plant, some of you guys need to have that mentality, like, I'm just gonna I'm just gonna start giving more time. I'm gonna I'm just gonna start doing more I'm going to make it cost me. What does it say in Romans 12, 1? Doesn't it say that? I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice. The unappreciated grunt work for Jesus Christ is service that's connected to your worship. I thank God for every person out there who does grunt work and is unappreciated and unnoticed because I guarantee you God notices it and it's pleasing to him. Cleaning the bathrooms, mopping the floors, changing the diapers, stapling papers, straightening chairs. Saw the ladies in there, peeling potatoes, cleaning coffee containers from the previous week that no one else cleaned. When nobody else notices, and it's cost you and cost you and cost you, God is pleased with that. That service is your worship, you see. And God may just have you go unnoticed, just to test what really is in your heart. Why do you do it in the first place? If you quit doing it when it gets harder, you weren't doing it for the right motive. Worship and service go hand in hand. Now let's turn back to Malachi because there's still a lot more here, and we didn't get too far yet, have we? Supporting evidence number two. That's just bad offerings. But this is this is proof of the despising of the altar of God. Not just bad offerings, but uh put it this way, try giving that to your governor. Try giving that one to your governor. That's kind of what God says here in a sarcastic way. Look at the latter part of verse 8. Why not offer it to your governor? Would he be pleased with you, or would he receive you kindly, says the Lord of hosts? The governor, that's an interesting term, and it helps us to date the book. It's the term for the uh Persian underling to report back to the king of Persia. The governor here is most likely not Nehemiah, even though he was a governor for a time. Nehemiah made it clear in Nehemiah 5, verses 14 and 15 that he would not receive any gifts from the people Scholars have postulated that Malachi may be making this prophecy in between Nehemiah's two governorships. But this question here comes with a biting irony because they did have a Persian governor. Few, very few, maybe none, would have the audacity to offer a maimed animal to a dignitary as a gift. Yeah, governors come into town. Give them that blind one over there What what audacity he would have. That's way too disrespectful. If the gift were given to someone of stature or nobility and they had all the people around them that served them in the courts, and you brought in this kind of a animal You know, and it was all everyone might just even take a step back and just have this look of disgust on their face. What is this imbecile doing here? Get him out of here And so this is really strong and emotive language by the Lord. It's like a slap to the face of the people, the priests in particular. Wake up! Do you not know what you're doing to the Lord Himself here? You want evidence that you're not worshiping me with a good heart? Here it is. Would the governor accept your offering? That's what you give him? I remember he's talking to people of the Middle Eastern culture, and they typically would give a premium gift to a dignitary. And it wasn't just to say thank you with appreciation It was to get favors in the future, right? They want to give a good gift to get on the good side of this ruler, and then when they needed something, the ruler would remember them and what they had and they'd kind of get the inside track to the influence that they wanted. That's how they did it. They would never give an economical gift. It was not only an insult, it was counterproductive to their own purpose in winning over the governor Of course, the Persian governor would not accept it or receive it kindly. He'd be angered. He'd be treated with contempt. He might be slapped and removed. In other words, these Israelites were literally fearing the governor more than God. Again, let me ask you as we step back and apply this: do you fear God? You fear God? I didn't know that the Bible said I'm supposed to fear him. I thought I'm supposed to love him. You're supposed to love him, but you're also supposed to fear him. Well, that doesn't really mean fear. Yes, it means fear. That's why it says fear. It means fear because it says fear. You fear him You fear God. Do you fear God? When you are poorly dedicated to the work of God, when you're poorly prepared and uh present yourself poorly into the presence of God when we worship, are you really fearing God? Is that really in your heart? If you're dedicated to the tasks that your bosses and employers place on you and you work very, very hard on that, and the significant people in your life, you make sure that you do them well. What is it that you give God? Do you give the same level of commitment? Do you really? I wonder if we if we tomorrow said that all these different ministries in the church We have a large donor that's given to the church. We've been given ten million dollars, and all of your ministries are going to be paid from here on out a good amount of money. Would you improve your service because you're paid? Would you improve your service because you're paid? You probably would. Think about that. Think about it. What an insult to God. I do praise God for those of you that serve the Lord with excellence. I know you and I see that and it's an encouragement to me. I try to serve the Lord with excellence and sometimes when I'm not It's a it's a it's a feeling in my own heart that I need to give the Lord better. I can't believe that I acted that way. Confession of sin needs to be made. When you give to God and no one notices, do you know what your reward is? It's just that. That you gave to God and you received no reward from men. Because your reward in heaven is what? It's great. It's great. Your Heavenly Father sees in secret. God should be feared way beyond respected. You know, God can bring pain into your life. He can change the course of your entire life anytime that he wants to, if you're not willing to recognize how he wants you to sacrifice and give to his kingdom and to his service. Oh, he's a patient God. But don't think that year after year of mediocrity that that won't catch up with you one day and God won't bring something into your life that will really get your attention. He can do that, he will do that, he has done that, he'll continue to do that You better fear him. You better fear being chastened by God. Even as a child of God. He can bring pain very easily. Dr. Motyr, I think I'm saying that right, Matyur. Really drives on the application here. I've got a long quote of his. If we put together the different ideas of sacrifices in the New Testament, we can see how easily we might fall into the same trap as the people of God in Malachi's day, despising God's name by offering second-rate sacrifices. Sacrifices that look good but are merely trivial. That have the appearance of godliness, but not its substance. Sacrifices that cost us nothing. Offering a satisfactory sacrifice is more than simply being in favor of an idea. To offer a sacrifice is to live intentionally, to do what costs us dearly, and to give up something so that we can offer God the obedience and service that is his due As King David said, I will not offer burnt offerings to the Lord my God that cost me nothing. He refused to do it Continuing with a quote, we need a God-centered view of our sacrifices. Is your church sacrificial? What does your church give up in order to offer it to God? Is your ministry a sacrificial ministry? What do you give up in order to do your ministry? Is your life a sacrificial life? What does it cost you to live as a Christian? Do you intentionally offer yourself each day to God as a living sacrifice? Do you offer each day as an occasion when you will give God gladly whatever He asks of you? Does your bank account speak of a sacrificial life? Is your social life sacrificial? Are your prayers sacrificial prayers? Or are they self-centered and self-serving? Christ, who saved us by his sacrifice, called us to follow him in the sacrifices that we make. As we are saved to serve, so we are saved to sacrifice. Many of you want to know, but if I sacrifice like that, am I going to be happy? And there's the stumbling point, because you're living your life for who? Yourself. I don't see living like that and being happy. Well first of all you need to trust God. He has a joy. You will be happy actually because it's more blessed to what? Give than to receive. It's all counterintuitive. You receive and receive and receive, just like the kids at Christmas time ripping over 25 packages and they're bored. Because that didn't help them. When they give and they see a smile on someone else's face, they got more joy out of that than everything else they received. Same thing with you. When you learn to die to self, when you learn to give up, when it hurts, when it costs you, when you lose sleep. Then you learn a strange joy inside of your heart. Yes, it'll make you happy, but that's not the point. It makes God pleased and happy. Right? That's the point of sacrifices. Who's the sacrifice for? God, are you pleased with my sacrifice? Well, you brought me the third best. I'm not pleased with that. I'm not pleased with your third best. Bring your best next time. Bring your best next time. That's what God wants. Some people want to uh establish their job and career first. Look, I'll get busy serving the Lord, but I've got to get my career up and going first. I gotta get the job, you know, I gotta get things lined up. And once I line everything up, get the home the way it ought to be, then I'm gonna serve the Lord. You'll see. No, you won't Because if your heart's not willing to serve them now, the best test of what you're going to be like in the future is what you're doing right now. You're not going to serve them then. I just got to get through school and then I'll serve No, you won't. No, you won't. You're hiding the reality of your heart. Just want to set everything up, and then you'll get well God's got second place then anyways, doesn't He? If He's got second place in your heart now, what's going to change then? Extending this piece of evidence a little bit is verse 9. But now will you not entreat God's favor that he may be gracious to us? With such an offering on your part, will he receive any of you kindly, says the Lord of hosts? To entreat there is to implore. It's a halal. It's to implore implore the favor of the dignitary or God. It means literally to make the face of one sweet or pleasant, to stroke or soothe the face of God. Would this appease him? Would he be satisfied with this? Would he be kindly towards you? Would he like that Hebrew language is uh graphic. Proverbs nineteen six kind of has a similar idea. Many will seek the favor of a generous man. Why? One little something from him, right? Many will seek the favor of a generous man, and every man is a friend to him who gives gifts. Hey, my buddy and pal. Some interpret verse 9 as God pleading for Israel's repentance. Will you not entreat God's favor? But other people, and I fall into this camp, interpret those words there as irony, and that's because of the context. That question next, will he receive any of you kindly favors that interpretation for it demands a negative answer. The MacArthur commentary puts verse 9 this way How could they expect God to extend his grace when they were insulting him with unacceptable sacrifices? That's the point Charles Feinberg puts it this way. The Prophet is saying, Do you think that with such unacceptable offerings God will be pleased with you Their prayers could never avail as long as they were presenting such sacrifices. It was the doing of the priests, and Malachi places the blame squarely upon them. In other words, the high price for sin and wrong worship is that God stops answering your prayers. Go ahead and ask God for something. Entreat His good favor. See if He will be gracious to you. The answer is no. Ellsworth puts it this way. He then solemnly assures them that they cannot ask for God's favor with their mouth while their hands are engaged in dishonoring him. We do not like to be told that the success of our prayers is tied to the conduct of our lives, but it is a link that the Bible will not let us ignore. 18. If I regard wickedness in my heart, the Lord what will not hear. And that was a believer that wrote that. We cannot expect God's blessings when we are sinning by our languid worship. And we don't have time for supporting evidence number three, but it's a good one also. And we'll get to three and four and five here. But just in wrapping this up, as we're going through this again, I ask you. Not to ask in your heart what you think you're doing, but look at your actions. Look at your giving. Look at particularly the level of your sacrifice. If there even is a sacrifice there. And ask yourself, first of all, are you even a believer in Jesus Christ at all? Because to say you are a believer and to agree in your mind that Jesus is the Son of God and that He was raised from the dead, that is not saving faith. Saving faith is when you come to Christ to say, Christ, you're my King. I believe in you. I'm ready to follow. Thank you for forgiving my sins. And if you are saved, then you've fallen into sin because we do fall into sin. And your worship reflects that. What are you going to do to change that? Are you going to keep bringing bad gifts with a poor attitude to the Lord? Excusing yourself because that's what other people around you do. Or are you going to get serious with God and His worship? Young people for you too. Are you in here simply because parents threw you in here? Gotta worship on Sunday, ho hum. The Lord is not pleased with your worship. And may God be pleased with our worship. Let us change our heart attitude and mind and bring the very best in all the categories. Time talents, treasures, bring the best because God is a great King. And we'll get into that next week, how He exalts His own name and how all of this is tied into His greatness. Would you uh close in uh bow your head and close with me in prayer Father God, we uh are grateful for you being a great king, and it's obvious that we're still learning what that means. Give us a greater vision of your majesty this week. as we ponder the poverty of our spirit, which is proven by the poverty of our gifts. Lord, let none of us make excuses for the weak offering we bring. Help us to understand you're worthy of all we give and much more. And Lord, forgive us as leaders for not doing a more diligent job in presenting this and these truths to your people, that they may be blessed, and that your heart might be blessed. And that all your people may continue to grow in their understanding, Lord, of your will for their life. Help our visitors, those that have come, just some, help them to understand that with a long and a serious message like this, Lord, you're speaking to their heart too. And that you're trying to arrest their attention. Help them not lie to themselves and deceive themselves. Help them to be honest before you, for they will face you one day. Lord, grant them. The fear of you and the fear of your person, we pray it all in Christ's name. Amen