I think you know that everything we own, every joy and every comfort that we experience Every breath we breathe is because Almighty God has been gracious and generous to us. Yet I think you also know that the world around us, by and large, treats God as insignificant. As inconsequential, as tangential to life. They gleefully remove God's moral laws from our public schools and public places They honor their own pursuits on this day, the Lord's day, rather than doing as you're doing right now to praise God's great name They joyfully consume all the food and beverage that they want and do not give thanks to the one who provided it for them, their divine host. They spit out the Lord's name like a cuss word, and they fear no repercussions. Children are shielded from God's truth and then declared to be educated. Political discussion won't even allow the blessed eternal one as the starting point for talk. And God's eternal fiery judgment for their many sins is thought of as an antiquated fairy tale, not feared at all. Let's face it, in many people's lives, most people's lives, God is a side note at best. He's light, he's inconsequential Unfortunately, it is true that that attitude that dominates in society can seep into the church. Many of the spiritual leaders of our nation do not present God as a glorious, awesome being, matchless in the universe. Nor do they follow God's word or reverently teach it and preach it and ask and urge their congregations to obey it. They do not bow to the exclusive lordship of Jesus, but talk about following other gods and other religions as being acceptable. Unfortunately, we too, as we look at ourselves as a local congregation, we too can treat God more lightly than he deserves to be treated. As the people of Israel were confronted with this very error because they were worshippers of God, but they weren't doing it appropriately. We too, this morning, will learn this lesson. It's from Malachi chapter 1, still in chapter 1 of Malachi. This time we'll be in verses 6 through 14. I think a powerful, powerful lesson. Let's read, follow along as I read. And we'll learn this Lord's Day and next Lord's Day from this great text. Verse six of Malachi chapter one A son honors his father, and a servant is master. Then if I am a father, where is my honor? And if I am a master, where is my respect? says the Lord of hosts to you, O priests, who despise my name. But you say, How have we despised your name? You are presenting defiled food upon my altar. But you say, How have we defiled you? In that you say, the table of the Lord is to be despised. But when you present the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And when you present the lame and sick, is it not evil? Why not offer it to your governor? Would he be pleased with you? Or would he receive you kindly, says the Lord of hosts. But now, will you not entreat God's favor that he may be gracious to us? With such an offering on your part, will he receive any of you kindly, says the Lord of hosts? Oh, that there were one among you who would shut the gates, that you might not uselessly kindle fire on my altar. I am not pleased with you, says the Lord of hosts, nor will I accept an offering from you For from the rising of the sun even to its setting, my name will be great among the nations, and in every place incense is going to be offered to my name, and a grain offering that is pure, for my name will be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts. But you are profaning it, in that you say the table of the Lord is defiled, and as for its fruit, its food is to be despised. You also say, My, how tiresome it is, and you disdainfully sniff at it, says the Lord of hosts. And you bring what was taken by robbery and what is lame or sick, so you bring the offering Should I receive that from your hand? says the Lord. But cursed be the swindler who has a male in his flock and vows it But sacrifices a blemished animal to the Lord. For I am a great king, says the Lord of hosts, and my name is feared among the nations. Well, I didn't get the title out for this soon enough, but I've entitled it Bringing Your Mediocre. For that is what modern worshippers often do, just like the ancient Israelites. This, as you can tell, is a corrective passage. There's no way to smooth this over with some nice oil and make it be a feel-good sermon. There's just no way to do that. I guess maybe some have the talent to do that But it's it's meant to correct and it's meant to correct God's people. It exhorts us because of God's great love, talked about in verses two through five, and now because of God's great name and his great person We should be reverencing and honoring God in our worship, in our service, in our sacrifices, in our attitudes. We are to be a kind of people that is oriented toward God and wants God glorified and puts energy and sacrifice into that. Now we noted in the last section that Malachi neatly divides itself up into a series of charges that are presented from God through the prophet to the people, followed by objections from the people. And these objections come in the form of questions. The first section is in verses two through five, where God declares, I have loved you. And he goes on to talk about his election, and the election proves his love. But it's followed with a challenge from the people, how have you loved us? Look at our circumstances. They're not all that great in life. We don't sense your love for us. But of course it's followed by that answer, I chose you, Israel, not Esau. So through the prophet Malachi, Israel is having here what you might call a dispute with God. God is correcting the nations systematically at this time, after the return from the exile, after the building of the temple. But their attitudes are not right. They've sunken into a ho-hum kind of a religion. They're not dedicated. They're not zealous. They don't really mean the words and things that they're doing Their foundational attitudes of not believing in God's love for them has responded in poor worship and poor giving and A bad approach to marriage and other things as well. Now we see the same pattern here in this section, except now the people repeat their objection and God provides even more proof than he did in the first section. So if you look at Verses six through fourteen, it divides into five phases of what we'll call an argument or a dispute with God. First is God's charge to the people. It's followed by the people's objection, then God's reputation back, the people's denial to that, and finally the largest section which is God's proof. So it goes God the people, God the people, God, and please notice who gets the final word in the argument. It's God. First phase of the argument is the charge from God to the people. Verse 6, look at it. A son honors his father and a servant his master. Then if I am a father, where is my honor? And if I am a master, where is my respect, says the Lord of hosts, to you, O priests, who despise my name. Please notice the charge is that God's people, not the world, God's people, and particularly the leader, the leaders of God's people, hear the priests, O priests We're dishonoring and despising God's name. That's incredible, isn't it? Religious people actually dishonoring and despising God's name. No one would ever do that today, right? Actually, it sounds quite relevant, quite modern. We see in verses thirteen through fourteen really that God is concerned with the whole nation dishonoring him. But the priests are in the forefront and they're primarily addressed here because they should know better. They are the leaders of the people. And by dishonoring God's name, and that name, by the way, is Yahweh The covenant name that God had with the Israelites given through Moses. That means when they dishonor the name, they are dishonoring God himself, right? You dishonor the name, you dishonor God. That's what a name means. In Hebrew, name is Shem, and it stands for all that a person was. You name something because it speaks of your attributes So God's name then speaks of all that God is, Yahweh, the everlasting one. We sang today, the uncreated one, the one who is and always has been and was never created. His name is great. In Exodus 9. 16, God told Pharaoh, For this reason I have allowed you to remain in order to show you my power, in order to proclaim my name throughout all the earth. He allowed Pharaoh to be hardened and to remain in power for a period of time so that God would use that conflict with Pharaoh in the days of Moses so that God's name would resound and be proclaimed throughout all the earth when he poured out his Plagues upon the great Empire of Egypt. It was about his name, and of course with his name as his person Isaiah forty-two eight speaks of the name. I am the Lord, that is my name. I will not give my glory to another nor my praise to graven images. So the name of God and the glory of God go together. Look down at verse 11 in Malachi 1. He says, For from the rising of the sun, even to its setting, my name Will be great among the nations. If this were a human being saying this, we'd say he's pompous and proud. All he wants to do is make his name great. But with God, this is the way it ought to be, right? His name is great. He deserves the praise. Jesus taught us in the Lord's Prayer to begin it by saying, Hallowed what be thy name, right? But these priests were dishonoring the Lord of hosts. That's the charge. The priests, of course, were the Levitical priests of the old covenant, the Levites. Their job was to lead the Israelites in worship. They were privileged to serve near God in the temple, to be closest to God They were to instruct the people in the right way of approaching God, pouring over the law, making sure they got the sacrifices right, knowing what was clean and unclean. How to approach God, what to learn about God and his holiness, make sure you do it this way and don't do it that way. They were the ones instructing the people The people were farmers and had other kinds of jobs. They weren't able to study the law all day long. They were to come and the priests were to instruct them. Look at chapter two and verse seven just for a minute. You'll see what a priest was supposed to do Chapter 2, verse 7 of Malachi says, For the lips of a priest should preserve knowledge, and men should seek instruction from his mouth. For he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts. That's what a priest is supposed to do. By the way, that's why in the New Testament we read in James 3, verse 1, let not many of you become teachers, my brethren, knowing that as such we will incur a stricter judgment. God jealously guards leadership. In Israel and in the church. For the mouth of a leader and the example of a leader can build up or can ruin So let the scoffers dishonor the name of God. We expect that, but not the leaders of God's people. Let not the words of a church leader be flippant toward God or toward God's Now, look how the Lord sets these Israelites up with his charge by first telling them something which they would all agree upon. Verse 6, a son honors his father and a servant his master. Who's gonna dishonor who's gonna disagree with that? Everybody knows that It's really presented like a proverb, like a general truism. A son honors his father. Of course he does. That's what he's supposed to do. It's his dad. He honors him. Honor is an interesting Hebrew word. I think it's actually a very important Hebrew word. It's the word kabod. And you know what it means? It means weightiness. Honor is weightiness. Something that was put on the measuring scales and had weight was of more value. You put more gold on there, it has more value, it's weighty. It's like wow that's valuable. That's God. God is weighty. God is to receive honor. He is more desirable than gold. We sang that, didn't we? He's more significant. Things that were light were puffy and airy and therefore worthless. But God is Kabold, God is significant, God is impressive, God is weighty. These days people don't like weighty topics You know, everyone says, hey, dude, lighten up, you know. But God is not something to lighten up about. He's heavy. He's very heavy. He's intensely heavy. And we are to give all weight and all energy and pour ourselves out in love for God and worship for Him. Yes, God was a father to Israel. He says, Am I not your father? Of course he was. Hosea 11:1 says, When Israel was a youth, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. Jeremiah 31:9, for I am a father to Israel. God is the father of Israel. Also, Israel was like a servant to their master, the Lord. And so, as servants to the master, they were to show him respect. That's a weak translation, respect. If you have a good version, you'll see a little footnote on there and it'll say, fear. The word literally is fear. Respect gives the idea of let's be polite towards God. No, no, no, no, no, no. Be polite to your neighbor. You're not polite to God. You fear God. There's a difference. A servant obeys because if he doesn't obey, there are strong consequences, and so he fears disobedience, you see. We stand in awe of God. He's a great master in heaven. We are to know that his power is uncontrollable. That bothers us as Americans when someone starts abusing their power. Oh, the courts are starting to take too much power away from the legislative branch Oh the legislative branch is pushing in on the president. Oh the president is is doing what he wants to do. We get bothered about that as Americans. Well God can do whatever he wants to do anytime. Raise a nation, nation falls, right? He's not controllable. No one can tell God what to do, and yet he's all powerful. He's king and he's judge and he's lawgiver combined. We read in Hebrews 10. 31, it is a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Strong men who didn't fear death feared God. Listen, fear is an appropriate response to God. If someone has told you otherwise, they're wrong. This is not hard to interpret in the Bible Yes, love is an appropriate response to God as well. That's what verses 2 through 5 are all about. God has loved you. Show love and commitment and loyalty back to God. We are to love God, of course we are. Love and fear are both highly encouraged in Scripture as appropriate ways to respond to God. If we have fear towards God without love, that turns God into an ogre before whom we cringe But if we have love without a fear of God, that makes God a buddy, a lightweight, nobody really to fear at all. No God at all. Which one of those two errors do you think that the church in America is falling into these days? It's not too heavy of an emphasis on the fear of God, I'll tell you that. It's a lopsided understanding of the love of God, isn't it? A balance of the two is what the scriptures intend. Someone you boldly approach because of his great mercy and call out, Abba, Father! But someone you greatly fear, for your heavenly Father is the everlasting King of Kings, and holds in your hands your eternity. Come back to chapter two and verse twenty says, The Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth be silent before him. Everybody just close their mouths before God. Don't talk. Don't say anything to God. That's how he should be feared. Silence in his presence. You know, you've ever been in the you're worried, you speak up in certain settings, you're going to get in a lot of trouble. That's the idea. Keep your mouth closed before God Psalm 33, 8, let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. But they don't That's just Old Testament stuff, the fear of God. No, 1 Peter 2. 17, honor all people, love the brotherhood, fear God. Honor the king. Revelation 14, 7. He said with a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heavens and the earth and sea and the springs of waters. Fearing God should be the very principle by which we live our lives. So says The book of wisdom in the Bible, right? Proverbs 1:7, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, right? Fools despise wisdom and instruction. So since God is a father and God is a master to Israel, the question is: where was his honor? Instead, his name was despised. He was not loved. He was not feared. His name was despised. Really? Really? Despised by the priests who are serving him? Well, notice what follows. Their objection, second, the second part of verse 6. But you say, and here are the words that come out of their mouths, right? But you say. How have we despised your name? This is the response of the people. This is not just the response of the priest, but still primarily aimed at the priests. Their question is, how? We're not buying this. We're not buying God's charge against us. Who, us, despising your name? No. No. They did not take this correction to heart. You know, often when God brings a charge to the heart, maybe to your heart, my heart, our first reaction is something, you're talking about someone else, right, Lord? You're not talking about me. Just preach it hard for that other person. I don't need to hear that. But a humble heart is needed. Humble your hearts. Listen to what God has to say. And even for leaders, particularly for leaders, listen to God's Word. For we leaders need correction as well. Here, the prophet of God is being sent to rebuke the priests of God. Interesting. Tough job for Malachi, but it was needed. Why? What was going on? Well, they were serving God, they were doing the sacrifices, they were in the temple, they were taking their rotation and their turns, but in that they were despising God's name. Despise is the Hebrew word badzah. It means to trick to treat wickedly or with contempt or with disdain or as despicable Same word is used in Proverbs 11:12, he who despises his neighbor lacks sense. Or Proverbs 15:20, a wise son makes a father glad, but a foolish man despises his mother. This is what God said that they were doing to his name. But they're not buying it. Who, us? Notice next, third, the proof. Beginning of verse 7. The proof. You are presenting defiled food upon my altar Well, that's the main point. That's what you're supposed to focus on. That's the main proof. Now he's going to get into more there and really prove it later. Because they have a second objection, but this is the main idea. You're presenting defiled food upon my altar. The priests were despising God's name by presenting defiled food on God's altar As a sacrifice in the temple. Remember, the temple's already built by now, so is the altar. They're back in the land, the sacrificial systems are going on, the Levites are there, they're doing all of that This is the altar where the sacrifices were made. It included animal sacrifices, as the context indicates, but they were defiled sacrifices. That same word for altar, by the way, is used in verse 10, where it says, Oh, that there were one among you who would shut the gates that you might not uselessly kindle fire on my altar. It's where the fire burned and the sacrifices were made. Altar, by the way, in verse 7 is also called the table of the Lord. The altar and the table of the Lord. Those are synonyms. A place of regular sacrifices, sometimes of grain, sometimes of animal. In Ezekiel 41, 22, it equates the altar with the table of the Lord. It's God's table, but he also says it's my altar, my altar. So the priests are performing their sacrifices, they're doing their religious duties. They're standing up in front of the people and they're carrying out what they're supposed to They're doing all of this. It's ongoing. They're doing what they're supposed to do. They're offering up what God calls his food, the food of God. Flash to the book of Leviticus, chapter 21. It says the priests in verses 6 and 8: The priests shall be holy to their God and not profane the name of their God. For they present the offerings by fire to the Lord, the food of their God, so they shall be holy Leviticus 21:8. You shall consecrate the priest, therefore, for he offers the food of your God. He shall be holy to you, for I, the Lord who sanctifies you, am holy. This is what the priests represented. The name of God, the food of God. And so they're doing that. But what they put on the Lord's altar, the Lord's table, was defiled. Defiled. Gaal, ceremonial, ceremonially defiled or unclean. That which God looks at and rejects Same word for defiled is used in Isaiah fifty nine three for your hands are defiled with blood and your fingers with iniquity. It's polluted. Daniel 1 8. Remember when Daniel was taken into captivity and he said he would not defile himself by eating the king's choice food or drinking his wine. He didn't want to ceremonially become unclean So the pollution of defilement that God is speaking of here was in two senses. First, they were bringing the wrong sacrifices, and we're going to get into this next week in detail. They were bringing the wrong sacrifices. Animals that were forbidden by God's law. They were bringing them and they were sacrificing them on God's altar. They were not to do that and they were doing it. In fact, I'll just give you a little bit of a preview of that. The Levitical priests, what they were told to do is pretty clear. Here's Leviticus 22, verses 20 and following. It says, Whatever has a defect you shall not offer For it will not be accepted for you. When a man offers a sacrifice of peace offerings to the Lord to fulfil a special vow, or for a free will offering of the herd or of the flock, it must be perfect to be accepted. There shall be no defect in it. Those that are blind or fractured or maimed or having a running sore or eczema or scabs You shall not offer to the Lord, nor make of them an offering by fire on the altar to the Lord. And it goes on. That's pretty clear, isn't it? That wouldn't be too hard. I don't think you need a big education to figure that one out Yeah, if a messed up animal don't offer it. That's about as clear as it could be. So they're bringing the wrong offering, and that is despising the name of God. on his altar. Secondly, by being flippant in bringing the wrong things, or letting the people bring the wrong things, that is, and then offering them up. The people obviously had bad attitudes for bringing the wrong sacrifices, or maybe in some cases they were just ignorant. But the priests, what kind of an attitude of a priest would offer the wrong things to God Himself? Obviously, the attitude of the priests was lacking reverence towards God. Do you see that? Both the sacrifice and the ones sacrificing were all wrong. That's why God's going to get to the point where isn't there one brave enough among you who's zealous enough for my holiness just to shut the doors of the temple and stop all the sacrifices Better to have none than have this. Walter Kaiser commented, Our Lord always inspects the offerer before he inspects the gift, the offering. That was Cain's problem, right? Some say he brought the wrong gift. We know he had the wrong attitude in whatever he brought. We are first, in our worship to God, to offer, listen, we are to offer first. ourselves. Do you hear that? Ourselves. Then the gifts and the time, the talents and treasures and all that we have, right? It is important for you to understand again that the priests were doing religious things. They were in church, so to say. They were involved in religion. But it was wrong the way they did it. It was not according to the instruction in God's word. How to worship God was spelled out for them. How to approach God. How to please God. It was given to them It was quite detailed. You ever read the 27 chapters of Leviticus? I mean that's some that's some detailed stuff. You get bored reading through that sometimes, don't you? That's because you're not a Levitical priest if you're a Levitical priest You'd be like, oh no, it says here and it says there and it says that, and they'd be talking back and forth and what's going on here. No, you can't do it that way, do it this way. Oh, there's a rookie priest, he doesn't know what he's doing. Very exciting book, but not to us. Very long, very detailed. But leaders today in the new covenant of the church must stick to what God says about the church, about worship, about evangelism, about everything. It's really one of the primary duties of a church leader, right? Not do what the people wish the word said and pressure the leader to conform to what they want, but say what the word actually says, even when it brings hardship on the people, right? Because that's what would have happened to these people because they were not rich. These ones were treating God's word and God Himself, not with kabod, but lightly. God was trite. You know, a tame little kitty cat, not a roaring lion. God's like a daisy in a field you can step on and not even worry about. Oh, was it there? No big deal. No, God is more like a severe thunderstorm that comes ripping through the land. He can't be controlled. Whether people can say it's coming, they can't stop it. One little thunderstorm. Yeah, the lesson uh should have been learned from a guy like Eli, who had these disobedient sons, and he knew his sons were disobedient, and he corrected them, but he didn't really correct them. He didn't do enough to correct them, and by letting them be dishonoring to God Eli loved his sons more than he loved God, and he dishonored the name of God. You know, like those other two guys, Nadab and who? Abihu. And let's just see what happens if we offer this kind of incense. Might be kind of fun. Hee hee. Let's see. They became fresh toast pretty quickly. God's altar was of no account to them. It was no big deal. And so they foolishly forfeited their lives. Leaders today need to beware of dishonoring God. I'm tempted to spend a long time here saying this, but I don't have that time to uh talk about how God's word is so misused today. But my guess is If you're here long enough and you've studied your word long enough, just about any use of the word of God out there in society you could tell is wrong. And often what is being preached as God's word is just dancing around and saying whatever the pastor really wants to say They preach what they want and they avoid many of the things God told them to say. We are not in a day and age where people Want to apply their minds to a long sermon such as this and learn something. Nah, make it quick, make it entertaining, in and out In and out sermon, you know. In-and-out burger, we got in and out sermon. Or they use the ministry to grab money. God's name is great, past the plate. They're in it for the fame. They're in it for the glory. They treat God lightly when they do that. Do you understand when I see these these mega church pastors who are not preaching God's word or even preaching a false gospel which is even worse. It's so sickening. It's so sad. So sad to see all those people going thinking they're following God. But when I look at the person Who's accountable for all those souls, I just fear for him what God is going to do to him. The name of God is dishonored in the USA because of false healers, prosperity gospel preachers. Preachers who make man, frankly, more the focus and more important than God. You listen to them. Everything they're saying is about how your life can be good and you can be successful. And God loves you, and it's about you, you, you Joel Erstein. That's his message. That is his message. Self-improvement. Best life now. It's not about the weight of God, the glory of God. The terribleness of the sinner. They don't go there. People don't like that message. It wouldn't empty out too many people. No, let's preach self-esteem, not the worship of the divine. Their ministries are in awe of man, not in awe of God. They serve man. They don't serve God's word. Can't hardly hear any of God's word Their words lift up man. They don't lift up God's glory. Where's the description of God's greatness, his holiness, his righteousness, and justice? Find it in one of their sermons. I dare you. The greatest commandment in the Bible is what? To love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, right? Give God all the energy, all the glory. That's the greatest commandment. But many people treat the second commandment as if it's the greatest. God take a backseat to man. Love man, then we'll get around to loving God if we can. You can't even love people properly if you don't love God first. Leaders must lead people to God, to see God's glory, to see God's greatness, tremble a little bit in their hearts. Under the New Covenant, obviously the sacrifice of Jesus Christ one time for all means now we present different kinds of sacrifices. We don't offer animal sacrifices, they were a symbol of the one sacrifice of Christ But we do offer sacrifices. What do we offer? We offer prayers to the Lord. We offer thanksgivings and confessions. We offer our time, our talents and treasures to the kingdom of God. We celebrate the Lord's Supper. We celebrate baptism. We go to worship services. We intercede for people. We handle the Word of God and speak the Word of God. We deal with issues. We come together as a community and we behave in certain ways as a community. All of that religious activity must be done to the honor of God. It must not be cheap. It must not be mediocre. We need to bring our best, not our third or fourth best. Unfortunately, sometimes those most familiar with church things in leadership, around the Bible, around churchy stuff, always in and out of the church building. Those most familiar with church things can fall into a rut and not see the awe-inspiring nature of the work that they have been given to do. Familiarity does sometimes breed contempt, doesn't it? And the people follow the lead of leaders The people too can develop wrong attitudes towards serving and worshiping God, even when they've been coming and coming and coming, just like you. Their worship becomes half-hearted. Their prayers become weak. They come late to the worship service. What's the big deal? And they kind of wish it would end early so they can get on with their day. Sometimes parents give more honor to their children than to God in the worship service. Kids behave any way they want to behave. disrupting the service. Or sometimes worshipers come in and just kinda playing with the phone, you know. What's that next? Oh that's interesting. What's he saying now? Not interested. It's uh it's not a talk, it's a worship service, friends. You know, I don't know if you've ever had some folks I'm old school, so you have folks over the house, you know. And there's you know the older people, the middle-aged people, and they're talking around the dinner table. And they're talking, there's no phones moving, it's all we're just talking. And then the young people come in, it's like uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh. And yeah, they're actually listening fairly well. It's kind of interesting how they can do that. But doesn't feel right to me. Put it away Talk to me. Not your phone, your phone the phone you have with you always. Do not have me It just seems so disrespectful. Well, how much more in a worship service, beloved? How much more in a worship service? What are you doing? Are you warming a seat or are you worshiping? Say, I'm not doing anything, I'm just sitting here. You're supposed to be doing something there. What? It's called listening with an open heart. Teach me God. I want to know how to love you more. That's active. It's in here, I know. It's in here, I know, but it's active. Now, let's get church over with quickly so we can do what we want on Sundays. It's a beautiful day outside. Some barely participate in worship. They let their minds wander during prayer. No big deal, someone else will cover me. Sing with weak voices. A mighty fortress is our God. Really? Don't sound too mighty. I'll spare you the rest. All of this very much displeases God. These are our worship services. Here You do know God watches worship services with a little more interest than any other place. In fact, even the angels do Even the angels do. They're watching what's going on down here. Holy angels. And they get offended. They get offended. Poor worship. God's treated lightly. Sometimes we have no problem going to long concerts or our children's plays, which go on and on, multiple hour sporting events, but a long prayer meeting? No. Preaching the way. Sean saying preaching. Or a sermon better not go past. Beloved people of God, you are beloved people of God. I would ask you, are you despising God's name? How have we despised God's name? You're talking about whole Bible church here, buddy. Don't go there. It's on them bad churches out there. Well, by taking God lightly By taking God lightly. I asked myself this question. What about my time in preparation of the Word of God during a week when nobody sees me but God alone? You know, a little too much what's going on with the Redskins? Am I dishonoring God by that? How heavy and weighty is God in my conscience and my mind? I had to go through this and work through this. What's happening in my worship throughout the week? Standing up here is the easy part, that preparation of sacrifice and time and thought and prayer to worship God that way. For you the harder is now being here, being alert, getting to bed on time, being ready to worship, being energetic, not routine By consistently coming late. Look, we're all late once in a while. I'm not trying to heap a guilt trip. But by consistently coming late to his worship services, his worship services. By bringing a cheap gift in your hand for God, by not paying attention to His word when it's preached, by not singing like you really mean it, by yakking with the person sitting next to you. Daydreaming instead of listening. Or just in your service as a pastor, as a leader, but there's supportive ministries as an usher. You come in late and sloppy, or you're there thinking this is a worship service. A sound person doing your very best with the sound, a musician, a singer, a children's worker Yes, even leading up front poorly. Last minute sloppy service. I like a quote from the commentary, Jameson Fawcett Brown. A cheap religion costing little is rejected by God. God despises not the widow's might, but he does despise the miser's might. Are you a miser with God? Leaders have to have a heart for God. They have to have a heart for worship. We must correct our attitudes as leaders first. Today we're getting to appoint a new elder at Hope Bible Church, but it's a good reminder to all of our elders, our leaders, our deacons, our women leaders, every one of us that stand up in some capacity before others and guide them and direct them, counsel them. To take God seriously. And I give this charge to Scott, who's there in the second row. This is a charge to Scott as a he enters into ministry as a pastor. And Teresa right now is very glad that she was born female because Scott has to get the charge, you know, but you know that this is also in a sense directed toward you. And uh but as I'm speaking to Scott, I would invite all of you to think about whether or not you're serious before God, and particularly to all of us as uh elders and and leaders to be listening uh to this. So I give you this short charge. It's simply this be biblical in your ministry by sticking to Scripture, making everything you do, your class, your counseling, checking what you said by the Word of God Not being paranoid, but being being dedicated to the Word of God, to keep growing in your ability to study and use the Word of God. By doing that, you'll know That you're worshiping in truth and you're serving in truth. And that is the way to know whether or not you're pleasing to God, that you're speaking his words to him. Let that be where you find your advice. for how to feed the sheep that are there, avoiding philosophies of the world and their psychologies. Also be dedicated in your worship and in your own service Come as an example of a true worshiper, someone who's there, um who loves God. Um I'm glad to see sometimes you're not, you know Fearful of raising your hands to worship in God, setting an example of a heart that wants to worship in spirit and in truth. Being earnest in your prayers. As you pray before the people, praying for them. Joyful in your songs, dedicated in your own personal giving. That example is something that cannot be bought, and it's the most important thing in a leader's life. Also be aware of the needs of the people. One of the joys I've had in working with Scott is seeing his heart for those who are hurting and for those whose particularly marriages are hurting, and to see him cry and weep in his prayers for that. And uh I just I know that's in your heart, but I just keep charging you. Be gentle with people. Be patient with people. They won't get what you say the first, second, third time. It takes a longer time. Be courageous and strong to lead them where they don't want to go, but be a good listener And always have them on your heart as a pastor. And also work with your team of elders and your team of deacons, many that have gone before you, value their wisdom and experience. Bring your own giftedness to the table as well. Use that with the team to the glory of Jesus Christ. Build the unity of Hope Bible Church. I leave you with these verses. First Timothy chapter 3 and verse 1. It is a trustworthy statement. If any man aspires to the office of overseer, it is a fine work he desires to do. And 2 Timothy 2. 3 through 6. Suffer hardship with me as a good soldier of Christ Jesus, the Apostle Paul wrote. No soldier in active service entangles himself in the affairs of everyday life so that he may please the one who enlisted him as a soldier. Also, if anyone competes as an athlete, he does not win the prize unless he competes according to the rules. That goes for Cornhole also, by the way. The hardworking farmer ought to be the first to receive his share of the crops. And 1 Timothy 117, and I close with this. Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Say it with me. Amen. We pray. Father, we dedicate this message to your glory and to the transformation of our hearts, and we pray now as we go to the appointing of your servant, Father, that your spirit will continue to guide us and guide Scott and develop us. And let this be a time of both uh A sober reaction and a joyful reaction to the saints here of Hope Bible Church as we see your work through the years in developing, molding, and creating leaders, for they are the ones that you really appoint by your own power. and by your Spirit's administration of this church. We pray for a greater wisdom in all of our appointments and in our process of training and working to get our leaders ready. And pray your spirit would continue to mold us in the whole congregation that we might be pleasing to you, Father. We take this very seriously and grateful for your humble servant here. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.