Today we're just joyfully remembering, celebrating God's grace, his amazing grace, his wonderful providence, how that works. To study it, to see how God weaves things together. The Lord's unfailing love toward us. He never fails us. Not here at Hope Bible Church, we've not experienced the failure of God's love at our 16th anniversary. Sweet, sanctified 16. Today we can officially say for the first time that Hope Bible Church is a mother. A teenage mother. What a joyful bundle it is that we have. If you have been here all 16 years, you don't need to be to see God at work and know what God is doing. Some have been here for virtually all those years, coming in the first five years, those slower and foundational years. Others started in what I like to call the middle years, sort of years six through twelve where there was a steady increase, but still a lot of the foundation was being laid. Most of you now, I can say, have come here over the last four years. Most of you And then there are some who are so precious to us who helped at one time or another. They've come and they've moved on and serving elsewhere, and they are precious to us as well. And um It doesn't matter whether you're here, there, or as they say in the air, we uh are one body in Christ We are tied together in Jesus Christ. That's an eternal bond. It can never be broken because it was bound by the Spirit of God. The church really is a most amazing organism. And I call it an organism. It is an organization, but that doesn't go deep enough to explain what the church is. It's a living body. It's a living entity and it is an organism. We have Jesus Christ as our head and we are a body tied together. Ephesians 1 22 says that God gave Christ as the head of the church Christ's headship is a gift to the church. We have a great head over all the church. If you study the New Testament and read it, you can't read very much to find out how precious And important the Church of Jesus Christ is to God the Father and His Son, and of course to the Spirit. Spirit is the one who formed the church, gave birth to the church, so to say, on the day of Pentecost, taking the disciples who were connected only in that they followed Christ and actually put them into an organism and bound them together as the church. Dr. Donald Whitney wrote the book that we pass out to our new members called Spiritual Disciplines Within the Church, writes this. He says Jesus Christ is the glory of the church. He loves the church and died for the church. Acts 20, 28, and Ephesians 5, 25. With all of its spots and wrinkles he is at work in and through the church. Regardless of how you view the general condition of the church today, or the state of the individual churches in your area, the ultimate future of the church is glorious beyond imagination. It's a great thought, isn't it? That we're part of that. I hope today you get an increased vision for the importance of God's church. Dr. Sose, in his book, The Church in God's Program, writes this: Throughout the course of history, God has worked in the world in a variety of ways through individuals, nations, and peoples. The focus of his present work is the church. That which was begun in the scriptures as men and women were called to acknowledge the Lordship of Christ continues today in fulfillment of Christ's promise to build his church. Not only is Christ building his church, but it is the primary instrument through which he ministers in the world. As Christ was sent by the Father, so the Church bears the ambassadorial role of the for its Lord as sent ones with a message of reconciliation to the world. John chapter twenty, verse twenty-one. Well, I hope you can see that mission and that priority of the church, that God's working through the church, and as we mold our wills with His, we become increasingly concerned with the Church. Dr. John Hammett, who's written a book called Biblical Foundations for Baptist Church is sort of a Baptist ecclesiology, writes this In the middle of the third century, the great North African church father, Cyprian, said, You cannot have God as father unless you have the church as mother. The great reformer John Calvin called the church the mother of all the godly. More recently, in an article entitled The Church, Why Bother, Tim Stafford has affirmed the same sentiment. Quote within a quote, a living, breathing congregation is the only place on earth where Jesus chose to dwell. These commitments reflect the consistent New Testament teaching that Christianity is not an individualistic enterprise, but a corporate commitment. Christians and the church belong together because the church is where the Christian life is born and is nurtured So I hope again you can see a commitment to understanding your part and place in the greater body of Christ is so important. Building relationships and working within that context. Mark Dever, many of you know here in our local area in D. C. in his popular nine marks of a healthy church writes God intends to display the glory of his beauty, perfection, and love through the church. That's what he's doing. The church is so special to him, it's where he reveals himself to the world. The scriptures bear all of these high and lofty quotes out. Ephesians chapter 3 and verse 10. You can mark that reference down. It says, the manifold wisdom of God is being made known through the church to the rulers and authorities in heavenly places. It's a it's on display even to unseen spiritual entities. That same chapter in Ephesians 3. 21 says, to God be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen. 1 Timothy 3. 15 teaches that the church is the household of God. And then it calls it the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth. Well, I want to talk about the church for the next two Sundays, next two Lord's Day. I hope you'll come back next Lord's Day because I got more to say there, but I want to get started this week. I'd like to start with a lot of encouragements and uh applications to Hope Bible Church in particular. One of the key texts in all of the Bible for the dynamic workings of the church is in Ephesians chapter 4. I want to read verses 11 through 16 so you can see the whole design, but I'm going to focus on the the ending of that in verses 15 and 16. Ephesians chapter 4. Please go ahead and open up there and follow along. You get so much more out of it when you can see it with your own eyes. And even starting from verse 7, I think we'll read. But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says: when he, that's Christ, ascended on high, he led captive a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. Now this expression he ascended, what does it mean except that he also had descended into the lower parts of the earth? He who descended is himself also he who ascended far above the heavens, so that he might fill all things And, verse 11, he gave some as apostles, and some as prophets, and some as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers For the equipping of the saints, for the work of service, unto the building up of the body of Christ Until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to a mature man, to the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ. As a result, we are no longer to be children tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, by craftiness and deceitful scheming. But Speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head, even Christ, from whom the whole body being fitted and held together by what every joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual part, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself. And all of it is done in love. The New Testament has so much to say about the church, how the church grows, how the church spreads, how the church matures. But you would search the scriptures in vain to find a more excellent passage of Scripture that explains the growth and the edification of the church than this passage. Really, in terms of New Testament church philosophy, this is the bullseye text. This is, as my professor used to say, a jugular text. This is the one you go to when you want to understand it. It's so important. I did a three-part series on this years ago uh called the Dynamic Church in Action. I think it's still available on our website. And it was over verses eleven through sixteen. I also chose this text to be the first message that I spoke at our very first gamma conference back when it was called the Mid-Atlantic Bible Fellowship. It is so crucial that people understand how the church in New Testament times functions. Because there are so many models, both from parachurch organizations and from various movements, that miss this word-driven, dynamic focus of the church. But this is the philosophy of ministry for every local church. To summarize it, and I just want to give a summary from verses 7 and forward, Paul teaches that Christ finished his work on earth and then he ascended into heaven. And it says the one who ascended into heaven was also the one who descended there. He's talking about his descent and the incarnation to the lower parts, which means the earth itself And then he went back from the earth into heaven. When he got into heaven, having completed his work, he poured forth gifts for his church. So the Spirit of God was given. But when the Spirit of God came, he brought gifts that were distributed by the Holy Spirit And here these gifts, primarily in this context, are referring to the gifted leaders who would be using the Word of God and teaching in some capacity. in the universal church and the local church as well. He gave apostles. They are listed first for a very important reason. They have the primary authority in the church. And then prophets who would also give infallible direct revelation, then evangelists who would help spread the church and build up the church that way. And then the last one is grouped together in grammatically, so they are pastor teachers. And they go together. And all of them, if you look back at verse twelve, are given as teachers and leaders in the church. Why? To equip all the saints. The saints are everybody The saints are every single Christian, everyone who is uh part of the church is a saint, according to even that letter of Ephesians. They're all members of the body. And so all of them are to be equipped by the leaders And not so that the leaders will do the work of ministry, not so that the leaders will carry out the local church ministry, so that all of the people will do the work of the ministry. Notice that in verse 12. All of them do the work of service. And all of that work of service on the part of all these equipped saints then builds up the body of Christ. And that building up is edification, that's the growth of the church, that's the maturity of the church. And and then he goes on to describe what that maturity looks like. Collectively there's a one-mindedness, one purpose where everyone strives together. There's discernment about false teaching so that all the trickery that would that would be able to take advantage of children doesn't happen in the local congregation because they're no longer immature. They're now mature and they can see through all that trickery and that deception. They don't get knocked off of their purpose. They grow as they should. And then it even says that the the total picture of a grown-up church is as we grow up into the head, we grow up into the fullness of maturity in Christ Himself. In that series, I got to note the dynamic that is involved in verses 15 and 16. And I got to explain that a little bit, but I was never satisfied. ran out of time as a preacher and I didn't didn't get to explain that as much as I wanted to. So today I'm gonna take and next Sunday take verses fifteen and sixteen and just expand it a little bit more get you to focus on it and maybe give some applications for us. Actually I hope quite a bit of application. There are many jewels that need to be mined here in this ground and so let's dig it and let's look at it carefully. I think it'll benefit us. Verses 15 and 16 are also about growth, and they are also about the body of Christ, the church. But they are also about power And how the church is able to grow and able to mature. In fact, I think power is the main theme there in these two verses Where does that energy come from? And how does that power work inside a local church like this? This is something that can't be seen with the eyes, and so we have to read the revelation of God and think about how it fits. Well, you can see right away as you look at it that the power comes from two sources. I bet you you can see them already. One is from the head of the church, right? And then the second is from the body itself. Very interesting. Both from the head and the body. And that's going to be our simple outline for today and next week. The head and the body. Now before we dive into verse 16, I wanted to say a little more about verse 15 and the aim of maturity that Paul has here for the church. Look at verse 15 again, would you? It says speaking the truth, or literally truthing in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into Christ. Him means Christ, who is the head. Okay? So we are to grow up, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way, in all aspects, into him who is the head, even Christ. So the church is being viewed as a unit. Do you see that? It's not a bunch of individual Christians. They're viewed as a unit. This is how God looks at us. This is how God operates. And as a unit, we are all, as a church, to grow up into Christ. This is not individual discipleship plans. This is us growing up and maturing together. Speaking the truth in love will help that and help us grow up in all those aspects into Christ who is the head. That's the purpose of all of the equipping done by the leaders and then the work of service through gifted saints in the body. And then that dynamic that is created by all of the different gifts of the Spirit and the energy that is involved in the body, all of that works in order to build up and to grow. In other words, truth that is rightly spoken, truth and doctrine that is rightly presented always produces love within the body of Christ And then love is the product of the truth that is rightly spoken. They're not enemies, truth and love. They're friends. Truth and love. Are eternally married, you can never separate them. They will never go for a separation. They'll never have a spat They are deeply united. Where truth is, love is also. Where true love is, truth is there as well. Truth and love produce the maturity. And that maturity is seen and keeps working until we're one mature man. Not a bunch of mature individual men, no. And we all have the unity of the faith. Notice the emphasis on unity there in an entire chapter in Ephesians 4 And the knowledge of the Son of God. All of that demonstrates our unity. Okay, that's how 15 sets the stage for verse 16. Now look at verse 16, and we look at the first power of the church, and that's the head. The head. And I'll just read verse sixteen again. From whom the whole body, so the from whom is the head, the whole body being fitted and held together. by every what every joint supplies, according to the proper working of in each individual part, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. From whom then is the head, and we focus on him. It's obvious and I don't need to say it, but I'm going to say it anyways, and that is the human body, body that you have right now, is the background, is the illustration. If you understand the head and the body, you understand the illustration. You're supposed to be thinking about that He chooses a very familiar illustration to make sure we understand the church and our connection to Christ and how all of that works. So the power, the right power in the body, comes from the head of the body. If we were to go back to chapter 1 and verses 22 and 23, it would make it so clear that Jesus is the head. It says, God put all things in subjection under Christ's feet, and gave Christ as head over all things to the church. So that so the headship of Christ is a gift to the church. And then in verse 23 of Ephesians 1 it says the church is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. In other words, the church fills out Christ as Christ fills out the church, the church is in Christ. There's a fullness there and a in a eternal connection. Now, when we come to chapter 4, that connection of head and body is kind of elucidated. It's explained a little bit. How does all of this work? Paul stretches it out a little bit and talks about the body in relation to the head. Christ is the head, the church is the body. The headship of Christ means what? It means that He's in authority over the church. He is the one who rules the church. But it doesn't just mean that. It also means that he is the source and the origin of the power of the church, you see. Notice it says from whom the whole body. That from is the preposition exit. It actually means out of, and it refers to origin. So the role of the head in the anatomy of the body is to provide the instructions, the impulses, the life-giving juices, so to say, and impulses that will go throughout all of the body so the body knows what to do. Take the head off, the body doesn't know what to do, right? So that original main power that is operative in the church on earth, as churches are busy doing all of their work and evangelizing and discipling, all of that power originally is Christ's. And we're connected to him. That is so important to understand because even just getting that straight and understanding that, we could spend a whole bunch of time talking about how we can we can get off base as a church if we don't understand the real power is from Christ, not ourselves. People give lip service to that, and then they go out and they plan church in a way that seems the power comes from them. But if you understand the power the headship of Christ, the power of Christ, then you emphasize as a church, please listen to this, prayer over programs. Because in prayer you beseech divine power. In programs you can be tempted just, it's us and it's the next thing we do, and we're going to get it done, and look at all the wonderful things we're creating. We emphasize godliness over technique. How important it is to have church leaders who have godliness. We emphasize substance over style. We emphasize relations over rhetoric. That's what it means. As our head, Christ is more than a detached authority barking out commands. He is also the source of that dynamic body's power. We are constantly and continuously connected to the Lord Jesus Christ. We always are. We don't see it, so we have to remind ourselves that that is true. We are always receiving powerful impulses from the head into the body, and they're communicated by the Holy Spirit of God, who is present with us and always serving us and helping us. John Calvin, a quote. All the life or health which is diffused through the members flows from the head, so that the members occupy a subordinate rank. We must always remember that, okay? A body without a head is what? Well it's it's headless. A headless horseman makes great fiction, it doesn't make a great The church has no direction, no understanding, no life-giving power. Jesus is the living and dynamic power of each local church and of the universal church. And he is that through the ministry of his own spirit, whom he caused to dwell inside of us and to surround us, indeed, we are described as baptized into the realm of the Holy Spirit. Dr. Andrew Lincoln in his commentary wrote, as the one who has been exalted to sovereign rule over all things, Christ is in the position And has the power to supply his church with the leadership, the life, and the love that are the requisites for its growth. From the right hand of God, Christ has poured forth his spirit, who formed the body, and now lives inside of us. Now that's the first power, and that's the basic power, that's the source of power, that's the true power, but there is a second power that is written here as well, and there's actually more space put to that in verse 16. You may see it is the power that is in this living dynamic organism itself. I'll call it the power of the body. The power of the body. Even though the source of the power is the head, right? That same power travels through the body and gets used within the body. It's communicated to every part of the body through the connections and the joints and the working of each individual member of the body. Notice the body itself causes the building up and the maturity of the body. That's not contradictory to the head. The power source is the head, but the specific building up involves each and every part of the body working and working. in love. The relationships and the spiritual work by believers is where the energy of the head disseminates and works there. It is simultaneously the power of the head and the power of the body. Dr. Hendrik Hedrickson summarizes this way. Just as the human body, when held together by every supporting joint grow strong, so also the church, when it receives the active support of every member, each cooperating according to his ability, will be built up in love. That's the overview here of verse 16. Let's look at it a little more closely and try to apply it. There are two participles toward the beginning of verse 16, which I think are instructive. The first is called fitly framed in the NASBI. Or you could translate it fitted. It means that everything is put together and is harmonious. That word was used back in chapter two, verse twenty-one, actually in a in a uh architectural context as a building, the church as a spiritual building with spiritual bricks, which are the people being built up into a holy temple in the Lord. So what it means is it's all being placed together and built up and constructed so that it works together. That's the thought. The second uh term that's used here of the church being put together is It's a Greek term, sum bibadzo. It means knitted together and held together. Sometimes it was used in classical Greek for reconciling things. And so it means putting them all together, reconciling them, compacting them together. These two terms are not meant to be really that much different. They're just saying we're all put together, we're all designed to be together, we have a relational, functional connection to each other. We are specifically designed to work together. It's not haphazard. It's not thrown together. It's not a bunch of people that found a church and said, oh, hey, look, we're all in the same church. It's being designed and fitted and moved forward by God, you see Both of these participles are in the present, and that means the process is ongoing. It wasn't just at the beginning, it's always growing. You don't have to be part of Hope Bible Church in the second, third, or fourth year to be part of this process. You are part of it now. The next thing that's mentioned, keep looking in the text, it mentions the joints, by what every joint supplies, supplies to the body. You see the nourishment and all that comes, the energy that comes to the body. And so the joints in some ways supply the power or the nutrition of the body. That's a little strange. It's a little hard to translate this and understand that. The term for joint here is hafe It's it's a little hard to pin down its meaning. Some translate it just as a joint in the body, others refer it to the sensation of touch within the body Others think that it has it's a more general term and not a specific term that just means contact or connection. Taken that way, the energy then flows through the contacts and all the various connections within the body. Everything is connected to everything else. And so the nutrition and the energy flows through the body, you see. If it refers to the joints proper, it means that the joints and the ligaments and the structures of the body hold everything together so that the members inside of that can work together. All the joints or all the connections hold together and work together. That is the main point. The body is put together, it's neatly and compactly fitted. It hangs on every joint. Every member performs its duty. Each individual part is empowered by the head. But the power of the head flows through the body and the body is all connected. Just as the human body is perpetually working. At least we hope it keeps working, right? Because if it doesn't we die. That is the dynamic body. When we talk about the church as a dynamic body, that's because that's what it teaches. There's constant loving energy work that comes from Christ, is learned from Christ, and flows through us. A cross-reference to this text, by the way, would be Colossians chapter 2 and verse 19, where it also mentions joints. It talks about how they would not be holding fast to the head is Christ, and then it says, from whom, from the head, the entire body being supplied and held together by the joints and ligaments grows with the growth which is from God. So you see the dynamic there as well, connected to the head, the joints and ligaments and the whole body involved in that energetic process. Dr. Salmund, in his commentary, makes this point. The idea, therefore, appears to be that the body is fitly framed and knit together by means of the joints, every one of them in its own place and function As the points of connection between member and member, and the points of communication between the different parts and the supply which comes from the head. So there's an energy that's provided. Notice the next little phrase there. The proper working of each individual part There's work. There's energy. The working is the word energy. And we we even hear our word energy in that. There's an energy inside the body. Energya there does not mean like a latent power or potential power. It means a working and an operative kind of power. It's power that's presently working. Again, you'll see it with your eyes. You perceive it as relationships go on and as as people grow and as things are affected in a spiritual way around us. It takes spiritual eyes to sense the spiritual energy that is happening It's not mere emotion. It's not Amen on Sunday and forget. It's a real dynamic change that happens. It is the way Christ communicates his power into the body. And it does it to each part. I want you to see that because that's you and me. We're parts. Meros is the term. We're a little part of the body, any part of the body, every part of the body. The furthest corner or part of the body. We're all parts, we're all members, we're all meros. We're all stuck in there. Every last one of us. In fact, stressing the each and every one is part of what he does there. He uses the word ekastas. Every single part has this energy flowing through it. You can feel marginalized. You can feel that you're not needed. You can feel you're not doing that much around. You're only looking at the church with your own eyes. You need to look Through the eyes of faith and the eyes of Scripture and understanding how the body works. If you're not involved and you're not working, the church will hurt. The church will not function as healthfully as it can. You are not a side issue. You are inside the body, and you will continue to be. And every member has their part in energizing the body. Sometimes you look at those that are up front or those that are leaders and you say, well, it's important that they're there, that church gets done. You're looking at it organizationally, you're not looking at it dynamically, you see Applying that, I would just say, look, the elders and the deacons are parts. Sure they are. Small group leaders are parts. We know that. Ministry coordinators. They're the ones that are seen more. They're understood. You might think, well, the church hangs on all of them. That's not true. This is for all men and women. You know, if you're an older member of the church, I mean in age, you shouldn't say to yourself, Well, I'm old, I've served, I'm retired. What part of the body retires? You know when you retire? You retire when you leave the planet. That's when you retire. That's your rest. You can RIP then. Singles often think of themselves as going from church to church, and they try to find groups, and singles are like that. They tend to be like that. Praise God, we have a group of singles that are committed. Committed to stay where they are and be able to serve. They're not bouncing around. Singles have to realize I can't be in three bodies at one time. You can bless that body over there, we can encourage that body over there. This is your local body Mothers and fathers get young children and all of a sudden they're not part of the body or they don't have any time. That's not true. You have time. You have to make time. You're part of the body. You're still there Life got harder, more responsibilities. That's part of the way God molds you and shapes you, not to drop your church involvement, but to stay just as involved. Get involved and bring your children along and show them From a good example, what it means to serve as a member of the body. That's good parenting. Newer members, you know, sit around and think, well, I'm not really doing anything here. I think I'll sit here for a while and I'll recover from my last church. Look I understand that. But you have to be involved. How long are you going to sit around? One of the part of the body is not working. How long are you going to do that? Some live far away and they look at it organizationally say, Well I live far away. I can't come and I can't do this or do that. You're part of this church, you're part of this church. Each and every member of the church has its part to do, has its work. It all works together. Please, do you see that? It is just like 1 Corinthians 12, 14. The body is not one member but many. Every part is needed, or there's no dynamic and there's no healthy body. It holds back ministry when certain people say we're just not going to be as involved. Maybe your understanding of church is that you come on Sunday and leave. That's a wrong understanding of church. I like to say you don't go to church, you are the church. Seven days a week. The dynamic growth works best when all are working, all are energizing, all are operative, all are connected, all are serving because they're being equipped like you are being right now. This is not a special Hope Bible church idea. This is not something we came up with and said this is going to be our little unique contribution to the way church is done in North America. Okay? This is what the scriptures teach have always been part of the church. Some churches do it better than others. And then notice the next step here as we get towards the end of the verse. All of that activity by each member causes growth. Oxasis. Growth. That's what it means. Increase. We want the body to grow. Some people want their churches to stay small. Why would you ever want that? Christ wants it to grow Just because some people abuse that doesn't mean you throw out some teaching in Scripture. The whole point of the church throughout the world is that it has grown. I don't know how many of the two billion professing Christians in the world today are genuine. But that is growth from a small band of 120 on Pentecost, right? Verse 14, look at it. As a result, we are no longer to be children. Here's the maturing aspect of the growth. tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, by craftiness and deceitful scheming, but speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects. That's maturity. Size and maturity are not poised against each other. They're not positioned against each other. In fact, maturity and size go together. It's not one or the other. We don't plant churches so we can remain small. We plant churches so we can see the greater church grow. And churches that are concerned with planning churches and doing evangelism and loving one another will grow if there's people around to add in. I guess if you're on an island and there's nobody to add in, I guess then that's it. That's not our case in the Baltimore, Washington area. This is a big pond in which to fish people. With size and maturity More work for the head gets accomplished. And then the head, with a bigger and a fuller body, receives more what? Honor. It honors the head that the body grows and is healthy. Growth is good. Growth is God's design. You shouldn't say we're biblical, we don't worry about church size. That is not the case at all. Of course we worry about church size. We pray for it to grow. We pray for people to get saved. We pray for people to be equipped. How could we how could we want a body that doesn't grow? It's not healthy? A stagnant status quo, us four and no more, I like the families who are here and not the new ones who come, that is not favorable to the head of the church. Beloved, it's not our church anyway. Dr. MacArthur quotes, used in the middle form, this shows the body produces its own growth through residence dynamics. As with all living organisms, spiritual growth in the church does not come from forces outside, but from the vital power within that causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself. And the growth that we speak here is not individual growth. I know so often we think of I need to grow. I need to grow. That's true. You need to grow, I need to grow. But it's too often we think that way. I need to grow. I wonder how this church can help me grow. You see that? You hear that? That thinking is so American individualistic, it's not biblical. It should be, I am here to help us grow. I'm part of a corporate entity. And it is to grow, you see. Please notice that. We're not talking about you growing in your Christian faith, although that's obviously part of it. You are to view yourself as a member. A meros, a part of the body of Christ, a spiritual brick in a spiritual house. A brother or sister in a what? A forever family, right? We don't view ourselves that way too often. We view ourselves these are my decisions, this is my family, this is what I'm doing, and we forget the corporate. John Calvin wrote If we wish to be considered members of Christ, let no man be anything for himself. But let us all be whatever we are for the benefit of each other. This is accomplished by love, he writes, and where it does not rain, there is no edification But an absolute scattering of the church. You know, sometimes we think of ourselves as love, but love bonds together. You see? Love is concerned with the other. When people are just sort of doing their own thing, that's not love. Well, people just sort of scatter and spread apart and they don't do things together. That's not love. Love is committed to the relationship. Love is committed to being with others, to serving them. How do you serve someone when you're not with them? You say by Facebook Yeah, but that's never going to take the place of being together. If we don't keep good relationships, we don't work together, the Lord's energy doesn't work as well through us. And he's not as glorified. Erickson in his theology writes this. I know I have a lot of quotes, but these are good quotes, I think. The image of the body of Christ also speaks of the interconnectedness between all the persons who make up the church Christian faith is not to be defined merely in terms of individual relationships to the Lord. There's no such thing as an isolated, solitary Christian life. The only way I would disagree with that is some guy stuck in Siberia for his faith in some prison where he's all alone. And even then he'd be longing to be part of the what? Body of Christ, right? There is no room for semi-hermits. Are you a semi-hermit? Listening too often to sermons at home, not vitally and physically connected in the lives and the workings of other believers. This kind of Christianity is immature and I don't care how much knowledge it accumulates in the brain and it's not loving. Please notice last Each member works to the building up of the body in love. Unto is the preposition that is used. This is where it goes. Unto the building up of itself. The object is the building up of the body. The building up is done by the church, the building up is done by Christ. The pastors and teachers, I'll say it again, evangelists, other foundational gifted men like apostles and prophets, do what they do to equip through the teaching of Scripture and expounded in the congregation and taught in various classrooms and settings, even down to individual counseling and small groups. And all of that though serves to equip the members of the body who work in the body and it builds up. All done in an environment of love. Love. Love. Love is indispensable to the body. Love is the water that flows through the body. No love we dry up. Love is indispensable to growth. Love is indispensable to health. Love is indispensable to the building up. There's no building up. There's no edification. There's no growth without your and my love. Speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up, remember? Again, push out that American individualism, embrace the relational model. Relationships are not bound by how are you doing this morning. They are bound by love. They're not just a hug, a handshake, a slap on the back. They are how are you doing in your life? Love gets involved in other people's lives. I love it when I see some people pouring their time into other people. Often they look kind of tired. You see, the most tired people around here, guess what? They're usually people pouring themselves into other people. Because working with people can be Tiring. But it's worth it. That's what love does. It pours itself out. Love cares. Love prays. Love serves. Love forgives because you get involved and say, I want to get involved because they're going to hurt me. Yes, they're going to hurt you. Is that news? They're gonna hurt you. You're gonna get pricked when you work on the roses, but the roses are beautiful. You know? You have to keep going. Be patient with others. They're patient with you. Love must permeate everything we do at Hope Bible Church. We're a body. We need it. The truth grows by its connecting to Jesus and really he Causes, if you think of the whole dynamic, you could almost summarize the entire dynamic of the church as the working of truth and love together Truth comes from the equipping of those gifted men who give the word. It keeps us mature, it molds us into a unity. And then truth tells us we should love and explains us why we should love and presents to us Christ who is love. Truth rightly applied is love. Love rightly understood holds fast to truth and is motivated by truth. Doctrine brings love, and love grows through doctrine. Biblical convictions and being biblical and conservative and being uncompromising can never be done with a lack of gentleness or a lack of patience or a lack of humility. Love must never jettison or silence truth either. Some people think they're loving and they quiet truth. That's not love A love that does not rejoice in truth is no love of God's at all. John Stott writes this: both these tendencies are unbalanced and unbiblical. Truth becomes hard if it is not softened by love. Love becomes soft if it is not strengthened by truth. The apostle calls us to hold the two together. I say all of that, and I've just got to the beginning of my encouragements because I wanted to take some time to encourage you today, just to encourage you and to praise the Lord Jesus for what he has done inside of you. evidence of his headship, an illustration of the energy of different members doing their part. I want you to reflect back a little bit, not too far necessarily. But just a little bit, I want you to rejoice in the truth that God has been putting into this congregation and the love that has been seen, the working that has happened here. I I always have something that I have to say to correct the congregation, but today I'm not gonna do it. I'm just not. Next week I will, but not this week I just want to give you commendation. I want to talk to you from my heart, and I know it's the heart of the other elders, as they look at you and think about you, what Christ is doing in you. I want you to be encouraged because I want you to see that what we are reading And Ephesians 4. 16 is not some distant theory. It is something operative that you can look around and see it working. Just a few commendations. We'll see how far we get. I know I'm supposedly out of time, but I'm going to give some of these. And I'm going to have more next week as well. I have more commendations to give next week. I'll start with maybe the obvious one this morning, and that is your significant part in accommodating and helping to launch Baltimore Bible Church. Beloved, this is your work as well. You've already heard Pastor George come up here and express his gratitude and that of the core group for what you have done. It seems that many have remarked how selfless and kingdom-oriented you as a congregation are. You're working to help them. with all of this has been tremendous. Leaders can make a decision, but the body has to be completely behind all of that, and you have been. Unfortunately there are too many local churches that are just comfortable with themselves and what they do is all about themselves Sometimes it's good for a church to give all kinds of resources away from its church. Just to remind us, we're not serving ourselves, beloved. We're serving Christ. You did that. You have done that. And in Christ, I am so proud of how you responded to that entire thing. It's just a lovely thing. It set an example, hopefully that will inspire others and praise God for you. You willingly allowed our church to divert its resources, time, energy, people, and some beautiful people, and money Even as I look at BBC and I think about those that are here today, they're going to come up here. I think what quality people we're sending to start this church. What lovely, dedicated, spear-filled people. I'm so excited about that. With varying gifts as well People who served here at HBC, praise God for that. And you bore this beautifully. You did. Not only, you know, without complaint. but with joy and volunteering and prayers and words of encouragement. Small groups releasing people that you'd loved in your small group, go plant the church. The administration taking on extra work. Finance committee trying to figure out how to do all of those things. extra work, but you knew it was work for Christ. And now praise God, here is a church. It's already a church. And the Baltimore area, the Baltimore area and the greater body of Christ is better for it. Lives will be changed, truth will be proclaimed, souls will be saved, and maybe, just maybe, other churches will be planted as well Truth and love flowing through its members. This is Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 16. Please be encouraged. God is at work among you. Secondly, a second commendation. Do you realize, maybe you do, maybe you don't, that over the past three and a half years at Hope Bible Church We've added 166 new adult members, and that's not counting those that are being sent off to Baltimore Bible Church. That beloved is over 60% of our current church membership in just three and a half years If we had added 20% to our membership, I would have commended you for being outreach-oriented and for accepting new people and welcoming them. Forty percent I would have been just jumping up and down. 60%. And after the next membership class of those that join uh join in August and maybe the fall as well, it may be two-thirds of our church in just four years Change like that is not possible without people who are secure and loving and outreaching and know who they are and have truth in them Members who are well grounded in the truth, who are looking out for new people and want new people to receive Christ, to be built up in Christ, even if they're only here for a while and then sent out somewhere else Growth like that, you know, has the potential of knocking a church off of its bearings, off of its foundation with so many new people, you wonder what will happen. Sometimes it can sour people who have been here longer and they feel neglected, but that has not been you. You have shown that you are focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. From my perch, that is a joyful thing to watch. From our greeters, by the way, at the door, to our VPs, to our membership class, which instructs people so well, and then into their small groups or PFM or their ministries, that whole process has been working The women's ministries and men's ministries and singles and youth that have wide open arms and bring new people in and rejoice and help them learn the ropes. You have accepted them, welcomed them warmly, loved them, showed them around when they needed that. Got them into groups, got them into ministry, had them in your homes. That is Christ's truth working in you. That is Christ's love at work in the body. Again, I commend you as a body in Christ. I commend you for that work that you have done. It clearly is an example of the work of Jesus Christ. I'm not over. I want to lead to another one, and just this commendation flows from this as well, and that is the friendliness of this church, coupled with the diversity of the church. I want to put it that way, because diversity doesn't usually breed friendliness. Usually people are friendly because they're all like each other and they all like each other. Churches might be friendly or they might be diverse. Hardly ever do you find a diverse church that's also friendly Christ has matured you to show that. You are both friendly and like it's obvious you're diverse. The diversity is not just ethnically. Think about how the world is fighting over race even this very morning, right? And here, look at you. Just look at you. Why are you seated here? The energy of the head, he gets the glory, but it's working through you. It is working. The diversity is not just ethnic. It's social diversity. It's geographical diversity. It's educational diversity. Even when you consider backgrounds, it's a tremendous background of religion. We're not all Baptists or all Presbyterians or all Lutherans. Or whatever. The world argues. Here we see the church come together and you live it. You accept this. You work with it. You gain new friends in this environment. The truth is that many churchgoers would not tolerate such widespread intense diversity. Instead of the dynamic of love and church, they would see their group that looks the same and acts the same and has the same background beginning to change and they would hate that And they began to complain about that. And they began to talk against the leadership for allowing that. And then over time they might even leave and start their own thing. Not you. You didn't do that. You stayed here. I'm not trying to build you up in you. I'm trying to build you up in Christ. You have embraced Christ's loving design. You have accepted it. You believe that. Dr. Hammett, back to his his work, says, We call the church the temple of the Spirit because the Spirit is the mortar that holds the stones together. The church is not to be held together by social bonds, such as being of the same race or class or income, but by the spiritual bond of a common possession of the Holy Spirit. Church growth strategists tell us that churches grow fastest when the target people most like the when the target people are most like those already in the church. They are no doubt right, he writes. People are usually attracted to those with similar backgrounds and lifestyles. But the New Testament is clear that the church must not become a club of one type of people, but a community that transcends those things that divide people in society. This tells me that you are about Christ. You are listening to the Holy Spirit speak through his truth. Your love is sincere. I cannot tell you how many times I get told how friendly Hope Bible Church is. I thank God for his work inside of you. By the way I'm always told from the greeter ministry, and he wants to remind all of you that all of you are greeters, every last one of you. Find new people and help them. You don't need to have a badge to be a greeter. You are a greeter, okay? Here's another commendation that we elders commend, and that is just your continued commitment to truth. I don't have time to develop that, but you You want expository sermons. You want biblical teaching. That's what you wanted 16 years ago. That's what you wanted 10 years ago. That's what you want now. You study and you're encouraged by truth. You know, as our church gets larger, it will be challenged to compromise. It'll be challenged to compromise the message, to blow with the wind. to tone down truth so that more people can fit in. That is not what you have asked for. That is not the pressure that you put on the leadership. And it's exactly the opposite. I get cards and I get emails sometimes from you. And I wish you'd do that for all of the elders and hope that you do, and your deacons and your small group leaders and encourage them. Thank you for holding up the Word of God. There's always pressure to turn away from that. I want to say thank you for not being ashamed of the words of Jesus Christ. No matter how hard they are, no matter how politically incorrect they are, you stand by them. And I have more to say on that, but I don't have time. Fifth and last for today, but more next week. You have an uncommon commitment to the training of leaders. And I worded it that way because it's true. You have an uncommon commitment to the training of leaders. You have helped to send men to seminary. Some with money, some with prayers, some with counsel. Obviously, George Lawson to the Master of Seminary, Rod Montgomery as he served here among us at Capitol Seminary Steve Godullah still presently at the Masters Seminary now, and I don't know that many of you know this, but Jonkeo at Baptist Bible getting taught uh and trained long distance as he is there in Ecuador. Today we see Eric Powers leaving and we want to have a significant impact in his life as well, going to the Master's Seminary. You have contributed to that. You have encouraged that You know, when uh George stands up here with his new church, you know some of you have put into his life, and that has fruit and that has effect, and praise God for that. You have seen and participated in the Leadership Training Center, allowing our building to be used in that. Some of you coming out and providing food for those Saturdays, extra cleaning that happens because things get messed up The extra administration involved in that, volunteering to teach on the part of some of you. Some of you just transitioning from the the training system we had before to the new training system and bearing with that and loving that and understanding the future for that. That is an uncommon commitment. And it's commendable and it's wise. And I think possibly over time, I'm no prophet, but your commitment to the Leadership Training Center, the Bible Institute Whatever gamma becomes as God uses this church and other churches around here, your commitment to that and the fruit that is born through that may transcend anything that we do in this local church Something to be excited about, something to keep the vision before you to understand that God has chosen this church for that. Who knows how the Lord will use this and how far He will take all the training of all these leaders And all of the churches and how that will spread through time. Think of the spiritual work. Yes, it needs your ongoing prayer, it needs you catching the vision. for what a trained leadership is all about. I was up with Steve and Lisa Reisman and their training with uh ABWE for getting ready for the mission field. They're still three years out, but they're starting their training now. And over the top of this beautiful facility it said something like, you know, if you want excellence in ministry, you have to be committed to excellence in training. And that's what it's about. Is leaders have to be trained and they have to submit themselves to training and they have to be committed to that or an excellent ministry doesn't happen. It takes longer, it takes more time, it takes more study, it seems sometimes like it's too much Sometimes you want to throw darts at me, I know that. But if you if you submit to that and you humble yourself before that and you learn and you're trained and you sit under men and women who are trained like that, how much better the ministry is in the long run And beloved, each member has been helping and sacrificing and serving and using their gifts. And I just wanted to say that to you today. I wanted to say that. I hope that encourages you because that's not exaggerated. That is what God has been doing here at Hope Bible Church over the last few years. Praise God for that. Praise God for his work inside of you. I want to pray, and then uh as I pray for you, I'm gonna ask uh Pastor Lawson uh to come up here along with uh the elders of Hope Bible Church. And then I'll let uh George has a long announcement to give. I'll let him call up Baltimore Bible Churches. We're gonna have the core group come up here and know that some of you may end up joining Baltimore Bible Church uh in the future or shortly But we want to uh honor those that were trained in the core group and have them uh uh come up here. Let me just close here in prayer. Father We give you the praise, the honor, and the glory, for anything good in us comes from you. Any life in the body is not our life, but yours flowing through us Help us and remind us, Lord, that that is not done in a detached kind of way, that you designed the body to get busy and be active and work hard and sweat and use muscle. And to look out for the person to the left and to the right for what we receive from the left gets passed on to the right and back again. And this is the way the body is, Father. Help us to uh to see that, perceive that, challenge those, Lord. both from today's message and next week's message, to be committed and connected and to serve. We give you the glory, Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.