We return this morning to our study of the submission and liberation, and yes, equality of women. The particular focus of our study, of course, has been on the role of women in the church. Now there's great amount of detail that were given into the first two messages that are available for you, so please get them and listen to them. If you didn't hear them, you'll be A little bit lost today, but I hope to review a little bit for your sake as well. But those first two messages will help you out a lot. Let's begin by reading our text once again. 1 Corinthians chapter 11, and we'll be reading verses 2 through 16. Now I praise you because you remember me in everything and hold firmly to the traditions just as I delivered them to you. But I want you to understand that Christ is the head of every man And the man is the head of a woman, and God is the head of Christ. Every man who has something on his head while praying or prophesying disgraces his head But every woman who has her head uncovered while praying or prophesying disgraces her head, for she is one and the same as the woman whose head is shaved. For if a woman does not cover her head, let her also have her hair cut off. But if it is disgraceful for a woman to have her hair cut off or her head shaved, let her cover her head. For a man ought not to have his head covered since he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of man. For man does not originate from woman, but woman from man, for indeed man was not created for the woman's sake, but woman for the man's sake. Therefore the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head because of the angels. However, in the Lord neither is woman independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. For as the woman originates from the man, so also the man has his birth through the woman, and all things originate from God. Judge for yourselves Is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him? But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given to her for a covering. But if one is inclined to be contentious, we have no other practice, nor have the churches of God. We've said that this text contains six truths about the submission of women. From our first lesson, our first truth was the principle of submission declared. That was back in verses 2 and 3. In those verses we saw that the meaning of headship, despite many attempts to prove otherwise, clearly included that of male authority and male leadership. The word meaning itself from extensive studies of that word Caphilaan Greek. Also Paul's dominant usage And the command of submission to a head, which usually goes along with it, even the physical image of the relationship of a body to the head, all of these things demand that meaning. Male headship then has far-reaching implications both for the role of men and women in the home and in the church. A second truth that we've looked at From this passage is the cultural practice of submission. That's found in verses four through six. This is all review. We took time uh two weeks ago to consider what the cultural practices of their day and age were for head coverings. And then after surveying all of that we spent much time showing that This instruction by Paul was not an endorsement of women prophesying in an ongoing authoritative ministry within the official church gatherings. That was reserved for men alone. How do we know that? Because When Paul deals directly with that issue, he's very clear. We went to First Corinthians fourteen and first Timothy two, where he directly addresses that issue. Women are not to prophesy or preach or teach or have any authority over men in the church gathering in an official capacity. Outside of those church gatherings, in unofficial ways In manners that would be consistent with male headship, female prophesying in that day and age was not only allowed, but was expected, if a woman was gifted with the gift of prophecy. We also saw that there are many fuzzy and inadequate definitions of prophecy that are being used today that adds to the confusion. The biblical definition, though, is clear. A prophet received from God direct revelation and he dispensed it to the people of God. And since the gift of prophecy has ceased with the completion of the New Testament Revelation, that's not part of our study, but it's something that we do teach in other lessons Once the apostles passed away, the gift of prophecy ceased. We have to be very careful how we would even apply this injunction in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. It's one thing to interpret what it meant In that context, it's another to take it and apply it to us today. And that's where we left off. We left you hanging for two weeks. It was a terrible thing to do to all of you, I know, but we are going to look at how we are to imply this, apply this injunction by by Paul. Well as we said there's no prophesying by men or women today. There certainly is a lot of praying. And there's teaching as well. So what about the head coverings for women? Should our women put them on when they are praying? Some think women in the whole church service, such as we're in now, should indeed wear it. Many also believe they should wear it outside of the worship service everywhere they go. A few groups not only believe it but actually do it. They do wear it. The Mennonites and Amish are probably the examples that we're most familiar with. They uh not only have head coverings, they have a very special kind of head covering and they expect everyone to be using that kind. It doesn't appear at all that the style of the head covering was Paul's concern here. He mentions nothing about the exact type. It would likely change from culture to culture anyway, so that was unimportant. But for those of us who are living now in the modern American culture, does the head covering work for us? Does it achieve what Paul and the early church were achieving by wearing the head coverings, that is the ladies That really is the key question for our application. For if wearing the head covering today does not achieve the the main meaning of that that Paul is talking about in this passage, then it's not going to work for us. It has to have that meaning. The truth is that head coverings really do not mean anything to the vast majority of those in our culture, American culture. Dr. Wayne Grudham, in his masterful book, Evangelical Feminism and Biblical Truth, has a little quote, I'll give it to you. He writes, Paul is concerned about head covering because It is an outward symbol of something else. But the meaning of such a symbol will vary according to how people in a given culture understand it. It would be wrong, he writes To require the same symbol today if it carried a completely different meaning. End quote. That's a very good point. What would a head covering mean to people here and now? Dr. Grunham is just expressing common sense. A head covering wasn't to prevent women from catching a cold. Uh it wasn't to uh prevent them from getting sunburned. That wasn't the purpose for it. It had a symbolic purpose to show a woman's submission to male headship, even more so to show her propriety as well As a godly woman or at least a good upstanding citizen of that culture. Ladies, put a hat on today, come to church, and people will say, what a lovely hat How it matches your dress. Did you get that on sale? But on a covering like the Mennonites and people will think you are, well, nice, gentle, but kind of old fashioned Drape a shaw over your head, and someone might wonder if you're Eastern Orthodox or have that background, and then put a full veil on you, and folks will wonder what a Muslim lady is doing in a Christian church. Or maybe someone recently died in your family. Those are some of the meanings for head coverings today I remember when Rhonda Jones was here working in the uh office, she once educated me. Why black women sometimes wear hoods and coverings over there. She said it's because we're having a bad hair day. Particularly when it was humid outside. I didn't know Honestly, in some areas of our culture, you're more likely to be seen as carrying a symbol of submission if you had a tattoo of your husband's name on the back of your neck. than anything else. And I'm no, I'm not advocating that. I'm just saying we live in different times. And so the application has to take that into consideration. The head covering just does not have the symbolism in our culture anymore. It was widespread in Paul's culture, and that's why he made a big deal about it. Really, it doesn't even mean anything in our evangelical subculture either, and there is an evangelical subculture. Nor does it really need to if we read the passage carefully. If this were a moral requirement to do this in all places, in all cultures, at all times, then God would have started it with the first woman in the garden, even before they fell into sin. Eve would have had a head covering Well she did actually she had her hair and that's what we read later But uh other than that we know she didn't have any clothing on at all We'll see down in verse 15 what that means, that God has already naturally provided a head covering, and it is her long hair Now, we would also likely hear of head coverings being required elsewhere throughout Genesis before the law, and certainly you would think somewhere in the law it would be required, but we don't read of that. So the cloth head covering is only required here and stringently because it had to do with their culture. It expresses the culture was expressing what was natural. We'll get into more of that later. So ladies. How do you go about then applying the principles of submission and deference to male leadership that is embedded in this text? How do you go about doing that in this situation? We might wish that there was a symbol that was like other cultures. Here's the symbol and everyone would recognize that. We really don't have a universal symbol of that. Some started hunting for one, they might say the wedding ban on the finger might mean that of married women anyways who pledged to submit to their husbands for better or for worse. If we look for another symbol, it might be taking the last name of her husband. But there really isn't a universal symbol of submission. But there's many things that you can still do to make sure that other women and men know and understand who you are, what you are about, how you accept male headship. You can show your submission to male headship first and foremost by your behavior. Let it be clear that you are going out of your way to be feminine to be submissive where that's appropriate to be, even if the culture and all of your non-Christian women friends sweep that aside. You can also show propriety and modesty in what you wear. What looks feminine? What's particularly pleasing to your husband? I'm not going to be the fashion police this morning. That's not my job. Use your judgment. There are masculine outfits and there are feminine outfits, and God expects females to dress in a feminine fashion. The masculine outfits avoid them. Don't buy them. Don't wear them. There are inappropriate styles which will send a message Even of sensuality, which is not propriety or modesty, outside of God's boundaries, those styles avoid them. You certainly can look fashionable and feminine without looking rebellious. Other ways you can do it too. How do you speak to men? Are you loud and assertive when you talk to them? Do you interrupt them when they begin to give their opinion? Is your speech too dominant? Do you lecture them? All of that is out of place in the mouth of a woman to a man. I do hear some women talking to men, and when I hear them talking to men, sometimes it sounds like they're scolding a child. Folks, that should never be done. That is inappropriate Also, how you receive and nurture the leadership of men is important. Sometimes ladies are way too impatient with the development of men and their leadership. They need to be affirmed and affirmed again. That's your job, to support them and develop them, to be the body to the head. When they abuse their authority, you can speak up, speak up in a respectful tone. Let them know you disapprove of that A godly wife, of course, should be concerned with making a great name for her husband in a Proverbs chapter 31 style. If you're single and you're younger, you can show your deference to male headship by how you treat your father, whoever is in authority over you, how you treat his advice Or even the other men of the church, how you receive that and strengthen that in obviously a different way. Single ladies who've long since left home, they're older, there's still mannerisms and ways that they can show respect for God's created order. How, for example, you speak to men in the business world, you can certainly show again deference and respect without caving into any of their hurtful demands. Here's the main point in all of this. The way you receive and foster proper male leadership and not begrudge them their responsibility before God tells a lot about how mature of a woman, a Christian woman, you really are. Again, I'll quote that biblical definition of femininity that we gave before this At the heart of mature femininity is a freeing disposition to affirm, receive, and nurture strength and leadership from worthy men. in ways appropriate to a woman's differing relationships, not just the husband-wife relationship. And there's just a variety of ways like this that a woman who's liberated through her role of submission as a woman can distinguish herself from a woman that has liberated the world's way, the world's definition. Which is the wisdom that you're going to follow, world's liberation way or God's liberation way? Well maybe you're not quite there with the Apostle Paul yet. You still have other questions. So Paul provides a third truth here, and that is the defense of the principle of submission in verses seven through ten. Would you look back at verse seven? The defense of the principle of submission. He writes, For a man ought not to have his head covered since he is the image and glory of God. And this is the first offense here But the woman is the glory of man. So that's defense number one in verse seven. In other words, the man ought not to be marked with a cultural badge of submission, for he is the image and the glory of God. Man shows forth God's glory as nothing else in all creation does. Of course, this teaching is based on the creation of man in Genesis chapter 1. As God has dominion, so God gave man in his image to have dominion over the world. As God is a spirit being, so man has a spirit and is a morally responsible being. As God is rational, so man is rational. Man's made in his image and shows forth God's glory. The woman's image of God, however, was derived from the man. That's what Paul means here. So in this sense, she is the glory of man. Glory is that which flows out from and declares the greatness of the original. the beauty and the the shining brilliance of whatever the original was. Thus the man is the original copy of God and the woman is the copy of the man. So she stands in relation to the man as no other creature on the planet. She is the greatest creation that could be brought out of man. That's what God demonstrates there in Genesis 2. When women are looking for self-identity, what does it mean to be a woman? Here it is, by definition. A woman is a living being who is the glory of man. There's God's definition of a woman. Adam had his own way of putting it. He put it in his own words. He saw Eve for the first time. The woman, and he said, This is now what? Bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh, she shall be called woman, for she was taken out of man. In Hebrew, that same relation is there in the words. So the symbolism that she wears ought to orient her directly to the man, for she is his glory That is why Paul is insisting on the head covering in that culture, particularly in times when they were speaking God's word as in prophecy or spoke to God as in prayer. She must be oriented to the male, giving the male honor in order to properly acknowledge in God's presence the role that God had assigned from the beginning of the world to women. Now it must not be inferred from this, as some people might be inclined to say That the woman is not made in the image of God. Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 and 27 clearly states that male and female are made in the image of God. Even by logical deduction, you can figure that out. If man is made in the image of God and she was taken from man, she also is in the image of God. But she's related most directly to the male. That's Paul's point. She is the glory of the male. In fact, women just like men are renewed every bit into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ as we are in Christ through the process of sanctification. It just means here that her image of God is derived from man's image of God. Man was made by God and placed on this planet to manifest God's reign, to reign under God. Woman was made to complement man's reign. The male is the authority under God. The female's reign is as a queen next to the man in his reign. Stating it negatively, a woman's liberation from the headship and authority of man is an affront to God. Robs man of his glory and is a shame for a woman. It is not her liberation. We've been fed a lie. And we need to think correctly about this. Defense number two from Paul. Verse 8. Look at it. For man does not originate from woman, but woman from man. Now here, man is the word andros, and woman is the word gune. Again, it's not referring to husband and wife, but the origin of man and woman from the Genesis creation account in chapter two. By the way, for any who have doubts about Genesis being true history, even chapters 1, 2, and 3 Please notice that the New Testament right here assumes Genesis to be accurate history and not a myth. Do you see that? In fact, if it's not accurate history, everything that Paul writes here is inaccurate. For it's speaking of the biological origination of the genders, of the sexes. So any nonsense that the Bible teaches accurately on morals or spiritual things, but not on history and science, is rightly discarded by these verses. For if this history is not true, then the moral principles derived from that history cannot be binding on any Christian today. And so you can see how Satan works. The first part of the Bible says man does not originate from woman. So where did man come from? He came from the ground. He was made directly from the ground, right? God took the dust, really the ground, the elements of the ground, the earth, the Hebrew term refers to the ground. Includes all the chemicals that would be found there, all the minerals. This is really an accurate scientific statement made before the scientific era, again, adding evidence of Scripture's divine origin And then he was made and he was molded. So woman was not in existence. She was nowhere at this time. God did not make them at the same time. God wanted the woman to originate from the man Now he didn't have to do it this way. He could have made them both at the same time, or he could have made her from a lump of clay after him But he chose to have her made afterwards and from him as well. That is a fact of Scripture It is amazing and shocking to me how easily many people in interpreting all of this sweep that fact of Scripture aside as if it has no importance at all. And yet the Holy Spirit and Paul are accentuating the importance of this truth right here. As I said, Adam even named her woman from man in Genesis 2. 23. In Hebrew, the word woman Isha came from Ish. She is Isha for she was taken from Ish. She is the glory of man. That's who she is. And so Paul is commanding a respect of creation order, even in the church in Christ. As first Timothy two eleven echoes, a woman must quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness, but I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man but to remain quiet. Why? For it was Adam who was first created, and then Eve. The creation order for man and woman matters. In fact, Genesis 2 and 3 reveal much more about Adam's headship. We don't have time to get into all of that, but God directly instructed Adam before Eve was even made. And gave him the instructions of the garden and not her, expecting him to teach her. The woman was obviously created with a different kind of a body, instantly showing God's distinction in the roles between male and female. Woman was presented to the man by God, a gesture demonstrating again male leadership. God named the entire human race man, not woman, or man slash woman, again showing man's headship Man was the one first to speak in each other's presence and the woman received it. Man was called to give account for the failure of his family after they sinned. God did not call for Adam and Eve after they sinned, but only for Adam in Genesis 3. The death sentence was never placed on the woman, but only on the man, yet they both died. And the woman's curse was Defined in relation to her created purpose, in childbearing and in a relation of submission to her husband. And yet she was also given the great promise of the deliverer and savior to re to continue to have dignity. And of course, we're told in the New Testament in Romans chapter 5 that it is Adam who represents the entire human race, not Eve. Really, the evidence from Scripture for male handship is strong and it's prevalent. And it's clear It can only be willful blindness that causes people to to miss the import of all of these facts of Scripture and sweep them aside as if Scripture wasn't clear. And then to proceed to go and practice whatever it is that they think with their own reasoning is correct. A third defense from Paul is in verse 9. For indeed man was not created for the woman's sake, but woman for the man's sake. Again, we're referencing Genesis here as a literal history. The preposition for there in Greek dia used with the accusative case means she was made on account of or for the sake of the man. Man was not created for the sake of the woman. That's a statement a lot of people don't even know is in the Bible. There it is. Man was not created for the sake of the woman. The woman was created for the sake of man. That's exactly what he says Why? Because a man needed a woman. Amen? He couldn't Fill the world with offspring, multiply, as he was told, without her. He couldn't find a mate to enjoy, find happiness and intimacy without her He couldn't rule over the world effectively without her and her insights. Liberty Bible commentary puts it succinctly. Chronologically she came after, and constitutionally she was made for the man. In Genesis 2. 18, it teaches explicitly that she was made to be a helper suitable to him in marriage. And marriage expresses the most intimate relationship between man and a woman The word helper in Hebrew is the word ezer. Literally the verse says that she was made to be a help as opposite to him. A helper not like the man but complimenting the man, corresponding to him, agreeing to him. Opposite, but the same. Just a perfect complementary match She differs from him, but in ways exactly corresponding to his needs. Scientists study the brain now, and they say, oh wow, women and men, they think differently. The Bible is way ahead of them. We were designed to think differently. Ladies, your insights are needed in a marriage. When people object and say all these distinctions, that's just cultural stuff. We don't have to follow any of that. No, it is not. It comes from God's original creation. And those who don't follow it, mess that up. Defense number four from Paul, verse 10. Therefore, the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head because of the angels. You may note that the term symbol there, symbol of authority, is not actually in the verse But it is meant by necessary deduction. You can't literally have authority on your head. Authority is an intangible idea. It's abstract. So she has to have the symbol of authority on her head. Well what does the symbol mean? Symbol of authority in what sense? It's not that she now has the authority to prophesy in the congregation as some have taken it. The context is speaking of her subordination to man. The symbol shows her accepting the female role, her delighting in it. For willingly accepting it, for understanding its value. If married, it shows that she's under her husband's authority. If a daughter under her father's authority In this submissive position to God's established authority of man she may engage in prayer and prophesying in ways that are appropriate to women. Never as the man's authoritative teacher or ruler, but rather as a humble and respectful maiden who has had the great privilege of having the infallible Word of God delivered to her To deliver to whomever God would have her deliver that word. It would be appropriate for a woman to prophesy to other women, as Miriam did in the Old Testament, a prophetess. Or for a man to seek out a prophetess for a word from God as the king did of Holdah in the Old Testament. Or as people sought out a word of God from Anna in the temple in the New Testament. But never in an ongoing authoritative role over men. Many always asked, Well, what about Deborah? What about Deborah? When men abdicate their responsibility to leave, then and only then is it right for a woman to leave. That's what Deborah did, and she said it was a shame to men. Okay, but what about the angels mentioned in here? Everybody wants to know that too. This indeed is fascinating. There are many ideas. These are not likely to be demons, by the way, as some have suggested, without any qualification. With further context to develop it, the term angels would normally mean good angels. So what does that mean? That means angels are watching the church, not just when it's gathered, but at all times Angels watch us. They're spectators of the things that God is doing through the gospel and through the church. You can take time to read 1 Timothy 5. 21, Ephesians 3. 10, 1 Corinthians 4. 9, or Galatians 3. 10. They are observing what God is doing in the church. They're learning God's ways. Yes, but why would good angels be interested in what women wear? Well they're not in the fashion. Here's the most likely point of interest they have. Angels themselves are submissive beings, and they operate under the authority and headship of God. They've been given great power, but they exercise that power only in God's will. They seek to honor God in their submission. There was an angel or a spirit being who rebelled against God and carried other angels with him out of heaven in insubordination. The angels remember what happened to Satan. They remember how he was cast out of heaven, and they know his fate. And so a woman's lack of submission is likely, it's hard to interpret, but it is likely an affront to angels. Again, the Liberty New Testament Bible commentary puts it this way women should demonstrate the same sense of submission to God in recognizing their true position and fulfilling its claims as do the angels who know nothing of insubordination among their ranks. In other words, angels are shocked by the created order not acting in a manner in which they were created by the King of Heaven. It offends them. They're watching, don't offend the heavenly beings. You're like, what's the big deal? Who cares if I offend the heavenly beings? Because you're going to die and you're going to be ushered into God's presence someday, and guess who's going to be there? The angels You don't want them looking at you funny. I don't exactly know why it's wrong. I just know it's wrong. You don't want to do it. Well, putting all of this evidence, these four pieces of evidence together, you can see again, male headship and the evidence for it is strong and clear and consistent. We could get into much more, but we don't have time God required all the priests in Israel who represented the people to God in his law to be male All scripture writers, as far as we know, are male. God and his law in Deuteronomy 24, 5 sent only men to war Christ in taking on human flesh did not come sexless or a mix of the two but came male. Luke 2 21. Jesus chose only male apostles. He could easily have chosen six females the way those males were and the way the women were. If he was basing it upon spiritual insight, it would have been more like twelve to nothing on the women's side. But he didn't do it that way. Matthew ten one to four Qualifications for the office of the elder assume him to be male, even require him to be male. First Timothy three, one and following, Titus chapter one, verse five and following. All church counsel in Acts 15 was led exclusively by men. The headship of the husband in the home is clearly established in Ephesians 5. 22. The seven who had a great measure of authority in the church in Jerusalem in Acts 6 are all named and they were all male. And the Holy Spirit specifically forbids women in regular authoritative preaching and teaching roles when men are present in the church. In 1 Timothy 2, 11 through 13. What else is there to understand? The scripture isn't trying to be unclear in all of this. We shouldn't be confused about these things. Alright, the fourth truth from here is the principle of submission is balanced. The principle of submission balanced in verses eleven and twelve. Paul writes, However, in the Lord, neither is woman independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. For as the woman originates from the man, so also the man has his birth through the woman, and all things originate from God. Submission is to be balanced by interdependence. Paul does not want the Corinthians to draw the wrong conclusion from the headship of man. It seems they had a way of taking a truth and running too far with it one way or the other. And he's probably concerned now that he's written this, they're going to run with it too far the other way, as many who don't balance Scripture together and bring them together do. So he's saying don't take this too far and conclude that there's a qualitative difference between man and woman. Don't think woman is inferior to man in any way. Headship of the male must be balanced by equality of the female. And equality is established at least in part by interdependence. Just as it is wrong for feminists to throw off God's order and his plan and design, so it is equally wrong for men to use their headship in selfish ways. Male chauvinism in all of its forms is evil. Man must have a genuine honor of women in their role as women. Trying to be emphatic on that because of the confusion. Both are mutually dependent on each other and that brings about it's supposed to bring about respect. There's not supposed to be the battle of the sexes. They're supposed to be the complementary nature of the sex. They owe their existence to each other by God's design. Notice the phrase in the Lord. Often that means in the Lord Jesus in the New Testament sense. In this context, it more likely means with the The Lord's intention or according to the will of the Lord. By the will of the Lord. By divine will. This is how it's designed Again, referencing Genesis in Genesis 2, it was God's design the woman came out of the man, and then in Genesis 4, it was God's design that the man, Cain, came out of the woman. And so those truths say there's no place for haughty nails, no place for beating the chest and boasting. Man today does not exist without woman. That also is a fact. Men need to know and appreciate that reality just as much. The original order of creation establishes the subordination of women, but the order of birth establishes the dependence of man to woman. And thus adds to the dignity of woman. Both male chauvinism and feminism dishonor women, if you think about it They both dishonor women as women. Chauvinism treats a woman as less valuable than man, and feminism takes them out of their role and makes them act like men, thus demeaning the female role. It is proper, balanced, full doctrine about male and female, men and women that led the Church of Jesus Christ to elevate the place of women in the world. The Greeks and the Romans had a very low view of women. The Jews did better, but not that much better In Christ and in Christianity, the full dignity of woman and her glory, and her being made in the image of God, and her value and usefulness to God, she being a joint heir with man. And all of life originating from women, all of that is established and it is taught. And so we conservative churches who see influences against sound doctrine, we can't overreact. Male headship must never be interpreted as man being more important than the woman Women by God's design are not to teach men in the church in any official capacity, for that violates God's design, but they are in most cases the most significant shapers of the thinking and the lives of men, particularly future men. Their character, their courage, their insight, their skill, their training, their knowledge, their education, their morals. Mothers and wives and other women like sisters and aunts and friends and nannies and teachers and you name it. They shape the soul and the mind and the conscience of males What's the saying, he who rocks the cradle, what? Rules the world. So there must be respect for their otherness. Men, their difference. Not crass jokes as so often is the case. Being a woman, and I don't know this from personal experience. Is a glorious and a wonderful position in God's design. Glory in it, ladies. Shame on men who treat the women in their lives as less important than themselves. And shame on men who abandon their role to women in the name of worldly equality without regard for God's wisdom. And then just to squelch the pride of both man and woman, Paul adds, and all is from God. Ek all originates out of God. God is the source and the ground, a being for everything. We do not make ourselves. We can't even keep ourselves alive. Ultimately, everything comes from God. 1 Corinthians 8:6, there is but one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and we exist for him. And one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we exist through Him. Each human being, male or female, must have a profound sense of humility and dependence on God. And that includes receiving God's instruction from His Word about what it means to be male and female. God is to be given glory and honor not just with our mouths but with our obedience to every portion of his word. And so that is the balance Paul presents. Now with all this, Paul very interestingly next appeals not just to scripture But to common sense, this is our fifth truth. Appeal to common sense about submission. I guess we don't have common sense in our society anymore. But he's appealing to common sense about submission in verses thirteen through fifteen. Verse thirteen, judge for yourselves Is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? The word judge is an imperative, by the way. It's a command. The word yourselves is placed emphatically in the sentence. The word proper prepo, it means fitting to the circumstances. So Paul is appealing to their understanding and their common sense, not just what the scriptures taught. And he's commanding them: judge for yourselves what is proper. In other words, you should have an intuitive sense about this, even apart from the other things that I have written. Don't listen to me for a moment as an apostle of Jesus Christ. Just think about it yourself for a moment. And then he goes on in verse 14. Look at it. Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him? But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given to her for a covering. Now some of you are gonna enjoy this because you know no matter what I say I'm gonna be in deep water right now. You start touching on some something like people's hair. It's a lose-lose situation for me and I know it. But keep in mind this Paul thinks there is something very obvious from nature everyone should agree with without him appealing to any reason. Gulp Please first notice this question by Paul expects a positive answer. Yes. Nature does indeed teach that long hair for a man is a dishonor. So you guys are sort of folding your hair back up there, you know. Yeah. I don't have any problems with this one. Hmm. Nature teaches this truth. Are you shocked yet? What does dishonor mean? It means without honor. It means shameful. It's shameful for a man to have long hair. That is what it says. That is what it says. Now I'm supposed to make comment on it. Long hair, coma. What does it mean? It means to let one's hair grow long. What is wrong? He doesn't say. In that culture, it likely meant to the shoulders. I use the word likely. Head coverings would drop to the shoulders. Long probably was the same as that. Anything shorter than that probably would not be considered long. They're guessing from sculptures and things like this, but that's probably the way it was. But this is something people everywhere would know, not just in those cultures of that day or ours, but anywhere. Nature taught it Jewish men, we are told, wore fairly short hair, not real short, some say medium length. Usually it was well groomed. The sculptures in the catacombs show the hair of men was quite short, and it shows women with long hair and usually with coverings. To wear long hair for a man was considered effeminate. The Egyptians made sure there were no problems, they shaved their heads. In Genesis 41-1, I'm sorry, 41-14, Joseph kept to that custom himself when he was in Egypt, and he shaved his head. Women left their hair long in Egypt. Greek men had short hair in New Testament times. Greek women frequently braided or plaited their hair. The Roman custom was closely cropped hair. Jewish women had long hair. Evidence is found in a number of verses like Luke 7. 38 I think that's John 11. 2, Isaiah 3. 24, 1 Timothy 2. 9. So it's fairly universal in cultures that women have longer hair than men. The question many have is, does nature really teach this though? How does nature teach this? What does Paul mean by that? So many, when they come to the word nature, they they They believe it's really only referring to the natural customs or the cultural customs of the day. That it's not nature per se that teaches this, but culture that teaches this. So it's natural because they're used to the culture in that sense. But strictly speaking, this word never means culture. It doesn't mean custom. It doesn't mean mere human sentiment unless that sentiment is based upon physical nature. The word nature, thusis, carries the idea of pertaining to the creation, even at times instincts, what is natural, what is innate to the body in this case. So I dug a little bit. The New International Dictionary of New Testament Theology says the natural condition, quality, or state, example, of air or of blood. It can refer to human nature. It can denote the creation, the world of nature, the creatures who live in the sea, etc. , etc. In its use in the New Testament, Thusis means someone might be a Jew by birth, that is, a physical descendant of Abraham. Also stands for the regular order of nature in the sexes in Romans 1, where it says it is unnatural for man to lay with man or female with female. It is what is known about the law of God intuitively from man's nature in Romans chapter 2. In James 3:7 it's used to describe the kinds of birds and animals. You get the idea. MacArthur writes this, the cultural practice of a woman's covering her head as a symbol of subordination to man is a reflection of the natural order. So you would do what your culture taught you to do as a female, have long hair, but that custom was grounded on a universal awareness in women that comes from nature, have long hair and wear the covering. Creation set it up so there would be differences in hair length and hairstyle It is culture based on a natural understanding of the differences in the sexes. You get all kinds of different styles and all kinds of cultures, and what different cultures mean by long is different as well, but it is all based on something much more ingrained from creation. If you think about it, which is what Paul wanted us to do, that is why for the most part women in all ages and countries have been praised for their long hair. That has not been so with men. So Paul is saying, use your judgment, use your common sense. Think about this. There is a reason for that. Now some object to this because they point out, and I know very little about this, that hair grows at the same rate between men and women. So if that's so, then how can nature teach that directly? I don't know what he had in mind, but I did a little digging because I knew you all would have questions. And really you don't have to do too much digging to know that with men their hair falls out a little quicker, does it? You don't have to be a scientist to see that. We're told hair has three stages it goes through formation, resting period, and fallout, and some of us are more acquainted with the third stage. The male hormone, testosterone, is believed to speed up the cycle So that men receive and reach the third stage earlier than women do. The female hormone estrogen causes the cycle to remain in stage one for a longer period of time. So it's not the rate of growth, but how long it stays in that stage. That ultimately causes women's hair to grow longer than men's. About. com gave the simplest summary that I could find on this. If you just bear with me a little longer They write this, testosterone can be converted to DHT. And DHT shrinks hair follicles, causing the membranes and the scalp to thicken. Become inelastic and restrict blood flow. This causes the hair follicles to atrophy. As a result, when a hair does fall out, it is not replaced. Needless to say, men produce more testosterone than women and experience more hair loss. Women are rarely bald because few reach stage three of the hair cycle So this natural fact is reflected in the cultures of the world and in the general perception by all people everywhere that it is glorious for a woman to have long hair. It is not glorious for a man to do so. Men reach their twenties and thirties, certainly by their forties and fifties and on, and they have huge bald spots around the head. It's kind of hard to have a wonderful, beautiful long hairstyle And so um also there is the fact that men intuitively become excited by feminine attributes and when they see long, soft and beautiful hair on a woman they naturally respond to that just as the female naturally responds to masculine traits in a man. Solomon in the Song of Songs honored his bride, the Shulamites here in s in the Song of Solomon chapter four and verse one. So we are told here the glory of woman is in the hair. And men and women have always been distinguished by hair length and women admired for beautiful long hair. You don't need me to tell you that though. His point is judge for it yourself. Think about it. Now please don't misunderstand as you're listening to this. This is not dictating spirituality by the length of your hair Some fundamentalist churches got into that and they'd actually get the ruler out and see how long it is. Some of the shorter styles for women still seem, at least to many men, to have a feminine look to it to it. And that is the main point he's getting across. But there are other styles, and you know them, that ladies are turning to nowadays that look masculine. They have a masculine feel to that. We're not to cave into all aspects of our culture like that And of course there's some men who look strong and masculine with longer hair, but it can also look feminine And of course there were exceptions to all of this. There was the Nazarite vow in Numbers chapter six, where they made the vow and they grew it long. Samson was one like that. Absalom was admired for his long hair, but it also became his downfall In Greece, the Spartans had shoulder length hair for the men, and they were known for that, but the women's hair in that culture was even longer. By the way, I'll just throw this in. All the paintings we have of Jesus being blue-eyed and having long hair, that probably was not so Notice the last phrase in verse 15. Nature's head covering is given to women. And what is that head covering? Her long hair. That's nature's head covering. So the cultural practice of putting on cloth head coverings was built upon the natural covering given to the women by God. The culture does not have to have a head covering, for nature has already provided that head covering. But if a culture does have that head covering, women must put it on to show their agreement. But the long hair is God's covering from creation, a covering that makes this statement, woman is the glory of the And the sixth and the last truth I'll cover very quickly is the universal practice of submission. In verse 16, Paul writes, if one is inclined to be contentious, we have no other practice. nor have the churches of God. Really Paul puts his finger here on the root cause of Corinthian pride, wanting to do their own thing, thinking they were special following their own practices. They would accentuate only the truths that they wanted to hear that they were taught and ignore the rest, and so they were contentious, they were quarrelsome, they loved strife The Paul says we have no other practice. Go to any other church. In the church meetings or out It's not defining the church meaning alone here. A church was a church even when they were not assembled, as Paul uses the term ecclesia. We're always the church. We don't come to church when you know we are the church. We just gather sometimes. And so our practice during the week is still part of our church practice. And that practice was universal among all the churches. To violate this was to be a maverick, to go against all of Christendom at that day. My I suggest in closing that this is what the modern feminist movement has done. They have decided to isolate some texts and give emphasis and weight to small pieces of evidence while swallowing camels and avoiding a whole load of evidence from scripture about the proper role between the sexes. And in doing that, they have caused contention and strife and problems and even divisions in the evangelical church. How anyone can sweep aside all of this plain teaching in order to isolate on a few texts and a few questions and the ways that they handle that and to twist that to make it say what they want That not only is wrong, but it it sounds to me like they just want to be contentious. They just want to do it their own way. Their will is bent in a certain direction, and they're going to do it, and they're going to find whatever they can, put it before them, and that is their justification. Friends, that is not right. That's not godly. Their practice has not brought the Church of Jesus Christ together. It has not liberated women. They're completely out of sync with all of the history of the Christian church, the practice even of previous generations, close to us. They haven't liberated women. They've buried womanhood. So they answer the question in the title of the sermon. Yes, women can be both liberated and submissive. In fact, they can only be liberated by being submissive. And demonstrating that faith-filled godly attitude, which accepts their worthy role, worthy role as women. Let's pray. Lord, we in our minds have more of the world's doctrine in our heads than sometimes we're willing to admit. In reacting against abuse by men and male chauvinism, or the legalism of certain churches, Following a world's idea of equality, we've ignored your word, and we pray that you give power to our people to live in a manner that glorifies you by the station, the gender that you have given to them, that they will recognize not functioning in that role is rebellion to you. And that with our society they may mock it or treat it as a lesser doctrine, but you don't. It is very important for our identity and for carrying out your will in a way that honors you as our Creator. So we glory in you, our Maker and our Creator, and thank you for our blessed Savior Jesus. Amen.