Why don't you open your Bibles with me to the book of Galatians? The book of Galatians, chapter two. And we'll begin at verse eleven. Martin Luther said of uh the book of Galatians that this is my epistle. I've betrothed it to myself. It's my wife. And those are some uh pretty strong words, but uh hopefully this passage will help us understand that statement a little better. Galatians chapter two, verses eleven, and we'll read down through verse twenty-one. This is the word of our God. But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned. For prior to the coming of certain men from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles, but when they came, he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision. The rest of the Jews joined him in hypocrisy, with the result that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas in the presence of all, if you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews? We are Jews by nature, not sinners from among the Gentiles. Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ, and not by the works of the law. Since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves have also been found sinners, is Christ then a minister of sin? May it never be. For if I rebuild what I have once destroyed, I prove myself to be a transgressor. For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. And it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died needlessly. Our God is repeatedly called the God of peace in Scripture. And the gospel is known as the Gospel of Peace in Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 15. And peace and unity are not only encouraged in Scripture, but to seek these virtues is commanded of the Christian. We're given this direction in Romans chapter 12, verse 18. If possible, so far as it depends on you, be at peace with all men. And then in Romans 14, verse 19, it says, We pursue the things which make for peace, and the building up of one another. Ephesians chapter 4, verses 2 and 3. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, showing tolerance for one another in love. Being diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And then again in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 14, it says, Pursue peace with all men. The themes of peace and unity are so closely tied to the Christian faith that many assume the primary goal of Christianity is to bring peace to mankind. Didn't Jesus come to teach us to love one another? They asked. Didn't He come to bring peace on earth and goodwill towards men? Then why can't we all just get along? Can't we just overlook our religious differences, respect each other's beliefs, and allow one another to worship the way we choose? Have you ever heard that before? You believe what you believe, and I'll believe what I believe. Sure, we have our differences, but we're basically saying the same thing, aren't we? We're all serving the same God, aren't we? Can't we all just get along? And it comes to many as a shock to discover that some who call themselves Christians refuse to cooperate with them. Because of words like doctrine or theology. Doctrine divides, is what they say, and those who make doctrine an issue are considered arrogant, intolerant, or unloving. And in reaction to these types of accusations, there are literally thousands of churches that are playing down doctrine in an attempt to be more inviting and more user-friendly. Recently, I looked at the website of a church that's located very close to us that advertises itself this way. Listen to this, these are their own words. There is room for everyone in our church. In the same way Jesus showed love and acceptance of all, we attempt to show love and acceptance to one another. And how do they attempt to do this? Listen to this. We have no doctrine you must ascribe to, and no rules to follow. Then on the other side of the street there's this stick in the mud called Hope Bible Church. We're like the the kid who comes home with the report card does not play well with others. And you can tell just by the name that we're a hard bunch, can't you? Hope Bible Church. You know? In the midst of slogans like, We have room for everyone, or you'll be loved at our church, what's our slogan? Faithfully expositing God's word verse by verse. Alright guys, way to go. That's the way to reel them in, you know? Might as well hang a sign that says go somewhere else And you may ask yourself sometimes, why do we have to be so difficult? Why do we have to spend so much time digging into this book and studying doctrine and examining things so carefully? Why can't we just spend more of our time sharing the gospel or loving Jesus, loving one another? Why can't we spend more of our time doing that? Someone once challenged the theologian R. C. Sproul and said, Don't give me that theology, just give me Jesus. And R. C. , who's always quick on his feet, responded by saying this: And who is Jesus? Because the answer to that question is theology. It's not enough for someone to say, I believe in Jesus, or I go to church, or I believe the gospel. We have to go further than that and ask, what do you mean by that? What do you mean by that? And I'll be honest with you, I don't like to do it sometimes. Sometimes I meet people who say they they go to church or they believe in Jesus, and I wish I could just end the conversation right there. Seriously, I wish I didn't have to go any further. I want desperately just to throw my arms around them and say, hey, you're a part of the family of God. No worries. But my conscience won't allow me at the expense of the truth. Erwin Luther in his book, The Doctrines That Divide, says this. To speak of unity and to minimize doctrinal differences is to sacrifice truth on the altar of wishful thinking Unity, unless it is based on agreement regarding the content of the gospel, would not be worth the price. It's just not worth it. And if I can put it bluntly, eternal souls are at stake. We can't just get along, because the gospel can't just get along. The gospel refuses to be compromised. It won't bend, it won't stretch, it doesn't wiggle, it just will not cooperate. And that's what we discover in the passage before us. In Galatians 2, 15 through 21, we find a defense of the gospel. And more specifically, it's a defense of justification by faith alone in Christ alone. There's no other way Verse 16 says it twice. A man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus. And then again, we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. And then again in verse 17, justified in Christ. This is not only the subject of this passage before us, but it's a major theme of this entire epistle. The only other book that rivals the attention given to justification by faith in Galatians is the book of Romans. There is no other book that gives it this amount of attention, and probably no other passage more than the one before us. The book of Galatians opens with a short greeting in chapter 1, verses 1 through 5, and then right away Paul dives into his rebuke of the Galatian church. If you flip back to chapter 1, Verses 6 through 9, he says, This, I am amazed that you are so quickly discurting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel. Which is really not another. Only there are some who are disturbing you and want to distort the gospel of Christ But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we have preached to you, he is to be accursed. As we have said before, so I say now again, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you have received, he is to be accursed. This is the issue at Galatia. There were teachers that were encouraging the Galatian Christians to turn back. To what Paul calls the weak and worthless elemental things in order to gain salvation. Circumcision, dietary laws, Sabbath days Were taught as necessary requirements for the grace of God. And Paul is greatly exercised about this. In chapter 3, verse 1, he says, You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? Are you so foolish? From the very outset of this epistle, there is this tone of urgency. The security level is on high. And it's observed that Paul does not include in his letter to the Galatians the customary prayer for the recipients of the letter. This would have arrested the attention of the Galatian church to be addressed so directly without as much as an I thank God for you. Paul began to defend this gospel he preached in chapter 1, verse 11. And just to demonstrate how high of a priority this gospel was, he uses an illustration. that was sure to grab the reader's attention. If you look back at chapter 2, verse 11 again. In verse 11 it says, But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned. And I just want to take a couple minutes just to paint this picture for you, because if we're truly going to appreciate what's going on in verses 15 through 21, we have to understand this as the background. The city of Antioch was a major hub of spiritual activity. In Acts chapter 11, we learn that the saints were scattered from Jerusalem because of persecution And the these scattered saints traveled as far as Antioch to escape the persecution there. And while in Antioch, they began to evangelize the Jews. But some disciples from Cyprus and Cyrene expanded this ministry to the Greek population, and large numbers of Greeks began coming to the Lord. In fact, there was such an explosion of men and women coming to Christ that the Jerusalem church thought it necessary to send Barnabas off to Antioch just to find out what's going on here. And after he witnessed the grace of God, says it back in Acts chapter 11, it calls it the hand of the Lord. This is what he was witnessing, the hand of the Lord. He was filled with joy and began to encourage the saints that were there. And as a result of his ministry, even more numbers were being brought to the church And this was just a tremendous explosion of God's grace. And Barnabas left Antioch for Tarsus because he was dying for Paul to see this. Maybe he wanted Paul to help instruct these new believers. Or maybe he understood that Paul was selected particularly by God for the Gentiles. Or maybe he just wanted his friend to share him this joy that he had over this tremendous explosion of God's grace. Whatever the case, he knew that Paul would want to witness this firsthand. So he found Paul, and he and Barnabas remained at Antioch for a year just ministering to the disciples. And what took place in Antioch was so remarkable that the disciples there were given a new name by the people at Antioch, Christianas, which means Christians, followers of Christ. So even the city recognized that there was something distinct about this group. And while Paul and Barnabas were enjoying the grace of God in Antioch, they were paid a special visit by the Apostle Peter. Or Cephas, as he's called here in Galatians. Cephas and Peter both mean rock or stone. And when Peter arrives in Antioch, he's just as excited as Paul and Barnabas are. And he expresses his unity with the brothers at Antioch through shared meals. Verse 12 says, he used to eat with the Gentiles. And this was Peter's. Common practice while in Antioch. The verb for eat here is uh a form which indicates a repeated or a prolonged action. This was his habit while he was at Antioch. But it was only after certain men arrived from James that any sign of disapproval is observed. James, who was the half-brother of Jesus, was the leader of the Jerusalem church. And it could be argued that he was the most prominent leader there. So anyone who was a part of the Jerusalem church could be said to be from James, as this group was. And they are simply known as the circumcision. Or the party of the circumcision. And it's a reference to the Jewish people. Circumcision was a synonym for the Jewish people because of the removal of the male foreskin was a mark of their distinction And Paul has already stated this term earlier in chapter 2, verses 7 and 8, to speak of the ministry that Paul had to the circumcised. And he simply refers to them as the circumcised. All Jewish males were circumcised eight days after birth. And it would be it would have been impossible to imagine an uncircumcised Jew. To be Jewish was to be circumcised. The right of circumcision was a requirement under the law and was regarded as the sign of the covenant between God and Israel Without circumcision, a person would be excluded from the covenant community. They were forbidden from practicing religious customs such as the Passover. They were regarded as outside of the blessings and the promises of God. So it's easy to understand why the circumcised Jews over in Acts chapter 10 were astonished to find out that the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out even on the Gentiles These are the uncircumcised. What are they receiving the blessings of God for? Their mouths could have hit their sandals. What's going on? They assumed that the blessings of God were reserved for those who received the sign of the covenant. They had no room in their theology for Gentiles being received by God without it. And this presented such an obstacle to them that even after witnessing the hand of the Lord, there were still some who insisted that unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. And apparently these men from Jerusalem were of this persuasion, and they would have been shocked to see which table Peter chose at dinner time. Instead of Peter taking a stand against these people, he gravitates towards them. Peter knew better. He knew that salvation was granted to the Gentiles. Acts chapter 10 and verses 10 through 16, Peter received a vision to teach him that God did not show partiality. And after receiving this vision, he ordered that the Gentiles be baptized. In Acts 10, verses 47, he said, Surely no one can refuse the water for these to be baptized who have received the Holy Spirit just as we did. Can He? And even here at Antioch, he personally witnessed the grace of God. But in a moment of weakness, he caves in to the pressure of fear and he prepares for retreat. Verse 12 says, He began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision. Maybe casually at first. But then more determined and obvious. Eventually, some of the Jews at Antioch began to follow suit, and one after the other. They would excuse themselves from the common table and make their way over to the Jewish one. Before long the rest of the Jews joined Peter, and the pressure to separate became so great that even Barnabas joined in. And this would have been devastating to the Gentiles at Antioch. Some of them came to know the Lord through Barnabas and were personally encouraged by him. And their hearts would have just sank as they watched him get up from the table without a word, turn his back, and sheepishly walk away. You know, you can just see the disappointment on their faces. You know, Barnabas, not you two. Not you two, Barnabas. And finally, Paul, the last Jews, sitting at the table. Pushes himself back, but his exit is not like the others. His head is not hung low in shame, but his eyes are locked on Peter. And he marches in a straight line towards this new table that's formed, approaches Peter, and addresses him directly and loud enough for everyone to hear. If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews? You're being a hypocrite, Peter. You're putting on a great show. And what makes your little play so dangerous is that you're not being straightforward about the truth of the gospel. Paul didn't see this as something light and trivial. He understood that something was being communicated that compromised the gospel. And Peter stood condemned. When the truth of the gospel is at stake, it doesn't matter who you are. You could be an angel From heaven or an apostle handpicked by Christ Himself, when the gospel is being attacked, you're in the line of fire. And the gospel doesn't hold back. Peter's actions were a contradiction of the gospel he believed in. Without saying one word, Peter was telling the Gentiles, if you want to become a genuine part of this religious community, you will have to undergo a little surgery first. If you want to gain full acceptance, you'll have to abide by the rules. Did Peter believe that? Of course he didn't. But he wanted the Jews from Jerusalem to think that he did out of fear. And Paul exposes them. When Paul said publicly, if you being a Jew live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, he was telling the rest of the Jews, don't be fooled by this. Peter is not part of your group. He lives like a Gentile now. Peter was giving them the impression that he still lived like a Jew and observed the Jewish practices of separation from the uncircumcised. We know this is what Peter used to practice because in Acts chapter 10, Peter said to Cornelius, You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a man who is a Jew to associate with a foreigner or to visit him. Peter considered eating with the Gentiles unlawful, but he knew better now. And Paul knew that Peter knew better. However, this little charade that Peter put on pretended that he was still on the other side of the cross. And what made Peter's performance so dangerous was that the Gentiles would have been compelled to live like Jews. It says in verse 14: how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews? The Gentiles would begin to believe that their faith in Christ was not all that was necessary to be included in the family of God And they would have understood circumcision as well as adherence to the Mosaic Law, a necessary condition for acceptance, not only by Peter, but even by God Himself. And Paul could not allow this inconsistency to go unchallenged. And he confronts Peter head-on with a direct blow. Peter was not being straightforward about the gospel, and Paul understood that And he understood that the gospel could never be mixed with works and remain the gospel. As soon as you add to the gospel, you destroy it. And from this point on, Paul launches into one of his most succinct and most devastating arguments against works of the law or any human effort in the believer's justification. But this is the background behind this. Some wonder whether or not he actually gave this explanation from verses 15 to 21 at the time he addressed Peter, or not. There's no way to be sure one way or the other. But if it was given at the time of the confrontation, it was not primarily for Peter's benefit. What Paul is about to recite, Peter was fully aware of That's why Paul calls what he did hypocrisy, because Peter knew better. Peter knew the truth. If this address was given at Antioch was for the benefit of those who were present there. as a public refutation of anything but faith as necessary for salvation. And Paul's argument in verses 15 to 21 can be summarized By three rhetorical questions. And if you're taking notes this morning, you want to get these down. First of all, if justification is by the law, is faith in Christ senseless? That's found in verses 15 to 16. He says, there, we are Jews by nature. Nevertheless, even we have believed in Christ Jesus. And the implication is we're believing in Christ Jesus because the law couldn't justify us. So is faith in Christ senseless? The second question is found in verses 17 to 20. And it's this: if justification is by the law, is Christ's ministry sinful? Is Christ then a minister of sin? It says in verse 17. If Christ is the one who said that we're free from the law, And we're not, then is he an agent of sin? Is he encouraging sin? Verses 17 to 20 explore that. And then the final question is this. If justification is by the law, then is Christ's death superfluous? That's found in verse 21. When he says if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died needlessly. It wasn't necessary. It was superfluous. Because once you insist on anything other than faith in the finished work of Christ for salvation, you have made his death unnecessary. What a waste of time and energy for Christ. He just went over the top. What do you come down and die for? We could do this on our own. So these are the three questions that will guide us through this passage. Is Christ is faith in Christ senseless? Is Christ's ministry sinful? And is Christ's death superfluous? Let's look at verse 15 again. We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles. Both Paul and Peter were Jews by birth. They were born to Jewish parents and grew up observing the Jewish customs. Before they were even old enough to understand who they were, they were marked as children of the covenant by the removal of the foreskin. They were by nature Jewish. This is Jewish is a an adjective, or Jews is an adjective here used to describe who they were. And this is placed in direct contrast to the adjective given in the next race. Because the word that Paul uses to describe the Gentiles are sinners. You're either Jewish or sinners. And this is how the Jewish people would have understood it. Either you are Jewish or you are a sinner. There really was no middle ground. And the contrast is very apparent. By nature, Paul, Peter, and the rest of the Jews were Jewish, while the Gentiles on the other hand were by nature sinners. And while it's true that Jewish people could also be known as sinners, the Gentiles were just assumed to be. Paul describes the Gentile condition in Ephesians 2, verse 12. And he describes them as separate from Christ, excluded from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world That's a description of the Gentiles. The Israelites, on the other hand, are described in Romans chapter 9, verses 4 to 5 as the nation to whom belongs the adoption of sons. The glory of the covenants, the giving of the law, and the temple service and the promises, whose are the Father and from whom is the Christ, according to the flesh, who is over all, God bless forever. Amen. If any group was to be a candidate for being justified by the works of the law, surely it would be the people to whom the law was given. But what does Paul say? Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ. That we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. What Paul is saying is: if the law was what we needed to be justified, then what are we doing believing in Christ for? Where's the logic in this? Is faith in Christ senseless? The very fact that they were believing in Jesus Christ for justification was an admission that the works of the law were unable to justify. You know, if you're already wearing a belt, there's no need to grab suspenders, right? To trust in Christ was an acknowledgement that the works of the law were not doing the job. And the term Paul uses here is justification. We have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified. And what does that mean? This is the first time that the term justification appears in the book of Galatians. And from the context, it's clear that this concept is intrinsically linked to the gospel itself. When Paul charges Peter with not being straightforward about the truth of the gospel, the reason is found in justification. So to explain justification for Paul was to explain the straightforward truth of the gospel And it's absolutely critical that we understand this word, because justification is the heart of the gospel, and there's no more important concept for you to be aware of. The word justify is defined in one lexicon as to be acquitted, to be pronounced and treated as righteous. It was a word used often in secular Greek to speak of what a judge declared or deemed right And the passive form of this verb is found here, which indicates that justification is not something the individual does for himself, but rather what he receives from another. In this context, you do not justify yourself, but rather you are justified. And in Scripture, the primary reference is to individuals being justified or declared right or righteous by God. And this word is used extensively in the book of Romans. According to Romans in chapter 5, verse 1, those who are justified have peace with God. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Those that are justified are saved from God's wrath. Romans chapter 5 verse 9. Having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. Those that are justified will also be glorified, which speaks of their eternal state before God In Romans chapter 8, verse 30, and these whom he justified, he also glorified. Paul also uses this term to speak of the hope of eternal life. In Titus chapter 3 verse 7, being justified by his grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Without justification, there is no peace with God. There is no salvation from his wrath. There is no glorification. There is no hope of eternal life. There is simply no gospel without it If you're not justified, you're not saved. And you will perish forever under the wrath of God. Do I have your attention yet? There's nothing more critical to your eternal salvation than this concept of justification. Nothing. And Peter understood this. The participle knowing in verse 16 directs Peter as well as the rest of the Jews back to what they commonly acknowledged about their justification. It's as if Paul says, Come on, guys, you know this already. And there are at least two things that Paul points out. First of all, they knew that a man is not justified by the works of the law. In the original, the words not justified appears first to place an emphasis on the absence of justification. It's as if he hangs a sign and says, No justification found here. And under that sign he places the works of the law. The phrase works of the law refers to the whole law and not just the ceremonial aspects. And there have been recent attempts to understand this phrase as a restricted reference to the ceremonial aspects of the law only But rather it includes all of the law's commands. And Paul makes this clear in Galatians 5, verse 3, where he qualifies this statement by the phrase the whole law. Works of the law are not the instrumental cause of justification, or the vehicle by which justification is communicated to the believer. Later on in Galatians chapter 3 verse 10, Paul reveals one of the reasons why the works of the law are not able to justify man. Look over in Galatians chapter 3, verse 10 with me. Flip one page over and let's look at this He says here, for as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them. All who are under the law's jurisdiction are under a curse. Because there are none who can abide by all the things written in the book. Every last one of us has been declared guilty before God according to the law In Romans chapter 3, verses 10 through 12 it says, As it is written, there is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands, there is none who seeks for God, all have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good. There's not even one. Sometimes when I share the gospel with people, they respond by saying, So do you think God is going to send good people to hell because they don't believe in Jesus? And my answer is of course not God would never send good people to hell. As Abraham said, far be it from God to slay the righteous with the wicked. The only problem is God hasn't found any righteous people. There are none good. When God does his search for good people, his search returns with no entries. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5 verse 48, Therefore you are to be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect, and you don't measure up. And it's easy to brush that off, isn't it? Well, nobody's perfect. Everybody sins. I know. And you don't think that's a problem? Just last week I spoke with one guy who said on judgment day he would just remind God that this is the way you made me So I said, you're actually going to blame God for your sin? Oh how bold we are. Now. There will be no excuses offered before the throne on judgment day. None. Romans 3. 19 says, every mouth may be closed, and all the world may become accountable to God. When you appear before the righteous judge, you can't offer him one good reason to let you into his kingdom. Not one. And when you behold his majesty, you won't even try. Now I know I'm speaking to people who think they've done enough to they haven't done enough to deserve God's punishment You're a good guy, right? Of course you've made some bad decisions before, but I'm not a sinner. And it all depends on who you compare yourself with. You know, compared to Jeffrey Dahmer, you look pretty good. Maybe even some of the people around you. Maybe some of us here, who knows? But when you compare yourself to the pure, radiant righteousness of the Holy God, Even your best deeds are filthy rags. The best. He knows your every thought. He hears your every word. He sees every deed done in the darkness. And you'd be ashamed for everything you've done to be put on the screen and played before us. Can you imagine playing that back before a holy God? Do you think God could declare you innocent and righteous after playing the tape? God will not justify you because you're a good person, because you're not, because you haven't met his standard. And there are none whom God can call good, or declare righteous, or justify according to the law. And Peter and the rest of the Jewish Christians that Paul addressed knew this. They knew that. But there is another truth that Peter and the Jewish Christians knew. Not only did they know that justification did not come through the law, they also knew that it came through faith. They know where it did come from. Back in Galatians chapter 2 and verse 16 He says, uh, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but how? Through faith in Christ Jesus. Faith in Christ Jesus is placed in contrast to works of the law. The preposition through speaks of the instrumental cause by which justification is communicated. And faith is the only means that God has provided men to be declared innocent before God anywhere in Scripture. Again, in Galatians 3, this time in verse 11. Paul says this, now that no one is justified by the law before God is evident, for the righteous man shall live by faith. And again in Galatians 3. 24 it says there that the purpose of the law was to lead us to Christ. So that we may be justified by faith. It was always God's intent to bring justification by faith, because it was always his intent to bring righteousness by Christ. Paul in Romans chapter 10, verse 3 and 4, states, for not knowing about God's righteousness and seeking to establish their own, they did not subject themselves to the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. God justifies men by means of faith, which is placed in Christ Jesus. And this is what brings God glory. And only this is what brings God glory. If you had anything to do with your justification, that means there would be something that you could take the credit for. Romans chapter 4, verse 2 says, if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about. And so would you. But the truth is you contribute absolutely nothing to your justification. And that means all the glory goes where? It all goes to God. God deserves all the credit. The Jews that Paul addressed conceded this, and the proof that they did was their belief in Christ. They knew that God could not declare man righteous by means of the law, but he could by means of faith. And this is Paul's first argument for justification by faith. Paul says, if there was any hope to be justified by the law, then why are we believing in Christ? Although we are by nature Jews, we have the adoption of sons, the glory and the covenants, the giving of the law, the temple service, the promises, the fathers, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ. And Paul comes around full circle when he ends his argument, just where he began. He starts out by saying a man is not justified by the works of the law, and he ends, since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. But at the end of the verse, instead of saying is justified, he uses a future tense of the same verb and says, No flesh will be justified. As if to say man will not be justified by the works of the law, not now, not before, not ever. And he also chooses the word flesh, sarks, instead of man, anthropius. And this is significant because of the issue that Paul is addressing. Circumcision was a physical procedure performed on the flesh. Just a few verses away from this statement, Paul's going to argue against the flesh having the ability to perfect the believer. In Galatians chapter 3, verse 3, he says, Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Cirks? A physical act performed on the flesh has never been the means by which God has chosen to justify or declare men righteous. Justification is a spiritual work, and it comes through the channel of faith. Faith stands alone in this text as the only means of justification. Peter knew that, the Jewish believers knew that, but their actions denied it. By separating from the Gentile believers that Antioch they gave the impression that faith was not enough. And when you have denied faith as the only means for justification, you have denied the gospel. The truth of the gospel and works just don't mix. And the minute you add anything to faith in Christ, you're no longer putting your faith in Christ. Yeah, I've just declared that Christ is not able to bear the full weight of your eternity before God. And something else is necessary to tip the tip the scales. Christ isn't enough. And it doesn't matter what that something else is. Paul was not opposed to the act of circumcision. Acts 16. 3 even lets us know that Paul himself was willing to perform circumcision on Timothy because the Jews knew his father was a Greek. The Jews that Paul and Timothy were attempting to minister to would have been offended by the fact that the uncircumcised half-breed, Timothy, was giving them the message. So Paul said if circumcising Timothy will help you direct your focus on the message rather than the man himself. Pass me the blade. Paul was not against that. I believe this was an example of becoming all things to all men so that by all means some may be saved. In 1 Corinthians 9, verse 20, Paul says, To the Jews I became as a Jew, so that I might win the Jews. To those who were under the law, as under the law. Though not being myself under the law, so that I might win those who are under the law. So Paul was not against circumcision for the right reasons. What Paul was against was viewing circumcision as a necessary requirement for salvation. He says if you receive circumcision or follow the law, in addition to trusting Christ to gain salvation, you're not trusting Christ. And to impress upon the Galatians the seriousness of this, he says this over in Galatians chapter five, from verses two to four. He says, Behold, I Paul say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. You have been severed from Christ. You who are seeking to be justified by law, you have fallen from grace. If circumcision A little minor surgery was enough to sever these Galatians Gentiles from Christ. What do you think about this list? Baptism. Penance, your participation in communion, confirmation, good works Church attendance, the giving of offerings, fastings, prayer, Bible reading, pilgrimages, obeying the commandments And you may say, what's wrong with the list like that? Nothing is wrong at all with most of the things on that list. You'll find most of them even commanded by Scripture. What's wrong is placing any faith in them for your salvation. Christ alone is the object of saving faith, and he doesn't share that place with anyone or anything. And if you have added any of those as a necessary condition for your salvation, you have severed yourself from Christ. Just because a religion speaks of devotion to Christ and tries to live by many of the same principles found in Christianity doesn't mean a thing. I get wary of hearing the argument that all religions are basically the same. Don't you? Or what's wrong with them? They believe in Jesus too. The people that Paul argues against here believe in Jesus. They even believe that Jesus died on the cross for their sins, that he was raised again. That wasn't the problem. The problem came when they believed that that wasn't enough. And Paul says that as a result of that, Christ was of no benefit to them. And there are several arguments that are made against salvation by faith alone, and I'd like to deal at least with one real briefly before I close. And it's found in James chapter 2. Let's flip over to James. James has been called the Proverbs of the New Testament. Because James, like Proverbs, is concerned primarily with the practical aspects of the faith, where the rubber meets the road. He doesn't speak much about the grand themes of faith, such as redemption, election, the substitutionary death of Christ, or similar ideas, because his emphasis is not on the foundation of faith, but rather it's on the fruit of faith. And this is what we find here in James chapter 2. If you were to flip back to chapter 1 and verse 26, he says, true religion does not match an unbridled tongue. He says, if anyone thinks himself to be religious, and yet does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his own heart, this man's religion is worthless. In chapter 3, verse 13, he lets us know that true wisdom does not match a life without good behavior and gentleness. He says, Who among you is wise and understanding? Let him show by his good behavior his deeds and the gentleness of wisdom. And then in chapter 2, verse 14, which we're going to take a look at real briefly, he says that true faith does not natural life without works. James 2, verses 14 to 26. What use is it, my brethren, if someone says he has faith, but he has no works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister was without clothing and in need of daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warm, and be filled, and yet you do not give them what is necessary for their body, what use is that? Even so, faith, if it has no works, is dead being by itself. But someone may well say, You have faith and I have works. Show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one? You do well. The demons also believe and shudder. But are you willing to recognize, you foolish fellow, that faith without works is useless? Was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he offered up Isaac, his son, on the altar? You see that faith was working with his works, and as a result of the works, faith was perfected. And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness, and he was called the friend of God You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith alone. In the same way, was not Rahab the harlot also justified by works When she received the messengers and sent them out by another way? For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead. So, what's going on in this text? Many believe that this is a direct contradiction of what we find in books like Romans or Galatians. Even Martin Luther found this a problem and wondered whether or not it should be included in the canon of Scripture at one point. Is James really teaching that justification comes through works? It sure seems that way. Look again in verse 24. You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith alone. So what do we do with the text like that? First of all, we don't do anything to it. We let it say what it means to say within its own context. What is the issue here? James is dealing with people who claim to have faith in Christ. They say they have faith, verse 14, but they have no living proof of that statement. They have no works. What is to be said of people like that? Look at verse 18. You have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith without the works, and I will show you my faith by my works. So, what's being validated here? It's whether or not an individual really has faith. That's the issue. This discussion is not about how an individual can be made right with God. But rather, how we know an individual's faith is genuine, and how an individual can rightly claim to have faith in God. James then offers Abraham as exhibit A in verse 21. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac, his son, on the altar? So, how did Abraham show or demonstrate that he had faith? It was by offering up Isaac. And then comes the statement in verse 24: You see that a man is justified by works and not by faith alone. Works justify a person's claim to have faith. That's what's going on. Works declare that, yes, this individual is innocent when he makes the claim that he has faith Because it's been evidenced by the works. He has the evidence of a true faith. And this is what James talks about all throughout this book. The people James is dealing with are empty talkers. Some wonderful claims are being made by these people, but James doesn't let us get away with the mere profession of faith. He demands to see proof of that faith in our practice. In James 1. 22 he says, prove yourselves doers of the word, and not merely hearers who delude themselves. Faith without works is a delusion. And the proof is found in our works. That's justification, according to James. Justification of the faith that an individual has. But what Paul talks about in Romans and Galatians is how are we declared innocent in the sight of God? And that is by faith and by faith alone, in Christ alone, and to the glory of God alone. And those who set aside this doctrine make faith in Christ senseless, they make Christ's ministry sinful, and they demote the death of Christ to some superfluous act And we'll explore these more next week. That's why there's a part T, all right. The Roman Catholic Council of Trent, which meant in the mid-16th century, declared this. If anyone says that by the sacraments grace is not conferred through the work worked, but says that faith alone in the divine promises is sufficient for the obtaining of grace. Let him be anathema, eternally condemned. But that came too late for an Augustinian monk. Martin Luther tried everything from sleeping on hard floors to fasting to climbing a staircase in Rome on his knees to seek the forgiveness of God. But peace with God always seemed to elude him. Monasteries, disciplines, confessions, masses, absolutions, good works all proved fruitless. Sometimes he would sit in confession for six hours Six hours evaluating every act. His confessor once told him, if you expect Christ to forgive you, come in with something to forgive. They believed he was worried about trivial things. But Luther understood that God demanded righteousness. And he understood he remained in debt to God. He hated the very word righteousness because he knew it provided a divine mandate to condemn him. It was not until Luther discovered this doctrine of justification by faith. That the doors to paradise swung wide open for Luther. And he found through the study of Scripture that he could stand before a holy God because of the complete and sufficient merit of Christ and Christ alone. Perfect righteousness can be yours today if you're willing to turn from your sin and your self-reliance and trust fully in the person of Christ. Who became sin for you, that you might become the righteousness of God in him. No wonder Luther had a special affection for this book of Galatians. This is my epistle. I have betrothed myself to it. It is my wife. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we can't thank you enough. That we will stand before you, before your throne is absolutely righteous. Not because of any righteousness that we bring to the table, but because of the perfect righteousness of Christ. And we stand before you clothed in his righteousness. Lord, there's nothing in our hands that we bring. It's simply to your cross that we cling. And Father, we thank you that you've provided us a way to escape your wrath, to escape your condemnation, because of what you've given us in Christ. And Father, when we look at our lives, even today, Lord, we can think of things that are enough to condemn us and send us to hell forever. And we're ashamed, Lord, that we even continue to sin after we've been justified. But we don't rely on ourselves. We put our faith and trust completely in you, and we glorify you for that, God. We worship you and we adore you. You're so kind. You're so gracious. You're so loving. You're so merciful. Thank you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.