Uh from the pulpit and circulated around between different churches. You know, they say, oh, we found a skeleton of a human being. Yeah. Electric P T. the f uh that section under we are fascinated with uh fascination is common to human nature we naturally are intrigued and here's some things I mean um we know what happened on 9-11 Um the Hunter Biden selling huge art sums of money uh huge selling art of huge sums of money in order to gain so people can have gain access to the president uh according to this person, they had already discovered and identified what is scripture. Apocrypha, which would be more other intro-testamental books, although and New Testament Apocrypha, like the Gospel of Thomas. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. So um at best you would be it would be very cautious I would yeah they would be very cautious to accept this as actual as an actual copy Around three fifty AD and recognized as being inspired by God. and you read a letter, you read a letter different than you read a poem. scrolls. be useful and one instructions comments. It's not the complete picture, we can't really know. too I think by them too. Uh they're they're they're really off the wall. can of scripture. And people would say, well, maybe this should be part of the scripture. So the Apocrypha was actually kind of an inter-testamental time period. Um some some Protestant denominations also include them, like Anglicans. after that. Just a couple of definitions there you see them canon, Apocrypha, First Council of Nicaea, and Codex. Okay. And that doesn't necessarily mean like the Roman Catholic Church. As believers we are to be assured that God, the Holy Spirit, doesn't just Um the all the works of the apostles were attested by these miracles that were uh you know incontrovertible and Krishna is already going to be distorted in one way. by a possible. Yeah. Paul, but like it doesn't have the form of Paul's letters. scripture. Um it's much more of an inner looking the kingdom is here, how can I make it relevant to my life? in any fragment shape form. Yeah. Revelation twenty two, does it? Yep. So like Genesis eleven has stopped and you put a whole entire book of jokes in there. for. The best one is known as the Gospel of Thomas, which is now part of the Apocrypha. scripture. That is part of the pot. being excluded uh by non-felinistic Jews from their can. With the mission of identifying, you know, how do we determine what is, what should be included? Approximately three hundred church leaders gathered in the city of Bisnian um to discuss major doctrines and the canon of scripture. more that could be said about these and find additional definitions. with what we have currently, right? The the Bible there are all these other books that um you know these these guys met in a room and they decided what to include and what to leave out and they left something out uh selecting things based on what was actually being used in the church globally. um established understanding. Come into the world and just, okay, good luck. Um but again coming down to the inspiration. Chosen by God. now mindset. Or at least as the Thomas that we know of. Because this is from Thomas. possible. Complete list of all 27 New Testament books, and that was around 250 A. Um they already said this was God's word and it is sufficient and it has been handed down by the apostles, it has been protected by and Book. I know Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Canon of Scripture. So I would say it's it's probably not really God can use anything to bring people to salvation. Dig into it because there's a lot out there. approach something like I guess the gospel atomics there. in order to be identified as a true part of Scripture. And I'm gonna talk a little bit about the I think, right? current understanding of who Christ is. gospel? It's probably basically if not the same as 20 letters in here, maybe just a little written a bit differently for the intended audience. And those Gnostic Gospels, those were actually written uh hundreds of years after Jesus. time here, period. what we believe are biblical books. And people will just say, how do you know you have all the books? The apostles. And the only authority coming from God. Well what if, you know, a thousand years later you find out like, no, Jesus wasn't God. You have to be hand-chosen by Jesus. Um so that was that was apostolic authority. those are kind of sketchy, but there's nobody who has seen the risen Christ and nobody who has been taught directly by Jesus around today. And and that's why Paul says, um, you know, when he's talking about teaching, about the the kind of doctrine that we're supposed to follow, uh he compares it in 1 Corinthians to a building. But then the foundation is the apostles and prophets. Oh I think the I think the suggested author is Paul, right? So that would kind of explain why it lacks that signature structure um and could still be written by Paul. How how that was put together. You know, what books were early Christians reading and copying? what I think is most important. They just trying to guess at nobody really knows the author, nobody really knows exactly when it came from. modern era, right? uh the first century in Jesus' time. But from this, uh, which dates around 170 A. Comes from Revelations twenty, eighteen to nineteen. And you know, they they have this this attitude that we have to sit close to it, we have to draw truth out of it. Uh Ezra and YMIO one book. undertaking. Yeah, yeah. Gospels. If the elders will allow me. And so that kind of also drives this these questions of, you know, oh maybe there's something else out there. But that's essentially what it means. concealed to one location. And then in those 20 pages were more places to link. Yeah, being in that apost apostral group. I always kind of go back to the Book of Mormon, would not fit either of those categories, either apostolic authority or antiquity. church from some unknown part of the country comes in and brings in a different gospel if it doesn't match with the basis of salvation. But if you look at the form of Hebrews, a lot of people think that it was actually a sermon, not a letter, right? 3,000 people just descend upon Not to decide the books of the Bible. Yeah. They tag they write it. So it was common for authors to attribute their own writing to somebody else back in that day, which is why there's there's so many difficult questions about authorship. The Gnostic Gospels have very an anachronistic uh terminology in place names. inspired by the Holy Spirit. Yeah, did you guys know that every Old Testament book except for Esther was quoted in the New Testament? The cohesiveness of scripture, right? I wonder how they order the book. Because I know the Hebrew Bible they say uh twenty-two books because they count First and Second Kings as one book, first and second Chronicles, all those Read your Bible and your programs were maybe putting things in chronological order makes sense. Are the books that we shouldn't have that should be thrown out? Or have you yourself thought about like, do we really have the right book? I'm going to tell you a little bit about us back in the time, back in the early times of the church. To protect their their their sin. It's very factual. So there's an intrigue, and that drives people to looking for something other than the scriptures that we have. Like if you find a real legitimate, you know, a real legitimate letter written by Paul, do you think that should be incorporated into the God into the into the scriptures? I'm sorry. Why they didn't just call it authoritative scripture, why they used the term canon, I didn't really go in that direction. How do we distinguish between what really is God's Word versus identify what should be identified and recognized as scripture. Okay? Yeah, yeah, that's a good way to describe it. Yeah, so like the apostolic authority is still there. It had to fit one of these criteria, one of them being antiquity. And you know, the implication there being that it was a small group of people trying to maintain their power right over the church by what they're choosing But they weren't um they weren't just selecting folks based on their uh preference or their ideas. 20 years ago, and everyone was skeptical. doesn't quite doesn't lay flat on the foundation were to reject it. um worth a trip. more of what is currently identified as Canada Scripture versus what the Apocrypha is. I don't know. recently, I think it was even in nineteen forty five or something scroll out where here's a another gospel and then they Actually no. So in the in the 100s. was somebody writing in the second or third century attributed their own their writing to an apostle because they recognized that they could get a lot more readership if they did that It was very mutilated so it wasn't, you know, it when you look at like an actual picture of what this fragment looks like, it's like I don't know if you've ever like looked at like archaeology and they pull out like a study and reach out to kind of go a little deeper and to settle any questions you might have. Like, you know, it's under chapter twelve and then it it's very interesting and chronologically. With great awe and respect. Everyone in the church was very guarded in terms of what they would take in. Uh Tupac did not succumb to gunshot wounds and now lives in Cuba. to n to to to look into what we believe and why we believe because there is a lot of support out there In Matthew 10, speaking, Paul wasn't there, but later on, Paul was saved. So if it's um we all recognize that Jesus Christ is God, right? Yep, yep, good point. um that is uh against current beliefs, it will be questioned. It was more recent that there was any manuscripts even discovered from Thomas. Early church has recognized all books that reveal the necessary doctrines of our faith. And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part from the book of life, from the holy city and from the things which are written in this book. Yeah. Except. That is the driving force between what is what makes up a complete Canada description. I would say that the canon of Scripture, or understanding it or diving into it, two things. So I'm not gonna do this. Yeah. My last uh the only um verse I have here is at the very end of this of your letter uh of of of this um handout, which is going to be Revelation 20. And we'll get to that. How our church fathers looked and evaluated writings that are now in our in our make up our Bible. Yep, yep. It's a fancy word, but it means nothing more than a set of books regarded as authoritative scripture. But we have a lot of information out there that that supports what we believe and why we believe that these books should be part of the canon. Let's see what it says. to um you know inform him of the teaching of Jesus that he went directly from from Christ. If you if you di i if it was decided that the can can infrastructure was not closed, then anything that would follow for thousands and thousands of years would potentially be brought in I think this is an important point too, because like I yeah, I've heard people say, like friends at work say, like, oh you know the You have these three hundred uh church leaders together and like some had had connections with uh those uh early apostles. And understood the history of who Christ was and probably not very many generations afterwards, right? uh scripture. what was used to to to establish kind of uh the uh uh the complete writings of the Bible. Um they didn't take it lightly, um, and they just weren't taking accepting anything. And I don't think you have to necessarily r read it in the way it's written in terms of like I've seen some really good um strived and painfully gone over um and have taken this responsibility. Older guy clearly had read the Bible a lot and he said he's read other gospels and we just picked our own gospels and we have our version of Jesus The Gospel of Thomas is probably the most coherent of the non-canonically apocryphal gospels. But now there's like this intrigue about like, oh, maybe something like the Saudi Arabians were behind this attack or um The summary that I saw was he kind of um identified it as something like a live your best life now kind of thing. And the later books like the Gospel of Thomas. But that's not how they that's not how that's not how the Canada was established. But but a group of scientists will be cautious and if it's if it's just kind of like like I'm trying to remember some crazy things that would try to be brought into uh So I think the take-home message is, like Villa said, it's not just like this little you know couple of guys got in the back room after a movie and said, oh, here, this is what the Bible looks like In that day it was the opposite, right? church authorities of the time. You know, but I can't believe like every other Old Testament book is quote. First of all, be assured that you have all God wants and needs you to know of him. And so we're gonna so it wasn't just like, you know, you know, it was a Saturday night and they just finished a movie and oh let's just put some books together. How how do you know this is God's word? There's a so there's all different kinds of findings, for example, these Gnostic Gospels. Canon actually means like rule or ruler. Something that is not that should not be like included. It's like one, two, three, four, five. What has already been established as the universal church, that doctrine would be rejected. Which also points to the fact that a rogue renegade group who's who comes in and says, Oh, here's you gotta include this book, but this book doesn't There's that as well. So you're gonna see, just looking back as evidence, far more of what's already in our New Testament versus what is not. How can I how can I worship how can I get my best life now rather than um Yeah, saving myself rather than seeking God for salvation or seeing Christ as God Um I'm sorry, it was your I I may have deviated from your question. Yeah, and I don't see any uh yeah, wide speculation in terms of when it was actually composed. I'm also looking at uh several uh early church authorities. That we have the necessary writings of God. As part of still kind of part of the introduction, we have, as human beings, kind of a fascination with intrigue and cover-up. rather than a dependence upon God, which is what all the apostles taught while they were here Why or why not? I didn't think Catholics called the the middle books White Maccabees Apocrypha He was not an apostle. So that makes sense to be a criteria for what we accept as God's Word, right? A small group who brought something in, it might be enticing and interesting, but it if it doesn't fit and doesn't pan out with what's currently established, it's going to be rejected. So so that that's crucial, like you know, because there are there are some people today who say like oh I'm an apostle, you know, God handpicked me. Trying to remember how many people they get. Yeah, so um yeah let's go down to the um the apocrypha there. I did a little kind of a little deviation there. Actually, it's kind of positioned between Old Testament and New Testament, never acknowledged by Christ, nor referenced in the New Testament. New Testament, which identified as New Testament material. you know, what previous established doctrines are. So in back end then, 367, recognized what we currently accept as our New Testament books. It's a good study. But that was written over a span of time that parallels all the historical books. So, how are the books of the Bible identified as being God's Word? And I would say they're not really interested in learning the truth. So be assured there's tons of resources out there to support the notion that you have exactly what God wants you to have. Oh maybe there's more God, there's more out there. Codex. We should take heed, we should notice, right? So someone like um like Paul. I also wanted just some interesting bullet points on the top about what these early Christians were like. They didn't know what they were talking about. Not necessarily an apologetics. I would assume that anyone who comes up to you and doesn't believe the c the completeness of scripture probably doesn't know any of these words. So the uh I thought are you calling Apocrypha any books in between the Old and New Testament? So there's there is a temporal split. He was part of the early church, so he wrote um eyewitness accounts that the apostles related to him about what Jesus did and taught. large groups of well written, well versed um people who who probably even But we do know that it it it fits in and doesn't challenge current understanding, current doctrines. Yeah, the gospel of Thomas from a summary that I read was um I guess we can talk a little about when it gets to be a pocket. So a new discovery was found. Yep, I've heard that terminology too. Oh okay, that's all right. Again, presents Jesus as a role model rather than God man. Little clues that you can use. So there is evidence out there that what we have was already established and considered conical. I need a month. What's look at? I and I I actually, you know, there are a lot of other like the Apocrypha we'll hit on a little bit, which is about fourteen other writings I like that. So these apostles have been told the Spirit is going to be speaking for you. Yeah, yeah. So it's Hebrews isn't very interesting. I started with like books like this. And plus probably the most important thing, and I don't mean to leave it out, is God, the Holy Spirit, has not left us alone. So let's look at some, because this kind of is kind of basic foundational information. I don't want to say personal secretary, but like traveling by hand ascribed. The most significant books should be those that were written during the during those times, right? Any thoughts on the criteria? Uh the entire area in Southern California is completely booked in terms of hotels because Like today, uh everyone wants to take credit for their own writing, right? writings that are out there that may claim one thing but uh in reality um should be rejected as here is based on the full criteria of Well how do you think we re how do you think the books on the Bible were particularly? Any comments? Well I guess the descriptions of with the letters that we already have basically covers everything we already need to know. So it's not just anybody you could write. Yep. Those directly taught by Christ as well. Was it very late? Or references that kinda seem like, what? Apocrypha. So this is authority of apostleship. Um otherwise you're just gonna if you op if if that was opened up for you know So I wrote, they were not in disarray over which books to read. God said in Revelation twenty, eighteen and nineteen, doesn't so, so change it to twenty-two. Yeah, yeah. So I'm just gonna read I'm gonna read a little bit just uh some of these bullet points on what the canon of scripture are And it's not something that our church fathers took lightly. There probably is some agreement, but in terms of what's what what you need to know and what's already been identified as the Bible, there is no need to add, right? It's a fantastic experience and really super super um motivating and encouraging and um And so it's really hard to date these gospels with with any external evidence, but there's there's sort of um I'm sure there's tons of spurious writings and sure I'll start linking here and that you know books. Canon scripture defines defines books as God's word. And before I kind of begin, I I I want to I'm going to give you the conclusion before we actually go through this study. You could say no. I would love to go, and I haven't really studied any of them per se, but I'm definitely going to. So what what do we do with books like Luke, where's were you know Luke and Acts were written by someone who wasn't actually technically an apostle So So I kinda just threw some things in. Um the Gnostic Gospels, um these were um oh sorry Okay, so Jesus is talking to his disciples, and he says, For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father speaking through you. Didn't you have to see Jesus? Both mostly how we got it today I think is how the early church did it. And before I go into it, let me tell you this. But they did know truth. I'm trying to think of a an analogy. Any questions or thoughts on what the criteria of canonicity is? If you're basing it not off canonical biblical truth, then already your foundation as a Christian, self-professing Christian One uh so there's also a lot of early if you want you could really dive into a lot of the uh Yeah. Rather than me telling you what it says. There is basic understanding amongst kind of a group communion of scientists. They can do miracles, maybe. So I have next some criteria of canonicity. Okay, so your question on the Gospel of Thomas. And you know, so so somebody writing in probably what happened with these uh Gnostic Gospels, like the Gospel of Thomas or of Peter or of Mary Oh, one other thing. Even back then they rejected it. Let's look at some definitions. Yeah, there's a lot of these kind of spurious. So there's a lot to study, but there's a lot out there that supports what we have. It's very intellectual. But let me assure you, there's tons of stuff. Yes, yes. But everyone else who comes later builds on top of that. Right, yeah. I highly recommend diving into it. Okay. Now these were church members from across the region and they would gather um with But yeah, it's it's interesting to read uh all these things. So I'm I'm putting that on me. Because Apocrypha means like the secret book. Yeah, I yeah. I'm not gonna spend my time going for unknown outside things that haven't been identified as It was much later. Some closing remarks. It's not chronological, right? It was more of like the kingdom is at hand and you can have the kingdom now. A set of established books that make up our scripture. Well, there's like a a finger bone and a piece of the skull. That's how that's how it was ordered before. And I would say the people who who come up to you and question the Canon of Scripture know absolutely nothing about the Canon of Scripture Off the wall. The two things. I think it's it it's re should be Revelation twenty two eighteen and nineteen, doesn't it? But but like none of the other apocryphal or deuter Deuterocanonical books were quoted in the New Testament. Tested by miracles. Somebody writes it has heretical teachings, but they tag somebody that was connected so then you could say, hey look, this is authoritative. Like the the apostles and Jesus himself were so immersed in God's Word. Nothing else needs to be added. Codex means a book or manuscript. They get like thousands of several thousand people They're just a bunch of people running around. Yes, twenty-two. Yeah, it's funny. So there's twenty-two, not thirty-nine, but it's all the same books anyway. Okay. What we read, original writings, copies, translations, support the claim that we have the original content. Could you imagine going in and having to decide what books are really God's Word? Questions? Apostolic authority. And so as believers, our roots and our salvation is honestly the foundation for everything that comes later in our life. Yeah, the criteria for apostolic authority only applies to the user. I took a college course where they had us read the Gospel of Thomas and you know that they were sort of comparing it side by side against the canonic Yep. And Luke passes this test with flying colours, by the way. It also again conflicts and contradicts what's already established. One was Athanasius of Alexandria. Or we don't really have the right ones. Well, if you go back, um a thousand years ago, they had already, according to this uh uh uh I might be in trouble. See? So these other gospels that I think you're gonna get into, they obviously tore him from the faith. Um yeah. Yes. Like, does the language, the vocabulary, the geography, the place names and stuff, does that match up with what would have been used in So you should be assured to what that what you have is what you need and what God wants you to have. They're just like off their right. Our father, church fathers, looked at this kind of stuff. Um I think Gospel Attempts is one of them You didn't want your writing to be seen as coming just from you and your own authority. Yeah. It wasn't really from Thomas. Yeah, so there are different groups of of these other books, right? And I just jotted down a verse there, Matthew 10, 20, where Jesus is speaking to his apostles. So so do people claim that Thomas was the gospel of Thomas? I'm gonna give them, you know, identified You gotta look and you gotta you gotta you gotta check. As I dug in, there are tons of writings out there. First Council of Nicaea, 325 A. It's more of a the universal church at that time. It was just a bunch of guys, you know, a thousand years ago just scrambled together and put some letters together. I don't want to believe, and so I'm going to look for any way possible to justify my unbelief. Oh, it could be apologetics, but it's not necessarily necessarily like an evangelistic tool. So like a um early church so if you early church is a shepherd's conference You have to have seen him risen from the dead, been an eyewitness to his resurrection. There were criteria for the old testament as well. I've also heard the uh so there's Gospel of Mary, Gospel of Peter, there's other these other books Denials? Maybe we'll look what the Castle of Thomas looks like, a little more in depth. Oh yes. Biblical books received by the early church as part of the Greek version of the Old Testament, but not included in the Hebrew Bible Let's see what we got there. Those are going to be the most important books, right? It's not the the criterion was not that it literally had to be the hand of the apostle moving the pen. I can never pronounce this word. Yeah, you have to see Jesus after his resurrection. Which is what we see a lot today, right? I've I've kind of have you ever gone into you know gone into sermons and like someone'll reference a a verse and you go there and you're like, wait a minute, that's there. Do you know how many books on the canon of scripture there are? Or I'm sh I'm not sure. It's very solid. Yeah who who's ever the rest I need to be a copy. Let's say you do find another letter from Paul. Yeah, there there's a span of time um where these non conical books emerge. It's the the five bullet points at the very bottom. So either he had some special knowledge that we don't have anymore or it was connected close enough that But probably more like the two hundreds. I bring in something heretical and someone caught it. Mm-hmm. And each time you hit one of those links, it would go to another 20 pages. Yeah, all over the world come um for just fantastic teaching and um I I I'm actually kind of intrigued 'cause I've I've never really read them, but I'm planning on doing them. I think the Gospel of Thomas was part of this time period. Amy, you're right. You sure about that? It was kind of interesting. Try to figure it out on your own. Paul's letters always start with a greeting where he says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, uh, to the church in such and such Oh I see referring to like you know uh s for John MacArthur's sh uh it's a conference happens in March, it's a few days, it's mostly pastors, teachers. Looking at the what was the popularity of the Apocrypha of these books? It was uh I mean, you know, there's there's probably scholarly obeyed on this. The books are the same. Here here's a criteria for Canada Cliver. But he was recognized as um you know what how would you do deal with with the book of Luke? So it was like it wasn't that a small group of people was trying to dictate what the church used, that small group of people was recognizing what the church was already using in scripture. Yeah, those directly taught by Christ himself. So they were very careful as to what they would take in scripture. Because I really didn't know um does everyone know what all these words meant? Um antiquity. Exactly. For I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, if anyone adds to these things, God will add to him the plagues that are written in the spirit Right. D. Yep. And just I because they don't know why they believe that. Um look when I go to a science meeting It had to be written during that time. So can there be any apostles today? Well if even if they can do miracles, they can do that. Can we look at it? Good question. It's like you know, somebody who who would claim that these are part of God's authoritative revelation probably hasn't gone and read them. I mean there's all these kind of like things of intrigue. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, Joseph Smith wrote something, but he's clearly not an apostate. Maybe it could have just been a different Thomas. Well the Old Testament's easier because you just establish the New Testament and then Jesus affirms the Old Testament. God, Jesus Christ, has given them authority to speak on his behalf. Um and then really uh should have probably been at the top of the list for criteria of canonicity. Certainly not in the New Testament. Here are all these fantastic manuscripts. So anything that is found later has to be compared to what has already been accepted. No. Um well yeah, I tested so maybe two more criteria. I I only stayed with the New Testament and I still scratching the surface. If you compare the New Testament books that we have compared to the Apocrypha, there's like four times If you start to dive in, you'll see there's a lot of spurious Did you have words? There might be some some some information, but it shouldn't change anything that we have already identified as. So something you want to, you know, if I'm going to hand out anything to a class, I'm going to give them , it identified 21 of the 27 canopy books on the thousand. They're just it would be interesting to read it, you know, this way. What if we find lost books of the Bible? And I just hope I can intrigue you enough to go out and There was someone who said they had cloned a human being this was ye It's just not only is it cool from an apologetic standpoint, but like As I went through, I would find something and I would click on it and it'd be like 20 pages Does a book claim an apostle as author? So same thing would be with Luke. I've heard that in the Athanasius letter that you have listed here, that he group Hebrews in with the rest So that's the key point in this air. A poem you read different from a um you know a it's a different a sermon. I'm trying to make this as interesting as possible because this thing is super dry. But if I just read this thing to you, you're going to fall asleep. Well Christ is the cornerstone, yeah. D. Um and yeah, Deuteronomy Canonical is more more the word for those. Paul is another example, not necessarily a So like we went over before, the other books in the New Testament, they were widely circulated. They agonized those because they wanted to get this right. Um and they had the apostles, and so they had maybe not written on on paper yet, or I should say Like the standards I was talking about. So not really in the Antro Testamental period, but No. I guess we're just talking new testaments because the old testament is not written Okay. And it wasn't just a small group and it wasn't just a group kind of Um I do want to look at what this gospel is. So good. Some things changed with the English Bible. I know Paul's letters are from the longest to the shortest. Catholic Catholic s Catholic city Catholic city. So that's what we're doing right now. And so we have we have people like attaching their name to their own writing and even we have plagiarism, right? This is kind of what this fragment looked like. Um and when you go to like the Gospel of Thomas, um I guess my take-home message would be don't be afraid God intended his word to be preserved forever. Can we be sure that we have all the correct books? Everyone. Um does everybody know like what it means to be an apostle? And you know, as I was just saying if you do get if you do sit down and read something like the gospel Today's kind of a very superficial me, you know Several of them considered it to be heresy. I mean, we kind of think, you know, oh those ancient words. Um can you check that reference one more time? Oh I did add. The Holy Spirit works and protects what's been written and what we identify and recognize as God's Word Yeah there is there is a graphical comment. So that would go against And there was this other interesting find called the Muratorian Fragment. Oh maybe we missed something. That would be the closest um in terms of times of Christ. God protects and has brought his words together so that we have what we need to have. They were very concerned with what they what they read. Like these were this the the books that were being read Like Luke is a is widely regarded as a great historian, uh very contemporary terminology and place names Yeah. Or yes, and we'll just go on because everyone's good on the canning on scripture. And at that time that same person recognized what we already currently have as our collection of screen. Identifies transition from scrolls to book form. Yes, between the five Uh the position in Christian use usage has been ambiguous Right. Yeah. They're just hiding behind a dozens of rabbit holes So in between the Old Testament times and the New Testament times, the Apocrypha is dated to. They refer to things that you know essentially would have only been recognized by someone writing hundreds of a hundred years later or so. He was uh around 367 A. One is people will come at you and they and they will rattle your faith. D. The apostle if the apostles speak it Luke, uh the author was actually recog recognized by uh the apostles. Bunch of verses there uh that I have. And um yep, and there's one more criterion that in that to be an apostle. A couple of bullet points there. When when was the Gospel of Thomas written? Actually, let me ask you this I mean I don't think the I mean the the Old Testament is more of like fanatic, uh right. It was really a s it was really focused on an inward self So it had to fit and be accepted amongst the universal church. Now they won't totally write it off because it might be something interesting Um group of fourteen writings, one of them being Gospel of Thomas. Um and and I think it's also very helpful when And then it continues up to 12. Men and women have He was like an offspring of the God of Zeus. That's sort of a shorthand for the New Testament and the Old Testament. Is is that jolting now? I would say understanding the canon of Scripture is really to give you assurance that you really do have a word of God. I've heard it I've heard them call it Butero Canonical is the second canon And so he had Paul, who was an apostle. It was it had to be So another criteria is it has to agree with established doctrines. The 27 books of the New Testament have been universally accepted since Um But I also wanted to show you, like, back in 367 A. And it turned out it was fraudulent. I'm gonna say I'm gonna I remember a guy uh a few years ago I was talking to So there's there's those intertestamental ones that some of which are included in Catholic or or Jewish Bibles. So he's he's the boom he you know the first stone thrown down that defines the shape of the building. I did. It's exactly what happened. Gotta be discerning. Yeah. This was um this is a a quick little snapshot Well so I think even more important is where we understand soteriology. Anyone have any thoughts? And I'm going to look into it. Not Joseph Smith, 2,000 years later, right? So that first kind of hundred years or so, two hundred years. Um So people were reading, they were copying, they were teaching with This Bible is trustworthy and complete. Also in the Dead Sea Scroll. So the things that you say, the things that you write, is what God is inspiring you to. It was delivered as an oral address Or maybe we have, you know, we only have part one of the book of Matthew. So there's a lot of information out there and a lot to support Yeah, so Luke Luke he wasn't just writing, you know, whatever came into his mind, right? But yeah, that's that's a good point. It was very mutilated and hard to decipher. Yeah. But even it just sounds really bizarre and weird. So uh Orthodoxy. So acceptance amongst the universal church, right? Paul was given direct revelation, and he was recognized as Um That's you know, it's just an inspiring attitude that we should emulate today. Um There's a lot So if you want, you can kind of highlight that criteria of Canada City. They were Not to decide the books of the Bible, but to agree with what's already in chapter Change that. There's going to be these definitions, and then on the next page we're going to go and look at uh the criteria for And there are there are even some people who claim to do miracles. You wanted to attach your writing to the name of somebody with authority I mean I'm sure Paul wrote more letters than than what we have, right? And I'm pretty sure I don't want to see I'm very sure that any other letters that are out there I didn't I didn't it's on the it's on the bottom of the first page there? If you ever get the chance to to to go and go to one, it's Do you think it should be incorporated as scripture? And so there had to be a criteria. And that kind of mindset is also you also find with people who kind of question it So Matthew ten twenty. Because if it was like like the disciple, then some of you would contradict what you learned from I didn't see anything that identifies him as the as the writer I don't know. It's already two warm minutes. But these are good questions. But uh an aside, yeah. I should say I kind of took this from John MacArthur Yeah Yeah, exactly. Never credibly credibly linked to any apostle. Any other thoughts? And they also they also took it very seriously. So um why don't we go into a And I just really want to see how our church fathers And kind of Cany, Apocrypha, Codex? Have you ever has anyone ever questioned you or said D. We should be assured of You think the Bible is complete? It's a huge, huge Dated back to this time period, right? I just put some bullet points on there. It's very different from ours. I would love to do a little bit more of the Old Testament, but that just Esther wasn't quoted from the New Testament, therefore forget it. Right. It had to agree with established and accepted doctrines, right? We don't know for sure if you wrote these Ooh. Okay. So it's like, oh, really? When I started this little adventure Yeah. These were ancient books. Another person, Origin, produced a How did I do that? So Yeah. Yeah. Attested by miracles, but I heard something else over here and he um he was a recognized hist historian and theologian Right? So um Which reference? Um Yeah. But essentially it Twenty-two. Um it was pr So again, um our church fathers wrestled with It was the apostle had to be the voice behind the content. And it's been a while since I read read the estimates, but I think it was at the earliest second century. I mean that I remember I I looked this up a couple weeks ago and I was like wow There were some definite criteria and um Secondly Then then there's the Apocrypha, which I've heard people describe talk about Old Testament Apocrypha. Catholic la If you try to come in with something really off the wall One is called the Gospel of Thomas. Are there missing books? So kind of a similar analogy It's it's kind of again this kind of came from a summary um and it has kind of this live your perfect life Um So maybe next time Um and also he was sort of like Paul's Why not? And so his book, Book of Mormon, is not going to be part of the canon of scripture. Or who who is an apostle? They were discovered in Egypt in 1945 Well, I think I've heard Thomas is different because It wasn't really anything that had anything to do with um The book of Thomas. They even published And that it's complete. So it's a it's it's it's a differ Yeah. Um You should listen to this. And I hope, if nothing else, I'd intrigue you to maybe. And we're going to look at what the criteria was. So But we can't lay another foundation on it. And again, that the last thing I would leave with you is. Like how do you know you have all the books? Um but the Old Testament would be an interesting study too. How do you know it's it's God's word Um again I think this comes out to the fact that as So the book of How do they decide on what should go into your Bible? So canon Uh and what does he call the foundation of that building? That that actually wondered. Um right. So you'd want to give those the most It wasn't a casual undertaking. I mean, honestly But if you go and read any of the other ones There's like free copies online. We can see that in the Yeah I didn't And and he says, no one can lay a different foundation than that. D. Thomas was more There's the the wisdom literature is all grouped together Esther is not present. But there's a big section right there in the intertest world. by St. That doesn't stick. He went around and he interviewed People claiming other people's writings as their own I don't know. So something that's written Anybody know all this stuff? Should have been to the left there a little bit. So um So if um That's why this is so It's related. I should um Athansius. Maybe there's a part two. Where's the book of Mac?