Open your Bibles for a second time to the Gospel of Luke and chapter one. Last week we began our investigation of the events surrounding the first Christmas. We studied the sudden and shocking appearance of the angel Gabriel in the temple In Jerusalem to Zacharias the elderly priest. Gabriel reported to Zacharias that his petition had been answered And he and his wife Elizabeth incredibly would bear a son in their old age. This special son, whose name was given and was to be John. He would be a great man, a great man in Israel. And not only would he be great, but he would be a unique child. He, unlike any other, would be filled with the Holy Spirit even while he was in his mother's womb, Elizabeth's womb. And when he grew up, he would serve as a prophet. He would serve in the spirit and the power of the great prophet Elijah. Israel had not had a prophet in four hundred years, so this indeed was very, very exciting news for them. John's mission would be crying against the sins of a nation. He would be Called forth to proclaim the Word of God and to call a nation whose hearts had drifted away from God back to the Lord their God. Call them to repentance. This power-filled proclamation would result both in individual conversion and national repentance, at least to an extent. We really wish we had more preachers like John the Baptist in the world today who would not coddle sin but call it what it is and cry against it. But John's role was really even more unique than that For the angel announced that God Himself, the Lord of all of creation, was on his way and was coming down to Israel. He was coming in the person of the Messiah, the anointed king. And that is why Israel's hearts had to be prepared, prepared for the arrival of the Lord. This baby boy, this John. was to be more than a prophet. Later Jesus would say of John the Baptist in chapter 7, verse 28, I say to you, among those born of women there is no one greater than John. What a statement to make of a man He was the one man chosen by God to herald the arrival of Israel's king, the Messiah, whom we call the Christ. So this announcement by Gabriel in the temple was simply stunning. It really marked a transition point We call it biblical history, but biblical history is telling us what God is doing, so it's in all of world history. This announcement would change the world. Gabriel announced the arrival of events that the fathers of faith of long ago had waited and longed to see, and they in their day and generation would get to see them. Yet Zacharias, who was representing the nation of Israel there, burning incense before the Lord in the holy place, Rather than responding with jubilant faith, rather than leaping with joy at this announcement by the angel, he faltered. He stumbled. He waffled in his skepticism. He did not believe instantly the word of God. He felt he needed a sign, a sign miracle, so he could know it was really true. After all, his wife was quite old. And of course, asking for that sign in unbelief did not please the Lord. So the angel did give him a sign, a punitive sign And Zacharis left the temple muted with his mouth shut by God. He says close his mouth, you're not going to get to use your mouth. Unable to tell the people the wondrous news of Christmas Now, just as Luke promised, way back in verses 1 through 4, which was his preface to his gospel, Luke continues to write out for us an orderly account of the historical events that formed the foundation of the Christian faith. Luke's stated purpose back in verse 4 of chapter 1 is that his readers would know the exact history. Why? Because knowing the exact history that is the foundation of your faith and my faith strengthens our faith. We see what it is all about, and as our faith gets stronger, it increases our joy as well. That's really my prayer for all of us as we read and study together. There would be more joy in our hearts because of the faith that we have that's built up from this passage. Really, joy is one of the great themes of the Gospel of Luke, particularly in these early narratives. In these early chapters, we are studying What some people have labeled the infancy narratives, the stories of the births of John the Baptist and Jesus. Each infancy story follows a clear pattern, you may have noticed Luke first gives his readers the historical setting to what happened. And then he tells of a prophetic pronouncement by the angel Gabriel. And then that is followed by explaining how those who heard the angelic announcement responded to it. And then last Luke records the fulfillment of the prophecy. That was Luke's pattern in writing these infancy narratives. But in the case of the story of the fulfillment of this first prophecy about John the Baptist, Luke now throws in a bit of a twist into the narrative. He breaks off from the account of John, because you're expecting to hear what happens with John, but he breaks off from that and he weaves in the other infancy story. Later he will return to the fulfillment not only of John but of Jesus. And so he's intertwining these infancy narratives, and by doing that Luke is telling us something also, that the lives of these two baby boys were intertwined, they were connected there in Israel. Now today we come to one of those breakoff points, a twist in the narrative, rather than continuing to tell us about Elizabeth's pregnancy and about John's birth that was mentioned in verses 24 and 25, where we left off before Luke now switches over to focus on the announcement of Jesus' birth in verse 26. Verse 26. And so today, following Luke's intriguing design, it is Jesus, and more importantly, at this point in the story, his mother, who will be our focus, and how she responds in faith to this announcement. I tell you, we are in for a blessing because this is more than just a story about the birth of a baby. Interwoven in here also, really embedded in this text, is much rich truth about Jesus Christ and about our faith and who he is and what he was intended to do. And I just hope that you can really glow in your hearts as you think about the truths that are proclaimed here about Jesus. Through the angel. I want you to notice first, following Luke's pattern, this introduction to his story. Look at verses 26 and 27 of chapter 1. There Luke writes, now in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city in Galilee called Nazareth. To a virgin engaged to a man whose name was Joseph of the descendants of David. And the virgin's name was Mary. Just as in the last story about Zacharias, Luke begins by giving the time of the angel's visit. He says it's in the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy. That little notation immediately connects this story with the previous one. The stories are also connected because the same angel who visited Zacharias in the temple now visits Mary. But there is a difference this time. This time God sends Gabriel not to a great place like the temple, not to a place of grandeur, but to a much less known place. really an unlikely place to Galilee, which was not known as a great province in those days, at least among the Jews And in Galilee, Gabriel was sent to a specific city. It's really just a town at this time, Nazareth Nazareth was roughly 50 miles to the north of Jerusalem. It was an insignificant village. There was nothing special at all about Nazareth at that time. Archaeology has proven the early existence of the town of Nazareth. Tombs and pottery found there confirm a Jewish settlement. in Nazareth at this very time. I throw that in because modern archaeology again and again has confirmed the accuracy of Luke's notations and the setting for his story. There are a lot of hyper-critical liberal scholars out there that tend to dominate in the media, and they are very inaccurate in what they say. Luke is the one who is accurate historically There was a Nazareth in Galilee, and this is where the angel went. Now the Jews in Jerusalem looked down on all Galileans. Galilee had a strong agricultural economy, but it was not a prestigious place. You might think of it as a blue-collar kind of a place. Judea, on the other hand, was the region around Jerusalem, the city of God, the city of David. It was the place to get close to God, to show devotion to God, to learn from the most learned men from the Torah. So Judea was honored above the other provinces. Galilee was no special place. That's why a pious Jew Like Nathanael in John 1, verse 46 asks, can anything good come out of Nazareth? Well, ha ha, you just wait and see. This is how God is working in this story. You know, I got to thinking, it was really doubtful that if if God had asked the leaders of Israel, where do you think this announcement about the birth of the Messiah should come, that the leaders up there in Jerusalem would have said, Well, let's pick Nazareth, that's a very good place to have it This is outside the thinking of man again. This is a work of God. God's way of dealing with men is different. And he can deal with smug spiritual pride in his own way. So he sends Gabriel this time to a remote village to an unknown country girl named Mary. Yet Mary's little village will become a very significant spot on the map, for Jesus eventually would be known as Jesus of what? Nazareth. That's what we call them today. And Mary will become the most famous mother of all time. Who was Mary? We're so familiar with her we don't take time sometimes to think about that. Young Jewish girl there growing up in Galilee in the first century. Call her a girl because she was very young. Notice in verse 27, Luke describes her in two ways. First, she's described as a virgin. The original Greek word for virgin is Parthenon It means precisely what it means in English, a virgin, a young girl who is completely chaste, who has never known a man. Lest there be any doubt to that meaning. Verse thirty-four confirms that Mary up to this point had never slept with a man. Hold on to that thought because for Luke it is very significant as the narrative unfolds and explain why that is important to note. Second, Luke also describes Mary as engaged. Engaged. Now, engagement does not mean what we think it means. Mary was not staring, starry-eyed, at a little ring on her finger, or hoping for the day that she'd eventually get married Rather, this refers to the Jewish state of betrothal, whereas an engagement in our culture can be called off before the wedding. A Jewish betrothal was just as binding as our legal marriages. So binding was a betrothal that a legal divorce was needed to end it. In the law of Moses and Deuteronomy 22, verse 23, the betrothed woman legally belonged to the groom, even before any physical union had taken place. And if the betrothal ended through death to the man, the woman was considered a widow, even if she was young. We know too that a woman could be betrothed as early as age, you ready for this? 12 And the custom was to betroth daughters sooner rather than later. Why? So the father could better guarantee her purity. And since the betrothal usually lasted about a year, it is likely Mary was still a teenager, 14, 15, somewhere in there. We can't pin it down, but it would have been very, very young. So though the formal wedding ceremony had not taken place at this time, and Mary had not known a man yet, Mary was legally married. She was betrothed to Joseph. And only one thing is told us about Joseph. He has said that he is of the house and David. That means that Joseph was descended directly from the great King David who ruled in Israel before Joseph's time 1,000 years earlier. Again, as we move along, we'll see how important that little fact is. That's Luke's introduction to this part. Now, as we proceed, our story outline will follow the conversation between the angel And Mary. It's going to go back and forth. First we hear the angel's greeting, then Mary's reaction. Next, the angel's announcement, then Mary's question. And finally, the angel's answer, followed by Mary's That's our outline just following the conversation. Look at verse 28 with me. The angel's greeting. The angel's greeting. And coming in, he, Gabriel, said to her, Greetings, favored one, the Lord. Is with you. The angel enters into Mary's house. How? Well, we're not told Angels, if they're angels, they could do it any way they want to. They don't really need to knock or do whatever else the rest of us have to do. When you can just pop in in the middle of the temple, you can just pop in in the middle of the house. It's really not a big deal. For them. It seems like he would have appeared suddenly just as he did to Zacharias. And then after he appears, he says to her, Hail, favored one, the Lord is with you. Now, hail means greetings to you. And then he says, Mary is a favored one. The Latin Vulgate translation of the Bible, which the Western Church used for many centuries, translates this Hail Mary full of grace, as if Mary herself was full of grace and the angel was recognizing that. If that were true, it might also mean that Mary, being full of grace, was able to dispense Grace to others as well, and indeed many believe that. But that is far, far beyond the meaning of the Greek term here Quite simply, favored one in this context means a woman who is richly blessed, a favored woman by God. The angel is not indicating that Mary was a possessor or dispenser of grace. In fact, quite the opposite, she was one who had received grace. from God. She had received this blessing, this favor, this undeserved favor from God. By the way, Scripture never speaks of grace as a substance, some kind of a spiritual substance that can be possessed by someone and then passed out to others to be able to help them along in their spiritual way. If that were the case, all of us would have a little bit of it, because listen to the Gospel of John Chapter 1 and verse 16 he says, For of his fullness we have all received, and grace upon grace. That means we have lots of grace, and if we could have that, we could also dispense that. What Mary received here was something she did not deserve, and she will recognize that. Unfortunately, from this faulty Latin translation comes the popular Catholic prayer, Hail Mary But the angel, of course, is not praying to Mary, nor is the angel ascribing to Mary any extra powers of any kind. The fact is that no one in the early church ever appealed to Mary or prayed to Mary or trusted in Mary or believed that Mary could dispense grace about anything She is not God, she cannot hear the prayers, much less answer the prayers, she is not omniscient, neither then nor now The angel is simply greeting her and recognizing the fact that she has been specially chosen by God to receive an amazing favor. And his greeting is also meant to reassure Mary that there is no harm intended to her. Of course, Mary herself is totally baffled by this greeting. This is a young girl. And just imagine being in her shoes. What would she be thinking here? Let's look a second at Mary's reaction in verse 29. But she was very perplexed at this statement and kept pondering what kind of salutation this was. What is he saying? Rather than being reassured by the angel's words, you know they're always popping up somewhere and they're saying, Don't be afraid. And the person they're saying to, if you're reading the scripture, they're always terrified. Just never seems to calm anybody down, at least at first. Verse 29, Mary is greatly troubled at this statement. The statement itself troubled her along with the messenger. It says she kept pondering the greeting. And it wasn't a first thought, a second, a third thought. She's trying to figure this out, and she's really alarmed. You have to imagine a flood of thoughts and questions might have come to her mind at this point in time. Who is this? A heavenly visitor? Why is he here? What does this mean? What is he saying about me? What did that mean? How am I favored? Her attention is completely fixed upon the angel and his greed. I mean he has her attention. She is right there with him. Little did Mary know that she was about to hear the announcement that would forever shape her life. Evidently there was some kind of a pause between Gabriel's greeting and his announcement. How long, we can't be sure, but Mary possibly had a couple of minutes to consider what this was all about. She clearly was troubled, she was anxious, she was even fearful, but again, the angel reassures her. Notice now thirdly to the angel's announcement in verses 30 through 33. The angel's announcement. This is amazing. The angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor. With God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall name him Jesus. Let's stop there. What an extraordinary announcement. I'm sure Mary was just simply breathless as it goes on to talk about the greatness of this sun. Verse 30 again, it says, Do not be afraid. The angel is urging that. You have nothing to fear. Why? Because you have found favor with God. God is well pleased to bestow literally his grace upon you, is what it means. In other words, God now is working and is extending grace towards you, Mary. God is sovereign. He can do whatever he wants, and he in his sovereign Choice has selected you, he's chosen you for a very special and unique service. Verse 31. Behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son. Behold is one of those words that means stand up and take notice. What I'm about to say is very important. Something wonderful is about to happen to you. You in your own womb will conceive and bear a son. This son, Mary, you must name Jesus. There's no other name that may be given to him. He must be named Jesus Jesus, or in Hebrew, Yeshua was a popularized shorter name of Yhoshua, or we say Joshua Which means the Lord is Savior. Once again, just as in John's case, the name was full of meaning, obviously. What follows here are three mind-boggling truths about baby Jesus, the Savior. Look at verse 32. First, it says in verse thirty-two, he will be great. He will be great. This is the same description that Gabriel gave John the Baptist back in chapter 1, verse 15. Greatness is just a general description that means that he will grow up to be a man of great impact and of renown. Luke's readers might be thinking, What can come out of Nazareth? This little girl, it's insignificant, but hear the announcement is from the angel, and if the heavenly visitor says he's going to be great, it doesn't matter what the Roman Empire thinks of him, he indeed will be great. John may have been called the prophet of the Most High, but notice the second thing said about this baby, about Jesus. He will not only be called great, not only be great. You will be called what? The son of the most high. He will be called the son of the most high. Now to say that Jesus is the Son of the Most High is just another way of saying that Jesus is the Son of God, for God is most high, right? 2 Samuel 22, 14 says of God, the Lord thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice. God is the most high. In Hebrew, it is El-Elyan, God Most High. So the meaning is clear. Your son, Mary, will be God's son. The son of El Elion will be inside your womb. You have any idea how unfathomable this statement would be to her? I mean, there's no way she's processing all of this theologically this quick. She's just knocked out of her first-century stock. She doesn't know what to say. Jesus is going to be in a class all by himself. He is the Son of God By the way, not an adopted child of God, as you and I are, through our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the only begotten, the unique Son of God, in a class all by himself, of a different being Galatians 4:4, when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman. Jesus is the Son of God. It is his unique title. It is Jesus' unique position. Indeed, it is his unique being The fact that in John's writings he labels him the only begotten son of God, Mononganes, which can be translated the unique son of God. The only begotten. Dr. John MacArthur makes this note about this title. Since the son bears his father's qualities, calling a person someone else's son was a way of signifying equality. Here the angel was telling Mary that her son would be equal to the most high God However, calling Jesus the Son of God in this context would have meant something even more specific to Mary. Please notice the third thing said about him in verses 32 and 33, that this son will also be a king. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have No end. Gabriel says, the Son of God, he will come and God's going to give him the kingdom, the throne, the everlasting throne of his father. Now that means great, great, great, great, great, great. Great, super great grandpa. And we have to understand in the context of this announcement how she would have understood this. Mary is a Jew, right? Mary gr is growing up in Israel. She's familiar with the Old Testament. The New Testament hasn't even been written yet. And the Old Testament clearly connects the idea of the Son of God and the coming of the Son of God and the Son of David as the coming of a king. A king! I want you to keep your finger here. Let's turn back to Psalm 2 for a minute. Look at this. Psalm 2. How important is Psalm 2 to understand the two comings of Christ Who Jesus is and what he's come to do. Particularly it will be fulfilled at his second coming. Psalm 2 describes the vain attempt of the kings of the earth to oppose God's rule They're all going to gather and they're going to try to throw off the Messiah, the anointed one. But when you come in Psalm two down to verse six, God after he sees the plans of man, he speaks of his own future and what he's decided to do And he says, As for me, I have installed my king upon Zion. Zion is the mountain which Jerusalem sits. And then in verse 7, God calls this king whom he will install in Jerusalem his own son. Verse 7, Thou art my son, today I have begotten thee. And what follows in verses 8 through 12 is a description of the sun's sovereign reign over the nations of this planet. It is a warning to every single king throughout all of the planet to come and to bow down before the King of Kings, God's King, God's Messiah in Jerusalem. He will be there in Zion and he will reign, and all of the kings are to come there to him where he has been installed on the planet, and they are to bow down before him and kiss his hand and show homage to him. It ends very dramatically. In verse 10: Now therefore, O kings, show discernment, take warning, O judges of the earth, worship the Lord with reverence and rejoice with trembling. Do homage to the Son, that he not become angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath may soon be kindled. How blessed are all who take refuge in him So when a Jew thought about God's son, David's son, a Jew would automatically think king. That's how you think. In particular, the anointed king. That's what Messiah and Christ means. The chosen and anointed one to reign and rule. The high priest, the evil high priest in the days of Jesus understood exactly what this title meant. Let's go back to the New Testament to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 26. In Matthew 26, 63, the high priests, frustrated that the evidence against Jesus and his trial isn't really coming together the way he wants. It says that he stood up right there at Jesus' trial. He looks right at Jesus and he says, I adjure you by the living God. You can just see how frustrated he is and how emphatic this is, that you tell us whether you are, now listen, the Christ, the Son of God. The Christ, the anointed king, was also the Son of God. He knew that And he knew that that was a claim to be God himself. That's why he takes his clothes in hypocrisy, he rips them and says, What further need do we have of witnesses? You have heard the what? The blasphemy. This man is now claiming to be God. Because Jesus answered that charge with the affirmative. It is as you say. The title of the Son of God is the title of deity and the title of the king on earth. This image of the Son of God being God's anointed king originated way back a thousand years, as we said before. Before Jesus' day, during the time of David in 2 Samuel chapter 7, a very important prophecy speaks of David's immediate son Solomon, who would build a temple for God. David was denied that privilege. Because he was a man of bloodshed, but David's son would build it. But the prophecy also gazes beyond Solomon to a greater descendant of David, a true son who would come from David's loins. And take up David's throne. And when he came, when that king came, that would be the end of all kingdoms. He would reign forever and ever over all of the planet. And so here it is. Here's the announcement. This is the great announcement to one little girl and one little town in Israel. Mary. A true son has come forth and will come forth from your womb centuries later, ten centuries later. Here's the announcement He will take up the throne of your father David in Jerusalem, and he will reign forever and ever over the house of Jacob. This is the announcement. This is amazing. Now turn back to Luke 1. This now is why we see that it was so important to note that Jesus was born into the Davidic line. Those little notations about Joseph and Mary, those are so important. Remember, verse 27 has already established the fact that Mary was legally betrothed to Joseph. That makes Joseph, though not his biological father, since he will be born, Jesus will be born of a virgin. It nevertheless makes Joseph Jesus' legal father, according to the law of the Jews. Luke makes this point over and over again. He hammers it home. Later in verse sixty-nine of the same chapter, Joseph was of the house of David. In chapter 2, verse 4 it says he was of the house and family of David. Again in chapter 2, verse 11, in the city of David there is born for you a Savior. It's David, David, David. Why? Because he's the king. Of the Jews, as David was. Further evidence of Jesus' descent from David is found in both the genealogies in Matthew chapter 1 and in Luke chapter 3. They trace back both Mary and Joseph in their line to prove that Jesus was born into the Davidic family. Mary provided the royal blood for Jesus, and Joseph carried the legal rights to the throne. So you must understand when the angel came and announced this, he was announcing the birth of the king of the Jews, who would not just be the king of the Jews, but as Psalm 2 said, he would reign over all the world. John may be great because he heralds the coming of the king, but when the king comes in, John isn't even worthy to stoop down and untie a sandal. Right? This is the Lord of glory who is coming to her. An amazing rule he will establish. There are three clauses about Jesus' rule to learn here. Three truths. First, notice. the foundation of Jesus' kingdom. He will sit upon David's throne. Do you understand that? This will not be a new throne. This will not be the start of an entirely new kingdom. He will sit upon a throne that his ancient father already established. That's the foundation of it. By the way, where was David's throne? Where was it There's in Jerusalem, wasn't at the right hand of God the Father Almighty where Jesus sits presently. David never sat there, that's not David's throne. It's never called David's throne David's throne was in Jerusalem. Everyone knew that. He came into Jerusalem. He made Jerusalem his capital, and he reigned from there. He had to leave once because his son chased him out, but that was his capital. And that's where he was, and it's the city of David. And that's how Mary would have understood these words, and that's who the angel was speaking to, and that's the context. And brothers and sisters, that's how we must understand the words. Second, notice the realm of Jesus' kingdom in verse 33. He will reign over what? The house of Jacob. We had the house of David. We have the house of Jacob. The house of Jacob is just another way of saying the nation of Israel, the physical descendants of David, the family, I'm sorry, the family of Jacob. House of Jacob is used that way in Exodus chapter 19 and verse 3 and many other examples. Some, unfortunately, think that this is a title for a fresh new Israel. The church. But absolutely nothing in the context suggests this. Nor does any New Testament writer ever use this phrase for anything other than the nation of Israel. To read it any other way is to read prejudice into those words. In fact, as we will see next week, Mary's magnificat, her praise unto God, expresses how she understood the announcement. And she expresses national hopes for Israel. And so does Simeon in chapter two. The whole narrative does. Both of those prophecies were inspired by the Holy Spirit. Daryl Bach In his helpful commentary says, Jesus comes as King of the Jews, whether or not they recognize him. How Israel responds to Jesus and how God deals with the response will actually form a major part of Luke's writings all the way through the book of Acts. But he is the king of the Jews. Third, third thing about his kingdom. Notice the duration of Jesus' kingdom. How important this is. The reign is to be everlasting. It is a permanent reign. It will not start and stop. It will not fizzle out after eighty years or forty years, as many kings before had. What does everlasting mean? Well everlasting means everlasting. Psalm eighty nine that we read for our scripture reading speaks of this Davidic kingdom and gives The sense of what is meant by forever in case there's any doubt. Once for all I've sworn by my holiness, God said I will not lie to David. His line shall endure forever, his throne as long as the sun is before me. Like the moon, it shall be established forever, it shall stand firm while the skies endure. The sky's still up there? Is the moon still there? Sun's still there? This is to be taken literally. God doesn't break his promise. This is what he's going to do. His everlasting reign means all the way to the end of the world. It'll never end. Of course, a full study of the reign of Jesus is way beyond anything we can do this morning. Suffice it to say, the rule of Jesus has different aspects, a present aspect and a future aspect. The present aspect is seen in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 11, verse 20, where Jesus cast out demons and said, Because he was casting out demons, the kingdom of God has come upon you. Jesus also said in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 17, verse 21, the kingdom of God is here in your midst. In the words and works of Jesus Christ, the kingdom was physically present. Because he the king was physically present. Yet the full realization of the kingdom awaited the return of Jesus a second time and the national repentance on the part of Israel. In chapter 13, verse 28, Jesus speaks of a future banquet in the kingdom of God on planet earth with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And in Acts 14, verse 22, Paul taught the disciples through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. This aspect of the reign of God has not yet begun. It is still future. Remember, the disciples asked Jesus in Acts 1 6 after his resurrection, right before his ascension, is it at this time, Lord, you are restoring the kingdom to Israel? And Jesus indicated that it would be restored, but it was not for them to know the times. They were just to get busy witnessing for Christ. And so there were multifaceted aspects to the kingdom of Christ. But this we know, Christmas rightfully celebrated, is the celebration of the King of Heaven born on earth. And who will reign over all the nations of the world? That's why we sing the carols about his kingship. Hark the herald angels sing glory to the newborn king. This is Christ the King whom shepherds guard and angels sing. The king of kings salvation brings, let loving hearts enthrone him. What an announcement by Gabriel! What good news to sing about Isn't it amazing that it's all over the shopping malls today? It's just this darkness has fallen over everybody, and they hear the words of the birth of the king, and it doesn't penetrate their mind or their heart at all Make it some of them sing those carols better than we can. This announcement by the angel is so important it's been called the Annunciation. The announcement. And it was given to Mary. Little, young, insignificant, out of the way, nobody married. As far as the world thought. And of course she's quite confused. Please notice. Mary's question, verse 34. Mary said to the angel, how can this be? Since I am a virgin. That's that's a good question. That's a good question. Literally, she asks, how will this be? Since I know no man. She's not asking how it could possibly be true. She's asking, how is it going to happen? Mary is assuming that this prediction, this predicted conception of Jesus, the Son of David, will occur immediately. And she's right. But she hasn't been told how it's going to happen. She understands that she's supposed to become pregnant and real soon. So she asks, How will that happen? I've never slept with a man. Knowing a man is a figure for sexual relations. It's used that way many times. There's one sample, Genesis chapter 4 and verse 1. See, usually, when a woman got an announcement of a son's birth in the Old Testament, you're reading scripture, you know, gals like Sarah and Hannah, at least they were married and had a man. Mary had never been physically intimate with anybody. That's easy for us. We know the story. Oh Mary, this is going to be easy. God take care of it. The virgin birth and all that type stuff. Don't worry about it. She didn't know. So Mary's question was: how will this pregnancy occur? Would it happen after she came together with Joseph? See that's a good question. They're supposed to speed things up, get in there, finish it up. Beloved, this was not a question of unbelief. Mary is not challenging the believability of the angel's prophecy. Hers was a question of clarification. Zacharias's question was, how will I know this is true? Mary's question was, how is this supposed to happen? Zacharias requested a confirming sign due to his unbelief. Mary requested clarification due to her confusion. By the way, Mary speaks in the present tense here. She's not saying that she would never know a man. People still call her a virgin today. She is not a virgin. She's not claiming to be a perpetual virgin. She's simply stating the fact that at the present she was a virgin. Later we'll read in the same narrative that Mary would give birth to her firstborn son. That implies something, doesn't it? That there's a second. In fact, the names of her other sons through Joseph, Gospel of Mark, chapter 6, verse 3. Four of them are listed right there, along with daughters. We've often said that if uh Mary remained a virgin, then she would have sinned. Because uh you get married, you remain a virgin, you're not doing your duty. And that would have been a sin. So obviously, that's not something the Jewish gal would have done. Now the angel gives his answer to her question. Look at verses 35 through 37. The angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you And for that reason the holy child shall be called the Son of God. And behold, even your relative Elizabeth has also conceived a son in her old age, and she who is called barren is now in her sixth month. For nothing will be impossible with God. Well, the angel explains how this Virginal conception would happen. Two parallel statements are given. Did you catch those parallels there? First he says the Holy Spirit will come upon you The Holy Spirit, Mary, not a man, would be the power for impregnating you. No physical act will happen. The Holy Spirit's going to work mysteriously and wonderfully inside of you. The Spirit's going to take one of your seed and create a holy embryo inside your womb. And parallel to that, Gabriel says, the power of the most high will overshadow you That's an interesting word overshadow. Epischiazo. It's the same word that was used for the cloud descending upon the disciples on the Mount of Transfiguration in Luke 9. 34. Came down and totally engulfed the disciples while they were there. It's quite likely that Mary sensed an overwhelming power come upon her and around her and working in her when this happened. You know, often uh this miracle is referred to as the uh miracle of the virgin birth. There was no miracle in the birth. The birth when it comes about would be quite natural except for the fact that it's in a cave with you know cows and sheep and all that. I'm sure there was a lot of pain that birth that probably felt pretty natural to her. The miracle wasn't in the birth, but in the what? In the conception. In the conception. That's where life starts. A conception. This work of the Holy Spirit is reminiscent even of the creation of the world. Where we're told in Genesis 1 that the Spirit of God came and hovered over the waters, and as he hovered, God spoke and said, And the creative power of God was unleashed. And here the same spirit would come down upon this one teenager. And hover over her and surround her and work a miracle in her body. Many liberal teachers have tried to make this teaching about the virgin birth into a less important, even unfortunate myth that crept into the Christian tradition from pagan religions. Have you heard that? Luke will not have us think that way. His is a carefully researched historical account, just as he promised. Don't let anyone fool you. The virgin conception of Jesus Christ is no small doctrine. In Matthew 118, he is very specific about Mary's condition at this time. Now, the birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit. And Matthew even quotes Isaiah chapter 7, verse 14, to show that the virgin birth was even foreshadowed and predicted in the Old Testament. Listen, the virgin birth established Jesus' sinless nature from the very beginning. Notice in verse 35 at the end, it says, For that reason the holy offspring shall be called the son of God. Literally this can be translated, and for that reason the child born shall be called holy the son of God Gabriel calls him a holy offspring because of this virgin birth. Due to the virgin birth, Jesus would never, ever have an earthly father. He was not corrupted with the sin of Adam, the father of the human race. You and I were children of Adam. We were born into Adam, sinful, and fallen race. Every last one of us. There is no black and white or Asian and Hispanic race. There's only one race And it's a bad race. It's a fallen race. It's a sinful race. It's a rejected race. Jesus couldn't have part in that, the sinful aspect of that race. He would have part as a true man, truly a flesh, truly a human being through Mary, but not the sinful aspect that was passed down through the man. Jesus was not born in the sinful Adam. He was born of a woman, a virgin. In 1 Corinthians 15, 45 to 47, it even calls Jesus the second Adam, because you see the first failed. And therefore, Christ was a holy child, completely holy, no sin. That's why we sing, No holy child of Bethlehem descend to us, we pray. No child was ever, ever like him. He had holiness from birth. No, from conception, we won't know holiness in its fullest extent until death. Dr. John Walbert writes Through the miracle of the virgin birth, the eternal Son of the Eternal God reached out and took to himself a true and complete humanity without diminishing his essential deity. united deity and humanity inseparably and eternally in one person, and that could never be sinful. That is the essence of the teaching of the Council of Nicaea in 325 AD And the teaching of Holy Scripture. Herein lies the very basis for our belief in the two natures of Jesus Christ: fully God, fully divine, fully human. Fully a man, mystically existing in one person, the second person of the triune God. Mary's little baby. Mind blowing. Just mind blowing. For such an incredible miracle, God has arranged a sign for Mary, the sign of Elizabeth in verse 36. Mary, by the way, did not ask for the sign, but it was given to her anyways. Evidently Mary had not heard of Elizabeth's pregnancy. It would be eye-opening news to know that the aged and Baron Elizabeth was now pregnant. Elizabeth is called Mary's relative. That's just a term that Is a general statement for relative, not necessarily a cousin. So that means John the Baptist and Jesus were relatives too. Verse 37 is the angel's dramatic conclusion: for nothing will be impossible with God Boy, Mary must have clung to those words. Those were words of true faith. Nothing will become impossible with God. It's reminiscent of the words that God spoke to Abraham and Sarah when he was working back then in Genesis. 1814, is anything too difficult for the Lord, they were asked. Or Jeremiah 32, 17, Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heavens and the earth by thy great power and by thine outstretched arm. Nothing is too difficult for thee. The glory and the focus is all upon God. He can do this miracle because nothing is too hard for him. And lastly, please note Mary's response. And here's where we get our application from this, because her response is one of submission and obedience. Look at verse thirty-eight. And Mary said, Behold, the bond slave of the Lord, may it be done to me according to your word. Oh, that we Christians would live that way. That our lives would be so simple. Let it be done to me according to your word. What your will, God, is, let that become my will. I submit myself In obedience to your will for my life. I will not fight it, I will not question it, I will not doubt it, I will not resist it, I will not compete with it. Here I stand. I am the slave of God. I am the bond slave of God. I am beneath him. I am inferior to him. Let your words become true. In my life. Oh, that we would live with obedience to the Lord. That when the Lord would speak, we would trust and we would obey. For there's no other way to be happy in Jesus. You want joy this Christmas season, you want to experience the joy of Christmas, it is in your trust. in God and your obedience to His Word. When He speaks to you and me through the Bible, it is our responsibility to listen intently. to clarify and to understand and then to offer ourselves a living and holy sacrifice to God, which is our acceptable spiritual service of worship. To hold back from God, to think that we have a better plan, to think that somehow we know how our life should go, that somehow God has missed something in our lives, it's disobedient and it's unbelieving, and it's not the example that Mary set for us. Us. Oh, we need examples of pure faith and obedience, and Mary sets that example for every one of us, female and male. May we be obedient to the Lord. May we be the slave of the Lord. Hey dule curiu. The lowly slave of the Lord. She didn't view herself equal with God. She didn't even view herself worthy of God's attention. She was just willing to do and obey whatever God said. And the angel knew it. And his mission was completed. And so he departed. No, angels have better places to go. They don't need to stick around here. And this is the story of Christmas. This is the historical account of what happened. This is the truth. May we be glowing in our hearts with joy as we believe the truth. Jesus Christ, the King, the Son of God, is born for us. I'm going to close in prayer and then we're going to have our new members' reception. Father, we pray you take these words and impress them upon our heart. We pray, Lord God, that you would deal with our hearts where we disbelieve. Make us respond immediately like Mary. Help us to obey your word. At your word, we need nothing else. But to obey, to trust, and to obey your word. We thank you, Lord, for this truth. We pray it would be firmly fixed in our hearts. Do you teach us how to live before you all the days of our life? But we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.