For you. Christ the babe is Lord over all. That is the message you've been hearing all night, and I'm here just to put a punctuation mark on that for tonight. favor that truth and maybe let it sink in a little deeper. By the way, what a lovely evening this has been. And that was a hard act to follow, I have to say. Particularly the little wandering sheep. They were delightful. God chases after wandering sheep. And you might be a wandering sheep from God tonight. You might be someone who was brought up in the church. I was. I didn't get a real understanding of Jesus, though we even put on Plays like this in our church. I didn't really get Jesus until college. And you might be like that, or you might be way beyond college, and still Jesus is outside of you. He's not on the inside of you. And we would like him to reveal himself to you in a personal and a powerful way. And so uh would ask that you just stay attentive a little bit longer. And maybe God will talk to you tonight in a special way. People do ask, what is Christmas about? It's not primarily about the gifts, although we have a pile of them under our tree at home. Far too many, I think. It's not even primarily about the family, though I love the family time. Christmas is and always has been about Jesus. Jesus, right? It is about him. It's his birthday, by the way. The stores forget that out there, don't they? You know, they profit a lot on his birthday. You think they would at least acknowledge it? You feel like you're saying something that's um out of place when you say something crazy like, Merry Christmas? Because all you hear is happy holidays. There would be no holidays if it were not for Jesus' birth. It's really all about Him. Do you understand what a special life his life was? Even the worst skeptic has to understand that that life changed human history. and molded civilization more than any other life that has ever lived. Even the worst atheistic skeptic must acknowledge that truth It's amazing what his life was. It is amazing the prophecies that led to his life. It is amazing the humble events that surrounded his birth It is amazing how he appeared on the scene in Israel, how he took simple men and taught them and showed them the power of God and transformed the entire world. Do you really understand? the life of this one man. There are a lot of views about Jesus. They're woefully inadequate. Some have taught and believed that Jesus was an Eastern mystic That somewhere unrecorded, he slipped off to the East and he became like a Buddha. And he learned the secrets of the East and brought it back to the Holy Land and taught the Jews those things. But they did not read What the eyewitnesses said about this man, who taught a lot of objective truth, who acknowledged that the law of God that came through Moses was true and was holy. Who taught that there was only one God, not some mystical truth, but truth that could be put into sentences and understood and was real. Others have viewed Jesus just as another Jewish rabbi who happened to be a little more influential than other rabbis, maybe a Jewish reformer. Who taught us more about love and brought that out of the law of God more. But he didn't do anything supernatural, they think. The Unitarian Universalist Church. has taught this nonsense. They think that Jesus believed in the goodness of humanity and all they needed was a nice example, and we would all change. Yet Jesus said in Luke chapter 13 and verse 3, and he said this to everyone: unless you turn away from your life of sins, you will all likewise perish. Jesus was very serious. There is no man who talked more about the fires of hell than Jesus of Nazareth. If you really read and listen to what he says, he was fearful to listen to. He was amazingly strong. He was cogent in what he said. People who listened to him could not even believe what they were hearing. It was so amazing. I don't know too many rabbis that raise the dead and give sight to those born blind. Others have labeled Jesus an imposter to the throne of David. That Israel was hoping for their kingdom. Jesus saw the opportunity and jumped at it, but he failed. He was rejected by the Jews and then ended up being crucified by the Romans. What a loser, they would say. Yet at his very baptism a voice came out of the heavens and said, This one is my beloved Son. In him I am well pleased. And the Spirit of God came down in a bodily sign in the form of a dove and landed upon him and empowered him to do what no man has ever been able to do in this world thousands and thousands of undeniable miracles. So many that his enemies who hated him couldn't even deny that he did the miracles. They just said, He does it by the power of Satan. That's all they could say An imposter cannot fulfill so many prophecies as Jesus' life did. Some would like to dismiss Jesus as a deceiver or a misunderstood visionary who was killed trying to bring in a kingdom. But a deceiver does not lay down his life for his friends and demonstrate the greatest love that there is. A loser is not raised from the dead bodily. and appear to people over forty days and convince them all against their own will, yes, he was raised literally and bodily from the dead. The Latter-day Saints Church, which is not a true church, according to Brigham Young, thinks of Jesus as the literal Son of God, bisexual union between God the Father and Mary. Apparently they don't understand that God does not have a body. When Jesus taught the woman by the well, he said, and I quote, God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit and truth. Apparently they never read the account, which was just read for us so beautifully, but even previous to that, Mary said to the angel, How can this be since I am a virgin? And the answer came. The angel answered and said to her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. And for that reason The holy child shall be called the Son of God. Some Hindus think of Jesus as divine, but they will not give him a unique divine sonship They have forgotten there is only one God, and He has only one Son According to Philippians chapter 2 and verse 9, God gave this man Jesus, the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow. Some will do it willingly. Others will be forced to do it, but they will bow, and then they will acknowledge he is what? Lord. He is Lord. Islam affirms only a Jesus that was a great prophet. They think that they honor Jesus, but Jesus rejected that title. He did not believe being called a prophet was good enough to his own divine being. In Matthew 16, he questioned his own disciples about that. It says there, now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he was asking his disciples, who do people say That the Son of Man is. That title, Son of Man, is the one Jesus liked to use most of himself because it harkens back to a prophecy made by the prophet Daniel in the Old Testament, where Daniel saw this incredible vision of one he described as like a son of man coming and receiving a kingdom from the ancient of days, God the Father. So Jesus took that title on for himself and he said, who do people say the Son of Man is? And his disciples said to him, some say John the Baptist, he had been killed by then, and so some thought it was John the Baptist come back to life Others said he was Elijah because the Jews were expecting Elijah to come before their kingdom came. But still others said Jeremiah, he was dead, or one of the prophets. Jesus was not satisfied with that. Please understand, those were pretty powerful prophets. Elijah, Jeremiah, John the Baptist were great men of God. But then he said to them, But who do you say I am? And Simon Peter, blessed Simon Peter, who so often stuck foot and mouth, This time shine so wonderfully. Simon Peter answered, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And Jesus said to him, Simon, you got it all wrong. I'm just a prophet. That's not what he said. What he said is, Simon Blessed are you, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. That was the right answer. I am the Son of the Lord. Living God. Imagine a man standing in front of you and claiming to be the eternal one with the Father, the creator of the ends of the earth, the unique, only begotten Son of the Living God. Imagine that. That's what they were confounded with and saw. Well, if you came from a church like mine, a very liberal church, they champion the sweet and harmless Jesus today. They really have no problem with the Jesus and the baby. It's what happens after that that they have problems with. They think of him as a pacifist, kind of like Gandhi, because he said things like turn the cheek or return no evil for evil But they ignorantly stripped Jesus of all of his other attributes and his teachings. They forget that he taught such harsh things as this: do not think that I came to bring peace on the earth. What? Did Jesus say that? Do not think that I came to bring peace on the earth. I did not come to bring peace, but a sword. For I came to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. And a man's enemies will be the members of his own household. I will be such a divisive figure that I will split families. In Revelation 19, 11, we get a picture of Jesus, and John has these series of revelations. And he's the last living person, by the way, to see Jesus Christ in the vision. I know there's people that claim things today, but he was the last one to see. And he said, I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse. And he who sat on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and wages war. When he comes back, it will be to bring peace, but it will be peace through a final war. And then there's Christian science, not to linger on too many more. That tells us Jesus is the Son of God, therefore he can't be God. And that's their logic. Totally missing the import of that title. The Jews understood that title. In John 5. 18, it records, for this reason, the Jews. Now, when it says the Jews there, this is not intended to get us angry at all Jewish people. It's talking about the religious leaders of that generation. The Jews were seeking all the more to kill Jesus. Why? Because he not only was breaking the Sabbath in their estimation. But also is calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. In other words, the Son has the same nature as the Father. And what he claimed to be the Son of God, they knew what he was claiming. He is claiming to be the divine creator of the ends of the earth. Ultimately, they killed him for that. They believed it was a blasphemy. In the book of Hebrews, in the Bible, in chapter 1 and verse 8. There's a recording of God the Father talking to God the Son. Wouldn't that be nice to know what God says to God? What the Father says to the Son. Well, we actually do know. They're just a few words. And he there says, your throne, O God, is forever and ever. God the Father called Jesus God. He is God. I am sure there are some today in the world who have tried to reckon with Jesus by concluding he was an alien. Oh my, how much people would love to find life on another planet. They struck out on Mars, but they looked. They spent a lot of money there, but they struck out. With all the advanced technology, maybe some think that he was an alien way beyond our technology. He visited Earth. He did miracles through technology we don't understand, and then he went back where he came from. Again, we call it the ascension, but my how ignorant we are. And there are these greater civilizations I personally think those people have been watching too many movies about Thor, because Jesus is not Thor In Hebrews 1, 2, and 3 again, it says that when God made the world, he made it through the wisdom of the word, he made it through the Son of God. And then there may be some who just try to decry Jesus as a lunatic. If Jesus really were a lunatic, he is the most cogent lunatic I have ever met. He lived so consistently, and he confounded the learned so eloquently. In John 7. 45, some officers who were sent to arrest him came back empty-handed. It says, Then the officers came to the chief priests and the Pharisees, and they said to them, Why did you not bring him? And the officers answered, Never has a man spoken the way this man speaks. We just couldn't arrest him. In John 7. 15, the Jews were astonished, saying, how has this man become learned having never been educated? And then, of course, there are those who, no matter how much evidence is presented, will maintain foolishly that Jesus is a myth or a legend, despite the eyewitness accounts, despite his life changing the world, despite even sources outside of the Bible, both Roman and Jewish, that attest not only to his life, but to some of his claims. To all of these false views, we say, again, tonight, that his identity is clear, and I'll read these to you in closing. John 1. 49, Nathaniel answered Jesus and said, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. The angel said in Luke 1:32, He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. Even the demons were compelled to shout out, You are the Son of God. And they hated him in Luke 4:41. How does somebody respond to a sovereign king? I think I need to help us out a little bit because we're Americans and we don't have a king. We don't know how to respond to a king. Let me help you out a little bit. We kind of sang it already. You take your knees and you bow them down low on the ground And you hold out your hands and you say, You are my king. You bow yourself before the authority of a king. You acknowledge him as Lord, and then he raises you up and has mercy on you. Anyone who would dare stand in the way of this king, thinking he's a mild and lowly child, will find out in the end that they'll lose everything. They'll be crushed under his feet. In fact, there's a prophetic psalm. Psalm 2. Go home and read it tonight. It's powerful. It actually looks at Christ at the end of time when he comes back a second time. And it talks about the kings of the earth and the judges of the earth trying to take a stand against the God of Israel and the anointed Christ. And it says in that Psalm, Psalm 2, he who sits in the heavens laughs. Now there's not a lot of times in the Bible it says that God laughs. So it's kind of interesting when it said God laughed. What was he laughing about? He was scoffing at their attempt to throw off the rule of his son. It says, He who sits in the heavens laughs. Then the Lord will speak to them in his anger and terrify them in his fury. But as for me, I have installed my king on Mount Zion, my holy mountain. I will surely tell of the decree of the Lord: thou art my son. Today I have begotten thee. Ask of me, and I will give the nations as thine inheritance and the ends of the earth as thy possession. Thou shalt rule them with a rod of iron. Thou shalt shatter them like earthenware. Then the psalm turns its gaze to the kings of the earth and their mighty armies And then it says to them, Therefore, O kings, show discernment. Take warning, O judges of the earth. Worship the Lord with reverence. And then it says, do homage to the Son of God lest you be trampled under his feet and you perish in his way. For his wrath may soon be kindled. How blessed are those who take refuge in him. If you run to Christ, And take refuge in him. Let him be your savior. You will not have to face the wrath of the king. For the babe that was born is Lord over all. Acknowledge it now, God will save you. Wait till then, God will trample you down. It's a wonderful offer of mercy. It's a wonderful declaration of peace, but it only lasts so long. And then he comes, and he comes to us. rain. We pray that God will touch your heart and add to you a fearful faith that you may call upon him as Lord and ask him this very night, please save me from my sins. And enter into my life and be my king today.