Well, you may think that you've heard everything you can from Luke 2. We've sung about it, heard about it last night, but I want you to open there again. We're going to look at it from a different angle this morning. The angle of angels I'm going to read verses eight through fourteen. I know you're familiar with it, but focus in on the action of the angels because that's what we're going to be learning about this morning. In the same region there were some shepherds staying out in the fields and keeping watch over their flock by night, and an angel of the Lord suddenly stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terribly frightened. But the angels said to them, Do not be afraid, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy, which will be for all the people. For today in the city of David there has born been born for you a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. This will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger. And suddenly there appeared with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth, peace among men, with whom he is pleased. When the angels had gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds, and then it goes on with the story, what they did. I just wanted to read what the angels did. Okay? Well, you know this is a section that if you were to think of the bullseye of it, Doug preached on that last night. Jesus is born, a savior has been born for you But it also is a passage that tells us a little bit about the shepherds. After all, God chose them, lowly as they were, and Doug explained that last night also. very low in society and God chose them to hear the announcement of the long awaited Messiah. That's how God works. He gives things to the poor He gives those things to the lowly, to the humble. He'll give things to you if you are humble this morning and receive his word with humility. Well we have to say it's also a section that presents to us the activity of angels. Did you know that angels are not only a large part of the Christmas historic record, but all the revelation throughout all the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation, you find angels, angels, angels everywhere in your Bibles. Connolly in his book on angels writes this. Angels are a hot commodity these days. You can find popular books on angels in most local bookstores. In nearly every major city you can take a seminar from people who promise to put you in touch with your angel. On the national level, Time, Newsweek, and USA Today have devoted front page cover stories to this current and rising interest. Unfortunately, most Christians spend very little time thinking about angels. We may acknowledge their existence. But we are usually unaware of their power or their presence in our lives. Our perception of angels comes primarily from greeting cards and movies When we think of angels, we envision the chubby naked cherubs who appear each year at Valentine's Day. We recall movies that portray angels as comical characters, like Clarence, the angel in It's a Wonderful Life. who tries to get his wings by doing a good deed. If we happen to think of the biblical angels, it is usually at holidays. We hang the Gloria angel above the stable on our nativity set. We sing about angels at Christmas. We read about angels at Easter. But when we are sitting at our desk or working at the store or cleaning house, angels are the farthest things from our minds. Yet the Bible offers a surprising amount of information about angels. And we're going to talk about that. Maybe you have some questions about angels. Do they really exist? Do they still appear to people now? How would one identify an angel if they did appear to you? What should you do if an angel appears to you? Does each of us have a guardian angel? Do we become angels after we die? Do angels watch us now while we worship? Or even some of these rather interesting questions. Are angels really a case of mistaken identity? That is aliens of an advanced species from outer space. Some are advancing that idea Or are they part of a superstitious mythical past that we should shed in the modern church so we can appeal to more enlightened minds? Skepticism about the existence of angels is usually tied to the modern era and to a false belief that the rise of modern science has disproved the existence of spirit beings Such, of course, is not the case, nor can it be the case, since progress in science, which only studies the material universe, has no bearing on answering the question of spiritual beings. Dr. Lewis Burkhoff in his theology writes this, it is quite evident that philosophy can neither prove nor disprove the existence of angels. From philosophy, therefore, we turn to Scripture, which makes no deliberate attempt to prove the existence of angels, but assumes this throughout. And in its historical books, repeatedly shows us the angels in action. No one who bows before the authority of the Word of God can doubt the existence of angels. Well, it is certainly consistent to state that since God exists, and he is a spirit being, he exists outside of our five senses. He could easily bring into existence spirit beings who also exist outside of our five senses. And since the eternality of physical matter is impossible to prove Nothing more than a belief of the pure materialistic kind of people. And since it contradicts what is currently known about matter, that all matter requires a proper cause Well then, the existence of a spiritual world behind or prior to all of the physical universe is demanded by both the existence of God and by logic itself. Daniel Aiken in his theology writes this the greatest of Christian thinkers have consistently recognized that angels and demons Are far more than a divine embellishment designed to make the Bible interesting. Angels are actual beings whose existence affects human life, indeed, your life. If you don't believe that is the case, just keep listening. In short, angels are real. Angels are important and relevant, and by the example of angels, we can be instructed in the way of God. Let's start with the term angel itself in Greek. It's anglos. It is used nearly 200 times in your New Testament. It means simply messenger. The term refers to the role of angels, not the nature of angels. The term in Hebrew in the Old Testament is Malach. It also means messenger or representative. You see, in the ancient world, a trusted servant was often used to deliver important messages. He was a Maloch. Well angels are God's Malochs, if I can put it that way Dr. Wayne Grudham writes, human beings and angels, using the term more broadly, are the only moral, highly intelligent creatures that God has made. Therefore, we can understand much about God's plan and love for us when we compare ourselves with angel. Well there are at least four actions in Luke 8, Luke 2, 8 through 14, or beginning of verse 15, that we can learn from. Four actions of holy angels in this text. And we're talking about the holy and good angels here, not the bad angels. Number one, they deliver messages accurately. Number two, they serve the elect faithfully. Three, they glorify God energetically And fourth, they obey God instantly. Yes, I'll say those again. But shouldn't we be like that as you listen to that? Shouldn't that be true of our lives? I would say as you're listening, ask God to sanctify your life. Maybe through this example, God will speak to you in some way that you can grow as a Christian. First, their action of delivering messages. Look at verse 8 again. Angels deliver messages accurately. That's what we read about right here. In the same region there were some shepherds staying out in the fields and keeping watch over their flock by night, and an angel of the Lord suddenly stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terribly frightened But the angel said to them, and now you see him deliver the message, Do not be afraid, for behold I bring you good news of a great joy which will be for all the people And then he goes on to announce the Savior's birth. What a message this was God put it in the hands, so to say, of an angel and said, Deliver this message to those lowly shepherds down there. And this angel did exactly that. The birth announcement of the long-awaited Messiah. Now, Doug helped us to see last night what an incredible message this was. The Savior was born. I don't think I remember all the adjectives you used last night, Doug, but there were a lot of them, and they were good. He reminded us that shepherds represent the downtrodden and lower strata of society. But here they're doing what shepherds ought to be doing. They're watching over what? Their flock at night. This is what they're doing. And so I'm going to call him the Christmas angel. He comes to speak this message to them. Because angels by name and by action are messengers. This is what they do. They can bring prophetic statements about the future. Check out Daniel 9 sometime, and I'm going to throw a lot of reference at references at you this morning. They can warn of danger, such as in Genesis 19, you remember, get out of the city of Sodom because it's going to be destroyed. They can direct people where to go, as in Matthew 28, telling the women and the men where they needed to go to find the resurrected Christ. They even gave the law of God according to Deuteronomy 33. 2 in Galatians 3. 19. They deliver the law of God. That's amazing Now think about this angel right here. He delivered a message from God. He delivered the exact message from God. Do you think that he sat down and he decided he wanted to play with a message and get creative with it before he delivered it? Or do you think when God told him this is the message that I want you to deliver, he knew in his brilliant mind exactly what to say, and he came and delivered God's words word for word. I think the latter, not the other I don't think he adapted the message to his hearers. Oh these shepherds aren't gonna understand this. Why did God tell me to say it this way? They're never gonna get this. I don't think he touched it that way. I don't think he played creatively with the message. I don't think he felt that he needed to make the message a little more contemporary, because after all, God is very, very old, and what does he know about shepherds way down there on earth? He just delivered the message. True. True. Unembellished, unaltered, exactly as God said to speak to the people It was too important of a message to touch, to change. Shouldn't that be how all churches are? We have God's word. It's written, it's inspired, word for word, inerrant, infallible, authoritative. Why do they take it and change it? Why do so many today feel the people of God shouldn't be hearing this Well we need to tell them it's something that will fit the spirit of the age today better. It'll make them feel better. It'll fit in with a political climate. It'll be politically correct. It'll make people feel good about themselves. And so they take God's message to man and they alter it and change it. That's not very angelic. That's not what angels would do. Preachers, teachers of the Word of God, you, when you go out to share with someone, don't change the gospel message to make it more interesting for them. Tell them about the cross of Christ. If they're offended, so let it be. It is the message of God. It is the only message that God will ever save a soul with. Be faithful as an angel. Be accurate as an angel. People should never adapt the Bible's message to fit the spirit of the age. The angels are the example. For they're God's perfect messengers. Do you know they were created by God for this very purpose? Ron Rhodes has a book called Angels Among Us. It's well worth reading. He writes this. Some angelologists, I didn't know there was such a thing. Have proposed that every new wish or desire that God expresses automatically brings into existence a new angel whose sole mission is to accomplish that wish or desire. They suggest that the lifespan of some of these angels is limited to the duration of their specific duty or service to God. Once they finish their task, they die. Others believe that humans become angels at the moment of death. This idea has been popularized in a number of movies in recent years. Both of these ideas are patently unbiblical. As we consult God's Word, one thing becomes abundantly clear. Angels are created beings. They have not existed forever, nor were they formerly humans. They were created As angels. Want a scripture for that? Psalm 148, 1 to 5. Listen. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord from the heavens. Praise Him in the heights. Praise him all his angels. Praise him all his hosts. Praise him, sun and moon, praise him all stars of light, praise him, highest heavens, and the waters that are above the heavens. Let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded, and they were created. Just like God commanded for there to be stars and the sun, water, whatever it is, he commanded and how did angels get there? He commanded and They were there. So scripture is very clear that angels are created beings. God has no beginning or end. God exists outside of time. God has no cause. God is self-existent. Angels had a definite starting point by a creative act of God. Angels are therefore like us, they're dependent creatures. Without God, angels don't exist. They are not deities, they are creatures. Did you know that angels were created by Jesus Christ? Says so in Colossians one sixteen. For by Christ all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth. Listen Visible and invisible, the spirit world. Whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things have been created through Christ and for Christ. Here, amazingly, the angels witnessed the birth of their creator in the world. Imagine that. This is the one who spoke us into existence, and now he's going down there. You know they're watching this. You see them chanting. It's amazing. Nor are the angels departed spirits of humans. That's wrong. In Hebrews 12, verses 22 to 23, it distinguishes angels from dead humans. Man is said to be made lower than the angels, according to Psalm 8. 5. And in the future it says, saved men in the church will judge angels. That's according to 1 Corinthians 6 and verse 3. So they're different from us. Yet the Bible still describes them as persons. Persons. By persons, we mean that they are not some impersonal force, such as the forces of nature. and then take it as personified. They are not a personification of God's power at work. They are true Personal beings. They have intelligence. They can carry on intelligent conversations, Matthew 28, 5, Acts chapter 12, and 6 through 11. They have emotions. They express joy as they view creation, the creation of the world happening in Job 38:7. They rejoice when sinners repent, Jesus said in Luke 15:10. They also have a will. They exercise their will. They refuse to let humans worship them, the good ones, that is. Revelation twenty-two, eight through nine. They also perform personal acts. Listen to this list. They travel, they inform, they fight, they converse, they do miracles, they rebuke, they comfort, they express concern, they worship, and they even cook. Yes they do. There's angel food. As far as we can tell, they are all male. All male. Because every single time they appear, they appear as males, such as in Genesis eighteen and Genesis nineteen and Matthew twenty eight. They never come as women, they never come as children. As popular as that concept is, we always look at our kids and say, oh what a little angel. If you s really saw an angel, you would lose that analogy. Their titles and names are all male. They're called the sons of God. When we have a singular name, it's Gabriel or it's Michael. True, they are spirits, but when they materialize, they take on male bodies with male properties. They are also moral beings who make moral choices. Many of them chose to sin. They became fallen angels or evil spirits or demons. Second Peter chapter two and verse four speaks of that, Jude verse six as well. Evidently after the fall of that group of angels, the elect angels no longer desired to depart from God because they saw what happened to the first group They are also glorious beings. That I think we know. This Christmas angel arrived suddenly with a bright appearance that caused great fear to fall on all the shepherds. One angel, many shepherds, but they're all afraid of him, right? Notice verse 9, the glory of the Lord shone all around them. So he's shining, but it's so bright it shines all the way around them. The whole hillside is lit up. It's an impressive sight. It was bright, radiant, glowing. Kineman has a book and he points this out. Angels do more than bring messages. They bring something of God's presence with them. Angels are not intimidating just because they are awesome spiritual beings. People often fall down before them because they come directly from the presence of God. Angels' messages are more than just bits and pieces of divine information dropped like propaganda leaflets from heavenly aviators. Angel messages pulsate with the presence of the Lord. Angels are beings of light, and their messages glow with God. Though the shepherds trembled, the angel reassures them they had absolutely nothing to fear, for this angel had brought not a prophetic statement of judgment, which he could have brought, but good news. Yangalidzo, we get our word evangelism from that. It is good news. Evangelism means to proclaim the good news. The good news causes not just joy, but notice great joy for all the people. The reason for the joy is expressed next in verse 11: For unto you a savior is born. In case you were not here last night, Jesus came into the world. Why? To be a savior from sin, to save us from sin's power and sin's punishment. You can have Jesus as your Savior right now if you choose. Just turn from your empty life, your own way of living, and turn to the Savior. Put your full confidence in Him Ask him to lead your life and forgive you of your sins. He will give you a new life as the greatest gift you could have right here this Christmas morning. Tell him you're sorry for your sins. Tell him you're ready to follow his Son, Jesus Christ. Notice that the angel proclaimed Jesus as the Savior, and he also called him the Christ and the Lord. Christ and Lord are actually in opposition to one another. It means Christ who is the Lord. So he's Savior, He's Christ, which means He is Messiah and King, and He is Lord. He saves, He comes to rule, He also comes to master us. He is the Lord. The angels knew this The angels knew all about this. The angels know this because the angels have a very special relationship to Jesus Christ Did you know that they announced all the major events that happened in Jesus' life? Right here at his birth, they announced it. Later at his resurrection, they're there and they announce it. He's not here, he has what Risen, they announce that. At the ascension, they're standing there looking, and he says, He's gone up, and he even announced his second coming. He's gonna come back. All of the major events of his life they announce Did you know that the angels protected Jesus Christ? Sometimes we read about how Jesus slipped through a crowd and he never got hurt and we're scratching our heads and we said, Well, God did that, and God might have done that through an angel And we know, of course, his father fled to Egypt because of the warning of an angel. Jesus understood the angel's readiness to swoop into this world and provide him any assistance he needed. At any time when he was being arrested, the time where it seemed he was most vulnerable, he told Peter, Don't you know that I could appeal and the Father would send twelve legions of angels to rescue me That's in Matthew 26, 53. Angels not only were there to fight for Christ if he wanted it, angels were there to provide Christ with comfort. After he fasted for 40 days, who showed up to help him in the weakness of his flesh? An angel, just like an angel that showed up to help Elijah when he was depressed and way out in the wilderness and feeling weak. The next time that we see Jesus in utter great need in the garden near Gethsemane An angel appears there and also ministers to him, comforts him, strengthens him. The angels we are told believe and attend Jesus Christ at his second coming. They're coming back, swords drawn, ready indeed. They've been ready to fight for him all along. You just have to wait, you know, wait a minute, it's gonna be a little longer. God's plan's still working out, but they're gonna come back and fight. They know Christ, they serve Christ God's angel declares Jesus to be not just a good man, but Savior, Messiah, that is Christ and Lord. Now, the second action of the angels is that they serve the elect faithfully. They serve the elect faithfully. The elect means those that are elect by God, chosen by God, saved by God. These shepherds received more than an announcement. They got some direction from the angel. Notice they got a confirming sign of his birth. Look at verse 12. This will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in clo clothes. And cloths and lying in a manger. Now a baby, a breathboss, that's not the sign. Wrapped in cloths, that's not unusual. But where he was lying was the sign. Why would he be laying in a manger? That's something you don't see every day. And so rather than the angels walking with the shepherds down there and pointing to them and saying, Yep, this is the one that I was telling you about, they give them a sign, and now the shepherds have to exercise their faith In the angelic message, and they have to go and they end up finding out it's exactly as they were told. They find the baby just as they were told, their Savior lying in a manger. But I think the symbolism was important for the shepherds too, for they were poor and lowly, most likely. And Jesus came into the world to save those who would recognize their poverty before God. You see, the people that act rich before God, God rejects. God hates pride. He hates human pride most of all. You know when Satan thought he could be like God, he uh i he cast him out of heaven, didn't want anything to do with him, just get out, gone God hates human pride. We're filled with people that are too rich and too powerful and too beautiful, and they focus on their beauty and they focus on their education, they focus on their money and their achievements and accomplishments, and God hates all of that But God reveals Himself to the humble of heart, to those who give up themselves, who die to themselves and say, Lord, I'm bankrupt without you. And so here we see a Savior born in an animal trough, healing the blind and the lame, saving whores and beggars, dying among criminals. That's how God does it. That's what He does, see? What a great message this Christmas angel delivered to these dear chosen men, chosen to hear the message and chosen to believe the message. That is because angels serve the elect ones of God. Did you know they themselves are elect? 1 Timothy 5 21, Paul's given a charge to a pastor. I solemnly charge you in the presence of God, and then he adds to it, talking about the fullness of what would be around God, in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus. And his chosen angels. Chosen angels. Some angels were chosen by God not to fall away into evil. They're chosen, they're elect. In Hebrews 1:14, the writer to Hebrews, and we don't know who that was, says of the angels, are they not all ministering spirits? They're spirits who serve. They minister. They're sent out to render service for who? For the sake of those who will inherit salvation. That's the elect. That's the chosen. The angels are there in the world and here in the world now to serve you. That's their purpose. Hebrews 1. 14. How is it that angels help us? How do angels help the elect, those who will inherit salvation? Well, they provide protection. In Psalm 34 7 it says the angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him and rescues them. Remember what happened to Daniel when he was thrown in the lion's den? Angel came in there and did what? Shut the mouths of the lions. I would have liked to have seen that. Acts 27, 23. You know little pussy cats, just sit there right there. It's all going to be just fine. I don't know how that worked, but maybe the angels just showed up and the lions were like, whoop! You know, that's all you needed to do is just show up and show the presence of God. In Acts 27, Paul told those on a ship that they were in danger of sinking. For this very night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve stood before me, saying, Do not be afraid, Paul, you must stand before Caesar, and behold, God has granted you all those who are sailing with you. Paul prayed for the lives of all those that captured him because he was such a loving man. And the ship was going to crash, but an angel came to deliver the answer to that prayer request and said, Not only are you going to survive this, you've got to bear my name before Caesar. You're going to give the gospel to Caesar in Rome, but I've given a throne in the lives of everyone else on this ship. And so Paul encouraged them because an angel showed up. Back to Ron Rhodes' book. He writes this Angels are nearer to you than you think. They're all around us taking care of us and ministering to us when we're not even aware of their presence What comfort we as believers can gain from this inspired biblical teaching. Simply because we are not living in biblical times does not mean the angels have ceased their activities among us. In other words, God has not recalled his angels. They're still working. What else do angels do? Well, they provide needed provisions in difficult situations. I mentioned Elijah. He was running from Jezebel for his life. He was way out in the wilderness. He said, God, take my life. I don't want to live anymore. He was depressed. And God sends an angel that actually sits there and cooks and gives him some food, strengthens them, sends him on his way. Powerful nutritious stuff angel food is They assist in answers to prayer, we already saw one. The church was praying for Peter to be delivered from prison, right? What did God do? He sent a what An angel. And the angel comes in, taps Peter on the shoulder, says, gets up, touches the door of the prison. No big deal for an angel. He doesn't need all kinds of keys and access. He just touches the door and it opens. Peter thinks he's in a dream and he gets out there, the angel disappears, and he realizes this was real. How surreal it was to him. Daniel 10, 13. An angel was sent to answer Daniel's prayer. Check this one out. The angel was sent to answer Daniel's prayer, and he and he gets detained by a more powerful evil angel. And he slowed down. And he's trying to get there, and there's some kind of tussling going on in heavenly places, and the good angel's losing out there for a while. He finally arrives and tells them that's what happened. I was actually dispatched as soon as you said the prayer, but I had a tough time getting here to answer it. But I'm here now. Michael the Archangel helps out once in a while like that. Genesis 24, 7, Abraham wanted to find a wife for his son, a bride for his son. And Abraham assured his servant that he sent off to a distant land, an angel will travel with him and made sure that he was successful on his trip. And then everything fell into place on his trip. I don't think that servant ever really saw the angel. The angel was just there doing stuff. Sometimes you pray and things just fall into place and you say, Thank you, God, what you may not realize, and the angel is working stuff out for you And we'll know. We died get up there, maybe one of the angels will go. That was me down there. I did I pulled that one down there for you. Do you see that Angels, this one I have to say carefully. Angels aid in the spread of the gospel. Now, God has not entrusted the proclamation of the good news to angels, but to redeemed creatures who have experienced the good news in their life, which angels have never done. Okay? He's given it to us because we have been sinner and saved and sanctified and now we speak from an experience that's happened to us But they still aid in their own way in making sure that gospel gets out to people. In Acts 8. 26, an angel gave Philip the evangelist directions about his work. In Acts 10. 3, an angel told Cornelius to go and get Peter so Peter could come to his house and preach the good news to him, and indeed he did. They were saved and baptized. Angels watch over us. Did you know that angels are even called in one place, actually two spots in Scripture? They're called watchers. That's a little scary, isn't it? You think the government's watching you with satellites? Angels have been watching you your whole life They're watchers, Daniel 4. 13 and Daniel 4. 17. That word in Hebrew denotes a tireless, persistent kind of watching. It may even hint that angels have no need of sleep. In 1 Peter 1 12, it teaches that angels eagerly and intently watch and study what God is doing on the earth, in the church, among men, and saving them. They're trying to figure that out Angels will even be there to escort you, child of God, into the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. when you pass from this earth. The moment you die and you want to know what am I going to see, you're going to probably see one strong angel on your right side And one strong angel on your left side, and they're going to grab you by your arms and they're going to bring you into the presence of Jesus Christ. How do I know that? Luke 6 22. The poor man died and was carried away by the angels to Abraham's bosom. Angels are dedicated to the service of God's elect. Again, I would say they set an example for us, should we not also? Shouldn't we be committed to serving others right here? Our brothers and sisters in Christ, caring for them, loving them, giving where the needs are, serving them where the needs are, giving up something that you plan to do. for the sake of somebody else. Oh, but I so wanted to do this. And then you give that up for someone else and you care for them and love them. That's what we're commanded to do one for another A church is good when we're serving and preferring each other. A church gets stale and cold when we start thinking about what have other people done for me lately? Angels set the example. They're always serving. Always serving. Always serving. And they serve the elect in particular. The third action of wonderful angels, and this may be obvious, is they glorify God energetically. They glorify God energetically. At this point we're not told what the shepherds thought when they saw the angel other than fear, but we are told heaven's perspective on the birth. Verse thirteen, look at it. Suddenly there appeared with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace among men with whom he is pleased. Heaven knows what's going on here on earth. And it knows the tremendous significance of the event. This is an unbelievable news event in heaven, even if it was being missed by the vast majority on earth And I think here we have a rare glimpse into heaven itself, because all of a sudden something opens up for us, and there are a few times in Scripture that happens, and it helps us to see something we're going to get to see in the future. It's a little foretaste of where we're going, what our home is going to look like. Suddenly they appear. This vast host of heaven appears. Host Stratia. You know what that is? That's an army. That's an army. The word means an army, host. They're called heavenly hosts, heavenly armies. 1 Samuel 17:45, 2 Chronicles 18:18, Luke 2:13, many places. It's a indicates a military-like order. You know, God is often called the Lord of what? Hosts. That accentuates his lordship over the vast array of armies that he has there in heaven. Isaiah 14, 27, Isaiah 31, 4, Isaiah 44, 6, many other places. The Lord of hosts. There are indications that angels are ordered and ranked in a military kind of style. We have at least one archangel, 1 Thessalonians 4:16, Jude 9, Daniel 10, 13. There are assemblies of angels, Psalm 89, 5 and 7. Sometimes they are organized for battle, such as in Revelation 12, 7. Angels are given titles corresponding with human governments. Ephesians 3. 10, Ephesians 6. 12 of the evil angels who mimic and mock the good angels. There are even orders of angelic or spirit beings, the living creatures, in Ezekiel 1:5 through 14, Revelation 4, 6 through 8, the cherubim and seraphim. Furthermore, there are an untold number of these ordered hosts. Here they are described as a multitude of the heavenly host. How many is that? We don't know. In the garden near Gethsemane, we already mentioned that Christ declared he could easily call twelve legions of angels. A Roman legion with 6,000 men. Do a little calculation there, 72,000 angels at least. In Hebrews 12, 22 it says, You have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels. The term myriad was used both literally of 10,000 or of untold numbers beyond 10,000 Revelation 5, 11 says this. Then I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne, and the living creatures, and the elders, and the number of them was myriads of myriads, and thousands of thousands. Dr. N. 's comments on this verse, he says, the repetition of myriads in Revelation 5. 11 suggests the number of angels is countless. John Milton in Paradise Lost poetically picks up on this fact, and he wrote: Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth unseen, both when we sleep and when we awake. You may wonder what did these hosts look like? Of course, in most cases, the angels remain unseen. They are spirits after all. They must appear to humans to be seen. When they appear, scripture gives a consistent description of their looks. Most of the modern depictions don't do justice to the biblical information. The cute little child The glorious woman. When do men ever get called, man, you're like an angel? They go up to a tough soldier on the battlefield and like you're like an angel. Whack you. Thinking you're calling them feminine. However, when they appear, they appear not just as men, but strong men, strong young men. Not bowling, middle-aged, tummy sticking out. Tough guys. Sometimes they're mistaken foremen. They can't tell the difference Genesis eighteen and nineteen, Judges thirteen six, Mark sixteen five, Luke twenty four, four. In Hebrews thirteen two we're told do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for by this some have entertained angels without knowing it That means totally like a man. It does not even appear that most angels have wings, sorry. Beautiful pictures, Diana, we had in the book this morning. But I don't know if they have angels. I don't know if they have wings, I mean. Angels are said to fly, people assume, because they fly they must have wings. But Jesus took off from the Mount of Olives into heaven and he had no wings. Only some angels are ever described as having wings, and you think something as dominant as that would be mentioned, the cher beam, of course, in seraphim. They are described as having white and radiant garments. Aiken, in his theology, writes: one of the defining characteristics of good angels is that they often appear with the brightness of God's glory. Angels appearing in brightness manifest the glorious brilliance of the Holy God from whose presence they have been sent. And he gives references. Mark 16, 5 says, Entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting at the right wearing a white robe, and they were amazed. And sometimes that white robe would glow. Here, obviously, this angel is shining so brightly, the entire hillside they're on is lit up. Of course, what they look like is not as important as what they were doing. What were they doing here? They were worshiping God. I tell people when we worship God, and I have bad days too. I mean, if some days you're just tired and you're down, but when week after week we come in here and our worship is like Oh glorious God, how wonderful you are. I just don't think that's gonna cut it. I think we need to be accused sometimes of being a tad bit enthusiastic, don't you think? It would be good reputation to have. That's a fine church, but they get a little strung up there once in a while and they're singing. It would be nice Glory to God in the highest. You think that was sung? It might have been sung. The word doesn't mean sing. We never have anywhere in the Bible that says angels sing. Could be sung, because it's actually poetic. It was at least chanted. But I'll tell you this, it wasn't sweetly singing or the playing. It was loud, like a military chant before a battle, and they were frightened by it. Glory to God in the highest, times ten thousand. And they may have repeated it as a chant, glory to God in the highest, glory to God in the highest. It was awesome in the true sense of the word. Glory, of course, means give God glory, ascribe to him worth. They are so excited about God. They've seen him, they know him. Come on guys, sometimes we scroll in here, you know, like God, yeah, mm-hmm. I got problems in my life, you know. And we can learn from these angels. Praise to God in the highest. What's your problem? Take it to the one who's in the highest. He's in the highest, there's nobody higher They say I don't think things will work out in my life. I don't think things are gonna work for me. You don't believe. You don't believe. That's your problem. You don't have faith Trust in God. He made you, he's got your future. Glory to God in the highest. Praise him. Deliver your problems to him. See, faith solves so much of what we're dealing with. If we just would believe Nothing is higher than God, the God Father of our Lord Jesus. They came to worship and rejoice at the birth of the Lord of heaven here. They're praising God for what He's doing. They recognize the Lord of heaven. Dickison in his book, Angels, Elect and Evil, writes this: an angel's primary ministry seems to be that of worship and praise of God. Such worship suggests the indescribable majesty and glory of God, which unfallen angels understand better than do fallen men. Because of God's infinite worthiness, such beautiful and excellent worship continues forever without ceasing. Could there ever be a time where things get boring in the throne room of God? Where the angels start playing marbles rather than singing glory to God. I don't think so. If God just would excite your faith, you come in here and you see the same things up here, you need to think on God You need to let Him, His greatness just come into your life and the greatness of Christ, and all of a sudden this stuff just vanishes away, and you'll perceive with the eyes of faith, glory to God in the highest. Angels see the greatness of Almighty, omnipotent God, and they compare their little selves to Him and they just chant or sing and praise and worship constantly. They never get bored of it. Unlike God, they are finite and limited. God's omnipresent. They're limited in knowledge. Sure, they know a lot of mysteries. They explain mysteries in the Bible. Revelation 7:1, they explain some of them to human beings, but they don't know what God knows. They're limited in power, too. And that is why we are never, ever to worship angels. Colossians 2:18, let no one keep defrauding you of your prize by delighting its self-abasement and the worship of angels. Taking his stand on visions he has seen inflated without cause by his fleshly mind. When you hear about someone talking about angels and it leads them to worship angels, you got a false prophet or prophetess. Revelation 22, 8 and 9. Remember that one? Some of you knew I was going to get to this one. I, John, am the one who heard and saw these things, and when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed me these things. Of course he did. It was overwhelming. It's an old man on the island of Potomas, he's seen all these visions But the angel said to me, Do not do that. He was just disgusted with that. You see him backing up. Do not do that. I am a fellow servant of yours and your brethren, the prophets, and of those who heed the words of this book. Worship who? God. It is not permissible to worship angels of any kind at any time or in any way, bowing down, burning essence, incense, saying prayers. We're not told to thank angels, we're told to thank God for angels. Hebrews 1:6 says, When God again brings the firstborn, that's Christ, into the world, talking about Jesus' second coming, he says, Let all the angels of God worship Jesus. When people say Jesus is not God, then how come all the angels in heaven are bowing down and worshiping him? Jesus is the King of the Angels. He is the king of heaven born on earth. They bow down and they worship him as they worship Almighty God. When he comes back that second time, boy, is it going to be amazing. The baby boy now riding the white horse with a sword from his mouth, and they will worship him again. And so should we. Again, they are the example The benefit of worshiping Jesus Christ, not God in general, but the benefit of worshiping Jesus Christ is we gain what this Text promises us. And on earth, the angel said, peace. Listen, among men with whom God is pleased. Oh, how the world has taken that message and turned it into just a wishful thought. War is not the answer All live in harmony. Drink coke. Play rock and roll. Love your neighbor. All be at peace. No. It is not a wish of peace on a world that refuse to bow their knee and their hearts to Jesus Christ. A world like that will face only war, war, war. In fact, the greatest war of all is going to be brought by that little baby that was born in Bethlehem. And he's going to come back and he's going to fight and he's going to destroy and he's going to kill and he's going to slaughter all the enemies of God. How often this is misquoted. The whole world, a wish for peace. You get peace if you please God. You only please God if you believe in his Son. The Jews will never find peace for Israel. Never until the day they bow their knees. before Jesus as Messiah. On that day they will have their 1,000-year reign of David's line on their throne, and they will be seen by the entire world to be the chosen nation of God. No one will find peace in their hearts, a abiding peace, until they bow their heart to Jesus Christ and accept him as reigning King now. This world will know only war and rumors of war. Jesus said that, until they submit every nation to the Prince of Peace, the King of the Peace. of the Jews. The last action I'm going to say quickly because we're at time. Angels obey God instantly. Just look at verse 15. Might have missed this but I was thinking about this in verse 15. It says, When the angels had gone away from them into heaven, poof, they're gone. So they're spirit beings, they're incorporated, they don't have a body, right? They just vanished without a trace, gone. There were all of them, they were loud, there was light, they were corporal, they were there, and then they've gone away. Back into heaven. No other explanation. How did that happen? Poof! They're gone. Say it's a fairy tale. No, it happened. There were eyewitnesses. This is about people that saw this and wrote it down. This is from the first century. These are eyewitness accounts. Luke carefully researched it to make sure he got what he didn't embellish what happened. They went away. He assumes, of course, Luke couldn't see. They went back into heaven. Where else would they go? They went into that other dimension. Physicists are talking about how there might be other dimensions now that are not even discovered. If they can figure that out, obviously God tells us there's another dimension. How does that work? We don't know. They're gone. But here's the thing I want you to see. They were told to go. They went. Told to deliver the message. They delivered the message. They worshiped. They gave their statement. And then God said, That's your mission. That's all you're doing. Then hang out, party, pop the court, do other kinds of things. They just obeyed God. God said the work's done, now you're gone. He doesn't want them hanging around. He wants people living by faith mostly, right? They obeyed God instantly. The angels. They were told go on a mission. They went on their mission. They completed their mission. Yes, Lord. And now they're gone. They're back. That's obedience. You know what we do with obedience? We measure it and slow it down. And I know because I've done this. Lord, but if I do that See, they're gonna get angry at me. I told you to go and bear witness to my name. But Lord, if I do that, I won't have any insurance. Yes, but I promised you that I would protect you and provide for you. Yes, but Lord, if I do that, I'm not sure I'll find satisfaction in doing that in my life. Yes, I told you that no one who believes in me will ever be disappointed. And we question the wisdom, the power, the love of God, and we slow our obedience down. And it's not a blessing. Angels know God, they obey God instantly. They're holy angels. They're called holy ones. I wish I had more time for that. I just want to say this too, as we close. Angels watch us every time we come together for worship. They do. We're told in 1 Corinthians 11 that women are to be submissive to their husbands, otherwise they offend the angels Why? Because angels are submissive creatures. They obey God. They don't want to see anyone outside of what God says to do. Paul, when he charged Timothy, said, I charge you in the presence of God and of the holy angels. They're watching you. They're watching your ministry. They're watching what you do in church. They're watching us. They're right here, watching us now. I've no doubt at all about that. Every congregation that's of the Lord, they're here ministering to us. You leave this morning, they'll be ministering to you Because God has given them orders and they obey. Learn from their example. They obey God instantly, they worship God energetically. They serve the elect of God faithfully. They deliver the word of God accurately. And so may this Christmas we follow their example and learn. from them. Let's uh bow our heads, close our Christmas service, and then stick around for some time of just some fellowship together. Lord, thank you for your written word. Thank you for the ministry of angels. Powerful, strong, even at times warlike. Spirit beings, thank you for their protection. Thank you for their guidance. Thank you for working your providence, sometimes through their being dispatched to answer our prayers. Thank you for stirring in us holy affections as we think about them as holy creatures and we measure ourselves to them and think how many unholy aspirations are still in us. Help us not to think that when we're alone at home, no one's watching. Help us to remember that not only are you offended by our sin, but so are the angels. Thank you for their worship of the Christ child this Christmas. Thank you for their taking the lead and worshiping and leading us into worship and showing us how it's done. Thank you for Jesus, born in Bethlehem, our Lord and Savior. It's in his name and for his glory. We have worshiped and we have prayed. Amen.