Good morning everyone. Uh so we are continuing in John. We're gonna go uh into chapter six today. So last time, last few weeks we've been going over John chapter five. And we took a while to go through a fairly short section of Jesus' teaching because it's so important and it really sets up a lot of what comes after it in the Gospel of John. And he made Jesus made three really big claims. in John chapter five, just while you guys are turning there. The first big claim that he made was, I am the Son of God. Right and he he stated this and rephrased it in in many different ways. He said, you know, I do everything the Father shows me to do and only what the Father shows me to do. Right. I um I am working like my father from the beginning. I mean, uh he says, I have the Father's complete power over life and death. And he says, I the Father has given me all of his authority to judge people. And he gives me all of his honor. He wants everyone in the world to honor me, like he like they honor him. And so those are just many different ways of Jesus saying, I'm the Son of God, right? He's he's He's convincing people, he's preaching and proclaiming to people that he's the Son of God. That was the first big claim that he made in chapter five. The second big claim that uh Jesus made in chapter five was in verse 24 where he basically said if you believe in me you have eternal life The gospel in a nutshell. Verse 24 says, Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and does not come into judgment, but is passed out of death. into life. So I am the Son of God. If you believe in me, you have eternal life. And then the third big point was uh if you don't believe in me You stand accused by Moses and all these other witnesses that we talked about last time. But Moses was the big one Alright, and what he meant was, uh so look at verse forty-five of of chapter five. So John five, forty-five, do not think that I will accuse you, you who don't believe in me, before the Father The one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. So that was Jesus' third big claim. So I am the Son of God. If you believe in me, you have eternal life. If you don't believe in me. You stand accused by Moses, because he wrote of me. And chapter 6, which we're going to start in today, really takes those three claims and demonstrates them and amplifies them. Chapter 6 very much builds on Chapter 5, even though Chapter 6 happens probably several months or even a year later than Chapter 5. Um if you look at uh the uh opening of chapter five it says that it occurred in Jerusalem at a feast of the Jews, which possibly was Passover, but also maybe Pentecost or the Feast of Tabernacles, but whatever it was, chapter six uh we'd learn occurs at the next Passover. So that would have been several months or possibly a year later than the events of chapter five. But still so John does this a lot actually. He He says something like in in chapter 6 verse 1, after these things Jesus went away. And he rolls several months into that after these things. John does that a lot. He's he has a very compressed timeline for some parts, especially the early part of his gospel. Uh but despite the time gap there, the content of chapter six really builds on the content of chapter five and and expanding and demonstrating these three claims. So I just want to give you like a brief outline of chapter six. We're not going to cover the whole chapter today. uh but I want you to see the 32,000 foot view. Um so there's there's two miracles and then a big discourse, a big teaching block in chapter 6. The first miracle is Jesus feeding the 5,000. And that's a miracle that he performs towards the crowd. that demonstrates that he is the prophet like Moses that Moses wrote about. And then the next thing is Jesus walks on the water Now this is a miracle that is only shown to his disciples, not to the crowd. But it also demonstrates that he's the prophet like Moses that Moses wrote about. And then there's a big section of teaching where Jesus admonishes the crowd that he's the bread of eternal life. And then there's a shorter section of teaching where Jesus admonishes his disciples that his words are spirit and life. So we got this alternation. We got a miracle for the crowd, a miracle for the disciples, teaching for the crowd, teaching for the for the disciples. That's the big overall structure of chapter 6. And so today we're only going to talk about the two miracles, because that's all we will have time for. But I just want you to keep that in mind. Like these miracles are there to set up the teaching that's going to follow and that we're going to go into in the next couple of weeks. But the feeding of the 5,000, that's a really important miracle because, I don't know if you knew this, but aside from the resurrection. of Jesus. The feeding of the 5,000 is the only miracle that is recorded in all four Gospels. So it must be very important to who Jesus is, to his identity. And so we're going to look at that. why this miracle is so important to showing who Jesus is. And yeah, so I'm calling today's lesson Jesus' miracles show who he is Show who he he is. And uh and this is going to be John Six What did I say? 1 through 25. That's what we're going to cover today. But, you know, before we start reading in John, um I'm actually gonna go to the Gospel of Mark to set some of the context. Because yeah, so I mentioned that this feeding of the 5,000 is the only miracle recorded in all four Gospels. It's also a great example of how the gospel accounts, the four different accounts, complement each other and fill in details that might you might not get from just one of them, right? If we were to just read John, we would miss out on some things. Um and that's intentional on John's part. Many, many scholars and commentators argue that or believe that John actually had Mark's gospel, and Mark's gospel was already in wide circulation um before John wrote his And so he might have assumed that the readers of his gospel would already know the account from Mark. So he's not trying to rehash everything. He's just trying to fill in some of the things that uh that Mark didn't choose to focus on. Uh yes, K Web. Okay, but if Mark came before John, uhhuh. How would Mark doesn't cover everything. It's only like a couple chap shorts and chapters. When I was reading it, I was like This is basically the rehashing of Matthew except it doesn't have everything. And so I'm just wondering how could Mark come before John if John had more things. Well, so most scholars believe that Mark was written first. Not all, but but most. You know, it is it is a pretty short gospel. It's the shortest gospel and it's pretty brief, very compressed. It it's uh it it has a very Roman feel to it, like very decisive and action oriented. The word immediately occurs a bajillion times in in Mark. And um so the the thinking is that like Mark got down the the the facts, right? The the basic outlines of Jesus's ministry. in his teachings and that um later you know this was maybe in in like 60 or 70 AD And then closer to a hundred AD, ninety or a hundred A. D. , John sat down and John was a very old man at this point, right? He was probab he knew that he was ready. the end of his life. He probably wanted to give the the sort of more intimate, closer perspective of a disciple that had followed Jesus and been with him for his whole ministry. Yes, John the Apostle, right? John John the beloved, um the son of Zebedee. Yeah. So yeah, so John, I mean really if you look at if you if you sort of analyze um the the content of the gospels from the perspective of like how public it was. Mark and Luke contained a whole lot of public stuff, right? Jesus speaking to big crowds, doing big miracles out in the open. Matthew and John include a whole lot more private things that Jesus said only to his disciples, which fits, right? Matthew and John were disciples, Luke and Mark were not. But it's good they compliment each other. We want to have access to to all of these things, the public and the private teachings of Jesus. Um so this is an example actually i of uh this this event of the feeding of the five thousand is a great example of how the gospels complement each other and add things to each other that we wouldn't get by just reading one alone. So we're actually going to start with Mark because it sets up a lot of the context. So if you could turn to Mark 6. Um it's important to note uh come on Jeff. No problem. Uh it's important to note what what came before the feeding of the five thousand in in Jesus' ministry. So if you look at Mark chapter 6, you see two really important events before the feeding of the 5,000. So in verses 7 through 13, you see Jesus sending out the twelve disciples in pairs on this sort of missionary journey. He told them to go out and proclaim the kingdom of God and proclaim repentance. and to heal the sick and things like that. So he he basically sent them out on a on a big missionary journey. And this was this was a big deal. It was their first like solo flight. you might say. But while they were out doing that, something else really important happened, which is recorded in John 14, or sorry, Mark 6, uh verses 14. through twenty-nine. And that is John the Baptist was executed. And we may maybe most of you heard the story of how um King Herod had imprisoned John. uh but he was also kind of fearful of him and and and yet s weirdly attracted to his message, uh didn't want to kill him or anything, but um Herod's wife really wanted John dead because he Rebuked Herod for marrying her, because she was uh his brother's wife before. Anyway, so So she contrived this this whole plot to get him executed and and Herod had to go through with it, basically. So John the Baptist has just gotten executed while the twelve disciples are out on this this big missionary journey, um, and they have just come back. And Jesus wants to sort of meet with them and like process all these things, basically. That's the context for for the feeding of the five thousand. So let's read Mark's account, which happens in Mark 6, verses 30 through 46. Who wants to read those verses? Uh Mark six, thirty through forty six. Caleb, you got this? Okay. Okay. And the apostles gathered together with Jesus and they reported to him all that they had done and talked. And he said to them, Come. Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest for while there were many people coming and telling, and they did not even have time to eat. And they went away and abroad to a desolate place by themselves. And the people saw them going, and many recognized them and ran there together on foot from all the cities and got there ahead of them And when Jesus was not sure, he saw a large crowd, and he felt compassion for them because they were like sheep of shepherds. And he began to teach them many things And when it was already quite late, his disciples came came to him and began saying, This place is desperate and it's already late. Some more way to say me going to surrounding countryside and those who are done by unselling. So he answered and said to them, You get on some And he said to him, Shall we go and spend two hundred dinari on bread and give them something to eat? And he said to them, How many rolls do you have? Go look. And when they found out, they said, Five, two fish. And he commanded them all to sit down like groups on the green grass. And they sat down in groups of hundred and fifty. And he took the five loaves and the two fish, and he looked up to heaven. He blessed the food and broke the loaves. And he kissed And he kept giving them to his to his disciples to set before them, and he divided up the two fish among them all. And they all ate and were satisfied And he picked up twelve full baskets of the broken pieces and also of the fish. And there were five thousand five thousand men who ate up And immediately Jesus made his disciples get into a boat and go ahead of him to register to Fezra, while he and Physics were sending himself away. And after bidding them farewell, he left for the mountain to pray. All right, thank you. Yeah, so with that foundation, right, we got Mark laying the foundation and the context, including the events that happened immediately prior. Now we're going to turn to John chapter 6. And read John's account. So look for the additional details and interpretation that John gives of this event as we read verses 1 through 15. Can I have another volunteer to read John 6, 1 through 15? Okay, right? After these things, Jesus went away to the other side of the Sea of Galilee, or Tiberias. A large crowd followed him because they saw the signs. Which he was performing on those who were sick. Then Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with the disciples. Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was near Therefore, Jesus, lifting up his eyes and seeing that a large crowd was coming to him, said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread so that these may eat? This he was saying to test him, for he himself knew what he was intending to do. Philip answered him, Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them, for everyone is to receive a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him, There is a lad here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are these for so many people? Jesus said, have the people sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down in in number about five thousand. Jesus then took the loaves, and having given things, he distributed it to those who were seated, likewise also other fish as much as they wanted. When they were filled, he said to his disciples, Gather up the leftover fragments so that nothing will be lost. So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves which were left over by those who had Eden. Therefore, when the people saw the sign which he had performed, they said, This is truly the prophet who is to come into the world. So Jesus, perceiving that they were intending to come and take him by force to make him king, withdrew again to the mountain by himself alone. Thank you. So we're gonna synthesize These two accounts, and from them, we're going to learn five truths about Jesus that we see demonstrated in his performance of this miracle. is feeding in the five thousand. And um, you know, five trues, like five loaves. Uh Yeah, anyway, I just uh thought of that. So anyway, there's uh Jesus is is presenting truth about himself. This is not just an arbitrary miracle that he does. So one the first thing we learn about Jesus from the way he does this miracle is that he's both compassionate and confrontational. So for this Uh we're going to look at both Mark and John. So in the in the first place, he's compassionate uh in his response to the crowd. He's comp he has compassion on the crowd even though all he wants to do at this point is be alone with his disciples. Right, so if uh to see this, we gotta go back to Mark and Yeah, so keep your finger in John and go back to Mark. And um so remember in the context from Mark, John the Baptist has just been executed. Now who was John the Baptist to Jesus? Right, he was he was his cousin according to the Flutter, it wasn't how family was Yeah, yeah. No, no, they were cousins according to the flesh. Uh but more importantly, who was John to Jesus? Greatest man who ever lived. Right, the greatest man who ever lived, the greatest prophet under the old covenant. The forerunner, basically. The one who went ahead and and proclaimed um that uh the Messiah was coming. John called himself the friend of the bridegroom, right? He was he was the best man in Jesus' wedding, basically. So They were very close. Uh in I mean I don't know I don't know if they spent a lot of time together or if they were if they had a lot of uh a lot of actual time of fellowship together, but John the Baptist was probably one of the only people in all of Israel who actually got Jesus. Who actually understood who he was. So losing him had to have been hard for Jesus. Right. He he he is God, but he was also a man, is also a man, and he has emotions. He wept when Lazarus died. Lazarus is one of his friends. I have to imagine he wept when John died too Um it doesn't say that, but but and that's speculation, but this had to be emotional for for Jesus. And Here he is. This is happening. John dies uh right when his disciples are coming back from this mission that he sent them out on So he hasn't seen his twelve closest disciples in a while either. They're coming back from their evangelic evangelistic mission, and Jesus just wants to get away and rest with them Alright, look at at Mark six, thirty through thirty-two. And the apostles gathered together with Jesus, and they reported to him all they had done and taught, and he said to them, Come away by yourselves to a lonely place and rest awhile For there were many people coming and going, and they did not even have time to eat. And they went away in the boat to a lonely place by themselves. Alright, so he just wanted to get away from the crowd. That's why he went in the boat in the first place, to get away from the crowd, to rest with his disciples, possibly to mourn together over John the Baptist. death, possibly to debrief them from their their preaching and their evangelistic mission. Um get back together after after several months. But the crowds did not leave him alone. So Mark continues in verse 33, and the people saw them going, and many recognized them, and they ran there together on foot from all the cities, and got there ahead of them. And when he went ashore, he saw a great multitude, and he felt compassion for them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things So just pause and consider Jesus' response here because it is amazing. It is not the response that any of us would have. um in our in our natural state, we would look at the crowd and feel what? Overwhelmed. We maybe even feel annoyance, right? Like I got in this boat to get away from you guys. What do you think who do you think you are? You think you can just come here and I'm gonna drop everything and teach you? Um Yeah, how do they keep finding me? Yeah, like vexation, frustration, annoyance. That's what we would feel when we looked at that crowd. What does Jesus feel when he looks at the crowd? He feels compassion. How how selfless is that? How much of putting aside one's own interests and and desires does that take to feel compassion in this situation on the crowd. So he feels compassion on them. He graciously accepts their interruption. They're interrupting him. Like supremely. He has these plans that that are, I'm sure, very important to him, and he desires to spend this time with his disciples. The crowd is massively interrupting his plan And he doesn't feel annoyance at them, he feels compassion on them. And he graciously accepts their interruption. And he puts down his own desires and he puts aside his own plans. And he begins to teach them many things. So he ministers to their needs. So this is this is frequently what happens, right? So God often calls us to minister to others at very inconvenient times. Times when we are tired or when we're really busy and we feel like we just don't have the time to minister to someone. But in those situations and you you know there's no the there's no time you learn this more than than when you you become a parent. Uh right. If you get married and have kids, your kids will interrupt you constantly. In fact When I last night, when I was actually practicing this lesson, I got to this exact point in the outline and my three-year-old ran into the kitchen and interrupted us. you know, practicing the lesson. And I had to catch myself 'cause I was gonna get all annoyed at that. Um but I was like, wait a minute, what am I just teaching about? And so So God will call you to minister, not just when you're a parent, but but even now, God will call you to minister to friends, to um you know, people in the church, uh to to strangers uh at very inconvenient times. And you're gonna, in your flesh, want to ignore them or be annoyed with them. But when when that temptation comes up, remember the compassion of Christ. Remember the compassion that Christ showed the crowd and how he put aside his own interests and his own plans to minister to them. That's what he calls us to. And he doesn't leave us powerless to do this, right? The rest of Scripture says that His power is made perfect in our weakness. He knows that we're that we're weak and selfish like this, but he wants to make his power perfect in our weakness. So he provides grace for you to be able to respond like this. But part of that grace is knowing and understanding the scriptures that speak of Christ and that show his example and putting those into practice. So I'd invite you to consider how you can do that this week. Look out for this. Look out for the ways that God is going to call you to minister to others at very inconvenient times. And uh don't say no. Uh don't don't hang on to your plans. In in the true view of the sovereignty of God, there is no such thing as an interruption. Right, there's only things that God sovereignly orchestrates and brings into our lives uh for for these kinds of opportunities. Um so I said we learned that he's both compassionate and confrontational. Well we see the we see the confrontational part too. It's not it's not just unbridled compassion. Is compassion tethered to the truth, tethered to a true sense of the need of those he's ministering to? Because And this is where we have to look at the Gospel of John to fill in some of the details that Mark chose not to include. After he shows compassion on the crowd and feeds them. Later, when he's teaching them about the miracle that he did, he rebukes them sternly. So we didn't read this part, but if you if you look back at John 6 and and peek a little bit ahead to verse uh 26 and 27, where Jesus is speaking to the crowd after he fed them, he says To them, truly, truly, I say to you, you seek me, because they had just come back across the Sea of Galilee to Truly, truly, truly, I say to you, you seek me not because you saw signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Do not work for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man shall give to you. For on him the Father, even God has set his seal. So we may not notice this immediately, but this really is a rebuke to them. He is rebuking them for their focus on material things instead of spiritual things. Right, he's saying he perceives that the reason that they followed him back across the Sea of Galilee is not even because they saw miracles. Remember he rebuked others for only believing because they saw miracles. These people didn't even have that kind of Jesus said, you're not even following me be you're not even seeking me because you saw a miracle. You're just seeking me because I've filled your stomachs with food. You shouldn't be like that. Don't do that. Don't work for the food which perishes. Work for the uh the food which endures to eternal life, which is basically what he's going to spend the entire rest of the chapter talking about. And and it's himself, right? He's saying, I am the bread of life. That's that's his message just to preview the second half of chapter six. So this is a rebuke to them. It's a rebuke for them focusing solely on material things instead of on the spiritual things that they should be focusing on that are more important. And his rebuke really applies to us as well, I think. Because you remember when we were doing worldviews last quarter, the last one we talked about was this one called Moralistic Therapeutic Deism. And uh that's a very common worldview in our culture. We often fall into it ourselves. And a core tenet of that worldview is that we treat God kind of like a vending machine. or like a drugstore, right? When we have a problem, we go to him and we ask him to meet some physical need that we've got and then when he's done that, we we sort of put him back on the shelf and we just pursue our own happiness and priorities again. Right, so so you know it's really easy for us to to get into this uh onto this hamster wheel where we're just pursuing our careers. pursuing our social lives, pursuing our education, whatever. And we say like, okay, we're just so busy. We're too busy to read the Bible or to pray or to serve in church or to be more involved. And I think this rebuke, the spirit of Jesus' rebuke, would apply to that kind of mindset too, right? We are working and seeking um the food that perishes more than the food that endures to eternal life. Um and I'm not saying that that reading the Bible and praying and serving in church I'm not saying that that's what brings you No. We get eternal life by placing our faith in Jesus and abiding in Him and having Him abide in us. But the fruit of that, if we're actually doing that, the fruit of that is that we want to know Him more by spending time in the Word, by praying, and by being involved with His people, the Church. Uh so it's it's a gauge, how we spend our time is a gauge on where our heart is, on our heart's priorities, what our heart is seeking. So, you know, I just want to remind you that Jesus elsewhere said, you cannot serve both God and money. And actually that that verse is probably better translated. You cannot serve both God and that which you seek. The word that's often translated money is a word called mammon, and it literally means that which you seek. You cannot serve both God and the thing you set your heart on. Um my my Bible teacher and and chemistry mentor in college, he used to say uh to us to to his college bible class a lot, um He used to say, you will never have more free time than you do now as a college student. So use it to build a habit of serving the Lord now, because it will be even harder to do that later. And I can remember sitting in this class, being a college student, and thinking, what? I don't have free time. I'm super busy. But looking back fifteen years later, oh no, fifteen years Fifteen years later, he was absolutely right. I have way less free time now than I did in college. And I mean the only the only reason that I'm able to uh teach a class and prepare lessons like this is that by God's grace, through marriage and parenting, he's disciplined me to be more disciplined about my time. And I wish that I had taken his words more to heart at that time. I did a little bit. You know, I I served in the campus fellowship where I was at college. I led a Bible study. in my dorm, but I could have done a lot more uh to build those habits of service to the Lord. And I wish that I had done more. And I so I just want to extend that same exhortation to you all that he extended to me. That you have a lot more free time right now than you think. And you have more free time now than you will ever have in the rest of your life, except possibly when you retire. So use it now. Use it now to build in habits where you're seeking the food that endures to eternal life and not just seeking the things that perish. Not just building your career not just thinking about how to how to make money or how to get a good job. One practical way to do this is if you're not a member of the church, become a member of a member of the church. Take the membership class. One just started last week and I forgot to mention it last week, but I think they might let you jump in. You think they would? Okay. You can miss two. Okay. Well, yeah, so if if you're if you haven't uh become a member, if you haven't taken the class, it's not too late to jump into that class Uh it meets after church, I think on Zoom. Oh, on Zoom? Okay. You said three o'clock? Yes. Okay, three o'clock today, Sundays on Zoom. And you would just need to contact who do we contact for that? Pastor Plumley. Go see him at the church and see if you want. Yeah, you can go see him in person. Um you can email him at uh uh what is it? Allen dot plumley at Hope Book or Hope Bible Hope Bible Church. Yeah and it's in the it's in the bullet the online newsletter that gets gets emailed out to us. So that's a practical way because membership, um, especially at this church, is kind of like the front door into most avenues of of ministry and service. Most formal ministries will require you to be a member before you can actually serve in them. And membership is is um although it's not like uh formally defined in Scripture. It is this church's way of satisfying the scriptural requirement that we be in accountable relationships with each other and accountable relationships to our elders. So it's um you know, becoming a member or at least taking the membership class. You can take the membership class and then decide at the end whether you want to become a member. But doing that is a a concrete step that you can take towards um building those habits towards getting involved in service. But also don't think that that serving the Lord and serving in the church has to be in the context of a formal ministry. There's a lot of service, probably more so, that um takes place in these informal relationships in the body of Christ. So Building into uh you know seeking the food that endures to eternal life, seeking these eternal things, has even more to do with cultivating relationships in the church, relationships in the body of Christ. Being involved in other people's lives so that you can notice when they are hurting or when they have needs, and so that you can minister to them in those And ministering to them might look like delivering an encouraging word of truth from the scriptures. Uh right. We are the Bible says that we are all teachers. Not all of us stand in front of a classroom, not all of us stand behind a pulpit But the Bible tells all of us to teach and admonish one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Like we all have uh access to the truth of God's word, and we all have opportunities. to speak that truth to other people who need it. And that is the kind of thing that we should all be doing. That's the kind of informal ministry that needs to be happening more so in in this body. And in churches around around the world, frankly. Um yeah, does anybody have I just want to pause here and and uh and and talk about this for a while. Does does anybody have other examples of uh ways that that we can be involved in ministry and involved in in sort of seeking the what Jesus calls the food that endures to eternal life, not just seeking the food which perishes I think especially in college um a lot of people are like when do I have the time to like just go up to somebody? I say believe in God or go to hell type thing, right? Like what approach do I take? Like what should I do? And I always like to encourage them by saying, like, you the way you live your life already is an outstanding example like Jesus calls us to be salt and light which encompass and embodies a lot of things but it also includes like the way you talk the way you behave your mannerisms the way you respect one another People do notice that both in class, outside of class. You may not think about it at the time, but people do pick up on those things that sometimes they ask questions. Like I remember um because I served as an RA residential advisor for three years. During my first year, I remember I was just so busy and freaking out about this test I had the next day. I was like, I'm I'm totally gonna fail this. So I was just like crying over my textbook. And somebody knocked on my door and I was like It's like eleven p. m. I was like, okay. And it was like one of my residents whom I didn't know very well. Yeah. But he was having a tough time and He just wanted somebody to talk to and he's like, okay, so how can I help you? He's like, well I noticed like everybody likes you. I was like, what do you mean like can you elaborate on? You're like, well people think you're like very kind and approachable. I'll say, okay Okay. So he's like, but how how are you like that? And then I was like, oh crap, I don't know how to answer this question. I was like, well, like I don't want to tell him I got Jesus in my life, just don't make things awkward, because obviously he comes from a different I'll say, okay. I've heard of God, but the God you believe in and the God I believe in are different. I'm like, yeah, they are different, but let me explain to you why. So I just hold him my piece of the truth. And I think it helped him a little bit, but I think God definitely provides those opportunities even though it was not opportune for me because I was like, I'm still gonna build this test. Yep. But then this guy picked up this conversation because he simply noticed that I was just kind to other people. Right. And so he was like, Oh, maybe he'll be kind to me if I ask him about these things. That's a that is a great example. Yeah. 'Cause I mean it combines these two principles that we've been talking about, right? God called you to minister at a very inconvenient time. Um and He also uh gave you an opportunity to um to speak the truth that that this guy needed to hear. And yeah, so like being on the lookout for those and and then your point, just just living your life um in submission to Christ and like walking with Him uh in your daily life has this effect of being attractive to other people and drawing them in. Yeah And that's that's true for our relationship with with unbelievers. Um but you know it's also true for our relationship with believers too, right? This is not just about evangelism, this is also about um encouraging others in the body of Christ, encouraging those who are already believers. Because it's not like it's not like you know the gospel is only what unbelievers need to hear. Uh right, we have this idea that um the gospel is just the basics that we have to learn before we get saved and then once we're saved like we move on to other stuff. But no, the gospel is what we all need to hear, even if we have been saved uh for decades. We we still need to preach the gospel to ourselves and we need to preach the gospel to each other even as people who have been walking with the Lord for years. Um yeah, preaching the good news that that we're saved by faith, right? It's so hard to remember that we're saved by faith. It's so easy to to think that we're saved by works, that we become acceptable to God based on the good news. But that's false, and we need to remind each other that that's false. We need to remind each other that it's God who loved us first, that God didn't love us because we were good. God makes us good because he loved us. And we cannot underestimate the the power of encouragement from believers. I think that um when the word of God like you know um exalted and we exalted a believer with the word of God is uh you know a button share is a share burden and uh a blessing here is a double blessing, you know, it's it's encouraging your heart and and you you take your eyes off your own burden and you look what God has done in all his children uh around the world and and And so I love watching the um you know, Afghanistan and all this persecution. Um, I don't like persecution, but what it does to my heart is it it brought in my my my scope of of view. Not just looking at my own family, my own church, but brother and sister who call in the name of Christ around the world who's suffering. and and and give me opportunity to pray for them, who knows what God's gonna do with my prayer. But it it's it's amazing to see that what God has used that a a a simple prayer of a believer and who encourage somebody across the world and I don't know. Mm-hmm. It is amazing. Yeah. Exactly. Somehow God will bring that around one day and say, yeah a member and then someone walked in the church and then yeah I was in this situation and I would need prayer and and this what God did and you your heart was warming. You're like wow God was so merciful allow me to actually participate in that he could do it all by himself. He allowed me to participate in prayer is is um it's very thankful. Yeah Exactly. Yeah, that's a great example of the food which endures to eternal life, right? The the work doing the work. Remember in chapter four of John, Jesus after he had witnessed to the the Samaritan woman at the well and the And he's the disciples came back and he said, I'm not hungry, I have the food. Uh I'm satisfied with the food of doing the work and the will of my Father in heaven. That's the kind of food that Jesus is talking about here, that endures to eternal life. Bearing one another's burdens, praying for others, sharing truth, sharing the gospel with them. Let's see. We are not going to get through all five of these, but uh let's do one more. So Jesus is both compassionate and confrontational. He's both of these things. And I think we need to be both of them too. Um well my point about the confrontation thing, we we um got on a on a very good tangent there, but that he rebuked the crowd, right? He he had compassion on them and he fed them. But then he saw their need, their their ignorance, right, their need for truth, and he rebuked them and taught them very hard things. And he said lots of other rebukes, uh rebuking statements to them. He said, You've seen me and you do not believe. And do not grumble among yourselves. And then at the end of chapter 6, we see that as a result of this, his teaching, many of his disciples even withdrew and were not walking with him anymore. So he wasn't not afraid to go out and speak the truth in a way that really turned people off and kind of offended them and drove them away. So so he combines these two things um incredibly well. And he he does it all under the motive of love. Uh right. He he confronts not just to be obnoxious or to be harsh He confronts because if he doesn't, they're going to perish in their ignorance. So it's love that drives him to confront, and it's love that that drives him to compassion to meet their needs as well. And so you know that's something we we learned from looking at Jesus. Another thing we learned from looking at Jesus doing this miracle of feeding the 5,000 is that Jesus is intentional. So he's intentional. Um and we see this uh sort of throughout the the miracle. we see that in the context of John chapter six, where he spends most of the chapter actually teaching the crowd, he is not just doing this miracle to meet their physical needs. Right, yes, he has compassion on them and he he notices their physical need and he does meet their physical need, but he's not just doing the miracle to fill their stomachs. He chose this miracle carefully to serve as the illustration for the teaching that he gives in the second half of John 6. verses twenty-six through fifty-eight. Because that teaching is about the bread of life. Right? He says, I am the bread of life. And he just took five loaves of bread and two fish and multiplied them and fed them to five thousand. uh people. Well probably more like fifteen or twenty thousand people because it said five thousand men. Um so he's saying he's saying He's giving an object lesson. He's giving a demonstration that he's going to refer back to in his upcoming sermon. and and say, I am the bread of life. So he's intentional about the kind of miracle that he does. He's intentional about the timing when he does it. Earlier in in chapter five, what we covered last week, he had said, uh, Jesus said, Moses wrote about me. Right? Remember we talked about that and we talked about how some various ways that that Moses wrote about Jesus in the Old Testament. And one of those ways was in Deuteronomy. chapter 18. You don't have to turn there, but I'll just read it. In Deuteronomy eighteen, God was speaking to Moses and he said, I will raise up a prophet from among their countrymen, like you, Moses. And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And it shall come about that whoever will not listen to my words, which he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him Uh so um one of that's probably the clearest place in uh the mosaic writings where it refers to a coming prophet who will be like Moses and who will have such authority to speak for God that if anyone doesn't listen to him, God himself will judge him for that. And uh so how is that related to the miracle that Jesus does here? Well he uh when he does this miracle of multiplying the fish and the loaves for the five thousand He is doing something that connects him to Moses. So remember when Israel was wandering in the desert and they ran out of food. What did God do for them? Yeah, he gave them food and water. He gave them manna from heaven, you know, the the bread that came down from heaven. And he gave them water from the rock. Um So the bread that came down from heaven, the interesting thing is the crowds recognize that the miracle that Jesus does here is connected to the manna. connected to the bread from heaven. Like they immediately make that linkage in their mind. Look at verse verse 31 and 32 of John 6. The crowd says to Jesus, our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, he gave them bread out of heaven to eat. Sorry, I meant to do 30 and 31. Uh so go back to thirty. They the crowd said therefore to him, What then do you do for a sign that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, he gave them bread out of heaven to eat. All right, so they're kind of saying they want to believe him, right? They want to follow him and make and make him king. Uh And they say, what um what sign are you gonna give us? Like like you just fed us some bread, right? That's kind of like how Moses uh fed us bread manna out of heaven. Are you saying that's the sign? 'Cause because we're ready. If you tell us, we're going to make you king. Um and so they're making this connection in their mind. And Jesus is deliberately doing this, right? He's saying, uh I'm going, he chose to feed, to multiply this bread in order to evoke that connection to Moses and the manna from heaven. And the crowd another sign that the crowds really recognize this is in verse 14. When so immediately after he feeds them, it says, When therefore the people saw the sign which he had performed, they said, This is of a truth the prophet who is to come into the world. And that's a reference to Deuteronomy 18, which we just read, uh, where God promises to raise up a prophet like Moses. This had become a thing in Israel. Israel was looking forward to the prophet or the prophet like Moses. who was to come into the world. And they after they saw Jesus multiply the bread and feed them with it, with miraculous bread, they said, Aha, he's the prophet like Moses. Let's go make him king. Jesus didn't want that because he is not interested in earthly power or or political power. or overthrowing Rome, but it's it's crucial to note that the crowd got it. Right? The crowd got that Jesus is the one Moses wrote about. And it shows his intentionality that he was that he was setting this up on purpose. Uh another place we see his intentionality is that uh even while he's preparing to do the miracle and to multiply the food for the crowd, he still takes time as as sort of a side note to use the occasion to teach his disciples. Like look at verses five and six. Jesus, therefore, lifting up his eyes and seeing that a great multitude was coming to him, said to Philip, Where are we to buy bread that these may eat? And he didn't say that just because he was actually confused or or worried about what was going to happen. And this he was saying to test him, for he himself knew what he was intending to do. So throughout this process, he is bringing his disciples along to try to understand who he is. Right. And later we're we're gonna see that when he walks on water, he he uniquely reveals to his disciples another aspect of his divinity. He's concerned with with his disciples especially, knowing who he is and understanding. And so I I just think it is um it's amazing that how many things Jesus has judged. He's juggling compassion for the crowd. He's about to do this great miracle that is not just a G Wiz wonder. It's a very laden sign that points to points back to Moses and points to who he is. And in the midst of all that, he is intentionally thinking about how he's going to teach his disciples, how he's going to bring them along in this understanding. of who he is. So Jesus is very intentional. He's not just rolling with events. He's not just reacting to the things that are happening. He's happening. He's planning things out. He's accomplishing his higher purposes that he has. for this event. And then finally we see Jesus' intentionality in how he responds to the crowd. Right, look at verse 15. Jesus therefore, perceiving that they were intending to come and take him by force to make him king, withdrew again to the mountain by himself alone. So he did not let himself be swept along by this crowd. Um if he had been indecisive or passive at all, they would have just taken him and and made him King by force. But he was like, nope, that's not what I'm doing. So he he sort of deftly handles the crowd, sends the disciples off, goes off by himself to the mountain to pray. And then If you look at we didn't get to this yet, but you know, when when he walks on the water, the if you look carefully at the movement of people um He's got the disciples going across the Sea of Galilee back to Capernaum in their boat. He left the crowds over here on this side of the sea. And then he went up on the mountain to pray. In the middle of the night, he comes back down to the sea and he walks across, joins the disciples, and they get back there. So in the morning, when the crowd wakes up They they're like, huh? Where's Jesus? There was only one boat, and the disciples left in that, and we didn't see him get in it But he's not here. Where did he go? And so it kind of defuses or um yeah, diffuses all of their their revolutionary fervor, right? They're ready to take him by force and make him king, but they wake up and they're like, huh? And they so they come across back to the other side. And so when they get there, instead of saying, all right, let's get this revolution going, they say, Rabbi, when did you get here? Jesus did that on purpose because he he didn't want them to make him king. He wanted them to be in a place where they were ready to receive teaching. He drew them back to the synagogue at Capernaum and and sort of diffused their revolutionary zeal and made them ready to hear what he was going to proclaim to them. So all throughout John's Gospel you see this characteristic of Jesus that he is not just reacting to events. He is actually orchestrating things according to his plan. He has a very um a a very specific uh go he has he's devoted to the goal of proclaiming and teaching who he is. His mission is to teach and proclaim the good news about himself and the true kingdom of God. And he doesn't let anything stand in the way of that or derail that mission and focus. That's one of the things that's jumping out to me this time reading through John. I've read through John a few times before in my life, but but the one that's really coming out to me this time is Jesus' intentionality and his singular focus on his mission. Yeah. He will be king, but it will be according to the father. That's right, yeah. Yeah, he will be king. He knows that he will in the future be an actual earthly king over a over a uh a physical geographical nation. Uh but not this time. Right? This time he's coming to die and to save sinners. Um and then in the future, when he comes again, he will come to raise the dead and rule over an earthly kingdom. So yeah, he's very cognizant of Of God's timing and God's order of events