So um yeah, so last week, uh well I should back up. Um we are so in in this class uh we're sort of alternating quarters uh and you know, one quarter we'll do we'll study scripture, uh which is what we're doing this quarter, we're studying the book of John. And then uh the next quarter we'll study some applied topic like apologetics or um you know, like ethics, you know, what what to do in certain situations, uh, that kind of thing. So we're gonna alternate between uh scriptural exposition and application And so now we're in now we're on scripture. Now we're in the Gospel of John, chapter five. And uh today we're gonna finish off chapter five. But just for context and by way of review, so last week we talked about John 5, verses 19 through 29. And um in the beginning of John five, uh Jesus did a miracle. Who remembers what miracle he did in the beginning of John five? Good morning, Caleb. Yes, he healed a lame man at the pool of Bethesda. Right, and that miracle was kind of controversial. Does anybody remember why? He did it on the Sabbath, that's right. Yeah. Yeah, he did it on the Sabbath. And so um, you know, instead of being like really impressed and and you know, glad about this miracle, the uh the crowds in Jerusalem and the leaders of the Jews were complaining against him and they were bringing this accusation against him him, hey why are you why are you working on the Sabbath and telling other people to work, like telling the guy to pick up his mat and carry his mat. So but Jesus did that intentionally, right? He chose exactly the day that he wanted to heal this guy. And he chose it to provoke this controversy, this confrontation with the Pharisees and the leaders of the Jews. And he did it because he had a message that he wanted everybody to hear. And so we've been going through that message in the second half of John chapter 5. And last week we saw that basically the first part of his message was, guys, I am God and I have come to save you from your sins. So we saw that he that Jesus claimed in six ways to be equal with the Father, uh to be one with the Father. And to be to have this unique and special relationship with the Father where he has all the power and authority of the Creator God. So we saw that last week and we saw that he he proclaimed essentially the gospel, right? He preached the gospel to them, that all who hear and believe will be saved from judgment. to eternal life. And you see that in in verse 24. That's where he says it most compactly. He says, Truly, truly I say to you He who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and does not come into judgment, but is passed out of death into life. So that's the first part of his message. He's preaching salvation, right? He's preaching spiritual regeneration. And we also talked about how that's coupled with with our hope of physical resurrection, right? God promises to change us from the inside out, and that's something that He does today. He also promises to raise our bodies to life again at the last day. That's in the future. And Jesus talks about both of those things. But he promises to save those who believe from their sins. But in so he's just delivered the good news of salvation, right? But in this section that we're going to cover today, he delivers the bad news. Because that good news does not apply to all people. It only applies to those who hear the words of Jesus and believe the Father who sent him. For everyone else who doesn't hear and believe, uh there's judgment. They will be judged. And that's what Jesus is talking about today in verses uh thirty through forty-seven that we're going to read. And what Jesus is doing here in verses 30 through 47 is he's laying out God's court case, his courtroom case against those who refuse to believe in Jesus. Uh all right, so with that introduction, uh who wants to help me out by reading um let's see, we'll go First uh verses thirty through thirty-eight and then I'll have another person read thirty-nine through forty-seven. Okay, Alex, you start, and then who's who's gonna read second? Aaron? Okay, this is The second part was thirty-nine. So y Aaron starts at thirty-nine. I can do nothing on my own. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. If I alone bear witness without myself, my testimony is not true. There is another who bears witness without me And I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true. You sent to John and he has borne witness to the truth. Not that the testimony that I receive is from man, but I say these things that you may be saved. He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his life. But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing, bear witness about me, that the Father has sent me, and the Father who sent me has himself own witness about me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you do not have his words abiding in you, but you do not believe the one whom he has said. You search the scriptures because you think in them eternal life. It is these that testify about me. But you are unwilling to come to me so that you may have life I do not receive glory from men, but I know you that you do not have the love of God in yourselves. I have come in my Father's name, but you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and you do not seek the glory that is from the one and only God? Do not think that I will accuse you before the Father. The one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have said your vote. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my word? Alright, thank you. So I call this lesson God's Court Case against unbelievers. And it's not really a fun lesson. Uh you know, I I don't like um yeah, I don't I don't like thinking about judgment. I would much prefer to think about the good news of salvation, but the good news is not good without the bad news. Uh and and there is Jesus presents both sides, right? He presents both the good news for those who believe and the bad news. for those who don't. So we need to cover it, right? Like we need to teach the full counsel of God. Um so that's what we're gonna do. And this that's what Jesus is really talking about here. He's laying out God's court case against those who who refuse to believe. So in a courtroom, there's a bunch of things, right? Today we have our courtrooms. In in the ancient world they have their courtrooms. And Uh they had, you know, roughly the same elements. Uh there was a judge, right? So So who is the judge in God's courtroom? Well, first yeah, Jesus. It's it's right there up front in verse thirty. So we just read, I can do nothing on my own initiative. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just, because I do not seek my own will, but the will of him who sent me. So Jesus is calling himself the judge, and in the previous eleven verses, um he talked a lot about himself being the judge and how he has received all the authority from the Father to be the judge of humanity. So he's already he doesn't need to spend much time uh on this theme because he's already argued that. He's got he's got the father's authority to be the judge, and he is the judge. So in this verse he's basically summarizing what he's already said. You know, I'm equal to the Father. I I have all the authority for judgment. And he's uh pivoting to judgment as the theme of the rest of the chapter. He's setting this up as the theme for the next uh eighteen verses. So Jesus is the judge, and what qualifies him to be the judge? From this verse here, verse thirty. So what qualifies Jesus to be the judge That's right. He doesn't he's not judging selfishly, right? He's not seeking his own whims or his own interests, right? He's seeking the will of the Father. He judges according to the will of the Father. And he's the only person who actually does that. Right. We the rest of us, um, to the extent that we judge, we are fallible judges and we judge selfishly, um, we judge according to our own motives Jesus is the only one who judges perfectly according to the will of the Father, and that's what qualifies him to be the judge here. So we've got God's judge, Jesus. Who are the defendants in this court case? Yes. Uh human. Um humanity, or a specific part of humanity, right? So he's talking to Jesus. The defendants are who Jesus is talking to, right, in this in this uh address. And he's talking primarily to those who have heard his words, who have received all the necessary revelation and yet still reject him. And don't believe in don't put their faith in him. So the defendants essentially are those who who ought to know enough to believe in Jesus, but they don't. And we can fill this in from the earlier context too. Like verse 24, it says, Truly, truly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life and does not come into judgment. Right? So if those who hear and believe don't come into judgment, then those who come into judgment must be those who didn't believe. So when he's talking about judgment, he's talking about the judgment of those who had the opportunity to believe but did not. Okay, all who hear and do not put their faith in Jesus as God's Son are are the defendants here. And sh similarly in this courtroom, in this court case, There are charges, right? God brings a charge against the defendants. And it's related to to who they are, to what defines the group of defendants. The charge is refusing to believe in Jesus, refusing to believe in the one that God has sent. Look back in verse 23 in the context, in the second half of that verse it says, He who does not honor the Son does not honor the father who sent him. So God's charge is basically, um, you're not honoring my son, therefore you're dishonoring me. Uh okay. So we've got the judge, we have who the defendants are, we have the charges against them, filling in all the all these aspects of God's courtroom This section though is mainly about the witnesses, the testimony. So every court case needs witnesses, needs testimony from witnesses. And uh that's what Jesus is going to spend most of his time on here is Uh he says that the Father, God the Father, is um orchestrating and arranging four witnesses that come forward and that testify about me, that I am his son and that I'm the savior of the world. And that you need to believe in me. So look at verse 31 and 32. Jesus says, if I alone testify about myself, my testimony is not true. There is another who testifies of me. And I know that the testimony which he gives about me is true. So Jesus is saying, I'm not just standing up here making claims for myself about myself. Like I'm uh you know it's it's not that the judge is just testifying about the judge. Rather, there's another who testifies about me. And his testimony is true. Um so the real the question is who is that other person who testifies about Jesus? Well it so it could be John the Baptist. Certainly John the Baptist is mentioned explicitly in the next verse. And you know, some commentators do think that that's what he means here. But Um, I think it's more likely that Jesus means it's God the Father. God the Father is who testifies about me and I know his testimony is true. And the reason I think that's more likely is that um Later in the passage, Jesus says he doesn't accept human testimony. He doesn't need human testimony. He doesn't accept glory from man. So It would be strange for him to say, you know, don't take my word for it, take a human being's word, take John the Baptist's word for it. But in this whole throughout this whole passage, he's been Uh he's been emphasizing his special relationship with the Father and how he speaks and does exactly and only what the Father shows him to say and do. Right. And so it's it's likely, in my mind, and and in a lot of commentators' minds, it's likely that Jesus is talking about the Father here. There is another who testifies about me. That's my Father, and I know that his testimony is true. And so I think he's saying this to set up the four witnesses that he's going to talk about. He's saying the Father is the one who arranged and orchestrated and sent these witnesses to testify about me. Um and his testimony is true. Okay, so what are these what are these four witnesses? Well, now we get to John the Baptist. Right. So I'll just list out who they are. John the Baptist sent by the Father, right? Uh second is miracles. Third, we've got the father himself And then fourth, and this is the one that Jesus spends the most time on and is the most condemning is the scriptures. Okay, so that's what we're gonna talk about. These four witnesses And each one of them is from the Father in some way, right? And uh either the Father sent uh the person or he gave the father supplied the power for the miracles Uh the Father himself testifies with his own voice. The Father inspired the scriptures that that testify about Jesus. These are all things that The the people who are hearing Jesus right now have been given as testimony about who Jesus is and that they should, they ought to believe and accept. So first is John the Baptist. Look at verses 33 through 35. Jesus says, You have sent to John, and he has testified to the truth. But the testimony which I receive is not from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved. He was the lamp that was burning and was shining, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light Okay, so Jesus says John testifies to him. Uh what was John's testimony? Does everybody anybody remember what exactly John said about Jesus He might go ahead. He might increase and I must decrease. Yeah, that was one of the things. He must increase, I must decrease. John freely admitted that he was not the Messiah Um the I I best says it's longer, but the one who comes out to me about this is fire. That's right. With the Holy Spirit and fire, right? So it's a double Double baptism. John baptized with water for repentance, but the one who comes after me will baptize with the Holy Spirit and fire. And remember what those two things mean? What is baptism with the Holy Spirit for regeneration? Yeah, spiritual regeneration. Jesus just talked about that um in the preceding verses of this chapter. He has come to give life to all who believe. That is the baptism of the Holy Spirit, that is spiritual regeneration. What is the baptism of fire? Burning away burning away with Current Oh burning something away. Burning something away. So you know it's If we didn't have um the the the context we might think oh the fire is is a cleansing fire, a purifying fire. What the hell It's hell. It's it's the fire of judgment. In the context you know, so so the place where John says this is Matthew three, eleven and twelve. He says, um John says, the uh the one who comes after me will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clear his threshing floor, and he will gather his wheat into the barn But he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire. Right. So in the context of what John's saying, the fire means judgment. It doesn't mean sanctification. So baptiz the fact that Jesus baptizes with the Holy Spirit and fire means he divides humanity into two groups, those who believe in him and are saved, and those who don't believe in him and are judged. So that that was the core of John's testimony about Jesus. Uh and it's worth bringing up one other thing that that John the Baptist said, which was recorded earlier in the Gospel of John Um where he said uh he saw Jesus coming to him one day and he said, Behold what? The Lamb the Lamb of God who does what? Takes away the sin of the world. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So just to make it extra explicit, John is saying, This man is the Messiah and his purpose is to save you from your sins. Not to overthrow the Romans, um, you know, not to be your your political leader, but to save you from your sins. And so that was John the Baptist's testimony about Jesus. Um and you know that that's pretty strong testimony. And Jesus even called John the greatest man born of woman. Remember that? Like what what a what a what a designation You know, and I I think what this means is that um, you know, I I R. C. Sproul asked this question, like, who is the greatest Old Testament prophet? And you think, oh well Elijah did all those miracles and like Isaiah had such great oracles about the Messiah and stuff. But it's not any of those guys, it's John the Baptist, because Jesus said he's the greatest man born of woman Um so you have the testimony of the greatest old covenant prophet um confirming who Jesus is. But as great as John is, Jesus doesn't put stock in in his testimony. He kinda downplays it, right? He says he says, um but the testimony which I receive is not from man. Like like you know, I don't want to base my case on on the testimony of just a man. Right. But I say these things so that you may be saved. The reason he brings up John's testimony is because the people were willing to listen to John. You know, the Jewish people got really excited about John's ministry. They said, Oh wow, he's got something. You know, something is happening. God is doing something through him. So even though Jesus um didn't want to base his case on man's testimony. He wanted to base it on God's testimony. He said, Okay, I'll point to John, I'll bring up John because you you accept John. So if you accept John, you should accept what he says about me And and notice here, this is important, that Jesus wants them to be saved. He said He said, I but I say these things so that you may be saved. He is not willing that any should perish. He's not he's not just uh going on a tirade and totally condemning his audience He is warning them he's warning them about the judgment that they face because he wants them to change their minds. He wants them to repent and be saved. Uh okay, questions about oh yeah, Caleb. Who are the prose Who are the prosecutors? Okay. Yeah in the in the courtroom analogy. Yeah. Well, I mean you could argue well, we'll get actually we'll get to that. Um the the the spoiler alert is uh that the prosecutor is Moses. Oh shit But we'll we'll have to explain that. So John the Baptist was testified to Jesus that he's the Christ. Miracles. That's the second witness, the second testimony that Jesus brings up. Look at verse thirty-six here. But the testimony which I have is greater than the testimony of John. See, John's testimony is a human testimony. Jesus is saying, I have a divine testimony For the works which the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I do testify about me, that the Father has sent me. So Jesus did a lot of miracles. The Gospel of John actually doesn't spend a whole lot of time talking about Jesus' miracles. In fact, so far uh John has only recorded three specific miracles that Jesus has done. It's the the turning of water into wine at the wedding, uh the healing of the nobleman's son in Galilee. And the healing of this man at the pool of Bethesda that sort of brought about this controversy. So those are the three miracles that John's recorded so far. But Uh the other gospels record a lot more miracles that Jesus did even early on in his ministry. And even in John, the implication is that like he was known for doing a lot of miracles. So like chapter two verse twenty-three says, Many believed in his name, beholding his signs which he was doing. So signs is another word for miracles. And then in chapter four, verse forty-five, it says, The Galileans received him, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast. So the implication even in John is that he's done a h a whole lot of miracles and that everybody knows it. Right? Nobody can deny that this man works miracles. And that's why Nicodemus comes to him and says, uh, nobody can do the things that you do without being sent from Jesus' miracles demonstrate why are they included as testimony, though? Why does he point to them as testimony about himself? being the Son of God. And I think a clue isn't that word signs, right? Many believed in his name, beholding the signs which he was doing. What is a sign? That's the most common word for miracle, by the way, in scripture. A sign is something that you see that points to something else, right? Yeah, you see a a post that says New York City, four hundred miles. Like that sign points to New York points to the city. Or Um, you know, the sign a sign above a business is not the business itself. It points to the business and says, Come in and and shop here. Um so that it by the way is what differentiates a miracle from something that's just highly improbable, right? Like you could win the lottery twice in a row That that is a possible event, highly improbable. If it happened to you, would you say, oh, it's a miracle? Colloquially you might say that, but biblically is that a miracle, winning the lottery twice? No. Why not? Why? Um it's it's possible so it's I think it doesn't really have to do with the degree of of probability or improbability. It's more about the meaning behind the event Right? Me winning the lottery twice, uh, there's no meaning to it. Right? It's not like confirming something that God has said. Uh And but with a miracle, a miracle is a sign in that it's it's a highly improbable event. It has to be improbable to attract your attention It has to be a violation or like a deviation from the normal course of events. But once it's got your attention, it doesn't just stop there. It's not just a marvel. It's it's a sign. It points to something that the father is doing or that the father has said. So there's a purpose behind Yes. A miracle has a purpose. Um a a rare, surprising event doesn't necessarily have a purpose, right? Lazarus, to the whole illustration of Lazarus, yeah. Pointing to the fact that yes, Jesus the Son has authority to raise the dead into life and also has final say on who lives and who dies. in terms of judgments. Yeah. People weren't like, oh my gosh, like my best friend's last receiver live, that's kinda creepy. They didn't stop there if we were like, oh what is this losing Yeah. What does this mean about about the person who works the miracle? Exactly. Yes. I would probably say this also, there is a zero problem. on an earthly dimension. Not like you know you have a one in a billion shots and to win the lotteries, but miracles are in zero in a gazillion There's no possible to everyone that we're going to do. Without God. I think I think some miracles are that way. Certainly like resurrection. Um but if you look at uh mirac some I think there are some miracles that actually have a non-zero probability of happening at uh you know, for example, um like Gideon's fleece, right? Uh the the him putting out the fleece and the fleece in the morning being wet and the ground around it being dry, that has some probability of happening. Right. Or or even better perhaps the the parting of the Red Sea. You know, it says actually gives a natural explanation in the Bible for that happening. Right? It said that God sent an east wind or a west wind, a wind from some direction to blow all night long and turn the the sea into land. So it's not it may not have even been um a singular event that never happened before and never would happen again. It's just that what made it a miracle was that it happened right when God told it to happen, right when it needed to happen for the Israelites to cross the sea and and the Egyptians to be drowned. Right. So it was the timing of the thing and the fact that God said it was going to happen. beforehand that makes it a miracle. Not necessarily it's it's absolute impossibility. But I think you know that it's true that that a lot of the miracles that Jesus did We're just genuinely impossible. You know, or like completely outside the realm of things that we could offer a natural explanation for. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. It's true. Like we I don't th I think it's it's very it's misguided to try to go and find like a natural explanation for all these miracles. Um because because some of them are just beyond natural explanation. Yeah, but but it's it's it sort of misses the point, right? Like if if we if we try to find a natural explanation, it doesn't it doesn't matter It happened it's it was a very improbable thing and it happened because God it happened right at the right time that God needed it to happen, and it happened in the way that He prophesied it would happen And that confirms that he is who he says he is. Right. Yeah, but also like the miracles when they are performed. They're always fully confusing. Yes. Like nowadays in like the experiment movement. And on yeah, on the rare occasions there are people who claim that some part of their illness was healed. But never do they say, Oh my like illness was fully cured like Like I relapsed when I came back and so it never is super efficient when it's not like a like a simple band aid like Yeah. Yeah, these kind of these kind of sign miracles that Jesus is doing, they don't happen today. Right? They don't God God is not giving people power to do miracles as signs that point to their divine authority. But uh and it it's clear from you know if you if you evaluate the claims of these so-called miracle workers that that their their so-called miracles are just not in the same category as what Jesus did, or the apostles for that matter. Yeah, so this is this is the testimony of miracles, right? They are the miracles that Jesus did are signs that point to the authority that Jesus has from the Father and the His authority over creation, like when he calmed the waves and the and the wind. His authority over sickness and death. You know, he healed a lot of sick people. He raised the dead. His authority to forgive sins. Remember the uh the paralyzed man who got lowered through the roof, and Jesus said, Your sins are forgiven. And the Pharisees scoffed. How who is this that he thinks he can forgive sins? And he said, Well, which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or get up and walk. But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. Get up and walk, right? So that miracle shows he has authority over sin and forgiveness. And uh so the that's what his miracles are showing, right? That's that is Um that is why the miracles are a witness to who Jesus is, the fact that he's the Son of God and that he came to save and forgive sin. Um more questions about miracles. All right, third witness is the Father himself. Look at verses thirty-seven and thirty-eight. And the Father who sent me, he has testified of me. You have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his form. You do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe him whom he sent. Uh okay, so what is he talking about here? Uh the Father himself testifies about me. Well, um I so you know again this is this is one place where you read commentators and and uh some of them disagree about that. But I think um you know what what makes the most sense to me is that Jesus is talking about the actual voice of the Father that came when Jesus got baptized. Right, so um this is the the voice of God is not mentioned directly in the Gospel of John, but all three of the other Gospels record that when Jesus got baptized by John the Baptist Um the you know the Holy Spirit came out of heaven in the form of a dove or like a dove uh and God the Father Himself spoke from heaven and he said, You are my beloved Son, in you I am well pleased. And that was uh that was a an actual voice that people could hear. And so Jesus could be referring to that when he says the Father himself testifies about me. Or the other opinion about what he could be referring to is that uh he could be saying that the Father speaks through my word. Like anyone who who listens to me um with you know with with a with a heart that's willing to hear will discern that what I'm saying is from the Father. Right. The the father testifies about me by testifying through me, by speaking through me. Right. So it could be either one of those. Uh I'm not really sure. I tend to lean towards he's referring to the actual literal voice that God used when he spoke at his baptism. But it could just be like the um the character of his words and message. But either way, why does Jesus then say, you have not heard his voice at any time? I mean you th you'd think either way. Right. If if he meant the literal voice of his baptism, well they heard that. Um And if if he means the the character of of my words and my and and what I do, they they well they've certainly heard that too. Why does he say you haven't heard his voice at any time or seen his form? Um well he could be saying that none of you have heard and seen the father like I've heard and seen the father. emphasizing his special relationship with the Father, the fact that he he alone um receives all the revelation about what the father is doing Uh right. So he he could be saying, you don't you haven't seen the father like I have or heard the father like I have. But um it's probably that he's saying they have so hardened their hearts that they cannot recognize the words of the Father from Jesus' lips or the form of the Father in his deeds. Um so yeah, he's probably saying he's he's probably not being literal when he's saying you have never heard uh his voice at any time or seen his form, but he's saying, look, I am his son. I am the closest thing that you're gonna get to hearing his voice and seeing his form But if you reject me, that means you have so hardened your hearts that you are missing your chance to hear from God and see his form. Yes. I think it also has to do with the fact that Isadis are like the elite of religious societies. Like they're supposed to be the ones who mastery the Old Testament in and out. Like you know like you're the teacher of Israel but you don't know anything. Yeah. So I think it's like this similar Context here. Yes. Like if you really knew who my father was, right? Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, that that is absolutely his point. It's like if you yeah, you have enough you should be able to recognize that I'm from the father. The fact that you don't shows there's something wrong with you. Um Jesus also said that um you seen my you've seen the Father. You see me. And and when the disciples say, um Yeah, show us the father. Yeah. You you you you see me. Right. I'm I'm I don't do anything online No, I I do everything my father. You see me, you see my your father. Yes. Exactly. To see Jesus is to see the Father. Yeah. Yeah, I think I think that is that is what he's saying here is to see me is to see the Father. And so if you if you are rejecting me, you're blinding yourself so that you can never see the Father Uh and this brings us to the fourth witness, which is the scripture. This is the most powerful one in the whole court case. Alright, uh look at verses 39 and 40 and also verse 46. Okay, so 39 says, You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. It is these that testify about me And you are unwilling to come to me so that you may have life. And drop down to verse 46. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. Okay, so this ought to be this ought to be very sobering for those of us here at Hope Bible Church. Because The implication here is that it is possible to study the scriptures thoroughly and diligently and still miss the point so badly that you are condemned eternally. Just uh let that sink in for a minute. Uh this knowing simply knowing the scriptures is no guarantee that you will understand the point. and uh and and do the right thing and be saved. The uh the audience here, they knew the Old Testament very well. You know, in Jewish society, uh every young boy would go to school and would memorize the first five books of the Bible. Um and those who showed any aptitude would go on and memorize A lot of them would would memorize the entire Old Testament, like all the prophets too. And so they had a very biblically literate society. They could quote the scriptures and If you quoted, um, you know, Jesus would often quote like the first line of a psalm, and everybody knew exactly what passage he was referring to. So that a very biblically literate society. But they totally missed the main point of all those scriptures that they studied so thoroughly, which was that God was sending his son to save them from their sins. That was the main point. That was what the scriptures were teaching and had been teaching consistently, was that God was sending his son to save them from their sins and nobody got it. Well almost nobody got it. There were there were a few people who were looking forward to the Messiah and and to uh being saved from their sins. But for the most part, they missed it. So let's look, well first of all, I want to make the point that the scriptures testify about Jesus, right? So so if we're reading um any part of Scripture, any portion of Scripture, there is we are we are guaranteed that there's some way that that piece of scripture relates to or testifies about Jesus. He says, um, you stu you search the scriptures, it is these that testify about me. So Jesus treats the whole of Scripture as a testimony to himself. And if we don't see Jesus in the scriptures, that means we've missed the point of the scripture. And there's a lot of ways that we do this. There's a lot of ways that we miss the point. One way to miss the point especially for those of us who who really love uh apologetics, myself included, is to have what John Piper calls a mentality of the marginal Right? We uh we can get so wrapped up in these in these trivial questions uh that and and we know like you know, four different ways to uh to defend this one obscure verse in the Bible that we've totally missed the point of what the text is actually saying I mean I think uh John Piper's example is the star of Bethlehem. You know, like some a few some people know uh all these possible astronomical explanations for how that star might have moved the way it did and led the wise men to Bethlehem. But like, you know, it's possible to spend so much time uh debating those explanations that you miss the need to go and worship the king, like the wise men actually did. Alright, so that's one way to miss the point. is to have this mentality of the marginal. A related way that is also, you know, uh probably common for for those of us at Hope Bible Church. is to focus on so-called theological foam and suds, right? These uh uh these secondary and tertiary doctrines that you know and I'm and don't take me the wrong way here. I'm say I don't I'm not saying that doctrine is unimportant. We need to know doctrine and we need to have right doctrine. The truth is very important But we if we get the secondary doctrine right and miss the primary doctrine, we have failed. Uh so um you know if we if we can defend our favorite eschatology, our favorite view of the end times. And if we know like ten points in favor of our eschatology against the other person's eschatology, but if we miss the idea that we need to love the appearing of Christ, we need to be ready for his appearing, then we've missed the point. So we gotta guard against this kind of stuff. Another way to miss the point that I think is also common in in churches is to see the Bible as a book of rules or as a book of examples for how we should live And to miss out on the relationship with God through Jesus. But the Bible is, it does contain a lot of commands for how we do how we are to live. And we shouldn't neglect them or minimize them. But the Bible is not written just so that we would have a list of things to do. in order to live pleasing to God. The the Bible was written so that we could have a transformed heart that is finally able to glorify God by enjoying him forever. Right? The Bible is about heart transformation, not about external obedience and conformity to a standard. So, let me say that again. The real point of Scripture, the real point of the Bible, is to get us to receive from Jesus a transformed heart. So that we are able to glorify God by enjoying Him forever. So we should never lose sight of that. We should never lose sight of the fact that The Bible is aiming at heart transformation, not external deeds. It's aiming at us glorifying God by being satisfied in Him, by delighting in Him and by delighting in His law, not merely Doing what we ought to do out of a sense of obligation and duty. So there, I mean, those are just three examples. There are a lot of ways that we can miss the point That we can know the scriptures really well on the outside, but totally miss the point of what they're saying. And we gotta guard against that Uh can anybody else think of examples or have questions about that? Yes. I I I got a little distracted, but I think I think this is not not here, I just started to there's a reference there to Moses. For if you believe Moses Moses you would believe me, for he wrote to me. I was like, where is that at? So that's Deuteronomy 18. Uh-huh. So they believed in Moses and then back up a little bit more where it talks about John. Um Uh well well sorry, I'm sorry. I had it and I lost it. Uh oh. Uh uh Uh three. Uh three. I it's fun. Well wait that's close Yes. He was a burning and shining lamp and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his life. So they believed Moses, they believed John, but now they decided not to believe Jesus Yeah. Even though Jesus was the one that Moses wrote about and and the one that John testified about it. And s the audience obviously believed that. And here he is. Um So yes, there is being there is testimony given from God through these men to Christ. Yeah. But there's this Yeah, exactly. And and you raised the right question. Like how did Moses write about Jesus? And you brought up an excellent verse, Deuteronomy eighteen Where where this it talks of Moses talks about God will raise up a prophet like me. And that was a that was a category that the Jews had in their mind. They were they were expecting the prophet to come. And when they say the prophet, they mean the prophet like Moses that was prophesied in Deuteronomy 18. And Jesus was that, yes. But Moses wrote so much, so much more about Jesus in the Old Testament. So by the way, when Jesus says Moses wrote of me, he's talking about the first five books of the Bible. Moses was the author of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. And uh those are called the Pentateuch or the Torah. And so when Jesus says Moses wrote about me, he's saying, look at those first five books of the Bible. I'm everywhere in them Uh Deuteronomy 18 is one of the clearest places, but literally every major concept in the Torah, in the Pentateuch, points to Christ in some way. And we don't have nearly enough time. to do a uh to do this concept justice. But uh I'm just going to give you a couple of examples Um one the first example I'm going to give you is because it's the earliest example. If you look at Genesis 3, 15, the third chapter of the Bible, right after Adam and Eve sinned and and brought sin into the world. Um God delivers the first prophecy of Christ. Uh and it's it's often called the Proto-Evangelion, the the the proto-gospel And it's when God says to the serpent, I will put m enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise, that means crush you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. So in this prophecy God is saying, um, Satan, you have you have uh deceived Eve and and made her sin, but she's not on your side. I'm going to put enmity between you and her, and she's going to have an offspring, a descendant, who will crush you, who would who will deal you a death blow. Um and you will wound him, but he will he will kill you. So this is God uh prophesying about Jesus, about the Messiah, who would come and and deliver mankind from this sin uh that Adam and Eve had had brought in. Uh that's one. And then uh basically everything else. You can go you could jump off from there and name name a bazillion things. But uh I'll just I'll just point to three old test three concepts from Moses that point to Christ. And I'm picking these three because uh Jesus uses them here in John chapters five, six, and seven. So in John 5, Jesus is talking a lot about the Sabbath. The Sabbath was what sort of provoked this controversy uh between him and and the Jewish leaders. Um well the Sabbath was instituted in in the Mosaic Covenant um to be a time of rest, a day of rest for us, right? And it was never supposed to be just about physical rest. It was supposed to be about spiritual rest, right? Resting in the Lord, resting from our striving and from dead works. The author of Hebrews writes a lot about this. But Jesus is our Sabbath rest. He saves us from our works of sin and our striving to uh to fulfill the law. So he is our Sabbath rest in salvation. So the Sabbath is Moses pointing to Christ. The manna from heaven, this is Something that Jesus picks up in John chapter 6, but we'll study in the coming weeks. Jesus calls himself the manna from heaven in John six. Alright, so so the manna from heaven was something that Moses wrote about in Exodus when the Israelites were wandering in the desert, they didn't have anything to eat. God provided supernaturally every day this manna from heaven to sustain them. So Jesus picks up that and says, that testifies of me I am the bread from heaven. I'm the one that God supernaturally provides for you to give you life, to sustain you. And then finally in John 7, Jesus calls himself the living water. Right? And this is a an allusion, another allusion back to the Old Testament, back to Moses. Moses wrote about how when the Israelites were in the desert They ran out of water at some point and they were they were complaining against God in this terrible way. You know, they were saying, We should have he should have left us to die in Egypt. It would have been better. And so God says to Moses, all right Moses, go take your staff of judgment and go in front of the people. Right. And so Moses stands in front of the people with his staff of judgment, and the people are probably thinking, oh no, we did it now. Like here comes God to punish us. He's just he's had enough. He's gonna kill us all But God says something really fascinating. He says, Moses, I will come down and stand before you on the rock. You take your staff of judgment, strike the rock, and out of it will come water. So think about what that means. Moses, he's got his staff of judgment. He's holding court He strikes the rock that God is standing on. So he's striking God. Right? God is taking the punishment for the sins of the people. And out of that punishment flows this water that gives them life. Do you see how that points to Christ? This is pointing to a Savior who would be God Himself taking on the sins of His people and from that punishment uh water flowing out to save their lives and to give them spiritual life. So Moses really did write about Jesus, both explicitly and implicitly. And there's There's all these ways. Like you could go through and spend an entire semester just cataloging the ways that that all the things that Moses wrote in those first five books of the Bible point to Christ And and so that's the that's what Jesus is saying here. He's like you've got all this totality of evidence that's pointing to me, and you just aren't reading it, you aren't listening to it, you aren't believing it. So don't have too much time. I want to leave a little bit of time for prayer. But basically Um the next the the last six verses or seven verses, Jesus is basically making his closing argument. Well, I'll be honest with a closing argument, right? So he says Why don't you believe? Because you want glory from men, not from God. So look at verses 41 through 44. I do not receive glory from men, but I know you that you do not have the love of God in yourselves I have come in my Father's name and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and you don't seek the glory that's from the one and only God? Um so he's saying here, he's contrasting himself with other people. He's saying, I I get glory from God. I don't receive it from men, but you guys get glory from men. And I think it's important to notice here is that Jesus doesn't um doesn't chastise them for seeking glory Right? It's not that we're supposed to avoid seeking glory. It's just that we're supposed to seek it from the correct source. We are supposed to seek glory from God. not for men. They they want to please men. They want the approval of men. And often we do too. We want the approval of men. Uh we want uh other people to think that we're that we're smart or um you know that that we've got it all together. But we don't seek the glory that comes from God. And this this has to do with fearing God, fearing God and fearing man. We we please whom we fear. If we fear man, we'll seek to please man, we'll seek the approval and glory of man. If we fear God, we'll seek to please God, and we'll seek gl Pray and approval from him And that's what we should be doing. And Jesus Jesus denounces them for getting it wrong, for uh for getting it backwards. Um we don't have time to deal with all the content in these verses So I just want to skip to what he says in verses 45 and through 47. He says, do not think that I will accuse you before the Father. The one who accuses you is Moses. So there's the answer to the prosecutor question. So um the one who accuses you is Moses, in whom you have set your hope. For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote about me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? So I think the point here is this whole chapter, this section, began with um with the Jewish leaders accusing Jesus. Right. They they accuse him of breaking the Sabbath. And he stood up and he answered them. So it began with sort of Jesus on trial in front of them. But very quickly he turned the tables on them and he said, No, actually it's you who stand accused. And I'm the judge, but I'm not even going to be the one who prosecutes you. The one who accuses you is Moses You you spend so much time with the scriptures and have so much revelation from them that your failure to believe the central message about me makes your judgment more severe. So I just want to end with this because it is a principle throughout Scripture that God judges people according to the light that they have received. Right, according to the revelation that they've received. Um you know, he's God is going to judge someone very differently who's never heard of Jesus to someone uh like us who has spent all of our lives around a good church like Hope Bible Church and and heard the gospel and heard the words of Jesus. He's gonna judge those two people very differently. So in some sense it's a very dangerous thing for us to be hanging around a good church like this. uh without believing in Jesus. You know, it's a very dangerous thing to be walking around the fringes of the light, but not to be walking in the light. Um it's a dangerous thing to hear so much truth without ever committing to it, without ever placing our faith in Jesus. So I just want to exhort you all. Like I know I know it's easy to show up and it's easy to kind of listen to the Bible, listen to a teacher and nod your head, but But it's easy to do that without having placed your faith in Jesus to be saved. So, you know, if if that's any of you, if that's if any of you have Not place your faith in Jesus to be saved. You're in a very dangerous position, and I want to exhort you, please, please Consider Jesus' words, consider what he says, that truly, truly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me. has eternal life and does not come into judgment, but is passed out of death and into life. Don't be in that other category of people who hears and rejects and faces a a huge judgment because of it. Sorry, it's very it's very sobering, but I think it's a very necessary thing for us to hear. Because Jesus emphasized it so much.