Okay. Well, so last time we started out, we only got like halfway through the uh the feeding of the five thousand. And we had, I said we were going to have like five points, five truths that we learn about Jesus from this miracle of the feeding of the five thousand. And the first one of those um was that Jesus is both compassionate and confrontational. So He was both compassionate and confrontational as love demands. Right? He he was not uh he was not a people pleaser, uh, but he looked to the needs of the people. And he set aside his own interests and his own preferences and desires and plans in order to serve and meet the real needs of the people. uh not just their physical needs, but more importantly their spiritual needs. Right. So we had to in order to see this this um combination of compassion and confrontation, we had to bring together two gospel accounts. And so Mark showed us the compassion of Jesus, where you know it tells us that He he wanted to just be alone with his disciples after the death of John the Baptist and after they had come back from their their big missionary journey. Uh he just wanted to be alone with the disciples away from people, but the crowd followed him across the sea, and he looked up at them and instead of being annoyed at their interruption, he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. Yeah, you know. Um they were like sheep without a shepherd, so he had compassion on them and what's amazing is that he just put aside his plan. He put aside his his um planned retreat with the disciples to uh to minister to this crowd So we saw the compassion in Mark, and then putting it together with the Gospel of John, we see that after he feeds the five thousand Um they try to make him a king, right? They they uh it says in verse Sorry, we're in John six. I forgot to mention that. John six. I'm reading in verse fifteen now. Jesus therefore, perceiving that they were intending to come and take him by force to make him king, withdrew again to the mountain by himself alone So he had compassion on the crowd, but he resisted their demands, right? Their their sort of uh they had an agenda for him. They wanted to take him and make him king by force. They expected him to be a political messiah who would deliver them from Roman oppression. Um and he he was like, no, that's not gonna happen. And then later we see we're gonna see today that he rebuked the crowd. for their focus on material things, on the physical bread and on um this this sort of political messianic expectation So he confronted them and he throughout this dialogue that occupies the last half of of chapter six, he's increasingly confronting them on their spiritual blindness And hardness of heart. He saw not just their physical need, but their spiritual need their need to understand the truth about eternal life and about who he is. And so he confronted that need. So, you know, he showed both compassion and a willingness to confront um Because he was not a people pleaser, but he was doing the will of his father. Um he was acting acting in love. Uh so we c we covered that last time, so we're not gonna But the second point we covered last time was that Jesus is intentional And um you know, we saw this uh in just uh how he orchestrated everything about this feeding. uh of the five thousand. It wasn't just this spur of the moment kind of impromptu thing that he did. Um yes he did see a need in the moment uh where the the crowds were hungry and needed needed to be fed But he chose carefully the the content of the miracle and the timing and the way he did it in order to present himself as the prophet like Moses that Moses had written about in Deuteronomy. Um so and the crowd recognized this in in chapter six, verse fourteen. It says, when therefore the people saw the sign which he had performed, they said, This is of a truth the prophet who is to come into the world. And they were referencing the prophet like Moses that Moses had written about. Um and the reason that they got it is because Jesus did this miracle of multiplying the bread in a in a sort of wilderness area uh in order intentionally in order to connect himself to the manna uh from heaven that that God gave to the people when they were wandering in the desert under Moses' leadership. And he's going to unpack that association in the last half of chapter six that we're going to read. So he's very intentional about how and why and when he did this miracle Um and like we mentioned already, he did not um let himself be swept along by the crowd in their in in their agenda and their desires for him to make him uh an earthly king. Uh which which brings us to the third thing that we learn about Jesus through this miracle is that Jesus is not an earthly king. Not an earthly king. He had ample opportunity to be one. Uh the people of the day expected a messiah who was going to be a military leader, who was going to lead a revolt against Rome, overthrow the Roman occupation, drive them out, and set up a a Jewish state. Like uh the kingdom that was under David uh a thousand years prior. That's what they expected the Messiah to do And um, you know, in part that expectation was understandable because if you look at Old Testament prophecies about the Messiah, those Old Testament prophecies really mix the first and second comings of Jesus together. They speak about both comings in the same uh breath in the same passage. Um so it was i it must have been hard. We can sort of understand that it must have been hard for them as readers to disentangle these things. Um but what Jesus the content of his teaching, you know, he's making clear to the crowd that In his first coming, he is coming to give eternal life. He is coming to save the people from their sins. That's why he's here. He's it's not until his second coming that he's going to come in glory and power like the king that he is in order to set up an actual physical kingdom on the earth So that is gonna happen. It's just not now. Um and that was hard for hard for the people to understand. Um But Jesus rebuffed the crowd when they tried to come and make him a king, as we as we already read. So he had no interest in political power. He had no interest in overthrowing Rome uh or in setting up an earthly kingdom at this time. His mission, his entire mission for coming to earth at the time that he did, was to teach and proclaim the good news about himself and about the true kingdom of God. That's what he was all about. That's what he was always preaching about. The kingdom of God and eternal life. And himself as the Son of God. And the fourth thing we learn about Jesus through the feeding of the five thousand is that Jesus is a prophet like Moses. So we already saw how the the crowd kind of realized this without any need for Jesus to to say it. when in verse 14 they said, This is of a truth the prophet who is to come into the world. And I told you that was a reference to Deuteronomy. That in the particular passage is Deuteronomy eighteen Verses 18 and 19, where God is speaking to Moses, and he says, I will raise up a prophet from among their countrymen, like you, Moses. and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And it shall come about that whoever will not listen to my words, which he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him And so this this idea of the prophet like Moses had become a real thing in the minds of the Jews of this day. so that they were expecting the prophet, the prophet with a capital P to come into the world. And they meant this prophet like Moses. And so they realized that Jesus is it. And Um they understand this because his miraculous feeding of the crowd with the bread is a um looks a lot like the manna that came from heaven and sustained the Israelites for forty years in the desert. And that's intentional, uh like we said, you know, Jesus did that on purpose. He the crowd is right to say that he's the prophet like Moses. They're wrong to insist that he's um uh an earthly king, a po a political messiah who's gonna overthrow Rome, but they're right to say that he's the prophet like Moses. Um So because that was what that is what Jesus said. Remember in chapter five, he said that Moses wrote of me. He wrote about me. This this passage is one of the places where Moses Wrote about the coming of Jesus and prepared the Jewish people to receive the Messiah who would come from God. So Jesus is definitely teaching the people that Moses wrote of him. He is the one who was predicted to come. as the prophet like Moses. But finally we also learn not just that Jesus is the prophet like Moses, but Jesus is greater than Moses. So one of the interesting things as you look at scripture, God doesn't do anything the same twice. So when he promises a prophet like Moses uh just in general with the way that God works, we shouldn't expect a prophet that's exactly the same as Moses. We should expect someone who's greater. God does he introduces something and then he escalates it You know, he does the first thing and then he amplifies it. So it's um only natural that it's it's only fitting with God's character that Jesus, who comes as the prophet like Moses, is actually greater than Moses. And we see that in this miracle here. Right? Because um In two ways, really. With the manna, remember this miracle is supposed to point uh to recall the manna that God gave to the people in the desert But the manna, did Moses give them the manna? No. No, no. Moses was not the one who gave them the manna. Moses was the leader of the people when the manna came, but the manna came from God directly. In this miracle, when Jesus feeds the five thousand Jesus is giving them the bread directly, right? He says, have the people sit down. He took the loaves, and having given thanks, he distributed to those who were seated. So we have um Jesus doing this thing directly, whereas Moses wasn't the one who directly fed the people manna, Jesus is now the people who directly feeds them the miraculous bread. Uh so he's greater than Moses in that respect. And then also, if you look at the manna, um do you guys remember what happened to the leftover manna? Like if people if someone went out and gathered more than they needed for that day, what would happen to it? Caleb? They will dissipate a ninth it would just Yeah, it would spoil overnight, right? It would it would go bad. Um the people were only supposed to go out and gather enough uh for one day's worth. And if if anyone gathered too much, the leftovers would spoil. And so essentially there were no leftovers with the mana Uh but what about with the bread that Jesus gave? There were twelve baskets full of leftovers, right? And twelve is a very significant number to the Israelites. There are twelve tribes There were twelve disciples who each picked up their own basket full of leftovers. So this miracle that Jesus does is greater than the manna because of the abundance that it shows. Right Um and this was this is a characteristic of Jesus' ministry. He has come uh to bring life and to bring it in abundance. One of the actually the first miracle that John records was the turning of water into wine. And that is another miracle that speaks of the abundance of the new covenant, the abundance of the kingdom of God that Jesus is inaugurating and bringing. Um because, you know, what was water is now wine. Uh, you know, and and instead of just providing enough bread for the day, he's provided an abundance, an overabundance of leftovers Uh so he's greater than Moses. Something greater than Moses is here. Uh that's that's what he's signaling by by this miracle and by the particular way in which he did it and it resulted in all these leftovers So Jesus is the prophet like Moses, but he's also greater than Moses. It's not just like Moses reincarnated. It's like a new thing that God is doing. in in his salvation plan. Okay, so that kind of finishes off um what I had for the feeding of the five thousand. Um any any questions about this section before we move on to the the next one. Okay. Yeah, let's read um we're gonna read the next section about Jesus walking on water. And we're not going to spend too long on this one. So I'll just read it real quick. In verse 15, I'll start in verse 15. Jesus, therefore, perceiving that they were intending to come and take him by force to make him king, withdrew again to the mountain by himself alone. Now when evening came, his disciples went down to the sea, and after getting into a boat, they started to cross the sea to Capernaum. And it had already become dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them, and the sea began to be stirred up because a strong wind was blowing When therefore they had rowed about three or four miles, they beheld Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing near to the boat, and they were frightened. But he said to them, It is I, do not be afraid They were willing, therefore, to receive him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going. The next day the multitude that stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other small boat there except one, and that Jesus had not entered with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples had gone away alone. There came other small boats from Tiberius near to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks. When the multitude therefore saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the small boats And came to Capernaum seeking Jesus. And when they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you get here? Okay, so um I wasn't gonna say much about this miracle. This this miracle Um it comes right after a bigger and more public miracle of the feeding of the five thousand. And it it kind of shows the same thing, it kind of echoes the same thing of these last two points. That Jesus is the prophet like Moses, but greater than Moses. Um can anybody tell how this miracle of Jesus walking on water shows That he's the prophet like Moses. How does it echo Moses? Yes. Heels blocked across one of the one. Moses blocked clockwater. We're not looking back to the cross is a three. Yeah Exactly. Yeah, that's how. Right? Uh so yeah, that was a big that was a big deal, a big image in in sort of the uh the the Old Testament and the Jewish psyche was was Moses leading the people through the Red Sea as after the Red Sea was parted. And so Jesus here walking on water, he is helping his disciples through the water, just as Moses led Israel through the Red Sea. So this this does echo Moses, it recalls Moses, it shows a connection there that establishes Jesus as the prophet like Moses. But Jesus is also greater than Moses. as shown in this miracle. Like how is Jesus greater how does Jesus show himself greater than Moses in this miracle? Jesus didn't impart any water to walk around on top of it. Exactly. Yeah. I mean Moses Moses walked on the land through the water that God imparted. Jesus just walks on the water. He's greater than Moses. He has authority over the water in a way that Moses didn't. Like the authority and the power of the Creator is just intrinsically in himself. And uh let's see. Yeah, that was it, basically. Uh so he has yeah, he has that authority over the window. In other miracles, it you know, remember the time that he was in the boat and the storm came up and the disciples were like, Oh, we're gonna drown, don't you care? And Jesus said, Be still. And immediately the waves and the wind were still. So he uh repeatedly throughout his ministry demonstrated that he had the creator's authority over the elements of nature. Uh so he so one greater than Moses is here. He's like Moses, but he's greater. And notice before we move on from this one that that this miracle, unlike the feeding of the five thousand, was a private miracle. Right? Only the disciples got to see it. So um you know it's interesting, it just it just goes to show I think that uh Jesus' miracles were not for spectacle. Right? They weren't for show. He didn't it's not like he considered this a wasted miracle because only twelve people saw it. Um There are certain ways in which Jesus revealed himself uniquely to his disciples. And actually, we're going to see that if we ever get to the second half of the book of John. Most of the second half of the book of John is private discussion with Jes between Jesus and just his twelve disciples. So like the crowds did not get that teaching. Only Jesus' disciples got that teaching. And yes, he intended them to uh serve as his messengers, uh his apostles, and pass that teaching on to us. So in a sense, we got that teaching. But uh Jesus doesn't just reveal himself to uh everybody in a in a sort of blanket uniform fashion. There's there's a sense in which he reveals himself uniquely to his disciples and to those who are his true followers. Even in his miracles. So with that, I think I want to move on to uh the the real meat of what I wanted to get into today, which is Jesus' teaching that follows on this miracle. Right. So he's he's kind of part of why he did this miracle of walking on the water was to um get the crowds to come back over to the Capernaum side of the Sea of Galilee. And we're going to see as we read the next few verses that they're they're actually ending up in the synagogue Right. So he wanted to get them back into the synagogue, possibly because like they were rowdy and they were ready to join the revolution and make him a king. He he may have wanted to defuse that and sort of take that that fervor out of the crowd and get them back to a place where they could receive spiritual teaching, which is what they really needed. So, you know, he he sort of confused them with this miracle, right? The the crowd's like, uh where did Jesus go? He didn't get in a boat, but he's not here and so that's the first thing they ask him When they get back to the other side. Rabbi, when did you get here? So, you know, it kind of took the wind out of their sails a little bit and made them ready to listen to this teaching. So this is the main point, the teaching that we're about to read, is is what Jesus wanted them to hear. That's why he did the miracle of feeding the five thousand was to open you know, to get their attention and to get them to listen to him and listen to this vital teaching that which is what they needed to hear. So with that in mind, we're going to read a big chunk. We're going to read verses 26 through 58. And let's break it up into Um two sections. Can I get a volunteer to read twenty-six through forty? This is John 6, 26 through 40. Okay, Alex. And then um can I get a volunteer for 41 through 58? Uh go for it. Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, you were seeking me not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of loaves. Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set this seal Then they said to him, What must we do to be doing the works of God? Jesus answered them, This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he consistent. So they said to him, And what sign do you do that when they see and believe you, what work do you perform? Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. Jesus then said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. They said to him, Sir, give us this bread always Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me, and yet do not believe All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never cast it. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who has sent me And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in Him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Therefore, the Jews were blown on him, because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They were saying, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother in the brother? How does he now say, I have come down out of heaven? Jesus answers and sensitively, Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me rose, and I will raise him up and arrive dead. It is written in the prophets And they shall all be taught of God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father except the one who is from God. He has seen the Father. Truly, truly I say to you, he who believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life Your fathers ate the man in the wilderness and may die. This is the blood which comes down out of heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die I am the living bread that came down out of heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread also which I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. Uh fifty-eight. Then the Jews began to argue with one another, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to give? So Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in yourself. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides of me, and I in him. As the living father said to me, and I live because of the Father, so he who eats me, he will also live because of me This is the bread which came down out of heaven. Not as the father eats and died, but he who eats the bread will this breath. Yeah. I mean thank you. Um yeah, so big passage, a lot of teaching here. Um and I just want to pause and take a minute and say, like, if you had to summarize what we just read. Using one word or phrase, what would you say the main theme of this teaching is? Take ideas. Uh huh. Life. Life. I like it. What kind of life? Eternal life. Yes. Why um yeah, so tell me why you you picked eternal life. Well this you know talk talking about how Jesus is alive and how is the blood. It says my butt is two food and my blood is two drinks. Yeah. And she's all talking about that stuff about life and living. Right. He pe he repeats the word life and eternal life a lot throughout this passage and it seems like he's always bringing it back to that concept, that idea, like how do you get eternal life? What is eternal life all about? Um yeah, exactly. I mean that that's uh I I totally agree. Uh Aaron, did you have to there's also the comparison to how the mana that was given the Yeah. Like that doesn't save them from uh a mortal death. Right. But Jesus is drawing said the lineation here that if you eat of me not literally like the Catholics believe, but if you do eat up me in terms of saving yourself salvation. Yeah. You you will die early to death, but you will live in terms of life. Yeah. So there's that that distinction between physical bread, even miraculous physical bread like the manna, versus the bread of eternal life, which is a phrase he talks he uses a lot too. Yeah, another great point. I was just gonna think about something like the word that I was thinking of is screw foods. Yeah. That's the real food. Right, exactly, yeah. I think these all tie together, right? The true food points to eternal life. And Uh I think what Jesus is doing in this whole passage is he's taking this crowd who has a completely earthly and material focus. And he's trying to drag their eyes off of that earthly material world and raise it up to eternal life. Like awaken them to their true need for salvation, for eternal life. Um good. Yeah, I think like there's there's value in doing things like this. Um just summarizing broadly a big passage uh before we start getting down into the weeds and the details of it Um because sometimes, you know, we can read long passages of scripture, especially like long discourses of Jesus, and and it can just like roll over our heads. say what you know, it goes in one ear and out the other. But if you take the time to sort of abstract away and say, what's the main theme here? Um that can help Jesus' words stick in your minds a little bit more. It's one way of practically hearing and believing the words of Jesus and really loving the scriptures, you know, because that's that's what we're that's what we're learning to do in this class, is to love the the word of God. So of course there's more to be said, right? Our themes here are eternal life and the true bread. And There's more to be said, but it's all going to be about that. And so um you know, I have the advantage that I spent the last couple of weeks studying this and reading commentaries and outlining things. So um I'm going to introduce a little bit more structure, a little bit more detail into our broad summary, and I'm going to say in this discourse where Jesus interacts with the crowd, we learn four truths about eternal life. And why four I mean I I'll just say real quick, um you know sometimes uh it's it it's daunting to to look at a big section of of teaching like this and break it down into manageable chunks. But what really helps with that is looking for structure. in the text. And this passage has a couple of structural markers, right? It's a dialogue with the crowd. So there's this question-answer flow that breaks up the passage and where each one of those question and answer blocks kinda has a main point. Another piece of structure that you can see in this text is the phrase, truly, truly, I say to you. Remember we talked about that from chapter five. Back in his teaching in chapter five, he had three truly trulys that really pinned down and organized the the passage. Here he's got four of 'em, four truly trulys. And um the association is a little bit looser. It's not it's not quite as tight. between the four truly truly's and the four like back and forth sections with the crowd. Um so there's a little bit more work to be done, but but picking out those those structural markers, those literary and grammatical markers in the text really helps break down and understand a text like this. And you know, we don't have time in the next uh fifteen minutes to to actually like go through the entire process of doing this. I just want you guys to know that it's not it's not like mystical or magical the way that that a teacher breaks down a text like this. It's it's Just sort of the nuts and bolts of grammar and literary structure and context. So, you know, you too can study the word of God and you too can can draw these truths out. Um and and You know, that's that's our task here as as teachers and as students of the word is to get to what the author is actually saying. Uh so these four truths that we learn about eternal life, just to sketch them because we're not going to get through all of them today for sure, is um We should value it. We should value it. We should seek it. That's the first truth that Jesus conveys about eternal life. The second one is that it is by Raised through K And this is this is one that Jesus is going to spend um a lot of time on. Very profound teaching here that connects it to these precious truths that uh that we especially as Protestants celebrate. And then the third thing we learn about eternal life from Jesus here is that God is the one who draws people to eternal life. And Jesus Is the one who keeps people in eternal life. God draws, Jesus keeps. And then The fourth thing we learn about eternal life is that it comes from the inside out. It's salvation is From the inside out. So Jesus saves, and Jesus starts that process on the inside, in the heart And works it out outwardly. So another way to say this would be it's it's not an external thing, it's a heart change. Eternal life is not a change in your external circumstances, it is a change in your heart. And like I said, we're not going to get through all four of these because it's a you know, so much here. Uh we're probably gonna get through the first one, maybe maybe the first two today. But Look at verses 26 and 27. This is where, this is the first truly, truly, this is where Jesus is saying that we need to seek and value eternal life. Jesus answered them, oh, and by the way, he answered their question of, Rabbi, when did you get here? They were confused about how we got here. And he answers their question by not really answering their question He says, Jesus answered them and said, Truly, truly I say to you, you seek me not because you saw signs, but because you ate of the loaves and were filled. Uh, do not work for the food which perishes, but for the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man shall give you, for he on him the Father, even God, has set his seal So uh you'll remember hopefully that earlier in John, uh already throughout the book of John, Jesus rebukes people for having the wrong kind of faith. in him. It's not just that they they didn't have faith, it's that they had the wrong kind, right? He's rebuking people for coming to him just because they saw miracles, just because they're impressed by by the spectacle that they saw But here, this crowd isn't even doing that. Jesus says, You're seeking me not e not even because of the signs and miracles that I did, but just because I gave you something to eat. You're seeking me because I filled your stomachs and you want more of that. And he's rebuking them for that. He's rebuking them for their focus on the material, on what they can get materially from God. And he's saying, don't work for that stuff. Don't set your eyes and your heart on the food which perishes, on earthly things, but work for the food which endures to eternal life. Which the Son of Man shall give to you. Um so and we saw last time, we talked a little bit about this, how we fall into the same thing, right? We often set our hearts on earthly things, on material things. We spend a lot of time Building our careers, um, you know, building our our salary, uh getting our degrees, building our our social circles and our social life, that kind of thing And and oftentimes we leave very little left over for the Lord and for um you know serving his kingdom, seeking his kingdom, uh being a part of the church, an active part of the church And uh so we talked a little bit about that last time, but um you know Jesus is saying uh there is Uh you you naturally seek this physical food because yes, your body needs it. But there's an even deeper need that you have and you don't even realize it. You have a spiritual need for eternal life. You are dead, you are under the judgment of God, and you need to be made alive. So you need to seek the food which endures to eternal life. This is really an echo of many of the things he said in chapter five. And then he says, the Son of Man is the one who gives it to you He says, uh seek the bread, the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man shall give to you. For on him the Father, even God, has set his seal. And we saw this a few weeks ago in chapter five when Jesus brought forth these four witnesses in the court case, God's court case. um against those who don't who fail to believe in him. And the witnesses were uh John the Baptist Um the Father himself, right, remember God the Father at Jesus' baptism spoke with an audible voice and said, This is my son in whom I am well pleased. And he didn't do that to anybody else who got baptized, right? Everyone else who went and got baptized in water was saying, I repent of my sin, and God accepted that repentance because they needed to repent But for Jesus, he went and got baptized, and God said, Hold up, this man has no sin. He has nothing to repent of. Therefore I need to declare that. He's not like anybody else who's come and gotten baptized yet. He's the one who has no sin. So I need to make sure uh that I tell everyone, this is my son in whom I am already pleased. He does not need to repent. So God has set his seal on Christ. The other two witnesses were the miracles and the scriptures, which we spent a lot of time talking about already. But God has set his seal on Christ. But the main point here is that we Jesus is telling the crowd and by extension us that we need to prioritize eternal life. We need to prioritize spiritual things and have this eternal perspective. But there's a slight paradox here in what Jesus is saying. It's very slight. He says, He says, do not work for the food which which perishes, but for the food but essentially work for the food which endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man shall give to you. He's saying work for it, but it's a gift So slight tension there. And this might set up their next question. In any case, it really feeds into what he's going to teach next. Which is on the second point, that uh eternal life comes by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Look at verses 28 and 29. They said therefore to him, What shall we do that we may work the works of God? He said, Don't work for the bread that perishes, but work for the food that endures to eternal life. They say, What shall we do that we may work the work of God? Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God That you believe in him whom he has sent. So here's here's a very powerful verse. Right? This would be the point at which, you know Pi everyone's hanging on his words and wondering like, okay, this man, this this miracle worker, this this messiah What's he going to say when we ask him, what does God require of us? You know, what is the work that God requires us to do in order to obtain eternal life? You know, he could have said, follow the law, um, he could have said, you know, any number of things, but what he says is this is the work of God that you believe in him whom he has sent It goes through faith. So Jesus, he's clarifying here that the work of God and we'll put work in quotes, is not really about accomplishing things in order to win favor with God and earn your place in his in his presence. It's not about that at all Rather, it is the quote work of faith in Christ, which is actually hardly a work at all, right? It's not it's not something that we uh accomplish under our own power, it's it's a a trusting in the work of somebody else So this idea, this idea of justification by faith, the idea that we have eternal life and we're declared alive and in the family of God by our faith in Christ. This did not originate with people like Martin Luther or John Calvin. Uh it didn't even originate with Paul. It originated it well it actually didn't even originate here with John in Jesus' words, it originated in the Old Testament. Um as we we went through that a few weeks ago, uh how God promised in the Old Testament prophets to um to do for his people what they could not do themselves, to take away their heart of stone and give them a heart of flesh, to go and and write his law on their hearts. That was justification by faith Right? That's God saying, I'm gonna save you by my grace when you don't deserve it and when you are completely unable to follow me and my law So Jesus is is teaching in a sense nothing new because it's it's present in the Old Testament, but he's just Uh he's saying now that here I am the fulfillment of that which was taught in the Old Testament. This is the work of God that you believe in him whom he has sent. I'm here now. I'm the one you're supposed to believe in. So I mentioned this is the same as uh you know uh what what Paul taught. Uh you can see that if you go to places like Romans 6. 23. Which says, For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. So in that um In that passage, Paul is saying, the wages of sin is death. You know, when we work the works of sin, we receive the just compensation for that work, which is that's what wages are. They're the just compensation for work. And so the just compensation for working the works of sin is death Um nobody receives eternal life as a just compensation for their work. Right? In a sense there's nothing there's no work that you can do to get the the food that which he endures to eternal life. It's a gift of God. Uh the only work that you can do is to place faith in the one who gives the gifts So Paul's view of salvation in Romans is the same as Jesus' view of salvation here in John. Jesus proclaims that eternal life is a gift of God that he gives to those who believe in Jesus. But notice here that that it's not just faith for the sa the sake of faith. Faith is a transitive verb here. It takes an object, takes a direct object. Uh you can't just have faith uh and you know, full stop. You can't just have you you can't say like just believe and you'll be alright Yeah, it ha it matters who you put your faith in. We have to faith is only as good as its object. We have to have faith in Jesus. Um not just exercise raw willpower to believe Okay, we'll go on to verse thirty. So they said therefore to him, what then do you do for a sign that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Or maybe what work do you perform? If you're telling us that the work God requires of us is to believe in Him whom He has sent, then uh what work do you what's your work What are you doing so that we believe? Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, he gave them bread out of heaven to eat. So it's not really clear I mean last time I I kind of interpreted this verse as as uh the crowd saying like being willing to believe in him in in a in an earthly sense. Like they want to make him the king. So I thought I read this verse as them saying Um, okay, if you're the Messiah, just tell us plainly, you know, tell us if if the if the multiplying the bread and the fish that you just did is the work, is the sign that we should believe you and make you king now But there's another possible way to read the crowd's question. It's possible that the crowd is actually just being skeptical now. of Jesus. You know, that they've changed their mind about him and they're saying, uh, I don't really like what he's saying now. I don't understand it. Uh so they could be responding with skepticism And saying, hey, you know, prove it to us. You're making some extreme claims here. Do something even more miraculous than you just did to prove it to us. So I don't really know how to interpret the crowd's question, but it doesn't really matter in a sense because either way, Jesus He he doesn't really address the question. He doesn't satisfy their demand for more miracles. He brings the subject back to eternal life. Um he he he brings it back to their real need, which is to know the truth. So in verse thirty-two he says Truly, truly, I say to you, it is not Moses who has given you the bread out of heaven, but it is my Father who gives you the true bread out of heaven. For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world. So the crowd, notice, they're still asking about physical bread, right? They they're saying they're saying, what work are you gonna do? Our fathers ate the manna in the desert, right? That was physical bread that filled their stomachs The crowd is still looking for that kind of miracle. But Jesus immediately changes the subject back to the true bread of heaven. Jesus is talking about spiritual bread, spiritual food And that's because physical bread is is nothing compared to the true bread. The importance of physical bread is nothing compared to the importance of this true bread that Jesus is talking about. Uh and that's because the manna, the manna remember it spoiled after a day. And the people who ate it of the manna, they also perished. They died. Uh it didn't save anybody But the bread that Jesus gives is eternal life to those who believe in him. And in this way, like um We talked about this a little bit already, but the manna is just a temporary sign, right? It was a great provision of God. Uh it certainly met a need that the Israelites had in the moment, but it was never supposed to be an end in itself. It was never just um a a gee whiz miracle for the for the sake of spectacle It was a pointer to Jesus, right? It was a type of Christ. And and you know there's a theological concept called typology. Right, where there are things in the Old Testament called types that point to and represent the anti-type which is Christ So a type is something that foreshadows or points forward to an anti-type. The manna is a type of the antitype Christ. So then just like the manna um said was was bred from heaven that fed the Israelites in the wilderness and sustain them, Christ is the true bread from heaven that doesn't just feed the physical body of his people, but but uh feeds the soul, the spiritual need of his people. So that's what Jesus is saying here. The manna was not significant in itself for it's f you know, what you should be seeking is not the physical filling of your bellies. You should be seeking the thing that the manna pointed to But the question is, what is Jesus saying about Moses here? This is where it gets a little bit complicated and difficult to interpret. Um, because he said Truly, truly I say to you, okay, here's the second, truly, truly, so you know it's something important. Truly, truly I say to you, it is not Moses who has given you the bread out of heaven, but it is my father who gives you the true bread out of heaven. So, first of all, Jesus is not saying that um he's not necessarily talking about the manna He's not uh and and we know this by w how he refers to the bread, right? He's talking about the true bread out of heaven. He's saying It's not Moses who has given you this true bread that I'm talking about. The manna isn't the true bread. But it's my father who gives present tense Right now he gives you the true bread out of heaven. And he's saying it present tense because he's not talking about the manna, he's talking about himself. Alright, so he's so um he's saying Moses has not given you eternal life, but it's my father who gives you eternal life. Now, he's also not just talking about Moses the man, right? Of course Moses as a man didn't give them eternal life. um you know what man could could give anyone eternal life uh besides Jesus. So that that by itself is not a controversial statement. But when um when the first century Jews used the word Moses They weren't using it just to refer to the man Moses. They were using it to refer to the whole uh concept of those first five books of the Bible, the Torah, the law would be a better way to say it, right? It's like how, you know, we talk about the White House, right? The White House said today that uh the COVID pandemic is is declining. And Uh we don't mean that that a building spoke. We mean we we're using the White House as metonymy to refer to the presidential administration. Right, they they use Moses in the same way. They use Moses as metonymy to refer to the entire law, uh the entire writings of the Pentateuch, those first five books of the Bible. So Jesus is saying here He's not just saying that Moses has not given you eternal life. He's saying the law has not given you eternal life, but my father gives you eternal life. Okay, so this is a very profound statement and very important because Jesus is teaching here that salvation, eternal life, does not come through observing the law. And that would have been a surprise to the Jews. I think it's present in the Old Testament. You can you can see it if you read the Old Testament that salvation does not come through observing the law. But Most of the first century Jewish people missed that idea. They thought that observing the law was what kept them in a right relationship with God. And we often think that too, don't we? We often think it's what we do that earns God's favor and that keeps us in right relationship with God. But that's not true Moses, the law, is incapable of giving us eternal life, this true bread out of heaven. The Father is the one who has to give us eternal life. And just in as a sort of closing thought, in that sense, the manna is actually a really good picture of the true bread of eternal life because Just like God gave the Israelites manna in the desert when they didn't deserve it, after they had complained against him um incessantly. God gives us the true bread of eternal life when we don't deserve it, when we are still sinners. He gives us this true bread of eternal life. And in that sense, the manna is an excellent picture of eternal life through Christ. Um so I think I have to stop there because we we need to leave time for prayer. But we we will pick up there actually next time Jeff's gonna teach, but in two weeks we're gonna pick up with this uh we're gonna finish off this point that salvation comes by grace through faith. And we're going to show how that pervades uh the rest of the New Testament. And and this is just a really consistent thread of teaching um that that is At once uniform throughout the scriptures and also very precious to us in our understanding of salvation