Okay, so a couple of weeks ago, uh we started in this last half of John chapter six. So if you all can turn to John six. And while you're turning there, I will uh try and give a recap of where we got to. Uh because I was Organizing this section, this is a big section where Jesus is talking with the crowd of Jewish people in Capernaum on the other side of the Sea of Galilee. And this section I've organized as Four Truths That We Learn from Jesus about eternal life. And uh so remember Jesus has just fed the 5,000 men and probably more like 20,000 people um on the other side of the sea. And they see this great miracle and it makes them think of Moses and the manna in the desert feeding the people of God. And they say, wow, this is surely the prophet like Moses that was to come into the world. Let's take him and make him our king by force. And remember, they tried to seize him and make him king so that he would be their their political leader and overthrow the Romans But Jesus didn't want any of that and so he evaded them and uh sort of rebuffed them and then he walked on water during the night to catch up with his disciples and and and um reveal his deity to them. And that's how he made it to the other side of the sea. And then all the people were confused, like where did Jesus go? And so they came back around to the other side. And now instead of all this, you know, revolutionary zeal and fervor, now they're they're like, wait, Jesus, how did you get here? Now they're ready to receive his teaching. So Jesus launches into this really densely packed and really important discussion, dialogue on eternal life. And the first thing he says to them is he rebukes them. He rebukes them uh for their focus on material things. He says Truly, truly, I say to you, you seek me not because you sought signs, but because you ate some of the loaves and were filled. Uh you're you're only coming to me because I filled your stomachs But don't work for the food that perishes. Don't have that as your priority. Work for the food that lasts for eternal life. This is verse 27. which the Son of Man will give you, for on him the Father God has set his seal. So this is that first truth about eternal life that we went over a couple weeks ago. Is that we should value it. We should seek it. That should be our priority. Now, you know, when we're when we're teaching and learning from the Bible, we have to be careful to distinguish between interpretation and application. Right, so so the correct interpretation of this passage is that Jesus is rebuking the crowd for seeking uh physical bread from him instead of eternal life. But so he's not talking to us. He's talking to a group of first century Jewish people. However, there are principles in Jesus' words throughout this whole discussion that we can take and that we must take and apply to our own lives. Right, so this this is an example of an applicational principle. Is uh the principle behind Jesus' rebuke is don't seek the earthly stuff, don't seek after what you will eat or what you will wear. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Seek eternal life. That's the principle, and that's the principle that we can take and apply to our lives two thousand years later. um that we should we should not run after all the things that the world runs after. We should not orient our lives merely around the food that we eat, um, or the clothes that we wear, or the the money that we make in our careers, or the degrees that we earn in our education. We should not orient our lives merely around those things Rather, we should seek eternal life, seek the the food um that lasts for eternal life, which is what Jesus is going to tell us about So then, uh, after Jesus gives them that rebuke, they respond, you know, quite naturally, well, what are we to do then so that we may accomplish the works of God? You tell us to seek the bread that that lasts for eternal life. What do we do? How do we do that? And Jesus' answer is super important. It's like the gospel in one sentence here in verse 29. This is the work of God that you believe in him, whom he has sent. So Jesus is saying uh he he tells us here, he tells the crowd, actually, that um that eternal life is not something that you go out and earn. It's not something that you do all these things um to impress God or to earn his favor with. No, the only work that you can actually do Yes, you are supposed to seek eternal life, but the only work that you can do to get it is to believe in the one whom God has sent, which is Jesus. So Jesus here, he's preaching that salvation, eternal life, it comes by faith alone in him. And it's and that it's a gift of God by grace. So that's why the second truth that we learn about eternal life is that it is by grace through faith. You know, and that that language, you know, some of you probably recognize it from the Protestant Reformation, you know, Martin Luther and John Calvin preaching these kinds of things, that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone. But they didn't make that up. Uh that concept came directly from Jesus. uh and his gospel presentation about himself, which then Paul and the apostles picked up and reiterated. And as we saw a few weeks ago, it's actually rooted in Old Testament prophecy that God would be the one to go into his people's hearts and take out their heart of stone and give them a heart of flesh. So this is one unified theme that runs through all of Scripture. It's not a modern invention. This is the gospel that has always been taught that salvation comes by grace through faith in Jesus. Um so that is where we got to at the end of two weeks ago. Um And we saw that uh that Jesus said um you know he he went on to say in this same passage uh the the crowd responded to him and they said wait so So uh what work are you performing so that we can believe you? Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, as it is written, he gave them bread out of heaven to eat. And so they're like, oh, you're giving uh you're they still are misunderstanding him. They still think he's talking about physical bread that they can eat. And he thinks that and they think that he's promising to give them even better physical food than the manna in the wilderness, which never ran out. They they think that he's promising them the mana 2. 0. Uh and so they're like, what what are you gonna what are you gonna show to us so that we can believe you And Jesus corrects them again. He says, Truly, truly I say to you, it is not Moses who has given you the bread out of heaven, but it is my Father who gives you the true bread out of heaven. And remember last time we saw that uh when Jesus says the word Moses, he doesn't just mean the man Moses, the prophet. He means all that Moses stands for, the entire uh Mosaic covenant, the law, the law of God. Okay. That that Old Testament law um does not give you the bread of life, which he he says is salvation. Is eternal life. So eternal life does not come by observing the law. That's what Jesus is saying here. It does not come through the law of Moses. But My father who gives you the it is my father who gives you the true bread out of heaven. So it's a gift of God. He's just reiterating this message that Salvation, eternal life was never meant to come by observing the Mosaic Law and or any other law. for that matter. There's no law that we can observe by which we can earn eternal life. It has to be received as a gift Um it is my it is Jesus' Father who gives us the true bread out of heaven, which is eternal life. Okay, so that's where we made it up to last time, through those first two truths. We should seek eternal life, and we seek it by believing in the Son. It comes it comes as a gift by grace. Any any questions, clarifying questions on on those two, on that section that we made it through? Okay. So can I have a volunteer to read John six, verses thirty-four through forty-six? Okay, thanks Jeff. Um they said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger And whoever believes and we shall never thirst. I said to you, that you see me and yet do not believe, all that the Father gives me will come to me And whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven, not to use my own will, but the will of him who sent it. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should use nothing of all that he has did, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life. And I will raise him up from the last days. Uh forty-six. So Jews rumble about him because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, Is that is that this is Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother you know? How does he say, I have come down from heaven? And Jesus answered them, do not grumble among yourselves No one can come to me unless the Father has sent me, was it, and I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father except he who is from God. He has seen the Father. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has the Okay. Yeah, thank you. So this section uh this section opens with the crowd saying to Jesus, Lord, give us this bread always. Um so they still don't get it, right? They still think that he's talking about physical food that fills their stomachs. Uh because he's just said the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven and gives life to the world. So they they still don't get that he's using a metaphor for himself Um but we shouldn't be too hard on them because um you know we're reading this with hindsight. Right? We're reading this uh knowing what Jesus did and and who he claimed to be and knowing all that the apostles wrote and proclaimed about him And really the whole point of the passage that Jeff just read is that nobody can understand who Jesus is in order to believe in him without the Father drawing that person. Teaching that person. So that's the that's the point that's going to be the point of all these verses that we're going to cover now, is that God is the one who draws someone to salvation And not only that, it's not only God that draws someone to salvation, it's Jesus that keeps that person in their salvation. Um so we'll unpack that uh going forward here. So the the crowd says, Lord, always give us this bread. And Jesus says to them I am the bread of life. Guys, this is a metaphor. I am the bread of life. The one who comes down to me, the one who comes to me will not be hungry. And the one who believes in me will never be thirsty. But I said to you that you have indeed seen me and you do not believe. Everything that the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I will certainly not cast out. So Jesus makes it clear here. Here he finally explicitly says, I am the bread of life. He's been hinting at it up to this point, but now he just says it outright. I am the bread of life. That's who I'm talking about. Um Eternal life is found in me. And he also rebukes the crowd again. He clarifies that he's the bread of life and that all who believe in him will have eternal life. But then he says to the crowd, You don't believe in me, even though you seen And, you know, this is another example of how John the Apostle uses this word believe, right? Or belief. because he uses it in a wide range of meanings. And there's a certain kind of belief that's a superficial belief and a self-serving belief that John and Jesus are not interested in at all. Then and then there's the real kind of faith, the real belief, uh that that is what Jesus is searching for in as a response from people So this crowd, remember, they there is a sense in which they believed in Jesus, right? When he fed them on the other side of the Sea of Galilee. They said, This is the prophet who is to come into the world. They believed in that sense, and they wanted to make him king by force. So so there was a sense in which they believed in him. But That kind of belief, that was a self-serving belief. They they believed in Jesus because they wanted him to meet their needs, right? Fill their stomachs, deliver them from Rome. It was the self-serving belief. And you know, if if uh whoever was here last quarter when we talked about worldviews, this is really the self-serving belief of moralistic therapeutic deism. which is probably the majority worldview in our in our culture today, certainly among my generation, uh, which is that, you know, God is kind of the the vending machine or the genie, right? He's he sits on the shelf and we live our lives and we pursue our happiness. And then when we get in trouble or when we need something we we cry out to him and ask him for help and he comes and helps us and sets us back on our feet so that we can go live our lives again. That is not at all the biblical view of God, right? And that that is the view of God that Partly, at least, Jesus is rebuking here. He's rebuking that sense of that sense of God is my servant. You know, I'm just reaching out to God to to meet my needs. Um And so he's rebuking that. He says, uh he says, You have indeed seen me, and yet you do not believe. And he explains this review in verse 37. He says, Everything the Father gives me will come to me, and the one who comes to me I certainly will not cast out. So the question is why do some people believe why do some people have the real faith and some don't? And the answer that Jesus gives here is that because salvation is from God It's not it doesn't originate with man. It's not something that we can conjure up this this true right kind of faith in Jesus It's something that comes from God. People come to Jesus because God gives them to Jesus. That's what he says here. Everything that the Father gives me will come to me. And then he also says, um, he clarifies that it's not like somebody can come to him and then leave of their own accord. Right? It's not like God is going to give somebody to Jesus and then it's up to that person to keep their faith and and keep um keep from losing their salvation. No, Jesus says Uh the one who comes to me I certainly will not cast out. He's not going to drive anybody away. And we'll see in subsequent verses that he's not even going to let anybody be lost. So the point here is that salvation from beginning to end is a work of God. God draws the person initially gives them to Jesus. Jesus receives that person as a gift from the Father and keeps that person by his power until he raises them up on the last day. So salvation from end to end is a work of God. And and that's that's a precious truth that we need to keep our eyes on, right? Because uh You know, sometimes as we're going through the Christian life, it's very tempting to say, like, oh, I I just blew it. You know, I I have sinned so bad in or I have sinned one too many times in this way, God is just going to cast me out of his family. Right? There's no way that uh that he can Continue to accept me. And it's true that our sin should cause us to examine ourselves to see whether we're in the safe in the first place. But if we really are in the faith, you know, if we have demonstrated fruit of repentance and if God has changed the desires of our heart and given us a true desire to live for him, then there's nothing that we can do, no sin that we can commit that is going to put us outside of his family. There's no sin that is going to cause us to lose our salvation. And on the flip side, there's no active service. There's no good work that we're going to do that's going to extra secure our salvation. There's not there's nothing that we're gonna add on top of Jesus' righteousness that's gonna make us um look any better to God. Because the Bible says that that when he sees us, you know, those whom he has declared righteous by the righteousness of Christ, when he looks at us, he doesn't see us, he doesn't see our works. He sees the works of Jesus. And so there's nothing that we can do to add or take away from the works of Jesus. So Jesus goes on in this passage to explain what he means in verse 38. He says, For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that of everything he has given me, I will lose nothing, but will raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who sees the Son and believes in him So not only will Jesus never drive anyone away that the Father draws to him, he will never let anyone be lost. That's that's his whole mission. That's what he says here. My his mission in coming down from heaven was to do the will of his father, which is to guard that gift of believers that God has given to him. And and it's to guard them all the way Through death, and not not just until we die, but all the way through death until the resurrection, until he raises us up at the last day. So this should make us rejoice, right? Because we don't even we don't earn our salvation and we don't even keep our salvation. It's the work of God Um so how does the crowd respond to this? So then the Jews were complaining about him, because he said, I am the bread that came down out of heaven. And when and they were saying, Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph? whose father and mother we know. How does he now say I have come down out of heaven? Yeah, so there now on on one hand the f the crowd is finally starting to get it, like get what he's saying They're not asking about bread anymore to fill their stomachs. They're they get now that Jesus is talking about himself, that he's the bread that comes down out of heaven. But they don't like it. Right? They're like, wait, who is this guy? He's he's from down the street. How d how does he think he's so much better than us coming down out of heaven? You know, we know his parents He was uh he was conceived when they're when they weren't even married, right? They might be thinking of of his uh sort of illegitimate origin by human standards, right? How um how Mary got pregnant before Joseph had married her. Um they they're probably thinking um I mean certainly they have pride, right? They're unwilling to accept that Jesus could be from God because they place so much stock in in their human birth and human ancestry. Um right, they say uh the the attitude at at the time among the Jewish people was that, hey, we are God's chosen people just by virtue of being born here in this in this nation. By virtue of being children of Abraham, we're already automatically right with God. And so we deserve God's blessing. We we deserve it. We're entitled to uh blessing and favor from God. So they think the crowd thinks that they're special. And already. And so they react to Jesus claiming to be more special, claiming to be God, by saying, wait a minute, that offends me Um they and they stumble over the fact that uh Jesus, you know, if Jesus is claiming to be from heaven, they would expect him to come with great fanfare, you know, and riches like a king Uh but he came down into a humble village of Nazareth and you know he had he had very lowly origins. And so they're they're kind of stumbling over this fact Right. That his he's claiming to be great, but he's not accompanied by the usual signs that they associate in their worldly minds with greatness. So Jesus answered and said to them in verse forty-three, Stop complaining among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. So he kinda restates what he's already said uh in in verse thirty-seven. But notice he states it a little bit differently, right? Um in verse thirty-seven The the gist of that verse was if God has chosen someone for salvation, that person will come to me. Right? So if God's drawing, then the result is that person will come to me Um in this verse he's stating the converse. The converse is when you when you flip the two clauses of an if-then statement. So he so before he said, if God has chosen for someone for salvation, that person will come to me. This verse says, if someone is coming to me, then it's only because the Father chose them and is drawing them. Mathematically, when you prove when you say a statement, if-then statement, and then you prove it's converse, you're proving that the two things are equivalent. Right, that they always go together. So Jesus is saying he's not a mathematician, right? He's not making a mathematical theorem here, but he is saying that Someone coming to Jesus is equivalent to God working on their heart and drawing them. That's the only way it can happen. So we know that if someone is coming to Jesus truly with saving faith, it's only because God has worked in their heart um to enlighten the eyes of their heart. And that's the only way it can happen. Um and so why is he saying this now? Well, because they're reacting with unbelief. And he's saying, you know, he I think is implying the negative statement here. If you're not coming to me, you crowd, who is complaining against me, then it means that the father is not drawing you You think you have favor with God just because of how you were born, but you need to think again. Because those who are favored of God, God draws to me. So if you're not coming to me then you gotta re examine your relationship with with your father, with my father. So we will know whether God is drawing someone based on how they react to Jesus. I was uh I went on a mission trip to to China after uh college and Uh you know, we talked to a bunch of people who had never heard of Jesus, never really thought about God at all. They had been indoctrinated into um a communist worldview in in throughout school, which uh preached atheism and scientific naturalism, if you remember the the world view that we studied last quarter. Um and so they they were really um just kind of blank slates when it came to hearing about Jesus and who Jesus is and God. And so, you know, some of them were interested. They were interested in in talking about God and talking about spiritual things. But there was always this question, how do we tell if somebody's just curious versus if they really believe and if God's really drawing them? And um I remember the leader of our our group saying, well, the the the way you tell is by how they respond to Jesus. Right? If if God is really drawing them, then when you tell them about Jesus and when they hear about who Jesus is and what he says and who he uh claims to be and what he's done, they will respond with joy. Like because that's what God is drawing people to. He's drawing people to Jesus. If they hear all that and they say, eh, then you know that's not God drawing them And there were there were several students, uh, there were a few students in China who um they were interested in hearing about God, but you know, they they they kind of said, uh I'm not you know, Jesus doesn't really make sense to me. And so w you know, with sorrow we we had to conclude that that God wasn't drawing them at this time Maybe later he will. But there were a couple students who heard the truth about Jesus and received it eagerly. And Uh you know, they they, I believe, God was really drawing them because based on their response to Jesus. And you know, unfortunately because of the the Chinese government's restrictions on communications in and out of the country, I have not been able to follow up with with those guys very much. And but I I heard from another uh college student who went on a trip a few years later that that one of those guys um had become the leader of the campus fellowship at uh the college where we were. And so I think, you know, that was his the a really joyful moment for me, but you know, just confirmation that that God was drawing that guy. And and he showed it based on that that man's response to Jesus. to the teaching about Jesus. So if God's drawing somebody, you'll know it based on how they respond to Jesus. Um so here and then here's another another point here. So Jesus is is teaching here, he just finished teaching that um We need to seek eternal life, right? We should value that. And we need to do it by placing our faith in Him, by believing the one God has sent. And now he turns around and he says, Well, you can't really do that unless God is drawing you. So nobody's saved unless God draws you Uh so is there a contradiction here? Which one is it? Um is it that we are saved by believing or that we are saved by the Father drawing us Okay. So so you did you say A or B? I You said A? Okay. You chose A. All right. Anybody else? Interesting. So so how can it be both A and B? How can it be how can our salvation be caused by our faith and caused by God drawing us? Um yeah, unpack that. Explain. Explain what that means. Or how that how that how does that uh how does that help us reconcile this paradox Let me put it to you this way, guys. Do you remember from last quarter, uh we studied a concept called reductionism? You guys remember what reductionism means? Um that's related. That's called scientism. Um so it's a related related uh concept, but reductionism is a little bit more specifically about um explanations and causation. So reductionism is this idea that we've Yeah, cause and effect. It's it's this idea that we probably all implicitly believe, because our our society just assumes it, that every event can only have one causal explanation Right? Like um, you know, if I if I get sick, the only explanation for that is that uh you know a virus entered my body. It's not that God you know, design the trial for me to go through. Um and that so if we find that explanation, you know, if we find the the explanation in terms of physiology And physical matter, we can rule out everything else. We can rule out God's action, we can rule out human decision, human choice. Um reductionism though, reductionism is false It's uh it is not biblical and it's not what Jesus believed. Right. Jesus here he holds two causal explanations for the same event, the event of human salvation. Right? He says What causes you to be saved is God drawing you. But he also says what causes you to be saved is you placing your faith in me, in Jesus. That's because the Bible teaches over and over that there are multiple different causal explanations for the same event at different levels. Like consider the death of Jesus. Who is responsible for the death of Jesus? We are. We are. On on one level, all sinners are, right? Because he he died to uh to save us. He died to pay for our sins. Are there other levels that we can say the Father. The Father, yeah. So at at the ultimate level, the Father is responsible for the death of Jesus. How do we know that? Yeah, he sent his son to die. It says that um you know Peter preached his sermon in Acts and he said uh Jesus was delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. And then Paul in Ephesians says that Or no, nominate. Uh John in Revelation says that Jesus was the lamb slain before the foundation of the world Right, if he was slain before the foundation of the world, the only person around to make that choice was God the Father. Um so Hey, good morning. Um so uh at the ultimate level, God is responsible for the death of Jesus. At another level, all of us are responsible for the death of Jesus And at still another level, there's a specific group of people responsible for the death of Jesus, and that is the leaders of the Jewish people, and they used, they carried it out through the Romans. So there's actually like four levels of of causal explanation for the death of Jesus that the Bible puts forward. And they're all perfectly compatible. Uh it's the same way with salvation. Right? So so you hear you you'll probably hear people or you know theologians, uh maybe even your friends debate about like, you know, what's the relationship between God's sovereignty and man's free will? Right. Do we do we choose to be saved or does God choose us to be saved? Um just I'll just caution you, reject false dilemmas brought on by this assumption of reductionism That's sort of been baked into our worldview. It's both. Jesus says it's both. Jesus says that God is ultimately responsible for drawing people to salvation. But we To us, it looks like hard work. It looks like striving to place our faith in Jesus And something I forgot to mention, you know, after we got through these first two uh truths about eternal life, we should seek it, and we we must do so by placing our faith in Jesus. Um that uh y I mean some some of you might say like, okay, well I I've already done that. You know, check that box. I'm a believer, I'm saved. Um so you know, how does this apply to me now? Uh I've already I've already got eternal life. I've already believed in Jesus, my salvation is in the past Um but the kind of faith that is that saves, the kind of faith that we place in Jesus is an ongoing kind of commitment. It's a commitment that we renew all the time. Like uh I think it's Jerry Bridges who says that the gospel is not just for unbelievers. A lot of Christians think, oh yeah, the gospel is what unbelievers need to hear and believe I've heard it and I've believed it, so I've moved on now to other things. But that's not what the gospel is. The gospel is for believers just as much as it is for unbelievers. We need to every day be renewing our minds in the truth of the gospel. And Although yes, there was a point in the past when when God did save us. He also talks about our salvation as God saving us in an ongoing fashion And we need to be renewing our minds in the gospel and continuing to place our faith, this kind of saving faith in Jesus. and receiving his life, his eternal life into our life like eating bread. That's Jesus' whole metaphor here, right? Is that he is the bread of life and we need to eat of him and drink of him uh and receive him into uh into our life. And that's an ongoing activity. That's something that we need to continue to seek. It's not just once and done in the past So that brings us to our last truth about eternal life. And that that is that it's from the inside out. It's a continual renewal from the inside out. So look at verse. 47. Um and we're gonna read uh now we're gonna read verses 47 through 58. Does somebody wanna read that? Okay, Caleb. All right, thank you. Yeah, so Jesus turns to the crowd and He says, truly, truly, by the way, remember that phrase. It's like listen up. This is important. And this is the third third time he said it in this uh passage. Truly, truly I say to you, he who believes has eternal life. I am the bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and they died. This is the bread that comes down out of heaven, so that anyone may eat from it and not die. I am the living bread that came down out of heaven. If anyone eats from this bread, he will live forever, and the bread which I will give for the life of the world also is my flesh. So here he just summarized basically his entire teaching. Uh and y we might say that summary is if anyone desires eternal life, he must eat of Jesus by fully believing in him. And that that that eating metaphor is what describes this saving faith. It's not just that we come to him and see who he is and recognize with our minds, oh yeah, you're the son of God, you died for my sins, and then go on and live our lives. No, it's that we come to him and we sit down at his table and we take in who he is, we take in continue to take in the truth of who he is and what he's done for us, as if we're eating a meal So in this summary here, he really escalates the language to show the intensity of the kind of faith that he's looking for, the kind of faith that's necessary for salvation. We have to depend on Jesus like he's our food. Um and then at the end of this summary he hints uh just briefly that the life that he gives to the world will cost him his own life. He says, the bread which I will give for the life of the world also is my flesh. Kind of implies that his flesh is um is at stake here So how do the the crowd respond to this? It says then the Jews began to argue with one another, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat? Yeah. So notice how Jesus really does not shy away from delivering hard truth. to people. Um, he is compassionate, as we saw a few lessons ago. You know, the crowd came to him on the other side of the Sea of Galilee. All he wanted to do was be alone with his disciples. They were completely interrupting his plans and his schedule. But he turned to them and he had compassion on them. And he fed them and he taught them. But his compassion is what moves him to share the hard truths that they need to hear but are but don't want to hear Right. That's the that's the shape of his compassion com compassion. It does not shy away from confrontation. Um and Jesus will not let the crowd get away with treating him like a political messiah, which is what they wanted to do after he fed them. He won't let them get away with treating him as a political messiah or as as uh someone who's just there to meet their physical needs He uses this shocking metaphor of eating his flesh to force them to deal with his claim to be the source of eternal life. And they really don't like it. They're grumbling against him So he responds to them in verse 53. Truly, truly, the fourth and last time he says that, truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in yourselves. The one who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink. The one who eats my flesh and drinks my blood remains in me, and I in him. So here he's saying, No really guys, you have no life in yourself unless you come to me and have this this intense Um saving, trusting faith, and place that in me. Alright, so so the language here he's is ramping up quite a lot, right? He's he says some pretty shocking things. He says, uh talking about eating my flesh and drinking my blood, uh my flesh is true food, my blood is true drink So some have read this and have concluded that in this passage Jesus is teaching salvation by sacrament Right, they see a reference to the Lord's Supper where we have the bread and the wine and they say, Oh, okay, Jesus is saying um You know, when we celebrate the Lord's Supper, if we don't celebrate the Lord's Supper, we can't have eternal life. And that the eating of that bread and the drinking of that cup is what gives us the eternal life. Um you know it's easy to see why a superficial reading might give you that impression, but it's actually wrong. And it's wrong for at least three reasons. The first reason is that in in the immediate context, Jesus has just repeatedly been teaching that eternal life comes by believing in him. We've already seen that this is the work of God that you believe in Him whom He has sent. So he's already taught that um that uh eternal life comes by believing in him. And he said he also said Moses didn't give you the bread, the eternal life bread that comes down from heaven. In other words, you you could never get this eternal life by observing the Mosaic Law. Um and there's no other law following that will get it for you. It has to be a gift of God. So he's just been teaching us that um that eternal life comes by grace through faith So it would be really inconsistent for him to turn around now and teach that, oh okay, now there's this actu this rule thing that you have to follow, this ritual or or ceremony that that actually is the way you get eternal life So that that would be so inconsistent as as to be a contradiction. That's not what he's teaching here. Second of all, Jesus has not even instituted the Lord's Supper yet Right, so um the this this reading is really sort of anachronistic. Uh if if we were to read this and say, oh, Jesus is teaching you need to celebrate the Lord's Supper to have eternal life That's an anachronistic reading because he hasn't instituted the Lord's Supper yet. So the crowd, you know, he can't be teaching that to the crowd because they have no mental category to understand. The crowd's not going to hear this and say, Oh, he's talking about the Lord's Supper. It hasn't happened yet. Um Rather, it makes more sense to say that he's talking about his flesh and blood being like the death his death on the cross. Um So he's talking about receiving the sacrifice of his death and placing your faith in him as as eating that flesh and and and drinking his blood And well you say that hasn't happened yet either. However, the crowd has plenty of mental categories to understand that because it was prophesied in the Old Testament Right, the the suffering and the death of the Messiah was something that was prophesied in the Old Testament. And so they had plenty of mental categories to understand. that their Messiah was going to suffer and die and that they needed to have their sins covered by that. Alright, so Uh it's a slightly more technical reason, but he can't be talking about the Lord's Supper. He has to be talking about his death on the cross. Uh and then the third reason is that uh the third reason this can't be salvation by sacrament, salvation by the Lord's Supper, is that he's just spent the first half of this whole dialogue teaching them to distinguish between physical food, like the bread he gave them uh across the sea, or the manna that came down from heaven, and true spiritual food So compare the earlier verse, it is my Father who gives you the true bread out of heaven, to what he's saying now. My flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. He was saying, don't seek that food which fills your bellies. Seek the real food that gives you eternal life. So he's saying, the true food is not physical, it is spiritual. So when he says my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink, he's not saying my flesh is physical food and my blood is physical drink. He's saying my blood is spirit my flesh is spiritual food unto eternal life. My blood is spiritual drink unto eternal life. So um You know, I just wanted to clear that up because it's a lot of people take this passage to say to argue for a certain kind of sacramentalism, which is uh we've talked about this before. It's w it's like what's observed in the Roman Catholic Church. that uh that our our salvation, the grace we get from God, is like a substance, like money or like water. uh where um you know God gives us an initial deposit of salvation, of life, of of eternal life. And By by either by sinning we spend it down, right? We draw it down and uh we can lose it. uh if we spend it all. But or we can uh and we need to replenish that grace and that uh that salvation that God's given us by going back to the sacraments that And and you know, celebrating Mass, taking the Lord's Supper and confession and all these things. And so it's like a bank account where we have income and outgo Um, that's completely at odds with what Jesus is teaching here. Remember, he says that God draws someone to himself and he keeps them. He keeps us. No one can snatch us out of his hand. He will not let anybody be lost. So there's no there's no sin that we can do that will that will draw down our grace bank account uh to the point where we lose our salvation. Um it's not a s it's not an account like that at all. It's not like money or water where where we we can take away and add to it. It is Jesus has done all the work himself. He has accomplished all this righteousness. It's fixed. It's unchangeable. It's sitting there in heaven. God sees that and he when he looks at us, he sees that fixed and unchangeable righteousness that we can't take away from or add to. We can't draw it down, we can't add to it. So it's completely opposite of the sort of sacramentalist view. Um and we just have to it's so hard to keep that clear in your mind. It's so hard, but it's so important. Right. Uh and I I just want us to have that very, very clear in our minds because next quarter we're going to go into um next quarter which starts next week, we're going to go into application and we're going to be talking about subjects like uh marriage and sex and um manhood and womanhood and areas in which we all fall short in very significant ways. Uh and so as we deal with these significant and pervasive uh sins and temptations We need to have our eyes clearly on the gospel and what the gospel means. We need to have our eyes clearly on the work that Jesus has accomplished. for us and how we receive that gift of salvation by faith alone, by grace, and not by works, so that none of us can boast. We need to have our eyes on Jesus, who not only accomplished our salvation, but keeps us in himself and promises to raise us up on the last day. So yeah, he's not teaching sacramentalism here. He's saying he's escalating his language. By saying, my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. He's forcing the crowd to reckon with him as the Son of God. And he's basically saying, You need the life that's in me. And which only which can only come through my death, the breaking of my flesh and the shedding of my blood. That's what you need And uh we're about ti it's about time for us to go break for prayer. Um and Uh so I just wanted to summarize by saying that um this is what it means to eat the flesh and to drink the blood of Jesus, to let him remain in you and let his word remain in you. And cleanse your conscience from the inside out. That's why this that's why we call this fourth truth from the inside out. That's what it means. To eat of Jesus' flesh and drink of his blood. Let him and his teaching and his word remain in you and cleanse your conscience from the inside out. This is the spiritual regeneration that God prophesied in the Old Testament, where he takes your heart of stone out and gives you a heart of flesh, and where he takes his law and he writes his law on your heart. So we need to be continually praying to God that He would do this work in us, that He would cleanse our consciences and our hearts from the inside out. That he would change the desires and affections of our heart so that we would love him with all our mind, soul, heart, mind, soul, and strength. And so that we would truly love our neighbor as ourselves. That has to come from the inside out. It has to be a heart change. Um And so I invite you to keep on praying that prayer. God, change my heart, change my desires. Give me a true affection for you and for your for your law and your way. So Jesus closes with this, and this is what we'll close with. and I live because of the Father. The one who eats me, he also will live because of me. This is the bread that came down out of heaven. Not as the fathers ate and died, the one who eats this bread will live forever.