It's just amazing like how many how much I've heard that. What do you say? Yeah, so I was going to do one more ending on sanctification, but I figured, you know what? I like to ride my bike. It's it's a different way of you know, it it's unrelated to uh it's more about yeah, how many copies you have, how much data you have. Yeah, year two hundred, three hundred. There's like there's like what 300 of us in the class? But like, why are you going against me now? I I c I'm gonna have to because the most amazing thing I've ever heard anyone say is said I leave what did he say? at the end of the day. Yeah. That's just um we don't have time to go through, but I'm happy to to maybe go in a little deeper on these any foundational document. That that's not normal. Sounding occupation and cog. even more so. what the original text and wording was. significant difference is high. of of Airman and his his school. From a secular non-believer, but her claim was because she was able you were able to cross-reference the Bible to other non-biblical works like Josephus' Antiquities from the First Century Testament, New Testament. It's just a problem with the Bible and what is associated with the problem. year of um so again when i when i when i was going to school and um you know it was evolution all the time in every science department had their new breakthrough of e Schum is his name. I you know, I really want to look at some of these other artifacts and and you as when you publish, you are to open up and allow people to come in and look at your data and do what you got. selectively followed the area that he thought would best support what he wanted to say. It's just it's upright deception. whatnot. the same exact results. From reading God's word. But you don't even know where to begin. Do these two sections radically alter the entire message of the gospel and who got it? what we really want to play about. That we have. Misleading claims apparently where he's trying to you know inflace the problem uh artificially. they are. people looking at exactly the same s the the same situation in the same place. or or new um uh attacks. Your assurance of your salvation. You have to read it. questions. from from that perspective. So there's so they're they're teaching this whole course from an evolutionary perspective. Because someone asked me not that long ago. uh maybe a word is duplicated twice. to deduce what the original text was. Uh still the first century, is that reasonable? Text. True. evolution and at some point it just got too exhausting to like, okay, let me really look at what you're basing this on. It looks like a little worm. It's just it's just a w waste of your time. different standards for evaluating evidence. that that uh they bring to the table, that we bring to the table because we follow scripture. And um you know, so like it's not really about going out there and explaining all the evidence. uh in you know to fit their their preconceived beliefs. what we've discussed in prior weeks like scientific naturalism, atheism, atheist slash agnosticism. future. It's to come back to to yeah. Um the the Bible's gonna tell you any decent translation, masv, DSV, NIV, doesn't matter. Bible are not trying to hide anything from you. wanted us to look at. was up in a building. But they're gonna give a different perspective. Written down. That kind of strange. place. Important to mention I think that I used to think like, oh, it's only on a witness account. actors in court or in law you can make these ones. That would be a little more concerning to me. what they say. Again, you can really continue along this line of exploration. Slack. Bible and then close it and so a good way to think about it is if you just read it and don't do anything about it, it's like eating something and then spitting it back out. So I was like, you know what? Or just makes a statement. So this class is your class. From the original can differ from them, evidently in thousands of ways. are not the original enough. No. The first manuscript was around 900 A. Then you have some the copies that we have just here. this professor called Joanne Magnus and she's one of the top secular archaeologists for ancient Jewish history, particularly old perspective. And he said, oh you know, I want to look at like stuff around it. Some of the important questions like Aaron had mentioned, does it conflict with established doctrines provided by the remaining New Testament text? At a time of price, and we do find that section. original text. The Hebrew is Golgotha. than different eyewitnesses whereas in reality I um you know I don't want to say this incorrectly but I believe eyewitness accounts and we are the strongest determinants that the person was convicted. was right in the report and really it comes down to um they didn't do the the fobby stacking because one was there and saw what happened and we didn't have some So I just wanted to kind of throw out some bullet points, some thoughts. This is what they said. uh surviving religion one on one and I think we're gonna put this in the college package, right? But she dresses an alt tape every single day. You know, oh uh uh you know this copy is written in red ink, this one's in blue, they don't match. of your epistemology. With assumptions, and so they'll um prioritize the evidence that confirms those assumptions and kind of ignore the evidence that doesn't. Um so why would you even keep it? Yeah. who had been shot supposedly was dead but wasn't, witnessed more murder and then recovered and on the section word alone as an eyewitness team who did it I think the two take-home messages are don't be afraid to ask really hard questions into and to really dive in and look at them. And with evidence and support. That's what they say. That the the they're basing this their assumptions on a false theory. face the fear that evolution is not real. You know maybe there is, you know, oh I really want to do uh number six, how can loving God allow so much evil and suffering? really with God's work. Book. Oh, this this sentence doesn't match. Here is, oh wait, there's one that's like strange, but I got four others that are the same. two I only have two errors. Whereas here I only have two, but it's I I I can't really be for certain what the original text is. Uh word orders, for example, there. uh microfossil looks like a little worm. two inserts in the New Testament. sections and see what they say. So yes, so that can be that would go to change what we have certainly controlled what we are doing and Sorry, Aaron, I've got an example of witnesses in a car act and just realized like And there's been an accident. uh uh above above Christ's head. Golgotha. Um my only my my only concern would be that you don't get obsessed and you're spending your entire life trying to defend all these you know new knowledge or or But I am going to tell you that it really bothers me. And look into it. Huge giant book, but I copied the uh foreword to the book. We just came out of nothing. Really attached. Um by reasonable induction, can we figure out what the what the original says These are the mistakes. Now how do you inductively read in what the original set? For example, the complete copy of John's Gospel, a copy was found and dated back about 200 AD. There's just not enough time for vast changes to occur, and any meaningful changes would be caught in later copies. I mean, these weren't just like kids off the street. Like Socrates up here maybe only has one or two copies, you're not going to find a lot of error. Listen people repeat these kind of points or like ask questions about the the reliability and The positive carbon stuff. Whether you believe scripture or whether you sort of believe these other worldviews. Believe these sections were added in later. Because he said one thing wrong or something like that. And put it in light of the entire New Testament. deflects or contradicts s n you know the our major doctrines. Well we do. Just let me know if you like any of them are interested to you. those whatever you read into your life that week, the next two weeks, months, years even, some people um that's what it means to really meditate and digest upon it. And so he figured, I better write this book now. How do you know what was the original text? It didn't last. I just asked because I think I have an answer for the assessment version. of a document makes it easier to inductive to induce what the original text was. So one, if you know I wrote something today in 2021, and then you saw a copy in 2022, pretty certain that those are probably matched pretty well. Um covering nearly forty percent of all New Testament verses. So a fairly close time. Whereas let's look at several New Testament copies dating back to 2nd and 3rd century A. I mean this this used to bother me a lot. And it's true from a secular position as well as uh a a a a a faith, you know, or a regeneration This little area that he took a picture of? He's trying to make this huge new statement and he just gets away with saying these mess the messier sections for others to figure out. From a scientific standpoint, only about 40%, I think, of all published papers are actually reproducible, meaning that whatever they say, you can redo it and get Some examples are brushing your teeth in the morning, in the evening, or folding your lawn or making your bed. It's not a necessity because like if you don't read it, God's going to reserve a special punishment for you. So I wanted this to take a little bit of time, I think our last couple of five minutes. I put down uh so out of the four gospels, a couple of verses that speak to the crucifixion. Basically talking about the crucifixion and how there can be little word changes, location uh identifying a location differently, um, or maybe what is written um really needs to be repeated over and over again. Uh he's a famous guy, and he uh he is definitely an atheist. That's in or what if I just made a mistake here Greek it was probably Greek and Arabic. written in twenty twenty-one today, but the first copy you see is until three you know, the year three thousand, you get a little worried. So she made this like four-week lecture series on just proving why, even if you don't believe the content or the narrative, the gospel narrative of the Bible, you can still believe in the historical And that's what this second scientist did. I think like currently, especially for those of you in undergrad, the people who come out against you and like say like, oh, you're a Christian, so therefore your beliefs are wrong, they often come from not you know Matthew was for the Jews and so really emphasize um the lineage of Jesus right um things that would be important to the Jews in recognizing and accepting Let me look into that. Yeah, so this is gonna come this is gonna go in there. He uh he struggled with a lot of these similar questions. But give me input because this is your class. Yeah. And um I put for example Plato's Republic. It's it's easy to identify what the original sentence probably looked like. doesn't tell you that these make up a majority of the mistakes he's covered. But that doesn't rattle us. So don't be alarmed by lots of these kind of very insignificant changes between. perspective or or reason for for looking at these kinds of questions not necessarily as a evangelistic apologetics kind of perspective. tons more time coming up with other avenues from a secular position to to really reinforce and solidify I saw this man screaming uh from a red car. But they're all looking at the same event. Th this would be a problem for him, right? And none of them being wrong, they're just maybe focusing on different aspects of the same situation No, I don't want any of that. What I mean is thinking about it. And he wrote a letter. Which differ in thousands of ways. Oh then if you look at when I guess John's gospel was John's gospel really. Okay, so you have a lot of copies, but how good are these copies? Oh here. We understand we're talking about Christ and that he was the King of the Jews, right? When they came to the place which is called Calvary, and then in is it Matthew Matthew I think calls it uh So three different ways of saying the same location. Um I posted an article in here earlier this week, I don't know if you really thought but does everybody know what we're talking about with Slack chain? Because you you watch it. email you could leave a little note up here next Sunday if you want to be anonymous. Or if you want to do the book of Ephesians, that's good too. So this this professor, Bart Urban, this is what he says. My my my there's a the it's probably my right same thing for here byte of uh of of various writings. Something that's that's written today, an original piece that's written today, if you want to have copies, you want to have one that's fairly close in time, right? It doesn't impact the the thoughts or the concept there, nor with so many copies can we not get I overheard him talking to somebody saying, Oh, you know, there's just some errors, we can't even trust the discussion. accounts of the Bibles simply because there is enough evidence, copies, cross-references, and she even addressed errors, exactly the same claims you made. Maybe really was part of the original the original text. Mark 15, the King of the Jews. And so we're like, oh how much do I have to read? Number eleven. I had to print it out and I've kept it ever since because it's an amazing statement to make. What good is it to say that the autographs these of the originals were inspired? It doesn't really even matter about errors and copies. And so that brings us to the point of like, well, how do you know you're confident in your own faith and your belief? Current current thought is that these have been inserted at a later date. I mean it could be you know we we come across another set of dead cheese rules and it's we find uh a document that's you know dated even closer the response from today. So take a look at them. See Capla Hill. repeats of words, a misplaced word, or sometimes if there's just like a word missing 5,500 Greek documents and another nineteen thousand in other languages, and they're fragments as well as complete man. So a relatively short gap of time versus something like Socrates of twelve hundred years. So right? So I encourage you to to kind of go out and wrestle with these questions to to be assured of your faith. But even as a person who works in science, you have to realize that on the outside, while they may command some sort of authority by saying, Oh, but here are the facts, here's what's been published. Of course, you can have confidence knowing that even if they believe in what they say to be true, you can have a lot of skepticism about whether it's going to be reproducible. And then because it's not reproducible, right, already you've tackled half of their foundation, which is resting on that one or two claims. And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called called the place of a skull, which is called Our faith is a rational and reasonable faith. Yes. Ride, ride, ride. So the smaller the gap of time, the better. He should be thrown out he should be thrown out. You know, like there's there is certainly some role for evidence to play in in our investigations of these things, but it's mostly about you there are in different scientific disciplines there are vastly Are you even aware that there are two sections that were most likely added in later? And those are the two right there. Witnesses in a car accident. Are they lying? There's different perspectives from different witnesses. Matthew twenty-seven, Mark fifteen, Luke twenty-three, John nineteen. So if you go a little bit deeper, uh you realize it is exactly the same place. Looking at I like to ride my bike in the rain. So this is probably I, right? So why do I do this? Here's an on. We have over 5,500 copies. So an incredibly large, vast number of documents, fragments, complete fragments, that we can go back to to do this kind of inductive reasoning Or uh synonyms, for example. Like we're talking about she made a documentary with like Morgan Freeman and she was on Discovery Channel. It's got like a I mean it really looks like a worm. I leave the messy ah I leave the messy sections to others to figure out So when we ever published and we weren't even in publishing in journals like this kind of work, we would have to do bazillions of experiments to say just like yeah, we agree with like science has been done previously. And the important ones boil down to two. So are these still considered inspired? Right, 'cause because God God is sovereign and He will it's it's His Word. And so I started thinking about worldviews. Yet what's really interesting is that everyone no one ever questions whether the things that Socrates or Plato wrote Secondly, does it really change the meaning of the sentence? Um the the last bit of or the last claim that I saw was this guy. And you know what? What do you guys think about the Bible and the fact that maybe it's been changed, the words, things have been changed thousands of thousands of times? Yeah. So it's a very double standard approach. Um I think I get to the point of like, you know it's it's it's not really about evidence that And they'll include it usually in in square brackets. Yeah, yeah. The story behind who changed the Bible and why. So we're going to look at dig into this. So if you have lots and lots of copies, you're probably going to have lots and lots more errors. He's like this archaeologist guy too. Right? Yeah. Are all three talking about three different places? Um and so since they're all together they're all the same, you need to believe it. And you know I think it's really just telling that uh you know so Erman claims you know two hundred thousand to four hundred thousand variants between all the copies Well, everyone at that time, the reason it was called Golgotha was because Golgotha meant skull. It's 1994. Yeah, and interestingly, the more copies you have, the more your error count goes up, right? For example, I put an example of Plato's Socratic dialogues. And again, a lot of these mistakes are what we just saw here. And also that one, Mark 9 to 20. Is there a is there a problem with this? Or um here was another interesting uh point Clearly, there are dangers in introducing the cell through its evolution. Yep. Uh sometimes you'll see definite and indefinite articles missing, the words the and uh. Um number five, and this is on your last page here. Yeah. Um yeah. They knew that they were copying over God's Word. Or copies. Okay. That's a great question. Yeah, we are going to go ahead and teach it anyways. But you really want to make sure no one's added or taken away something. First off, the quantity of manuscripts. So here I've already got one, two, three, four, five. Let's look at the date of manuscripts. Right? Try to run after every secular question and try to rationalize it. Does he call it the Place of the Skull? It's like it's it's the same reaction. And yeah, and and I want to also point out I I just have like four kind of main sections here. Yeah, that's a that's an excellent excellent point. People will will can all witness a situation and come away with having um different ways of presenting what they what they experience. I think I really ought to stay with the world here and what I remember being in college, things that I was up against constantly And it bothered me. And again, like Bill had pointed out, the large number of copies skews the number of insignifications. Usually one of those genomic follows at the end of it. Yeah. There were ways of topping. What do you think about that? And this guy is like a y five million dollar lab and everyone just like praise at UCLA and he gets to say something like that It is possible. And I can go in a little maybe a little bit deeper in this next next. Usually what will happen is there'll be a bunch of witnesses, and they've all they were all there, but they all tell a slightly different The Bible's been changed thousands of times, how do you trust it? But this is kind of a fun little exercise. I want to book a revelation or something. It's essentially a collection of letters. I think they're really good. Yes, it's a it's a difference. And in some disciplines, particularly the historical sciences, there's a lot of cherry picking of data. The earliest manuscripts do not include the following verses. So it's not like it's not like we're arenaware of it. And then up in Luke twenty is it Luke twenty-seven? Yeah, isn't it true too that the authors intended different audiences that they were writing to? Has anyone ever asked that or have you ever thought about that yourself? Oh, what's this? Um okay, so um uh yeah, greater confidence that the original text is reserved in these copies. So I encourage you to take a look at these two verses, these two sections, look at the footnotes, see that your Bible does indicate that yeah, these are have been inspired. You can go here and see all the places right up front where there's any debate among textual critics, the people who reconstruct uh Maybe someone was right there at the very beginning of the accident. That doesn't really make sense because I have all these other copies that say in, right? So there's only about like three two hundred, three hundred years there between um the original and uh New Testament copies. What's the main point? I'm like class, like half of us are like, but she's lying to you in the face. And it was at that point that I said, you know what? Have you ever had to go to something like court and like some or or or just uh when you go to court and you go to traffic court You know, we all have those times of the day where we have blank thoughts or just crap in our mind. I say all these copies in here, these are all these mistakes in here, right? Okay, so let's look at uh for example here I have Plato-Socratic dialogues. And that all starts with the Bible. Like that would seem like they maybe it was maybe it was only one person using four different names. How can I trust what I'm reading if scribes have irreparably corrupted the original text? He looked at the whole thing because it's you know it's like this giant it's like this giant artifact So there's nothing practical about it. Are they are is is anyone wrong? Mm-hmm. Earliest complete Bibles, there's two examples there, written around 340 A. A lot. Um so far and thirty. Now it does get a little bit difficult if you only have two In fact, John's copy of the gospel, that complete gospel, is only 200 years difference. You know, before you even look at any evidence, you have to be sure about the foundation of your epistemology. A lot of times you'll get people that ask or say things, you know, they just say it. And what it is essentially is this this author, Michael Krueger, uh North Carolina. But if like I had five sentences and I had like eight errors, it was easier, wasn't it, to induce what the original text was? D. And it probably I would probably be uh it would probably be more difficult for me if it was just one witness or three different four different witnesses but everyone saying exactly the same thing So tell me if you're if you're interested in some of these questions. Take a look at these, about 15 of them, and kind of identify a few that you would like to explore. Yeah, it's it's it's it's deceptive. And so that's kind of the disingenuous part of Eriman's statement is that he's saying, oh, you know, if our error count is high, we must have a lot of uncertainty. I think in Sundays we're reminded like, oh read the word of God, make it a good habit, but I don't think habits are a good enough word because habits are often without thought. Yeah, it's it it speaks to um really the I think the the From today's perspective, it's kind of hard to um how would you view someone who just copies pages? He came and said, you know, I'm really having a very difficult time. That Mark 16 section and the John 7 section. Right, right. Talking about three different places. And you should always take that stance on all of these questions. So this could be very overwhelming. Current Bibles identify so these sections are are most scholars I'd like to add a caveat to my statement. But the point is it doesn't matter if it's one verse or one and a half verses or the entire book even. Um you can't trust the Bible, trust it in the New Testament because it's changed thousands of times , so there's about 1,200 years in between. So he did. Getting in you know just in putting in the word of God into us. Um and also we wanted to highlight two things that you said. Um so that definitely can be used to verify. Well uh I'll pray and then I guess n next week are you gonna you're gonna continue with the the world worldview? They said that the Bible had been is can't be trusted because it's been changed thousands of times. And what's really interesting is we're going to see that there's far fewer of those copies than there are of, for example, in the top I've got five copies, that's probably I. Regardless. Sometimes it's it's okay to not know the answer. So I'm gonna I'm gonna stay with the New Testament just for today because there's some examples, specifically this this one guy who's Like it's when I was in college I read books on the study activity. There's some good, there's a lot of commentary out there on these two sections. That's a possibility. And so he did. First century? Well it turns out there's just like this giant of goo here, and there's like this giant goo gooey thing here. And he wrote this in a foul article in the same journal. The Latin is Calvary. But do you think you can figure out what the original probably was? Let's look at the quality of manuscripts Um did anybody else look into that sort of what it kind of bothered by this? It's just a horrible it. Sign questions. At some point be assured that your faith is solid. And why did I think about worldviews? Because everything is coming from a evolution is true, so that's what we're going to teach science. And it came one day I was like, you know what, if God is real, if the Bible is true, then I have n I do not need to be afraid. But don't panic. Also look what j uh John was uh looking at this was kinda in verse seventeen Anybody have any requests or questions? So let's start. And so in the in the article this this great archaeology guy came up with, can you take a little a little picture? Ride, ride. And the ninth oh I think I oh this is what I meant. The main point is we have copies of the New Testament at a very early age, especially when compared to other ancient writings. Um Simon, instead of calling you know calling Peter sometimes Simon I may have mentioned this in the in the past. I think they will really open up a lot of discussion. Yeah. So reading the word of God should not just become a habit, nor a ritual, or a practice, but it's a necessity Ancient, but SFTT is taught in molecular biology. But this is your class. But before you crumble, let's look at the other side of this accusation. Again, if you're in the Word all the time, things like this won't face you. Luke 23, this is the King of the Jews. Yeah, the audiences are a little bit different, but again, conveying the exactly the same statements. Um a lot of things that really are easy to inductively reason away. Oh, is that the one where uh the prostitute was getting stuff? NCU maybe. And that's what he bases this whole thing on. Fill yourself with the word of God. It's kind of in a highlighted section. So even from the most scholarly academic scenario, still you have the same perception Right. And at the very last paragraph, it really is there. Regardless. Well this guy came in and instead of just looking at this little Um but again it comes back to no doctrine is put in jeopardy or in a questionable category. But those are differences, right? And they may not be exactly word for word the same, but they're probably like something that was striking to them, or maybe, you know, one person was in the street, another person was Anyways, there's three different locations named here. When I was um at UCLA, one of the big things that always bothered me was the whole evolution thing. Because error manager says there's thousands and thousands of mistakes The majority are not significant and the text, the meaning of the text is not altered It's not that I think people have a problem with the historical accuracy of the violence He took about 15 questions that he struggled with. And these are really good questions. At the end of the day, you mentioned Jesus, you mentioned Christ, people get offended regardless. Well there's three different variations. So all of these questions can be answered reasonably, rationally Author Bart Ehrman. I'm done spending my time, trying to rebut and try to understand everyone's questions. So that should yeah. And I've even kind of um I I asked Gabe uh he emailed just me the other day. Um and they are used I mean uh heard the example of some There were large groups that would sit together. Jesus Christ, and in some places it's Christ Jesus. Yep. And these are the 15 letters that he wrote. It's good to have copies, thousands and thousands of copies, because it's So Ehrman's claim is there there's about 200 to 400,000 differences between copies. So these you know the translators and and publishers and At some point you just have to move on. So um over the entire Bible. So they didn't take it in kind of an irreverent, uh, haphazard method But it was interesting because the first thing she told us was the Bible is reliable. Right. Text me, Slack me, tell somebody else So this is from my giant molecular biology book from U. Look for the New Testament. So the desire to have the smallest time gap between the original document and a copy, right? About ten thirty-five. I think I would stay with kind of the main theme, which is worldviews. Someone's just especially if it's a professor, they're looking down at you and they're saying, You can't trust us. It's purposefully deceptive. Seem reasonable? I mean, these were learned people who took this job extremely seriously. Because again, like I showed you, sometimes these errors or differences are spellings, word duplications. Right. But it's it's not something that would rattle or shake our face. And his answer was yes. All we have are copies of copies of copies. I'm going to get to that. So a hundred years difference or so for the complete copy of the complete copy Yep. That is a possibility. You can do this all over the place. Anybody questions at all It's also okay if you're the one asking these questions. And for years and years and years it bothered him, and then finally his own daughter was going to go shop. I have I think I have an answer in the assessment on your witnesses first. There's a lot of material out there. That's a good question. Plato, Socrates, the ancient Greeks. Um the last one I wanted to talk about about one about bigger changes. The answer is no. We didn't ask. We don't have the originals. It really just looks like, you know, due to being in a in a volcanic environment, um, it's probably just Because someone at work asked me about So there's um This is your class, so tell us what you want. God is the creator, not some Here's five copies, they're all the same, right? It's like four hundred thousand down to two. Um No. And that really gave me the the gump chain and the drive to really It's probably just ride, right? Are we really confused as to what the original author really meant? Yeah, we can go there, yeah, yeah. Well we just know it does just not And you know that is where the the real argument gets you. What about um textual variance due to perspectives? There are more variations among our manuscripts than there are words in the New Testament Maybe another witness didn't come until the ambulances got there. I have five copies. And he took this picture, he had it he published in science and he put an image of this And it was, I don't know, six billion years ago. He is a huge atheist. Now it's a little harder, right? They know that They had no copiers back there. But again, like when I had the two sentences up here, with only two, it's nearly impossible to find what the original Right. But yeah. They're all speaking about the crucifixion, but look how different But it's just different perspectives from different That's what's really going to change change your your your mind and will solidify uh The large gaps in our knowledge can be filled only by speculation that are liable to be wrong in many details. I mean you you're building your whole faith on this book. So try in the ring And then so a lot of the times they'll try to base their claims on like news stories, science articles. So the first three, they all start with the word and. But if you look at your Bible and you're reading that section, all Bibles will have a footnote saying. The stories might be different. Or if you have other questions perhaps, you could always submit those as well. But those are things you just do on command, not really like, oh I'm gonna brush my teeth really specifically. And there's a lot that is that is written on this This is what they said. And sh so she was like, I just took this class because it's supposed to be an easy A. Because it doesn't have some magic verse that says, okay, and then Jesus said these things and then he was immediately dis Um just doesn't doesn't build you up in in your faith. Far is a mean, uh, a shot meant to sink the ship of any Christian who thinks the New Testament documents can be trusted. Because he's well aware that yeah, if I only have two sentences, yeah, I only have Fifteen let me try the other one. And I was working on something else that I didn't butt into the conversation, so I probably should have. And so that's kind of what I'm done with evolution things. And then anyone who who commits to one of those things can sort of rationalize the evidence And three different locations. Care package? And I have four sections here. And I think a lot of it has to come from Right? In misquoting Jesus as a But I wanted to show you that having lots of copies Well this other scientist came in and he said, you know what But it's important because you won't be able to grow in your understanding and knowledge of who God is and what your faith is all about. They're gonna tell you in the footnotes that here's a sentence that would that is kind of disputed. Some prior requests. There's five mistakes already. Who um It's possible. Why didn't you use something a little stronger than the sick perspective So I picked up this book. Um I was challenged with these when I went to school, and I'm sure you guys are being challenged. The more copies, the better. Sort of reasonable. Whereas if I only had Thanks, Ryan. What do you guys think about that? Anyone anyone know know about those sections They all entail the same message. It's a lot, isn't it? Why would you keep it if you thought it was putting down Yeah. And I mean I've asked that, right? Okay. Like, you can't believe her. It's okay to say, let me get back to you. Probably two, right? About 250 fragments, partial manuscripts, seven full copies. Just kind of a fun little exercise. But then John says place of a skull. I just need your email. You can look at this graphically. So I wanted to go to this chapter 11, which asks. But I'm specifically gonna look at the New Testament because there's this one professor, uh I think he's We only have error-ridden copies, and the vast majority of these are centuries removed Do you not fear questions? It's diabolical. And then John 19, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Just using different different names for the same place. I guess I used to think there was a consumption for error because you're Not only just from the biblical perspective, but also from a psychical perspective. Um so a lot of people think like, oh I just read the Now when we think about um the scribes who would make these copies Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So ancient books were reproduced by hand. But again when we look at that very simple sentence And so you know it's dealing with all those priors, you know, all the all the prior assumptions. It's also interesting um And let me know. So thinking about it and then trying to really apply. I mean that's good. Or or they just all sat together and they just copied the same oh this is what I say, this is what he says. This is in the book that they teach everything from an evolutionary perspective. This is what he says. Anyone have any questions before I keep on going? Uh at the very end, yeah. Fifty five hundred Greek and other, I think there was other languages. They took this very seriously. Does that trip you up? It's about it's about making you know, deciding whether um And that's really what uh at the end of the day. Any questions? So this is what they say. It's probably like Here's like this little, you know, this little s image here. Um Create a problem that doesn't really exist. How do you know they're talking about the same But you can see Remember to take a look at those uh 15 chapters. Um doing what just the new skets and I always want to focus on Okay. So if he was ninety, so he probably would have been uh Or maybe you don't want anything. But let me know. It wasn't on electric, it was on it was on papyrus, right? But then when you put it all together, the full story comes out Like A word is missing. Yeah, I would try to I even had a code or like you That should probably be the ending of all of the lessons we The rest are are these spelling differences for the duplication where But do we not understand who we're talking about Yeah, Luke twenty-three. You can do it on Slack, you can And yet the greater ability you have And the rebuttal from the original guy was So uh It looked like a mountain, looked like a skull Any any per request at all D. He has this giant lab. I leave the difficult I leave I don't can't do you had a did you have a question at the very beginning? The point is if you don't digest it digest it Okay. And but I was like, you were the one who told me she's like a top archaeologist and she's like the greatest thing in the world Yep, yep. Even though they've been inserted. So in in from Erman's perspective Calvary, Volgata, and Place of the Skull. And so um I mean you kind of what I'd like for us to do So just kind of inductive reasoning That's what he's coming. The original somewhere was written around 390 BC D. What you know I was I was pretty shaken by particularly the plans So I had a kind of an opposite thing in college. These are the majority of mistakes he's covered. What really is and maybe I'll bring in another I'll I'll I'll show you a picture of it next. The question you have to ask is It's also interesting that John's really learned that from while You know what a good question is? Okay. And um we're gonna see what he says about it. Anyways, I kind of tangent it there. Um I have a little bit of time and it's kind of a fun thing I want to Um And probably some of you have asked that. Let me know what kind of things interest you Any other comments? So that's in John's I think that's in John's second Yeah, if you're reading your Bible. So uh in Matt twenty seven, this is Jesus the king of the Jews. At some point you just go, you know what? This is kind of a method of comparison. Yeah, that's gonna also increase the errors, but it's also going to And it does not. Um but the main point is that these variations do not change But John 19 doesn't. Maybe you just want to go back to the book of Ephesians. And so you know you and that's done because people are coming in You know, they didn't have copiers or USB drivers It's more of reassuring myself that yeah, the Bible is true. So I kind of Okay You shouldn't fear when someone says And um again, nothing in it Okay. Weird. It's probably in. So she clearly laid out, yes, you can trust the Bible even from a scholarly point. You can spend So each one's going to have, it's going to be looking at the same incident It's like, oh I haven't had that in a long time. And another scientist says, hey, I really want to continue looking at some Because there always gonna be someone that's gonna come up with a new fossil or a Um Okay Well, no It's an error though, isn't it? He's like big I mean there's a huge In the class topics channel So remember it's not important just to eat, but to actually digest Okay. And he knew his daughter was going to probably struggle with. But at some point Uh and when they can't it's great uh Luke twenty That's what you want to make sure it's So he just selected It's like what is the foundation Why do you believe what you believe? Doesn't make you go run for the hill. And I think Aaron's comment um And then we can kinda bounce back and forth depending on No. So what you have to do is So, you know In fact, I should walk forcefully ahead Uh not really a question anymore, just I kind of have a fun little comparison here. Really investigate it. Whereas if something is No. It's in here and it's like this little So I would I would implore you re read these together. It's like My faith is solid, I'm gonna move on This is okay It's been changed thousands of times. She's like a top person. Oh. Yep. And there are two large variations that exist. It's not showing up in their own Fifty five hundred Don't be afraid No? So I'll I'll pray for us. I'm not gonna go into the big evolution. So I took a class with That was what was I was like So Next slide. Then there's