As Jesus went preaching the gospel of the kingdom throughout all of Galilee, he encountered a certain woman. Now, this woman had been possessed by seven demons. Now we know demons don't make their habitation in a holy place, so that tells us a little something about this woman and her lifestyle prior to meeting Christ. Yet, despite some deep-seated sin in her, Jesus did a marvelous thing for her. By the power of the Holy Spirit, he cast out all seven demons living inside of her. Jesus mercifully freed her completely from the control of unclean spirits. And yes, there are demons and unclean spirits, and in some cases they do inhabit the bodies of sinners. For the first time in her life, Mary of Magdala came to understand the mercy of God. The mercy of God for her. So from here on out She made her decision. Mary Magdalene decided to be a faithful follower of Jesus Christ, just as we sung. She decided the world behind her, the cross before her. You know, all four of the gospels include her name. As one of the faithful women, there with Jesus Christ at the cross, observing and watching while he died upon the cross, there at the tomb, bringing the spices, ready to anoint the body, and in her case She was chosen as the very first human eyewitness of Jesus' victorious and glorious resurrection. A woman who once lived such a sinful life that she was inhabited by seven demons What an amazing transformation and an amazing story. Mary's complete deliverance from bondage and her transformed life to be a holy witness for Jesus Christ just serves to illustrate the beauty of a person who has tasted in their own life the mercy of God. Have you tasted the mercy of God in your life? Have you known what it is like to be a sinner and then to be forgiven and to know the joyous feeling? Mercy is indeed a sweet reality to the sinful human soul. And the more sinful it is, the more sweet that mercy becomes. Those who have tasted mercy most deeply are the ones who savor its flavor most fully. And that is why you might find it kind of strange that today's message is entitled Coming to Grips with the Mercy of God I mean, we may need to come to grips with the judgment of God. Yikes, some people would think. That's horrific. I don't want to face the wrath of God. We may feel it is difficult to deal with the holiness of God. How do I understand that? How do I draw near to God? Peter, when he encountered the holiness of Christ in the boat. Said, go away from me, Lord, I'm a sinful man. He didn't know how to deal with it. But why would anyone have trouble swallowing the mercy of God? What would be hard about that? Well, let's turn to Jonah chapter 4, and we'll learn why the mercy of God can be, at times, difficult, even for believers, to accept See, though Jonah was swallowed by the great fish, he had a hard time swallowing the mercy of God. At least the mercy of God for certain sinners. In fact, I think it's fair to say that he loathed the mercy and compassion that God ended up showing to the Assyrians Now, today I hope that all of our hearts, particularly our heart to love our enemies, will be challenged by God's willingness to pardon those who are extremely wicked, violent, and evil people. But first let's uh refresh our memory a little bit about the first three chapters. We're now in the last message from Jonah, so just to recap what's happened already. You may remember in chapter one that God called on the prophet Jonah Said, go and preach to the great city of Nineveh, preach against it. But Jonah didn't want anything to do with that mission. He fled by boat in the opposite direction, all the way to Tarsus, which we believe was in southern Spain. So through the rest of chapter one, God let him have a little bit of success in his plan, but then he sent that storm to go get him, and it overtook the boat that Jonah was in. And then Jonah convinced the pagan sailors the only way they were going to survive the storm is if they took him and threw him into the water overboard, and that would appease the wrath of Jonah's God. Yet by the end of chapter 1 and into chapter 2, there in the waters, as he was sinking and drowning, God mercifully saved this disobedient prophet by allowing him to be swallowed by a great fish alive. And then at the beginning of chapter 3, God recommissioned Jonah to go and to preach. Same place, go back, go to Nineveh. This time Jonah very wisely complied, for God had been merciful to him and spared him from certain death. The lesson of God's mercy, unfortunately, did not sink as deeply into Jonah as he desired. Even though he wrote that wonderful prayer and that poem there in chapter two, it still needed to sink in further So let's pick up a story right there. We're actually going to read chapter 3 first, and then we'll read chapter 4 as we unfold the story today. Look back at the beginning of chapter 3, just to get our bearing. Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, Arise, go to Nineveh, the great city, and proclaim to it the proclamation which I am going to tell you. So Jonah rose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, a three days' walk. And Jonah began to go through the city, one day's walk, and he cried out and said, Yet forty days And Nineveh will be overthrown, turned upside down. Then the people of Nineveh believed in God, and they called a fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest to the least of them. When the word reached the king of Nineveh, he arose from his throne, laid aside his robe from him, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat on the ash. He issued proclamation, and it said, In Nineveh, by the decree of the king and his nobles, do not let man, beast, herd, or flock taste a thing. Do not let them eat or drink water. But both man and beast must be covered with sackcloth, and let men call on God earnestly, that each may turn from his wicked way and from the violence which is in his hands. Who knows? God may turn and relent and withdraw his burning anger so that we will not perish. When God saw their deeds that they turned from their wicked way, then God relented concerning the calamity which he had declared he would bring upon them. He did not do it. Well, that right there, verse 10 brings us up to where we were last time. And starting with verse 10 of chapter 3, right on into chapter 4, we're going to Get some teaching about God's mercy. And the teaching we're going to get is going to go through some stages. It's going to progress as we go through this. The first stage is where God just demonstrates what his mercy is. He's going to show it, he's going to demonstrate the mercy. The second stage is we're going to see Jonah's reaction to it, and Jonah despised God's mercy. So we have God demonstrating his mercy, and then we have Jonah despising God's mercy, amazingly. But there's a third stage, and I think this is where God wants to bring us in this entire book of Jonah. This third stage, the very last part of chapter 4, and that is that God defends his own mercy. He speaks up for his own mercy. He defends his own mercy. Okay? Those are the three stages we're going through. Let's look back at stage one in God demonstrating his mercy. Look back to verse 10 in chapter 3 with me. When God saw their deeds, that they turned from their wicked way, then God relented concerning the calamity which he declared he would bring upon them, and he did not do it. Now the very best evidence that these Ninevites genuinely came to faith in God is the testimony of God Himself. What did God do? Verse 10 He retracted his wrath. It was like a black cloud hovering over the city, or that entire group of cities in that area, hovering over them, ready to fall down upon them, and he said, You can move on away, cloud, and blew it away. He retracted his own wrath. If Nineveh's humble gestures were merely an outward show, the one God of heaven who searches the hearts and minds of all people, he certainly would have known. And Nineveh would have perished at the end of the 40-day trial. They would have been overturned. Indeed, later, 150 years later, when the revival was long gone, they were overthrown. They were destroyed But here, that was not the case. Now, what's the operative phrase at this point? I think it's just this: God relented concerning the calamity he was going to bring on him. God relented. That's amazing. Relented. Relented is the Hebrew verb notkam. It means to relent, to have compassion or to give comfort. When it's used in the Hebrew niphal, it means to to relent or to regret doing something, to pull back from it. It's used in Genesis chapter 6 and verse 7 for God when he said he was sorry that he had made man on the earth. Why? Because they were continuously violent before the flood of Noah, remember? It's used of Job when at the end of the book of Job he'd learned all the lessons that God wanted him to learn. He said in chapter 42, verse 6, I repent in dust and ashes. Sometimes it's translated repent. Now unfortunately the older English versions translate this word as repent, even when it's referring to God. And that's not wise, because in today's English Repent has the connotation of what? Of turning away from doing evil things, right? Turning away from doing evil. But God's perfectly holy. Done the judgment, it would not have been evil. It would have been a holy judgment. So, Nakam is better translated to relent when it's referring to God, and repents when it's referring to us, particularly when we're involved in sin. God was certainly not ashamed here of his burning anger. He didn't go, oh, I'm sorry I ever had anger against you. No, it's not that at all. Now there's another important word in verse 9 and in verse 10 of chapter 3, and it's the Hebrew verb shoev, to turn or to turn away. When God saw the people turn away from their wicked ways, then he turned away from his wrath That's the same word used in both situations. The wicked actions of men tend to attract the holy wrath of God, so when the wicked actions of men cease, then the holy wrath of God is retracted. God relented. That is, God changed his mind about destroying the city. That's interesting. When he saw them change their actions They humbled their hearts before God. Notice it very specifically in verse 10 says, God saw their deeds. When God saw their deeds, So he saw the Ninevites, he saw them dressing themselves in sackcloth, sitting down on ashes as if they're nothing but ashes, fasting, not even eating or drinking, withdrawing their hands from the violence they were accustomed to. He knew of their humble and now believing hearts. And so God relented concerning his justice and wrath. Now you might be there and you might have read this many times before, and you say, well, that's fantastic. I mean that's just great. God showed the city mercy. That's what God does. Yay, God, a merciful God. So glad that he did that. Okay, but there are some difficulties here we have to wrestle with. There are. Besides the difficulty of understanding the mercy of God shown to evil people, which we will grapple with, there are two other difficulties regarding God wrapped up in verse 10 alone. Verse 10 is a saturated verse. Do you notice that in this verse, God is described as responding to people, responding to man, not leading man? Did you see that? First man repented, then God saw it, then God retracted his anger. Now you might ask, so what's the big deal about that? Well, because the scriptures teach that salvation is always initiated by who? By God. God's the one who initiates salvation, not man. A man who can't even believe or repent without God granting that and changing his heart, because he loves his sin so much, man just simply responds to God's sovereign election and action in the hearts of sinners. There are just an overwhelming number of Bible verses that teach God's sovereignty and his initiative in salvation when people come to Christ. For example, Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1, all the way to verse 4, says that we were dead in our transgressions and sins. Well, you know what dead people do, they don't respond. They don't respond to any stimulus How can someone who's dead in their sins respond to the life of God? The answer is they can't. And so it says in that passage that God made them alive because of his mercy. The initiative, the first impulse, the action came from God Furthermore, God declares in Romans chapter 9 and verse 15, he says he will harden and punish whomever he desires. He will have mercy on whomever he desires. It doesn't depend on the man who wills, we're told in Romans 9. 16, but on God who chooses to have mercy. It starts from him. See? Even our names, we're told, were written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Jesus is the Lamb of God, and they had a book of life for eternal life. And our names were actually written in that Lamb's book of life. Listen, before the world was even made Forget about us being made before the world was even made. Our names were in there. We're told that in Revelation 13, verse 8, and Revelation 17, verse 8. Proverbs chapter 16 and verse 4 says, The Lord has made everything for its own purpose, even the wicked for the day of judgment. He's set them up that he might demonstrate his wrath upon the wicked. He's in charge of everything and he's sovereign over all salvation. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4, just to belabor the point a little. He chose us in Christ. When did he do it? Before the foundation of the world. Before the world was even created, we were chosen. God appointed our salvation, and thus he had to have appointed our faith before we were even anything, even a thought, down here on earth anyway In fact, we learned in Jonah chapter 2 verse 9 that wonderful truth, that salvation is from who? The Lord. It's from the Lord. What did that mean? We went over that. It means it's his to grant. Nobody else can grant it, you see. And he takes the initiative to secure salvation. It's all of him, just as Jonah was swallowed by the fish and could do nothing to save himself. But there are also many passages of scripture, this one included, which portray God granting help. Deliverance, salvation, not at his initiative. But in response to man's appeals, cries for help. It seems man is the initiator And God is the what? Responder. You understand why great theologians and preachers of the Word of God have wrestled with this So much. They're both in the pages of Scripture. Sometimes there's far too much yelling across the aisle of different people who disagree on that issue rather than just saying, you know something, they're both in there So what are we going to do with that? The best minds already haven't been able to sort it all out. What are we going to do about it? Well, there are others. Listen to John chapter 5 and verse 40. Jesus said to the unbelieving Jews, You are unwilling to come to me so that you may have life. That's pretty easy to understand. That's pretty straightforward, right? It doesn't say God is unwilling to give you life so that then you'd be willing to come to me. Doesn't word it that way. In fact, it says the very opposite. Man is unwilling to come to God, so that God may grant them life. See? Hmm. That's the way this text is too. It doesn't say that God granted the Nineveh's repentance and then they repented. Now, we go to the other passages of Scripture and we read that's exactly what has to happen When we go to passages that tell us specifically how God really does bring salvation to someone, we're informed through his revelation and we're given more understanding. God does reveal how he operates on the hearts of human beings when they're darkened in sin and loving their sin and blind and dead and have no desire for God. How do they get to that point? Well, that's why we have those other passages To help us to understand how someone in that condition ends up saying, I have decided the follow Jesus. So we know that has to be true that God is sovereign. God is the initiator in salvation. We can see the hint of that in this passage, though it's not taught explicitly, in the fact that God decided on his own to send Jonah where To Nineveh and preach against it. He didn't have to decide to do that. That shows that all of this was set up and initiated by God. He was intending to do something which Jonah with his antenna about God kind of knew. Oh, I bet he's going to show mercy on them. That's the kind of God he is. Why else would he be sending me over there? He could just wipe him out without sending a prophet. But the rest of God's actions towards Nineveh in the story are all portrayed as being in response to man's action of repentance. Now why am I stressing this point? Well, I would say first of all, because that's what verse ten says, and it is my job as a preacher to preach all of the Word of God. Amen? That's why you're here, right? But secondly, because it is important for folks like us who love and somewhat understand the doctrine of predestination, because you can't completely understand it. But we love it, we see it taught in the scriptures, we know it's true, God is sovereign, he should never be ripped off of his throne or attempted to be ripped off his throne of salvation. It's his to grant whomever he wants And just again to belabor that point, Romans chapter 8, verses 29 and 30, for those whom God foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son. And then it goes on to say, these whom he predestined, he also called, that is called the salvation. And these whom he called, and that's that internal, irresistible call, it says he also justified, that is, he saved them and declared them innocent. And these whom he justified, he also glorified. It goes all the way to glory. From glory past, eternity past, to glory future, and nobody is lost in the process. How can that be other than God is sovereign in salvation and he elects people All of that is there. Those things are locked from eternity past to eternity future. To know that God's elective decrees and his sovereign will Are true. But listen, we're teaching it because God's elective, unchangeable decrees always work not around, but through the decisions of people. People who think about the doctrine of predestination must understand that. When God makes an eternal decision and he predestines someone, it doesn't work against someone's will, around someone's will, in spite of someone's will. It works and operates on the will and the heart of the person until they want Christ. And believe This may be beyond our ability to grasp, but both of these, not just one, are definitively taught within the pages of Scripture You know, sometimes people even react negatively to songs like we sung this morning. I have decided to follow Jesus. They would say, and I've heard them say this, you ought not to sing a song such as that. That just is not true. You cannot decide to follow Jesus until God elects you and has drawn you to Himself, and then that is why you follow Jesus, and so that's what you should be singing. Have you heard that? Well, I say, forget that. And I believe in free destination. Paul, when he was describing his obedience to his heavenly calling, said to King Agrippa, I did not prove disobedient to my heavenly calling. I followed Jesus. And yet he knew it's not I who live, but Christ who lives in me. There was always that tension that was there These expressions about our choices to follow Christ are also true, and they are clearly illustrated within the Bible. We did choose Christ. We did believe in Christ. God did not believe for us. What God did is he changed our hearts and he put faith in our minds and hearts. And that is why we believed. As 2 Timothy 2. 25 says to Timothy, perhaps God may grant them repentance. God has to grant repentance, leading to the knowledge of the truth. Just as sure as the fact that salvation is a sovereign decision of God, as with God's decision to save Jonah through the fish. So also salvation inexplicably is portrayed within the Bible as initiated by man's repentance, with God responding to man's choices Providing his mercy. Isn't that amazing? God works all things after the counsel of his will. Ephesians 1 11 Yet Jonah 3. 10 says, when God saw their deeds, God relented. Well, then there's the second difficulty here. And that is understanding that statement in verse 10 that God relented. For those of us who believe that God never changes his mind, we have a little teensy problem here because uh-oh, that is exactly what verse 10 says. God relented. Know what that means? God changed his mind. He said he was going to destroy the Ninevites in 40 days. That was the whole message that he had Jonah preach to them. Yet, 40 days in Nineveh will be overthrown. And those were not Jonah's words, those were God's And yet he uh did not destroy. Now you can say all you want that God does not change his mind. That God is sovereign, that he can't change his mind But obviously in some sense God did change his mind. Otherwise we don't have an inspired Bible because that's what it says. Many like to call this an anthropomorphism, where God is spoken of as if He were a man. That explains it a little bit, but that doesn't completely solve the problem either. Because you see, God could have chosen to reveal himself in some other way, but this is the way in which God chose for himself to be thought about If God never changes his mind, why did he choose to reveal himself in the story as one who does change his mind? He couldn't he have rewritten the story in such a way that it would have sounded like, no, he didn't change his mind. He got always what he wanted to get Didn't he know how to write the story in a way to kind of bring that out? Well, we can figure it out. Obviously, God can. Now I don't want to correct the Bible with my theology. So often we do that. We say we're Bible-believing Christians. We've heard some sermons, we've taken some classes, and we formulate our theology, and now from here on out our theology becomes more inspired than the Bible. And so, whenever we run into something that doesn't fit our theology, we want to make the Bible fit what we already believe. Friends, that's what the false religions do. We can't do that. My theology can be improved, my theology can be refined, and yes, my theology can be corrected because it's not inspired. And neither is yours. I don't want to use this pulpit to apologize for what the Bible says. Oh, I know, I know it says that. Let's see. It really it really doesn't mean that. I I don't want to be one of those kind of preachers. Any of you are growing in your love for theology, and that's good. Let me give you a warning. The only person who has a right to do systematic theology is someone who spent a lot of time, verse by verse, carefully studying in context the Bible. Because there are a lot of people who want to shout and yell and dogmatically proclaim things, but they really know very little about the text of Scripture. In fact, they probably don't even know how to study it accurately. Make sure you are a student of Scripture The issue of God changing his mind is a perfect case to evaluate our understanding of Scripture A close comparison of verses yields some troubling details. In Numbers chapter 23 and verse 9, it says, God is not a man that he should lie, nor a son of man that he should repent. Has he said and will he not do it? Or has he spoken and will he not make it good? That's pretty clear. Whatever God says he'll do, he'll do Unlike us, we've changed our mind and fickle and we lie. Malachi 3. 6 emphatically states, For I, the Lord, do not change Therefore, you, O sons of Jacob, are not consumed. How about 1 Samuel 15, verse 29? The glory of Israel will not lie or change his mind. For he is not a man that he should change his mind. Well, that's all true. But Jonah 3. 10 says God relented. God changed his mind. Furthermore Referring to the people of Israel in the wilderness, Exodus chapter 32 and verse 14. Exodus 32, 14. It says, So the Lord changed his mind about the harm which he said he would do to his people. Two seemingly irreconcilable truths, both within the pages of inspired scripture. What's the solution Well, I think that the right solution is always more Bible study. And we don't have time for the whole issue today, but we need more detail from Scripture. What else can we learn from Scripture? What else can we dig up to be able to understand why it seems that they're in contradiction to one another? And I believe that at least this one passage here gives further detail and information to help solve this problem. Jeremiah chapter 18, verses 7 and 8. More information. There, God says this about his prophecies, what he would make a prophecy against the nation to bring judgment against it. Listen, Jeremiah 18, 7 and 8 At one moment I might speak concerning a nation or concerning a kingdom to uproot, to pull down, or to destroy it. If that nation against which I have spoken turns from its evil, I will relent. Concerning the calamity I planned to bring on it. Well, that's helpful. That's more information to know that God had a policy in dealing with the nations and judgment and prophecy. See? In other words, God's prophetic pronouncements of judgment were not intended to be absolute, but were always conditioned upon what? Man's response See, God planned to change his disposition of anger against any people, if the people would change their disposition of independence, disobedience, and rebellion against him. That was God's unchanging policy of handling man's changing ways. That is how an unchanging God deals out consistent justice and mercy to an ever-changing creation. See, God sees man change, and then he changes his disposition toward them. It was that wicked Nineveh with all of its sin and idolatry and violence. That God had threatened to destroy, not the humble and now believing Nineveh sitting on sackcloth, sitting in sackcloth and on ashes. God saw them now And in order to remain unchanging in his person and in his essence and in his character and his eternal purposes, God changes in how he deals with individual people and individual groups based on how they change towards him. Oh, beloved, both of these truths are vital to the Christian faith, to your Christian faith to understand. They're both there and you have to understand them because they both give us hope. On the one hand, because God never changes in his being or his essence, we know that his promises are always true. They'll never fail us. We can rely on God through thick and thin. Furthermore, God's unchanging, immutable will establish His eternal plan, and we can put our eternal confidence in His eternal plan of salvation and know that it will all work out exactly as He said. On the other hand, because we know that God will change his mind in dealing with us and our changes, that also gives us hope It gives us hope and prayer that his chastening hand upon us or circumstances that have come against us can change that. God will withdraw that when we change our hearts. And we turn to God and cry out to God and say, Oh God, be merciful to me, the sinner. Hope for answered prayer is that God changes and how He deals with us. Even though he never changes in his character. Do you see that? Listen, it was the changing of God's mind that was the very hope of Nineveh and the king of Nineveh as that fortieth day approached That's all they had. Either God changes his mind or we're just burnt toast. We're nothing. Can you imagine the terror that filled the city as they sat there waiting? Day number 32 Day number 33, day number 34, marking off their calendars, and the wrath of God came, and all they had is who knows? Who knows? Maybe God will withdraw his anger. And when the forty days were up, God proved himself to be an unchanging, merciful God, that same unchanging, merciful God that he proclaimed himself to be hundreds of years before to Moses on Mount Sinai. For God's flow to anger and abounding in loving kindness. But if Nineveh decided to turn wicked again God in his unchanging holiness and justice would change his disposition toward them again and utterly destroy them. Mentioned it last time, but friends, that's exactly what happened in Nineveh. Unfortunately, the story of Jonah is not the last chapter on Nineveh. King Nabu Pelasser of Babylon brought Nineveh's long history to an end. First, he freed Babylon of Assyrian rule in 626 B. C. , and then he moved his armies against Nineveh by 612 B. C. And he utterly destroyed the city along with the help of the Persians. 150 years after Nineveh's repentance. This happened just as another one of God's prophets graphically prophesied, Nahum chapter 3, verses 5 through 7. Listen to this Behold, I am against you, declares the Lord of hosts, and I will lift up your skirts over your face and show to the nations your nakedness, and to the kingdoms your disgrace I will throw filth on you and make you vile and set you up as a spectacle. And it will come about that all who see you will shrink from you and say, Nineveh is devastated. Again, in Nahum chapter 3, verses 18 and 19, it adds this Your shepherds are sleeping, O king of Assyria, your nobles are lying down, your people are scattered on the mountains, and there is no one to regather them. There is no relief for your breakdown. Your wound is incurable. The Greek general Xenophon. While retreating through that very region in 401 B. C. , described the ancient city of Nineveh as an unrecogn-recognizable mass of debris, covered with pasture land for sheep. Thus, the wrath of God was once again kindled. God relented once more, and he brought Nineveh down. But not in Jonah's day In Jonah's day, mercy was shown. And that leads us back to our main dilemma, chapter 4, and that is God's mercy. The second stage. Jonah despised God's mercy. Verses 1 through 4. Jonah despised God's mercy. But it greatly displeased Jonah, and he became angry. He prayed to the Lord and said, please, Lord, was this, was not this what I said while I was still in my own country? Therefore, in order to forestall this, I fled to Tarshish. For I knew that you are a gracious and compassionate God, slow to anger and abundant and loving kindness. And one who relents concerning calamity. Therefore, now, O Lord, please take my life from me. For death is better to me than life. Stop right there. Uh Jonah had the suspicions that this preaching of judgment would result in their repentance and God's loving kindness being shown. He had probably heard of the king's decree as he went through the city and did his preaching. He certainly saw the Ninevites sitting in Sacklaw. He heard them crying out to Elohim for mercy. But rather than rejoicing at the success of his preaching, as many preachers and prophets would give all everything they own to have one experience like what Jonah was having in terms of revival. Jonah became greatly angered that God would hold back his judgment. You know, Jonah had experienced the mercy of God by now, right? He'd been rescued in the fish. He understood That mercy of God, but it just hadn't quite got down into his heart concerning the Gentiles, concerning the enemies of God. For the Jew it was one thing, but um for a gentile mm that was another that's another thing. And um you know that's uh those are wicked Gentiles. Those are those are really bad Gentiles And so it just it just hadn't sunk in yet. You know here Jonah essentially quotes Exodus chapter 34 verses six and seven. Remember God passed by Moses and showed him his backside, because he couldn't look upon his face or he'd be consumed. And God proclaimed who he was. It said, The Lord, the Lord God, and look how God described himself, compassionate. And gracious, slow to anger, abounding in loving-kindness and truth, who keeps loving-kindness for thousands, who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin Well, the prophets of God knew all about that ever since the times of Moses. God's love and God's heart were wonderful. They're so different from sinful men. They're so different from us. We resist mercy being shown upon our enemies. We'd rather see the judgment of God fall against those who have given us such a hard time. It would please us, it entertains us. We even love watching movies where the guy we hate the most is going to get it at the end. And we know it. Go Rambo. Whatever it is. The the first half of the movie is all about getting you to hate somebody. And the second half of the movie is all about the supernatural exploits of the hero to destroy the person. You're like, that was a good movie That was a good movie. Yeah. Makes you feel good. Well, such a revengeful heart brought Jonah into depression. Do you notice that? I mean Jonah got depressed. Verse 3. Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for death is better to me than life. You're happy about life, you don't say that. You know, when we're set in our ways and we're trying so hard to get God to do what we know he should be doing. And then he just doesn't cooperate. That's a problem for us because he's going to do what he's going to do. And we're going to get depressed, angry, upset. They want to change. If we persist in that, it leads to depression. I think many people are in depression because they don't love the will of God for their life. Jonah's not accepting God's plan Now, it might be a little hard in Jonah's circumstance to get into his mind. You know, you might be saying to yourself, I really can't relate to Jonah. I mean, I know about my stubbornness, but this Jonah guy, he had a problem. You know. I mean, I would have been thrilled so many people were becoming believers in the one true God and turning from their wicked way. That's why we do evangelism. We take time for prayer and organization and then evangelism ministries, and we'd like to just see one, one person repent. You got 120,000 repenting. That's a bad day in Jonah's life. What is this prejudicial little problem, we think? Yeah, we're like the armchair quarterbacks. We're not in the game, we don't understand. And we want to rush to judgment about this guy. We want to pick on him. And I hate when we do that to Old Testament characters and my faith would have been a lot stronger in that situation. Jonah's angry at God, right? That's clearly wrong. We have to just admit that right from the beginning. We have to concede his anger was sin. God's question to Jonah in verse 4 makes it abundantly clear that Jonah's wrong. The Lord said to him, Do you have good reason to be angry? You know, when God asks the question like that to us, it's supposed to be a no-brainer. No, Lord, I don't have a good reason for being angry. But Jonah still thinks he does. He's going to correct the Almighty now. Smooth him out in his character because God just doesn't know how he's supposed to operate in this world. Maybe he's too aloof and distant. Maybe God should learn about how it is down here. So we think Jonah's a messed up person. Small-minded, selfish little man. Not so quick. Not so quick. Jonah had experienced some tough things in his life, and so had his people. The Syria, the empire that Nineveh was The captain of, part of, had in the past been a real, real problem for his nation, his country folk, his family, his clan, his people. In the century right before Jonah, Syria had expanded its borders, systematically exploiting surrounding nations When these surrounding countries failed to submit to Assyria, it brought swift and cruel and violent punishment. And you could bet Israel had heard of Assyria's cruel ways, not too far away from them. In the days of King Ahab of the northern kingdom of Israel, in the days of Elijah, the Assyrians had come down and fought against a coalition of kings. And though that battle then was indecisive, it gave the Israelites again a strong distaste for the Assyrians. And then later, in the days of King Jehu of Israel, the Assyrians defeated Damascus, the city to the north. And Israel was forced to start paying tribute to Assyria. In fact, there's actually a six-foot black obelisk in the British Museum Dug up in Assyria in the 19th century that shows King Jehu of Israel groveling before Shalomanazar III, King of Assyria, paying him tribute. And that was just four kings before this king here, King Ashurad and the third of Assyria. In fact, it's very interesting the caption above the scene there on the obelisk. Can be translated and it it says this tribute of Jehu the son of Amri. I received from him silver, gold, a golden bowl, a golden beaker, golden goblets, pitchers of gold lead staves for the hand of the king and javelin. A lot of stuff he's just bringing him just a humiliating thing for a king to do Later again, not more than 40 years before Jonah's time, another Assyrian king had collected tribute, this time from Jehoash, the king of Israel. So, to say the very least, Assyria had a long history of shaming Israel, threatening her borders, and also exacting economic toll. Certainly the sentiment in Israel toward Assyria was anything but kind and gracious. Dr. Unger, a great Old Testament scholar, explained how difficult Jonah's commission must have been. Quote, Jonah's commission to preach there involved a rugged journey of more than five hundred miles to minister to a mighty and famous enemy in order to save it from ruin. All kinds of questions would have been going on in Jonah's mind. Why should God have mercy on them? Why not first have mercy on his own people and bless them? They're in covenant with God. Why let the wicked prosper at my preaching? Why should I have to go and warn them of the wrath of God? Jonah's logic sounds so much like the elder brother in the parable of the prodigal son. I've been here serving you all the time. This younger brother goes and he wastes all of his inheritance and he comes back. Let him eat the stuff with the pigs. He learned something that way. Listen, for Jonah, it gets even worse. Not only had Assyria hassled and oppressed Israel in the past, but Jonah probably knew From Hosea's prophecy in Hosea chapter 9 and verse 3. It was a prophecy made sometime around the same time as Jonah, that God was going to actually use the nation of Assyria to spurge Israel. And viciously remove Israel from their beloved promised land and take them off into Assyria, where they would be forced into subjection. And forced to violate their own law, eating unclean foods and other things. A terrible judgment against Israel was just looming in the future from Jonah's time. Hosea's prophecy was fulfilled in 722 B. C. , a very important date in biblical history, 722 B. When the northern kingdom of Israel, the ten northern tribes, were defeated and dragged off into Assyrian captivity, just some forty to fifty years after Jonah preached to Nineveh. You see, for Jonah, the dilemma was not just that God was going to grant mercy to enemies of Israel. That's bad enough But that God would spare the very city that would be used one day to bring devastation to his own beloved home country, ripping them off the land they'd lived on for 600 years, ever since the days of Joshua. And then bringing them into cruel captivity. And he, Jonah, would always be known by his countrymen. As the prophet that God used to spare Israel's enemy. Would you want that job? May I dare say, brothers and sisters, that if we were in Jonah's shoes, I think we would have run a little faster and a little further than he did. What an incredibly hard job to undertake. And now that the judgment didn't fall. Jones in the dump. He's in despair. Now his attitude may be more understandable to us now. But according to God, such an attitude can never be excused. Rather, it has to be exposed. And so the beauty of God's mercy must be defended, and this is our last step. The third stage, God defends his mercy. Verse 5. Then Jonah went off, went out from the city, and sat east of it. There he made a shelter for himself and sat under it in the shade until he could see. What would happen in the city? Ah, he's still hoping against hope for a fireworks show. He's got a front row seat, quiet auditorium. Popcorn in hand, close enough to feel the heat when the fire falls. But the people inside are sitting in fear, crying, not eating, hoping against hope that God would be merciful. What a contract. The shelter here that he built for himself as a temporary structure of some kind, probably not unlike the ones the Israelites built during their feast of booths out of sticks in the wilderness. They probably didn't protect them all that well from the elements because verse six says, So the Lord appointed The Lord God appointed the plant, and it grew up over Jonah to be a shade over his head to deliver him from his discomfort. And Jonah was extremely happy about the plant Well, we don't know what kind of plant it is. Many believe it was the castor oil plant. It kept the intense heat of the desert off the shelter and off Jonah's head. You know, uh, he loved this plant. He loved the relief from the plant. Isn't it interesting that we believers can often find more joy and comfort in our comforts than in the salvation of other people? And the kinds of discomforts that we need to be engaged in in order to help them get saved. He's more excited about that. The plant didn't last all that long. Verse 7 and 8, God appointed a worm when dawn came the next day, and it attacked the plant and it withered. And it came about when the sun came up that God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun beat down on Jonah's head so that he became faint, and begged with all his soul to die, saying, Death is better to me than life. He was happy for a brief moment, but alas that kind of happiness doesn't last. It's based upon circumstances. And as soon as the circumstances change, he went right back to his depression. Now he's begging to die. God provided shade to the plant. They turned right around and had the worm attack it. He sent that east wind, a dry hot wind, off the desert. It tortured Jonah with heat and dryness. He's just begging to die. He's had it. He's spent. He's no more. First, the sea and the storm. Then that long trip to Nineveh, and now Nineveh is spared. And his pet plant is gone. Things can't get worse. There's nothing to live for. He's spiritually down. He's physically beat. Verse 8, he became faint. He desperately wanted to die. Does this mean that Jonah had no faith? Well he didn't take his life. He wanted God to take his life, and so he knew that God has the right to grant life and take it. So he I think he proved himself a believer here. Elijah got depressed and asked for God to take his life too. But God doesn't oblige those kinds of requests. He wants us to learn the lesson. And that's what's going to take us out of our depression and our discouragement if we learn the lesson, whatever it is. God didn't leave Jonah in his self-inflicted misery here. He came to him to drive home the message about truth, about him, and how that message could lift him up and give him joy and happiness and strength. In verse 9, God said to Jonah, Do you have good reason to be angry about the plant? That's just a great question. You know, we always feel we're justified in our anger when we're angry. And then after we're angry, we look back on it and we go, well, I probably shouldn't have gotten angry. Yeah, you're right, I'm so sorry about that. I do that all the time with a kid. I feel like I can be angry at him and I'm justified, and then I think about it later, I'm like, you know, I shouldn't have gotten angry And we're like that. But Jonah vigorously maintains his justification here. I have good reason to be angry even to death. Man, he is a hard head. He's not getting a lesson. And so now the Lord brings home the lesson. And please let your hearts pay close attention to this. Verses 10 and 11. Then the Lord said, You had compassion on the plant, for which you did not work, and which you did not cause to grow, which came up overnight and perished overnight. And should I not have compassion on Nineveh, the great city, in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons who do not know the difference between their right and left hand, as well as many animals? And that's where it ends. That's where the curtain just drops after that question, which is really a statement. The lesson of Jonah is brought to its completion with this question. God has now successfully defended his right to have mercy on whomever he wants to have mercy. And ironically, God used Jonah's own attitude toward the plant to drive home the message. Would you have pity on a plant, Jonah? One you didn't even plan for cause to grow? And you expect me, the creator of mankind, not to have mercy on a hundred and twenty thousand human beings who don't know the difference between their right hand or left hand, morally speaking? Not to mention all the animals who at least rank a little bit higher than your plant, Jonah. While Jonah was out collecting contributions for the Save the Castor Oil Plant Foundation, God was demonstrating mercy upon thousands of humans who came close to perish. See, when there is a lack of joy in our hearts, when God does an amazing work of mercy in the life of someone whom we have problems with, it reveals that there's something wrong with our hearts, people. And God doesn't bless a heart like that with his joy that is indescribable as Peter talks about it. He doesn't bless a heart and mind like that with a peace that passes all understanding. We have to have love and mercy for other people. We have to. And if we don't love them with the love that God has, We deserve our depression until we learn the truth that God is a God of loving kindness and goodness. compassion and mercy, and he wants his people to be that way also, and that applies to everybody. To everybody. Who's your enemy? It's not a Syria now. Well, of course Iraq's kind of at it again, aren't they? Maybe it's Iran. Al Qaeda? Maybe it's your boss at work, a little closer to home. Obnoxious neighbor. Someone who won't leave you alone. Someone in your family who scorns your fate. Who is it? Maybe it's a classmate at school. Maybe there's a foolish judge who made a decision about something concerning you Maybe it's some politician's face you keep seeing on television. Maybe it's the homosexual community here in America who keep trying to drive their way into our society. Do you pray for them? Do you love them? Do you hope for their salvation and their change in heart See, from a distance, someone else's enemies, it's so easy for us to say, you know, you ought to love that person. But it's when they're bothering us. That's when we know whether or not we have the mercy and love of God in our hearts. Because until we're tormented, until someone ruins our standard of living until someone upsets our peace, until someone makes fun of our people, we don't know what it is like to offer the mercy of God this way. And God wants us to learn that. What's the message of Jonah? It's this. Broaden your hearts. Broaden your hearts. There was no reason for God to save Nineveh other than he is a God of mercy. That's it. And there's no reason for us to show mercy other than this fact. Have you been saved by the mercy of God? Have you been saved by the mercy of God? Have you been saved by the mercy of God? Does that mean something to you? Has that touched your heart? Is your heart cold or is your heart warm because you've experienced the mercy of God? You are saved from everlasting destruction, everlasting contempt. Let's have mercy as God has mercy. For this kind of mercy we pray and ask for we know the source of all that kind of love is you. From us, O Lord, in our pride and our selfishness, it doesn't come. O Lord, we know and feel and sense your presence more mightily when we have this kind of love for others than in any other time. It is the fulfillment of your command that is the greatest command that you have for how we are to relate to one another on earth. It is what Even your son, the Lord Jesus, so incredibly demonstrated that when he was pierced, when he was tested in that way, we saw what genuine love was. There was no facade, there was no charade going on concerning love. When he was beaten and whipped, when he was laughed at and scorned, The trueness of his character came out. Rather than hatred and pronouncements of judgment, he just said, Father, forgive him. And God may we be that way. Amen.