Okay, so does everyone have uh an outline? If not, well please pass one around. So we're on the the heading of the section we're going through right now is complementarianism versus egalitarianism. And just f as an overview for those of you who haven't been with us for the last few weeks, um this is one of the subtopics in God's design for manhood and womanhood. Complementarianism and egalitarianism, those are two views within the church And we spent a a few minutes the first time when we introduced this subject going over what's a primary issue versus a secondary and a tertiary issue. Does anybody remember what the distinction between a primary and a secondary issue is? So the primary issues are basically was like the kind of the make or break. your faith. Yeah, exactly. And then the secondary issues are um it's kind of things like the Bible says what is right or wrong. But even if you believe in the own opinion of Yeah, exactly. Yeah, yeah, like faithful Christians can still disagree over secondary issues. That's the dividing line. Like if you If you reject a primary doctrine like the deity of Christ, you're not a Christian anymore. Um and so that's yeah, that's what makes it a primary issue. It's a make or break for the faith, like you said uh it's a it's a salvation issue or it gets to the heart of who God is. Uh for a secondary issue, secondary issues can still be very important. Um and but there are things that faithful Christians can disagree on. uh, but that often Christians divide over. You know, like different um if you believe differently from your church on a secondary issue, it becomes pretty hard to be a part of that church and you might want to look for another church that that teaches um in more in line with uh with what you think scripture teaches. What about a a tertiary issue? Can you give some examples? Uh yeah, so like an example of a secondary issue would be baptism. Uh right. So Presbyterians and Reformed Christians typically believe in infant baptism. Um and we don't have time to get into why, but like they they sincerely believe from the scriptures that we should be baptizing infants into the covenant community of Christians. Uh but our church and and other churches like us believe in believers' baptism. That baptism is something that um an adult should do or you know, at least somebody who's old enough to actually recognize their sin and repent of their sin. Uh, because we believe baptism is a a sign of repentance unto saving faith. So that's a that's a difference that's uh a secondary doctrine. Um and so you know it it's hard but not impossible to go to a church that teaches a different thing on something like baptism. We actually went to a church in Boston that allowed both forms of baptism, um which was interesting in interesting to see. I mean what's another example of a secondary doctrine? Yeah, complementarianism versus egalitarianism. Um why is that a secondary doctrine and not a primary one? Do you have believers who slip down the middle here and vote are convinced by physical reasoning of either? Yeah. And there's still much based on Yeah, yeah, like we would still recognize egalitarians as brothers and sisters in Christ. You know, if they're Uh they can be saved, they can be um faithful, Bible believing Christians who are convinced of the egalitarian view. Um it's just that We in our church, uh and me personally, I'm convinced that scripture teaches a complementarian view of man and woman. Um so what's like a tertiary issue? So things like there is no explicit um command or particular passage that constructs Whatever's for example like adding drinking. Right, there's no commandment in scripture like thou shalt not drink. But there are people in the church who split also to split all about this issue. Right. Yeah. What is this offer way to do it? Yeah, yeah, exactly. Things like that, um, things that involve matters of conscience, uh where where the believer is sort of free uh to to make up his own mind. Um issues of preference, like what style of music do we use in worship, right? That's a tertiary issue. Um These tertiary issues, what what makes it a tertiary issue is that for those issues you shouldn't be dividing over those, right? Like you shouldn't be seeking a different church just because someone in your church believes that you should never drink alcohol, right or or whatever. You know, COVID mask mandates. If if you disagree with with other people in your church over COVID protocols, you shouldn't be seeking another church. That's a tertiary issue Um so yeah, it's good to keep all that in perspective. Um, you know, 'cause 'cause the temptation be can be to get so into these debates that we're like, oh it's this way or you're you know, or you're not a believer. But um But no, I think this is firmly this complementarianism and egalitarianism debate is firmly a secondary issue. Um So we should talk about what complementarianism and egalitarianism mean, um, just to remind ourselves. So Complimentarianism is the view that that I've been sort of presenting for the last few months, which is that God's design for men and women is equality and difference. Right. Um equality of essence between men and women, equality of dignity and worth. We both bear the image of God. Uh but difference in terms of our calling and the the ways in which we live out. our God given uh roles and and natures. You know, He made us differently, not just um you know not just in some trivial sense but through our entire bodies, through our our constitution, and in in the task that he's called men and women to do, he's made us different. Uh the egalitarian position, by contrast, is that We're we're basically the same. Uh not only are we equal, but we but men and women should share authority in all spheres of life. Right? So the the egalitarian position The debate boils down to basically two things, marriage and the church. So in marriage, uh the uh compliment complementarian position would be that um that husbands and wives are called to different expressions of uh of love and of of spirit-filled submission in marriage. Uh that the wife uh is to submit to her husband as to as the church submits to Christ, and the husband is to love his wife as Christ loves the church. Um And that there is a dynamic of authority and submission in marriage. It's not uh authority and submission like the world thinks of authority and submission It's authority and submission like like Christ portrays his authority and like the church submits to Christ. But it's still a dynamic of authority and submission Um the egalitarian position is that um no there should be shared authority in marriage and and neither one should have um the the actual the ultimate authority in marriage Uh so we we spent the last few weeks going over that and and we're not gonna revisit that. Today we're gonna talk about that second area of disagreement, which is in the church Who should hold authority in the church? Or more specifically, does the Bible limit certain governing and teaching roles to men only? So this is page five of your outline. So if you turn to page five, um you'll see that question there at um Bullet number five. Does the does the Bible limit certain governing and teaching roles in the church to men only? The egalitarian position would say no. Authority should be shared equally between men and women. Um leadership roles like elders and pastors should be open to both men and women because both men and women have gifts have spiritual gifts that um that build up the church and we need to uh allow them to to use their gifts in whatever role God calls them to. The complementary position is that um No, there are certain roles. Most most roles in the church, most ministries, most activities are open to both men and women, but there are a very few that are restricted to men, and there are also a few that are restricted to women So which one is correct? Well, um before we jump into uh the the specific scriptures that address this question, um I wanted to take a look at what what uh all of scripture says about this question. And um this is something that's good to do. You know, we're it's it's good to do uh exegesis of particular passages to really dig into the text and see what each text says. But it's also good to zoom out and get the whole picture from from the whole Bible. And I sent out a link in the Slack channel uh a few days ago uh to an article that's really good, that's just excellent at giving this whole Bible picture of uh complementarianism. And I would definitely encourage you to go in the Slack channel, click that link, read that article, because I think it does a great job of explaining this this case. And one of the points that he makes there is is something I wanna I want to go over. It's that Um, if you look at the whole Bible and you look at how the people of God are described, you know, God's family, God's household, um At every point in God's dealings with with his people, he has appointed men to be the guardians and the protectors and the leaders of his people and of his sanctuary. And so that is the principle that's at work throughout the whole Bible that that um sort of underlies all the this this complementarian view that the role of leadership and protection and guardianship in the church is a male role. And let me just explain what I mean. So But with some examples from scripture. So going back to the very beginning, uh in at the beginning of creation, the people of God were were just two. It was Adam and Eve, right? And God's sanctuary was the Garden of Eden. Who did God give responsibility for guarding uh his sanctuary and leading his people? I'm sorry. Adam, yeah. So it starts off with Adam, right? And if you remember in Genesis, which we went over a lot uh in in previous weeks It was before Eve was even created that God gave Adam the command to, he put Adam in the garden to what? Um well to name animals, but to cultivate yeah, to cultivate and keep it. So cultivate means grow things, and keep literally means guard. Right. I mean there wasn't sin yet back then, but there was Satan. There was an enemy that the garden needed to be needed to be guarded against. So Adam was given that job before even uh Eve was uh was there. to guard the sanctuary of God. Um and remember Adam was the one responsible for teaching his wife God's commands. Because God gave Adam the command about the tree before Eve was even there. So um Adam had to turn around and teach his wife. Uh so teaching and guarding, Adam had that responsibility Uh what about the people of God during the the days of the flood? Yeah, Noah was the one that God gave responsibility for guarding and leading and protecting the people of God. The people of God, you know, bottlenecked and reduced down to eight at that point, right? It was Noah, his wife, uh their three sons and the and the sons' wives. Um but God gave Noah the responsibility of building the the ark to guard and protect the people of God Uh so that's Noah. If we're going through Genesis, you think about the next um big leaders of the people of God would be uh the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Uh remember what how God called Abraham out of um the land of Haran? And he appeared to Abraham and spoke to him and said, Hey, come out of there and go to this land that you don't know, that you've never been to before, and be a stranger there. Right. Um What's interesting is that God appeared to Abraham alone. We have no record of him appearing and speaking to Sarah. Um Sarah uh in in First Peter, Peter talks about Sarah having exercising faith and following Abraham and uh submitting to him and calling him Lord, and that was to her credit, that was her honor, uh, to do that. Um but the point is that God spoke to Abraham and gave him the responsibility to lead and protect and teach his people. Right, when God gave Abraham the covenant of circumcision, he had to teach everybody what that meant. You know, this is a sign of the covenant that God is going to bless us and give us descendants and give us land and make us a blessing to the whole world. Um so then going forward If you uh you know fast forward five hundred years, you get to Moses and the people of Israel. Now Israel is a great nation. They have like a million people now. And Um God shows Moses how to build the tabernacle, right, and how to set up all the worship practices in the tabernacle. And he sets up a group of people to to guard and protect and teach around that tabernacle and who are those who are those people The priests, but even more broadly than that, there's one tribe. The Levites. Yeah, and particularly the Levite men. Right. The men were the ones who were charged who were given this office of they were they protected the tabernacle. They they guarded the the articles of the tabernacle so that they wouldn't be defiled. Um But they also taught Israel. They they had the function of teaching Israel about God's holiness. That was the whole point of the tabernacle, was to communicate to the people of Israel, look, God is holy, he's perfect. you know, being right with him requires all this blood sacrifice to to wash away your sins. So guarding and teaching, that responsibility was given to a group of men called called the Levites Um you know, fast forward another few hundred years, Israel becomes a nation living in the promised land and God raises up people to lead Israel, um, judges and kings, right? These these were almost all men. There was one female judge named Deborah, who uh we're gonna talk about later, and who in the way that she judged, uh, Israel was actually illustrative of this principle. You know, y people talk about the exception that proves the rule I think Deborah is a great example of a faithful judge who led Israel in a feminine way and called on the appropriate male leadership to come in and lead in a masculine way. But for the most part, you know, all every other judge in Israel was a man, and every every king in every monarch in Israel uh was a man. And so like th they had The judges and the kings had the responsibility of protecting and guarding the people of God. Um okay, fast forward to the time of Jesus. What do we see in Jesus' ministry? Yeah, so Jesus so first of all don't miss this. Jesus um very c closely involved both women and men in his ministry. Right. Women were were an integral part of Jesus' ministry. Most of almost all the financial support apparently for Jesus' ministry came from women. Um he he invited women to uh to travel with him in his ministry, which was sort of an unheard of practice for a rabbi in in uh that uh in that day in Judaism. Uh but when it came time to appointing people to this office of apostle uh to you know, this was Jesus selecting the the people who are going to lead and teach and guard the church. after he's gone, after he's died and and risen from the dead and ascended to be with the Father. He chose all men to do that. Right? So the apostles Uh in the church age, it's the apostles who are uh the the ones leading and guarding and teaching the people of God. And then finally at the very end in Revelation you read about the people of God is now pictured as the city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven to earth. And um, you know, the the metaphors are are sort of beautifully mixed in Revelation. That city is also called a bride, right? A bride. So there's a feminine city who is now protected and led and taught by who? By Christ, yes. Jerusalem is the bride of Christ. So now you've got the the ultimate man now directly leading and teaching and caring for and protecting his his wife, the entire people of God. So Christ is kind of the culmination of this whole biblical pattern of God setting up men to lead, protect, and teach his people. Now you look at it at something like this and you say, um, where are the women? You know, does this mean that that men have all the important work and that women are just on the sidelines No. Well you can go through the Bible and and list um list women who at every point just like at every point in um redemptive history God gave men the responsibility to lead, teach, and protect, at every point in redemptive history, God gave women the responsibility to nourish and nurture and grow the body of Christ. I mean the uh the people of God. Um so you have Eve who is the mother of all the living, right? That remember after after the fall, um Adam named his wife uh Eve because she would become the mother of all the living. And she's the one who received the promise, uh the the proto-gospel, that her seed, her descendant, would one day crush the head of the serpent Alright, so so Eve's got a very important role to play. Um we already talked about Sarah, how Sarah um Sarah had a very important role as called out by Peter in 1 Peter 3 that she um she didn't hear directly from God, but she had to exercise faith by submitting to Abraham and and uh calling him Lord and obeying him to come into this new land that she knew nothing about. Um and um so you've And then in in episodes like with uh with Moses you see his mother um his mother is very integral in saving Moses out of the Egyptian uh infanticide program, right? Like the Egyptians were trying to kill all the Hebrew babies Um, so not not just Moses' mother, but the the Hebrew midwives were there saving the the children of Israel. They were there nurturing and protecting in in a different way, um, in a in a very feminine way. Saving the the children of Israel. So And then do you remember um Moses' sister? What was her name? Miriam. So after the people of God uh came out and and God brought them through the Red Sea, part of the Red Sea and and um killed all the Egyptian army uh by drowning them. What did Miriam do? This is a lesser known passage of scripture, but She actually gathered all the women of Israel, all the daughters of Israel, and led them in a song of praise. Um yeah, it's good to go and read about that sometime in Exodus. Uh but so you see Miriam, Moses' sister, uh playing an important role leading Uh leading the the daughters of Israel, uh specifically the women, in praising the Lord. In the time of the of the judges and in the conquest of of Canaan you had um Rahab. Uh remember her story She was a uh prostitute in the land of Canaan and she believed God. She believed that God would come and and be victorious over the Canaanites, and so she helped the spies, the Israelite spies Um and she's mentioned in actually the genealogy of Jesus. She was given the honor of being uh one of the ancestors of the Messiah. Um and same thing with uh Lady named Ruth. Yeah, so the yeah, the Moabite who uh she was not part of the people of God, but she saw God's worth through the teaching of her mother-in-law Naomi. And um she committed this incredible act of faith of leaving behind her people so that she could be counted with the people of God. And you know, that's a a great book to read also, is the the book of Ruth, because um you see Ruth exercising faith. in in ways that are distinctively feminine, uh not masculine. Right? And so and she is also given the honor of being in the line of the Messiah. She's one of the ancestors of both King David and and the Messiah. Um you know like like we mentioned we see uh yeah so I'm I'm not gonna hit be able to hit everything here, but uh I just I just want to show that that there's there's this This parody, you know, women are not sidelined here in scripture. There's uh very important work um being done and ways that God is using women in distinctively feminine ways to uh build up the church and to display his glory. Uh sorry, I should have said build up the people of God and display his glory. So we talked about women in Jesus' ministry Um and we talked about uh the the New Jerusalem as the bride of Christ. So, you know, we could go on and we'll hit some more examples actually in in this lesson, Lord willing. if I can make it through in time. Uh of of women um acting in this way to to uh build up the people of God in in very feminine ways. Um so the point is not that men have all the action and women sit on the sidelines, it's that The people of God is a family, and families have a father and a mother, and the people of God have fathers and mothers. The fathers are men, and they have masculine jobs like leading and teaching and protecting. The mothers are women and they have feminine jobs like nurturing and growing and and teaching in a different way. So That is that's kind of the whole Bible picture of this complementarian view uh between men and women, that the people of God is a family that has fathers and mothers. So I think that's a good thing to have in mind. You know, just have that jet tour of all of the Bible in mind as we read these passages that can be pretty difficult on men and women in the church. Cause right now we're going to turn to uh to 1 Timothy 2 and 3. And there's some pretty um difficult verses in there uh you know, things that you read that we read as as uh twentieth twenty first century readers and we say like, Oh, Paul, what were you thinking there? Um and that are almost embarrassing to us. And we're gonna we're gonna go over those uh those verses in detail and try to explain uh what Paul means there. Uh but having this whole context in mind uh is just very helpful. So before we jump into that, any questions on this whole this whole story that we've written up here? The whole Bible view of men and women Okay, yeah, let's launch into it. So uh 1 Timothy 2, 8 through 313, that's the text that we're going to study. This text has a lot to say on this question of does b does the Bible limit certain governing and teaching roles in the church to men only? Uh but first, you know, we we always want to um Know the context. So this book, this letter, 1 Timothy, let's remind ourselves of what this is. First of all, who wrote it? Paul. Paul wrote it. Exactly. Who did he write it to? Timothy's, yeah, that's why it's called Timothy. Um And so Timothy was kind of Paul's apprentice, right, or one of his apprentices. Timothy was um a younger man younger man than Paul who uh had come to faith and was uh just a pi a very faithful and powerful worker for the Lord uh and who traveled with Paul as he spread the gospel around the Greek speaking world So Paul wrote this letter to Timothy because Timothy was was building up a church, right? So Paul was writing instructions to Timothy on how to set up the church and run it correctly. So that's the context. That's the purpose of everything Paul writes in this letter. And that's helpful to keep in mind. Okay, so we're going to read it, this whole section, and I've bolded those verses that that speak specifically to the question that we're looking at. Okay, so Uh 1 Timothy 2, 8, starting there. Therefore, I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands, without anger and dispute. Likewise I want women to adorn themselves with proper clothing, modestly and discreetly, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or expensive apparel, but rather by means of good works, as is proper for women making a claim to godliness. A woman must must quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness. But I do not allow a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. For it was Adam who was first created, and then Eve. And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman was deceived, and became a wrongdoer. But women will be preserved through childbirth, if they continue in faith, love, and sanctity with moderation. It is a trustworthy statement. If any man aspires to the office of overseer, it is a fine work he desires to do. An overseer then must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate Self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, skillful in teaching, not over-indulging in wine, not a bully, but gentle, not contentious, free from the love of money He must be one who manages his own household well, keeping his children under control with all dignity. But if a man does not know how to manage his own household, how will he take care of the Church of God? And he must have a good reputation with those outside the church, so that he will not fall into disgrace and the snare of the devil. Deacons, likewise, must be men of dignity, not insincere, not prone to drink much wine, not greedy for money, but holding to the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. These men must also first be tested, then have them serve as deacons if they are beyond reproach. Women must likewise be dignified, not malicious gossips, but temperate, faithful in all things Deacons must be husbands of one wife, and good managers of their children and their own households. For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a high standing and great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. Okay, so that's a long passage. And it's a passage that most people usually break up into two, right, at the at the chapter division. But these really go together, uh, as as I hope you'll see after we go through them. Um now I just point out that uh this is not the only passage that talks about uh men and women in the church. There are a couple of different parallel passages. One of them is Titus 1 and 2, a very similar letter written for a similar purpose. So we're going to bring that in as commentary at at a few points on this passage. But Uh before we start getting into um answering the specific question, I just want to go through and give an outline of this passage because it's a long one. So let's wrap our heads around what Paul is actually saying, you know, his his flow of thought. So I would say the outline here is you've got uh the first half, Paul's giving general commands for men and women, right? For all men and all women. And then he moves on to giving specific instructions about overseers and deacons, these these particular offices in the church. So you've got general and specific. And under the the heading of General Commands, to all men and women, he gives a command for men. Men must pray. Um and in the context He wants them to pray for civic peace, you know, peace from the governing authorities of of Rome, uh and for the progress of the gospel. That's what Paul wants men to pray for. Uh he gives them the command to pray instead of disputing. Uh and this was a big problem in many of the early churches. All these men in the early churches, especially uh men from from a sect called the Judaizers were coming and were sowing all this false teaching in the church. Uh and these guys were particularly teaching that you had to be circumcised and you had to observe the law of Moses in order to be a Christian. And that was uh that was a very destructive heresy in the church that Paul spent a lot of his letters dealing with And so and it was largely promulgated by these men who who just wanted to dispute all day. So that's why Paul is giving this command to men. He says, Men pray, don't dispute. And then and we know a lot more about that from Titus chapter one. But then he gives he gives a command to women. And the his his command to women is I would paraphrase it like this. It spans um It spans seven verses. But his basic um his basic point is women must practice modesty and godliness. You see that in verses nine and ten Not taking over masculine authority in the church, that's verses eleven through fourteen, but responding instead to God's feminine calling in the family, which is verse fifteen. So that's how I'd paraphrase Paul's flow of thought in his in this section that is the command to women. uh you know essentially practice modesty and godliness um don't be deceived by the allure of positions of authority that's not what God's called you to God's called you to the role of mothers in the church, not fathers. And then in the section on the next section, which is specific commands and qualifications for overseers and for deacons Um his basic point there is that overseers and deacons are the fathers of the church, and that they exercise authority with Christ-like character. That's what they should do. I think what's really important to note is that there's these two very similar offices. You've got the overseer and the deacon. Um I don't know if you noticed as we were reading the the qualifications there, they were pretty much the same qualifications, but there was one big difference. Anybody catch it? One big difference between an overseer and a deacon is one thing that an overseer has to be able to do that a deacon doesn't necessarily have to be able to do. To teach, yes, to teach. And that's going to become very important in our analysis of this text. The overseer has to be skillful in teaching. That goes back to this thing, right? Um, you know, God in every age has given men the responsibility of leading, protecting, and teaching his people. And that's because the attack against the people of God comes through what? deceit deception of Satan, right? These these disputes that these men are bringing into the church where where they say, you know, you have to be circumcised to uh and and follow the law of Moses in order to be a Christian. So that's Satan's ploy. You know, Satan's ploy is not uh not primarily like physical violence against the church. It's deceptive false teaching. And so in order to be proper guardians of the church and protectors of the church, men need to be able to teach. Um and that's why it says in Titus 19, remember that's the parallel passage here, uh it says he's talking to Titus and he says, so that the overseer will be able both to exhort in sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict it. For there are many rebellious people, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision, who must be silenced because they are upsetting whole families, teaching things that they should not teach for the sake of dishonest gain. So you see like the overseer here, he's protecting the people of God uh by exhorting in sound doctrine and by refuting those who contradict it. You got Teaching is is like the fundamental thing that an elder and overseer needs to be able to do. Uh And by the way, I just use the word elder, right? Overseer, elder, pastor, those are kind of interchangeable terms in the New Testament. So this is this is talking about um You know, they they're all talking about the same office, right? They're there are these men who are in authority over the church. Uh they they include the men who preach from the pulpit, they include the men who exposite. Um scripture uh and um these are positions that are referred to by these three labels as overseers, elders, and pastors. And then it's also worth noting in this section on specific things, on overseers and deacons. It's not just overseers and deacons, it's overseers, deacons, and women. Did you guys catch that in verse eleven here? He goes, Overseers must blah blah blah blah blah, deacons have to blah blah blah blah and then in verse eleven, women must likewise be dignified, not malicious gossips, but temperate, faithful in all things. So there's actually three groups. There's the overseers, the deacons, and the women. Who are the women? Now there's there's actually a lot of debate um among commentators here. Uh women could either mean um a separate office that's like a female deacon, right? Deaconesses, or this could mean the wives of deacons. uh because in Greek the word for for man and husband are the same and the word for wife and woman are the same. So this this verse could either be talking about the wives of deacons or women who are in an office like Deacon. Uh and and we're gonna talk a little bit more about that later. But there um there are actually This is not really an egalitarian complementarian issue. Complimentarian some complementarians believe that uh that there should be deaconesses in the church, that this passage is talking about women deacons. But they would say that that those women deacons are not to teach or exercise authority over men. Um, they their office is uh it has a different character. It's not a it's not an authoritative office over men. It may be like uh leadership over women's ministry or over over um children's education Okay, so that's the general outline of of this very long passage. You know, sp uh general commands for men and women, specific uh qualifications for overseers, deacons, and women, whatever uh whatever we think that means. Uh questions about the general general thing Alright, so we're going to get into those those verses that are difficult that we saw in chapter 2. But first I want to I want to answer the question that we have before us, right? Remember the question from page five is does the Bible limit certain governing and teaching roles in the church to men only? And I think this section is pretty clear. There's there's five at least five uh pretty strong evidences that these positions of authority and teaching should be f uh limited to men. Uh in addition to what we've got here, you know, the that that's the pattern of scripture throughout all of redemptive history. Uh number one, fitting in with that, the church is God's household. In the very next verse that I didn't include here. The the the first Timothy Paul actually calls the church God's household. That's literally what what it is. And these passages here are presenting overseers and deacons as the fathers in the church. And then women would be the mothers in the church, right? So These passages are presenting overseers and deacons as the fathers who lead and protect and teach that household, and this is the masculine role intended for men. And there are other passages, both this one and uh several more in the New Testament, that present women as the mothers in the church, uh, both literally and spiritually. Right. The women are the literal mothers in the church because they're uh raising children, uh and they're spiritual mothers because the church needs uh spiritual mothers, uh like Titus talks about older women um teaching the younger women and discipling them. And this is an equally important role in the church that's distinct from the role of fatherhood, and it's distinctly feminine. Uh okay, so that's evidence number one. And evidence number two that that these overseers, these positions of teaching authority are for men. is that um the overseers and the deacons, they're they have to be the heads of their household. Right? Did you did you catch how it says in there, like in um in chapter three, verse four Uh the overseer must be one who manages his own household well, keeping his children under control with all dignity. But if the man does not know how to manage his own household, how will he take care of the Church of God? Right, you see how this is this is a fatherly kind of thing. Right? The the Paul is presuming that the man he's speaking about is the head of his household, which is um which we've studied in other passages means that that he is a man. Right. Paul uh elsewhere says um the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church. So head of household uh means he's a man. And third, overseers and deacons, they must be the husband of one wife. When Paul says the husband of one wife, um that's not just a a requirement that can apply equally to men and women Um that is that's a a male-only kind of designation. Um and then fourth, the core of eldership uh like we've just talked about is teaching with authority, right? Being able to exhort in sound doctrine and refute those who would contradict it. That's the core of biblical eldership. And uh We just saw in First Timothy two twelve that Paul said, I don't allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man. So if the core requirement is authoritative teaching, and that's something that Paul has has said women cannot do over men, then that implies that this office has to be for men And then finally, the fact that Paul addresses three separate groups. He goes overseers, deacons, and then women uh implies that if he addresses women as a as a separate group, those first two groups are men. Um so those are uh just very quickly five observations from the text that uh sort of confirm and answer this question that yes, certain roles, uh particularly roles of teaching authority in the church are restricted to men. Okay. Any any questions on that? Objections? Yeah. Things you're like, I'm not sure about that. Uh and I think it's worth noting, like, you know, anytime we see restrictions and limitations, we're like, oh man, God is is is limiting me, he's stifling me, right? But no, that's not that's not what God's commands are designed to do. When He places boundaries on us, uh he intends for that to be for our good, right? To f be for our blessing. And and if we were to draw uh a diagram of all of the all of the things that need to happen in the church. Wow, this is running out. If we were to sort of l start listing out all the ministries that need to be that need to happen in the church, um, right, like like children's ministry uh music and worship, um, you know, start giving me some more. What? Cleaning, yeah. Slides. Slides, yeah. Like I'll just put A V stuff. Right. Care Ministry, yeah Why am I writing these all in the middle of the Venn diagram? Both women. Yeah, because both men and women can do these things, right? And we need both men and women in these ministries. Give me some more. Yeah, hospitality. Welcome, yeah. And greeting. Um so what would go what would go here and here if this is men over here and this is women? Over here for men we have a couple of sorry? Oh yeah, yeah, like men like men's specific ministries, like the men's breakfast and and discipleship and accountability. You could do say the same thing over here. about women's ministry, uh women's breakfast and Bible studies and stuff. Um we've just talked about yeah I'm gonna say authoritative teaching. Alright, and so that that would be like being the preacher. Preaching, um doing what I'm doing, expositing scripture in in front of a class. What would go over here? And I'm not just looking for formal ministry roles that you would like put on a business card or or in a church bulletin. Well, it's something that only women can do in the church. Yeah. Uh, Right. Paul in Titus, Paul doesn't command Titus to go and teach the women. He he doesn't say like, you know, gather all the women and and lead a Bible study for them. He says, encourage the older women to teach the younger women. Yeah, I would say I would say that's in the overlap, yeah, because both men and women can do that. Yeah. That's why I'm not sure if that's something with women. Mm-hmm. I d I would say that's like uh that is the distinctly feminine mode in which women are to of are to work in the church is that sort of nurturing um you know like each of these ministries needs both of the sort of masculine strength and leading and then the feminine um relational aspect and nurturing. But uh over here I would put um you know, everything having to do with bearing and raising children. That's that is a ministry of the church. It's not a formal ministry of the church. It's not like Come women, come join the childbearing ministry. You know, but it's it's very important to Yeah, that's terrible. Um it's but it's very important to the life of the church, as seen in Paul's commands in the New Testament, uh that that families the and the raising of children are um are integral to what the church is doing. So I'm gonna put I'm gonna put that all under the heading of child Bearing. And I don't just mean like labor and delivery. I mean all that comes with it, like the raising and the nurturing of the children. Y yeah, that's a great point. And like, yeah, you don't need to be the actual mother of of the child to participate in this ministry. Like um you know, if you for for those kinds of ministries taking care of of infants and ministering to mothers, young mothers in need or who have just uh given birth, like that's something that pretty much only women can do, right? You wouldn't really want a man in that situation. Um so the point here is that like You know, we didn't exhaust this list here, but like I'd say ninety-five percent of what the church does, both women men and women are supposed to be involved in it. So when we talk about roles that are limited to men or roles that are limited to women, there's only a few of those. There's only a handful. So, you know, with all the needs that the church has and with all the needs that the world has, I mean nobody should look at this and feel like they're restricted on the basis of their gender to you know, not being able to exercise their spiritual gifts in an appropriate way. Um we're just we're just focusing on this question because it's a debate. in our culture, not because um these roles are like the most important or or dominate what goes on in the church. Just wanted to make that point as a as a useful way to frame things. Okay, but let's deal with those difficulties. There were some difficult verses in there. Oh yeah. Um okay, we're not gonna get to the objections, are we? No, it doesn't, darn it. It always gets behind. Um okay, let's leave let's leave ten minutes for prayer. I want to make it through the the difficult verses section Uh okay, so difficult verses. These are all in 1 Timothy 2, right? I don't know if you as we were reading through 1 Timothy 2, verses 11 through 15, the the section on general commands to women, some of that stuff makes us cringe. And it because it's hard it's hard to figure out what Paul's saying there. So I won't just want to go through and answer some of those uh those questions that people may have. So look at verses eleven and twelve It says, a woman must quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness. But I do not allow a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. Um so is this saying that women should never teach or ever speak in church? If you if you were to read it uh in a in a certain way, it would seem to say that, that uh that women shouldn't be teaching or even speaking in church. Um is that what it's saying here No, that's not what it's saying here. Um so let's take those two things, the teaching and the speaking part, uh, as as two separate issues, right? So Focusing on the teaching. This is not saying here that women are never to teach in the church. Um first of all, when you're talking about teaching Um in in the New Testament you have to distinguish between two kinds of teaching that that the New Testament talks about. There's informal teaching Which if you look at a verse like Colossians 3. 16, that's that's what you see there. That's the verse that says, Let the word of Christ dwell richly within you, teaching and admonishing one another. So that is a non-gendered command. That's a command to men and women to be teaching and admonishing one another and letting the Word of Christ dwell richly within you. So that is what I would call informal teaching, which is just like speaking truth, speaking biblical truth to one another. Who is commanded to do that? Everyone. Literally everyone in the church. Whether you have the gift of teaching or not, you are a teacher in the informal sense in the church. And we need one another to to teach uh and communicate truth to us. I have learned um from many women in this way, uh like in our in our small group, uh, you know, when women share uh their their insights from like the book that we're studying or the or the passage of scripture that we're studying. Um, you know, I've listened to that and said, oh wow, that's a really good point. You know. So I I've learned in this informal way from women, and that's not a violation of Paul's command here. Because what he's talking about is the second kind of teaching that you see in the New Testament, which is called authoritative teaching. Uh so authoritative teaching is things um the kind of teaching that is formal, usually like um you know, somebody standing up in front of a group and giving normative commands that are binding on the conscience of the audience uh that is listening to the teaching. Right. So this would be preaching. This would be expositing scripture. In another passage we're going to talk about this would include like judging prophecy, judging the the prophetic utterances of other people. So that stuff, those activities are authoritative teaching, and that's what this passage in 1 Timothy is about. Um so Paul's not saying women should never communicate truth to anybody. He's saying women should not engage in this specific activity of authoritative teaching over men. And notice that it's just over men, right? Adult men is the the implication here. That there's nothing wrong with women teaching authoritatively over other women or over children. Um so this this command is actually fairly narrow in scope because of the distinction between authoritative teaching and informal teaching and because this is only um prohibiting women having authoritative teaching over adult men. Okay, questions about that? Um So that's the teaching part, right? So it's not saying that women shouldn't teach at all in church. Um but what about the quietness part? When Paul says women should quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness and that they should remain quiet? instead of teaching. He's not really calling for absolute silence here because we just saw that women are commanded as part of the body of Christ to teach and admonish one another. You know, so the implication is that that they must be speaking. Um so it's not Paul's not calling for complete silence. He's calling for um for quietness in that setting of authoritative teaching. You know, he's he's saying don't um You know, he's saying accept the authoritative teaching of the properly appointed men male authorities in the church without raising criticism or um sort of rebelling openly against that teaching. That's that's the sense that he's going for here. Don't uh don't rebel against the The men who have this position of teaching authority in the church rather accept their teaching without criticism So this isn't forbidding them to speak in church at all. This is just saying like in those situations where there's someone doing authoritative teaching Um you know, don't don't contradict them. Uh don't usurp or or uh undermine their authority. And we need to note something here that's that's very important, that it's easy for us as modern readers to pass over. If you look at verse 11. A woman must quietly receive instruction. So the main verb there is must receive. A woman must receive instruction. Paul wants women to be taught. Right? He wants women to learn. Why is that significant, especially in this time? Yeah, it goes against the entire culture of the day, both Jewish and Greek culture, by the way, right? Remember the Jews They had they sent their sons to Torah school and the and so their sons would all get educated, but they wouldn't allow uh they wouldn't let their daughters um go get trained in the Torah. And similarly Greeks would send their sons to school but not their daughters. So in you know throughout the r the Roman world It was not the practice to allow women to get educated or to support women in in being taught. But Paul here is saying something radical He's saying, I want the women to learn. It's important to me and to God that women in the church learn just like men. But they should do it in this way, you know. Uh so we shouldn't pass by this point. This is this is kind of a radical observation and it's um You know, it's indicative that God values uh women having a solid understanding of doctrine uh the same as he values men having a solid understanding of doctrine in the church. Okay. Well I really wanted to get to verses 14 and 15, but I don't think we're going to. I think we should break for prayer, and we'll cover those next time. Okay.