And egalitarianism. Um so we will start on page seven. Um last time we We started this this question that was introduced on page five, which is, does the Bible limit certain governing and teaching roles in the church to men only? Um and we gave kind of two lines of answer for this question. One was like a a whole Bible. line of reasoning and the other was uh looking at a particular extended passage from First Timothy that's paralleled elsewhere like in Titus. And who r who remembers the main argument from that whole Bible line of reasoning? We started in in Genesis and made observations about the kind of people that God raises up to protect and lead and teach his people. Who were who were some of those? This is this is not in the outline. I uh didn't have time to update it and put it in there. So it started with Adam, then it went to Noah and Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and then Moses and the Levites. the the judges of Israel, the kings um who ruled over them, uh Jesus and and his apostles guarded and led and protected the church. Um and then in after the Apostolic Age, these elders and overseers that we read about in First Timothy were the ones who were appointed to protect and lead and teach the church. And what what do all those people have in common? They're all men Yeah. Um they're all uh you know, if if the church, if the people of God are a family, then these people who lead and protect and teach the family of God are the fathers. Um and they are men, right? Uh does that mean that women do not have an important role in the people of God? No, that's not what that means. Remember we went over last week the important role of mothers in the family of God, both literal mothers and spiritual mothers. Um and we talked through the many women in the Bible who uh had a a complementary and very important and meaningful role to play in the people of God. Um but these these roles that uh that God has called uh us to the the role of leading and protecting and teaching the church, that is uh masculine role, that's the fathers in the church, and then the role of nurturing and raising up and um cultivating the people of God, that's the role of mothers in the church, and that is a distinctly feminine role. And so again we see in the whole Bible this picture of complementarianism. Profound equality uh equal importance with also profound difference. And the differences fit together. They don't imply any superiority or inferiority. They fit together and together they glorify God. Alright, so that's that was kind of the big picture. Uh and then we went through this passage in 1 Timothy, uh, chapters 2 and 3, and we saw um we saw how Paul said, um, I don't I do not allow a woman to teach or have authority over a man. And then he went on to give the qualifications for positions of authority in the church and how all of those qualifications assume that these overseers or elders are men. And you know you can look back at the outline and see the specific evidences that we brought out of this text for the fact that these overseers or elders or pastors are men. But I also wanted to go through some of the difficulties that we encounter in a text like this. Because uh, you know, when you read a text like 1 Timothy 2, verses 11 through 15 That that can be kind of confusing and maybe a little offensive to our ears. Um So I want to take that and I want to um clear away some misconceptions about these about this text um and possibly others if we if we get there today. So that So that we can focus on what uh the Bible is actually teaching and not on what we hear it to be saying, um perhaps wrongly. Oh sure, yeah. Thanks, Lindsay. Um Yeah, so let's read together uh first Timothy two verses twelve through fifteen And you can either turn there in your Bibles or you can look back on page five. It's on page five, too. So 1 Timothy 2, 12 through 15 Um so or actually eleven through fifteen. Uh here's here Paul is is teaching on um general commands to men and women in the church. And And this one he says, a woman must quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness. But I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. For it was Adam who was first created, and then Eve. And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a wrongdoer. But women will be preserved through childbirth if they continue in faith, love, and sanctity with moderation. Okay, so this is a difficult passage. This is a passage that can be really offensive to our modern ears, right? So let's let's get to what it's saying and figure out um you know, what what we're interpreting correctly and what we're interpreting wrongly with our with those modern ears that we bring to this. Okay, so the first difficulty comes in verses 11 and 12. Um where it says a woman must quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness. But I do not allow a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet And so there's two questions here. Um, is Paul saying that women can't teach in any context, in any way? in the church? That's the first question. And then the second question, is he saying that women have to be totally silent in the church? Uh so let's deal with that first question first. about teaching. Uh we actually did go over this last week, but I think it was at the very end, so I wanted to do it again. So To answer that question about teaching, you have to recognize that the New Testament, especially and the Bible in general, speaks of teaching in two senses. There's there's two different forms of teaching that go on in the church. The first and the the most common is what I what you might call informal teaching. Alright, so this would be like if you wanted to look up an instance of this, uh you could see Colossians 3. 16, which is uh that verse, let the word of Christ richly dwell in you, uh, teaching one another and admonishing one another. Right? So there that um is a command for all of us in the church, whether we have the gift of teaching or not, to be teaching one another and admonishing one another. Um so that command applies not just to men, but also to women. Right? So in that informal sense in which we go around speaking truth to one another and reminding each other of the truths of Scripture. Um women teach just like men do. Um you know, and I mentioned last time this This kind of teaching uh is is beneficial for everyone. I uh you know, I lead a small group and we've I've led the small group for about six years and we've discussed many things. We've gone through a book on anger and um We've g gone through Colossians and uh a book on family worship. And whenever we go through these books, we have a discussion session with uh all the adults, men and women. And You know, oftentimes the uh the women in my small group bring up great points that they have seen in action as they're uh at home parenting their children or, you know, in in their relationships with their husbands. And I hear those points and I think, oh wow, that's That's true, you know, that's a great insight. So in that sense, um the women in my small group are teaching me in a in an informal sense Right, they're communicating truth that I'm receiving and benefiting from. So um I'm convinced that the New Testament uh encourages and commands that kind of teaching and and does not prohibit that. But there's a there's a second class of teaching. There's a there's a second kind of teaching And this really fits with the the picture of of the family of God and the and the father's versus the mothers theme that we just talked about. The second kind of teaching is what you might call authoritative teaching So authoritative authoritative teaching would be activities like preaching, you know, from the pulpit, standing up in front of the whole congregation and delivering a message. Because that's that's not just like offering an insight from your life or offering a suggestion. That's somebody standing in front of the pulpit, opening the Word of God and saying, you must do this or you must believe this. You know, that's that's a that's a commanding activity, that's an authoritative act. Um so preaching um elsewhere In Scripture, the judging of prophecy would fall under this category. First Corinthians fourteen talks about that And expositing scripture things things like w what I'm doing right now, you know, standing in front of a class and and teaching this is the right way to interpret scripture and this is the wrong way. Those kind of authoritative activities are what I would put and what scripture I think would put in this second category of teaching. And that is what this passage is about. That's what this verse is about. So you can see that in verse twelve where Paul says, I do not allow a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man. So what what's in view here you know, that teaching and the exercising authority are going together and that helps us understand that the teaching that's in view here is authoritative teaching. That's what he prohibits women from doing over adult men particularly. Um so that's what's prohibited here. And notice that it's not prohibited for a woman to teach authoritatively over uh everyone, it's just adult men. Right? So uh he elsewhere, Paul in like Titus 2 encourages the older women to teach the younger women Right. Uh and the uh commands elsewhere in scripture about children obeying your parents presume that both mothers and fathers have authority over their children. So um authoritative teaching. Women can authoritatively teach uh other women and children. It's just that um in the church The mothers aren't supposed to be authoritatively teaching the fathers, it's the fathers that authoritatively teach and lead the church. Um So that that's really I think what teach means in this passage. And it's it's especially clear because of what follows in chapter three when he talks about the qualifications of overseers and deacons. You know, there he's he's talking about those who are clearly in authority and who have this charge to authoritatively teach the people of God um to uphold sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict it. So uh I'm pretty well convinced that that this passage is just talking about authoritative teaching and not that informal kind of teaching. So any questions about that before we move on to that that second issue Yeah yesterday I bought to a neighbor. Uh-huh. And um she said, Yeah, uh I'm teaching tomorrow. Um, do you want the the link to my children? And um also my mother in law church also have a woman's page Oh woman for you. Um how do you how do you uh How do you approach that for people who go to that kind of jury for take that kind of thing and they don't follow it? Um well, I think uh this goes back um to what we talked about at the very beginning of this unit on complementarianism versus egalitarianism. What kind of issue is uh complementarianism versus egalitarianism. Primary, secondary, or tertiary? I would say that would be secondary. Mm-hmm. Yeah, why would y why would it be secondary? Because it's um I wrote my note in my left, I know that hopefully. Um is not happy Right. They're not losing their salvation by doing it. Right. Yeah, it doesn't have to do with salvation, with the with the sort of core truths that make us Christians versus not Christians, right? Um so uh it's rather it's a secondary issue because it deals with a a doctrine that's still very important. You know, secondary issues are are very important still, but they're not they don't get to the core of salvation or the core of who God is. So I I would say I would approach it as a secondary issue, meaning it's not really a case where um you need to convince somebody of the truth of the gospel or to uh be saved, uh I would say you could approach it as like a theological difference uh or disagreement. Like you would with um with a Presbyterian over infant baptism um or with somebody who um you know eschatology is another big secondary issue, right? Some some people believe that um that there is no literal thousand-year reign of Christ coming in the future. That we are in a a sort of spiritual and symbolic reign of Christ right now. And they call that the millennium. Um that that's a whole another topic that uh we we can't get into today. But you know how would how would I approach discussing something like that with with another believer? Um I would I would probably not make it the primary thing in my relationship with that person. Um, but you know, if the topic comes up I wouldn't be afraid to say, well, here's what I believe the scripture teaches on that. You know, if you look at Revelation, it speaks of a thousand year reign of Christ. Um Same thing with with complementarianism and egalitarianism. You know, I if if it comes up, I would just say, you know, I think I think if you you're in a church where you're preaching as a woman, um that's really you taking over the role of a father in the church. And it's not you know, I don't believe that's biblically appropriate. Um that's a difficult conversation to have, you know. Um I I think I would that that would uh that would give me some some fear to try to have that conversation. But You know, it's not uh it's not an issue of of salvation or of the gospel, I would say. Well, and so what would you say, I guess to um take you back on that question. Well I think one of the main egalitarian arguments in this area is that um you know the Bible is clear that the that the Holy Spirit gives spiritual gifts to every believer. What if a woman is given the spiritual gift of of teaching and and preaching? You know what is she to do if she's not allowed to hold this uh this office of authority? So how would you guys respond to that? I mean like what what do you think? Um especially because you could show me. So Yeah, yeah, definitely. Um I think that uh there are there are many places where a woman with the gift of teaching can serve in the church and is needed in the church. Um You know, so many Titus II? Yeah, Titus II. Um is explicitly commanding the older woman in Titus II to teach the younger woman because uh I know my if my wife were here she would say she absolutely craves that teaching from particularly older women, that she can't get from a man. You know, like I'm not gonna be able to to teach her and equip her in the way that she needs to be taught and equipped as as a young mother. Um you know, that has to come from a woman, right? So there's I I think one of the I think the the complementary in response would be that there's there's so many ministry needs and opportunities in the church. There's so many of them. And like 98% of them are open to both men and women. There's a small sliver of positions that are open only to men, like the authoritative teaching ones. And then there's another small sliver of positions that are only open to women, like the older women teaching the younger women But almost everything in the church is is open to both men and women. Now that doesn't mean that we're the same. You know, men serve in a ministry in a masculine way and f and women serve in the same ministry in a feminine way and that complementarity makes the ministry work even better. Um so it's not saying that women and and men are interchangeable, just that Um when we focus on roles that are limited only to men, we miss the the vast majority of the work that goes on in the church. And that's what we did last week. We drew a big Venn diagram up here and listed ministries that were open to both men and women and and then we listed ministries that were men only and ministries that were women only and you know most of them were in the middle. Uh So I think that objection um you know th there should never be um even even with a with a complementarian view of scripture, there should never be uh a case where a woman is has a spiritual gift and says, I I just can't find a place to exercise this spiritual gift in church. You know, there's always a place. There's always a ministry that needs your particular spiritual gift. Alright, so the second the second question in these two verses, verses eleven and twelve, is you know, when Paul says uh A woman must quietly receive instruction or in the end of verse twelve, remain quiet? What does that mean? You know, is Paul saying complete silence in the church? Um well no, I don't think that's what he means because elsewhere in in Scripture and even in Paul's letters he tells women to prophesy in church, like in 1 Corinthians eleven. So uh he would be contradicting himself if that's what we took him to mean here. Um I don't think it means complete silence in all aspects of church life. I think I think it rather refers to the sort of attitude of women towards authoritative teaching in the church. Right? Because remember that's the subject of the of these verses is authoritative teaching. So when when a woman is sitting under like the preaching of male elders or the the teaching of of a man in church, um The the attitude should not be one of uh of like criticism or wanting to rebel against that authority or assert oneself up against that authority, but of quietly receiving instruction So again the concern here is about authority, right? Is about um not rebelling but accepting the the authorities that God has put in place over the church. Um so he's not forbidding women to speak here, he's just forbidding rebellion, uh is what I would is how I would read this. And there's a side note that we need to capture in this in this verse because uh you know we can easily pass by this as modern readers. But look at um in verse 11, the main verb there is receive instruction So the main point of that sentence is a woman must receive instruction. And you know to us that sounds like, well, okay, what What's the big deal about that? But you have to understand in Jewish and Greek culture, both of those cultures that were dominant in the early church, women were not allowed to receive instruction Right. The the Jewish people sent their sons to school to learn the Torah and memorize the Torah. And you know, if they were good enough at that, they would graduate and and go on to follow a rabbi But they didn't allow their girls to go to school. They didn't do the same thing for the girls. And then Greeks were the same way. They allowed the men to be educated and encouraged that, but they did not allow women to be educated But Paul here is saying, I want women to learn doctrine. It's important that the women in the church, just like the men, would learn to know the truth and to be built up together into the body of Christ. Right, so so there's something profound in there that uh that would be radical and shocking to people in that culture that sort of you know whoosh over our heads or b through our ears as we read it today. So we shouldn't miss that. Um so again we see this principle that Paul's saying something radical that that subverts the culture, but he's not Erasing the distinctions between men and women like we would today in in modern culture. Okay, questions questions about that One of the verses that I didn't really get to um this week, I had a lot of a lot of unexpected things come up this week. Um I was gonna put in there uh a study on 1 Corinthians 14, which is another one of these really difficult to understand passages that talks about women remaining silent in the churches. Um and I will just uh since since I didn't prepare to go through it in detail, I'll just give you my sort of glossary interpretation of that passage because I think because I think it's the same kind of thing here. That passage, which here I'll just I'll just read it for you just a sec. So this is 1 Corinthians 14. Um then we'll do verses 33 For God is not a God of confusion, but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints. Let the women keep silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak, but let them Subject themselves, just as the law also says. And if they desire to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is improper for a woman to speak in church Was it from you that the Word of God first went forth, or has it come to you only? So that's kind of the same shocking thing that we hear in uh the passage we just read in First Timothy two, right? It's like, whoa, what are you saying, Paul? The women can't speak in church? Um, but again Just three chapters before, in First Corinthians eleven, he was telling women to prophesy in church. Um so he's not here saying that women should be silent you know, as a blanket command all the time in church. Again, uh the key to interpreting this passage is the context. If you look at the context, this passage is about the judging of prophecy Right, so in the early church they would meet together and uh sometimes people with the spiritual gift of prophecy would would have a prophetic revelation. the middle of the church service. And so they would get up and utter their prophecies. And both men and women could do that, and Paul affirmed that. Um But what would have to happen after that is that the whole congregation would have to judge whether the prophecy was really from the Holy Spirit or was from the mind the you know, the person's own mind. And that judging of the prophecy, that was an authoritative teaching activity. Right, that's that was an activity where you had somebody saying, No, I think that what that what you said was not consistent with the rest of scripture, so that was not a true prophecy. Um or yes, that what you said is is consistent with the rest of Scripture and um you know it has these characteristics. So I'm gonna we're gonna accept that as a real prophecy. So that act of judging prophecy since it was an authoritative teaching act, was only open to men. And that's what what uh what this passage in 1 Corinthians 14 is ta talking about. It's saying, Paul's saying, when it comes time to gather together and judge the prophecies that were just uttered, um, that should be an activity where the men are doing that. Um not the women. Because again, um for a woman to pass judgment on a prophecy would be an act of authoritative teaching. So I think I think this principle um you know, is is really helpful in clarifying and explaining some of these really difficult passages that we come across in the New Testament. And you know, together with other principles of good good interpretation, like using the context and using other scriptures to interpret um the passage that you're looking at, uh you find that Paul's not commanding uh women to be silent in the churches. He's just commanding them to refrain from authoritative teaching. Okay. Questions? And I should say refrain from authoritative teaching over over men. Okay, let's do let's do 1 Timothy 2, 14, because there's a difficulty there too, right? So This is right after the commands for women not to teach or exercise authority over men. Thirteen says, For it was Adam who was first created and then Eve. We looked at that last week. And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a wrongdoer. So what does that mean? Is um is Paul saying that women are more easily deceived than men, or that they're more sinful than men, that they're more wrongdoers than men are? Oh what do you guys think? No, he's not saying that. Just I'll answer it. So he's not saying that women are more easily deceived or they're more sinful than men. Paul makes this extended argument that's a comparison between Adam and Christ. Right? And he says he says about Adam that death and sin came into the world through Adam. Um so you know even though it was it was Eve who was deceived and Eve who first ate the fruit, God held Adam responsible for humanity, you know, for his family, which was at the time all of humanity And so Paul in his in his theology he's not he doesn't place the blame for human sin on Eve, he places the blame on Adam Um, so it's not like he's saying here that he's not trying to blame women for the sinfulness of humanity because he was deceived. Um it this verse is not really about blame, it's about identifying Satan's strategies. Right? So so This is what Satan did in the garden. Um he knew that uh it would be more effective rather than going after Adam the head to go after Eve um his helper and to sort of subvert and subordinate that that role uh that Eve had, get her out from under Adam's authority and deceive her into taking the lead over the family Right? Satan knew that would be an effective strategy um to to encourage that kind of subtle rebellion. And that was an effective strategy in the garden, and that's Satan's strategy still today. Right? He wants to encourage rebellion against God given authority. And so Paul is just saying, watch out because Um Satan is actively trying to encourage uh women, you women in the church, to rebel against God-given male authorities in the church. So be on the lookout for that. Don't be fooled. That's Satan's trick. That's what he wants you to do. Satan still attacks male headship and female submission in the church today. So that's all he's saying. That's all he's saying. He's like, watch out for this attack vector of Satan. He's not saying that that women have a more um gullible character or that they're more more sinful than men or anything like that And then we come to yet another difficult verse right after this. Alright, so verse 15 says, But women will be preserved through childbirth if they continue in faith, love, and sanctity with moderation. And some transation translations actually say saved instead of preserved, so it would read, But women will be saved through childbirth if they continue in faith, love, and sanctity with moderation. Like wow, what does that mean? Is Paul teaching here that the salvation of a woman actually comes from having children? No. How do we know that that's not what he's teaching? Right, yeah, that would contradict his other many very clear teachings, uh, that we are saved through by grace, through faith in Christ. Right, we're not saved by works that we accomplish, whether that's childbearing or whether that's, you know, leading a church or we're saved if Mm-hmm. Well, yeah, and I think there's a broader point about uh we've run into this point a couple of times in our in our application of hermeneutics to these passages here, is that Every word, almost every word, can have multiple meanings. Right? And um how do you choose between the multiple meanings that are possible for a word? How do you choose the right one? for a particular text. What do you look at? The context, exactly. So the word for saved or salvation can it has at least three meanings that I'm aware of Uh the first meaning that you see this word salvation have in the New Testament is uh what we would call justification. You know, that that initial point when God reaches into your heart and spiritually regenerates you. And that's that's when you're born again. It's a it's a one-time occurrence, it's invisible Um it's God declaring you righteous once and for all. Right? So that that's one meaning of the word saved or salvation. The second meaning of the word saved or salvation is sanctification, what we would call sanctification, which that's not a one-time thing. That is a continual process that happens over your entire life. That's the process by which you grow in your faith and become more like Christ throughout your entire life here on earth. So that's the second possible meaning of the word saved or salvation. The third possible meaning is what we would call glorification Right, so glorification is a future event, like when we die or when, you know, if Christ comes back before we die, when we are uh raised with him, we will be raised in glory and our sin will be completely uh stripped away from us. We will have no more sin in our souls, and we will have no more decay and death in our bodies. So You know, you might hear people talked about we have been saved, we are being saved, and we will be saved. You know, those are those are kind of analogous to those three meanings of salvation. Past present, ongoing, and future. So um you know we need to use the context here to decide which one of these meanings um or or you know, a potential fourth meaning would be assigned to this word saved or preserved in verse fifteen. What what do you guys think based on the context? Sanctification. Good, I would agree with that. Why why would you say that? look at it to be sanctified through the childbearing. That's that's the purpose of using children. That's right. Yes. Exactly. Yes. That is I couldn't have said it better myself. I guess I'm not a mother. Um but yeah, I think um you know Certainly my wife and uh all the all the mothers that I've talked to have said that having and raising children has been the most sanctifying activity that they've ever done in in their lives. And probably that they ever will do. Right? And so so when he says um women will be saved or preserved through childbirth, um he's not just talking about literal like labor and delivery. of of a baby, um, you know, that happens at the end of a pregnancy. He's using childbirth as what's called metonymy, which is where you um use a part to refer to the whole. Like if I talk about if we lived in England and I said, um the crown gave a give a public address today. Um I'm not talking about like a talking piece of of headgear. I'm talking about I'm saying the crown and that stands for the person of the queen Uh right, so he's using the word childbirth here um to stand for the whole activity of bearing and raising children. Um and he's saying that is going to be the arena of sanctification for for most women, not all. You know, he he definitely honors the calling of singleness that uh that some women have. But he's saying for most women, this is going to be an arena of great sanctification, bearing and raising children So to fit this into the uh into the whole picture, the whole context of what this passage is saying, remember the church, the people of God, are God's family. And we said that um you know there are certain roles in in God's family that are like fatherly roles and those are reserved for men, and there are certain roles in God's family that are motherly roles and are reserved for women. And um the bearing and raising of children is one of those roles that men can't fill. You know, that's that is only open to women Uh and so he's saying he's saying here um to the women in the church, I think If I could paraphrase him, he's saying, like, don't be jealous of the fathers in the church. Don't be jealous of the roles that God has reserved for men. He has a good role reserved for you too. Instead of being jealous and trying to sort of usurp the God-given authority of the men in the church, focus on that special task that God has called you to as women. um most most of you, not all of you, uh raising children because this will be the primary means of sanctification for you if you do it well. If you continue in these things. So he's he's talking about fathers and mothers in the church and he's glorifying the roles of mothers literally and spiritually in the church alongside the roles of fathers. And the culture Yeah, oh absolutely. Yeah. Um our culture is trying to and has been for a long time trying to say that um you know Motherhood as as a calling for women is degrading and not fulfilling and uh limiting and oppressive. Right, that's that's what our culture is saying and has been saying since you know probably the fifties or sixties. Um scripture takes a very different view of motherhood Uh it's an exalted, uh, foundational, important, and honored calling in Scripture. And this gets to something that we're going to go over next time when we start the unit on um like the LGBTQ movement. Um what's at the heart of of that movement is uh a different view of identity than than we have had for the last several thousand years, right? The the new view of identity that's reflected in the LGBT movement is that Your identity is something that comes from inside you, from your own psychology. It's something that you construct for yourself and that you perform for the world. And it's important for you to perform authentically what's inside you and for that to that performance to be accepted by the world. Um as opposed to how the Bible speaks of identity and how humans have generally always thought about identity, which is that it's given to you You know, you're the most basic parts of who you are are given to you from outside, either dictated by nature, like your biology, or um dictated by the the social institutions that you're a part of And that happiness lay in conforming yourself to the demands of of either nature or society. Um now there are ways that that can go wrong and be turned into absolutely sinful and horrible things. Um so I'm not saying that humanity had it right for for five thousand years um, you know, and then suddenly we're we've got it all wrong. It's just a different way of looking at identity. And I think That principle is also at work, uh is trying to work its way out in our culture's attitude towards motherhood as well. Right? That Uh motherhood, you know, our culture sees motherhood as one of those external things that is forced on women and therefore it's oppressive the what needs to happen or the the what should be the case is that women should decide for themselves what they want their lives to be about and you know come to that conclusion in their minds and then act out that uh that inner sense and that internal reality and have that performance accepted by society as opposed to conforming themselves to some external standard. Right? You guys see how how that dynamic is at play. Um and it's very powerful in the church. You know, there is something that's just instinctively it just feels uh restrictive about saying, you know, this is your role if you were born a woman, right? Or this is your role if you were born a man. But part of us being sanctified, I think, is renewing our minds into the biblical picture of who we are, which is that Who we are is given to us by God. It's not something that we decide for ourselves. Anyway, that's just a preview of next week. So now we create a whole new generation of young children who get to choose their own identity. They would choose that that generation will come up and will thing that there's no other already but myself. And now um then it'll break away, completely break away that I think that is largely what if you read Romans 1, um Paul's Paul's talking about how sort of the the evolution or the progression of a society that rejects God, like what what they end up in. Um, you know, that first first they reject God's authority. and God's glory. And then um God gives them over to their own sin and an and to a a delusion, you know, a depraved mind. Uh and So I think that's what's happening in our culture right now is um our culture rejected God a long time ago. And God is now giving the culture over to um believing things that are self-destructive and that are going to result in um yeah, in a lot of self-inflicted pain. Uh and it's it's sad to see, but we are you know we are the one we are the ambassadors of Christ calling people to repentance in the midst of this. Uh we're gonna do it. that selfish mind even before the um LGBTQ I know a lot of young women my age who they strive for a career and they you know they're like I want to get somebody for I'm getting my PhD year, I want to do all these things first and then have kids. And then even then I still want to first I will not let children ruin my career and I won't let them ruin my body, ruin me, ruin my family, what I want to see and my husband. I want to travel. I don't want to reach So it's almost like kids are a burden. And I've seen so many even young women who who do have kids who are my age when you college they're they're like Oh, I have to go home and take care of my kids or oh I'm so glad that my kids are at school, I have the whole house for myself, or I have the day to myself. I just don't want to be around for like ten days and then I can have It's almost like a bird process anyway. Right. So I think that's also a selfish mindset that's that's already been started and pushed by our culture for the need for women to be so radical that they can have their own group. We don't need them, we don't need that. That that type of mindset. I feel like that's already selfish itself. Oh yeah. You are absolutely right. Yeah, the the LGBT movement didn't start this and it and it didn't come out of a vacuum either. And I would say even even feminism didn't start this, right? uh the the kind of second wave feminism you're talking about where we don't need men, uh or or children are a burden, uh that kind of thing. I'm actually reading this book right now. Um it's called The Rise and Triumph of the Modern Self. Uh by a professor up at Grove City College and he he does a good job of actually tracing the intellectual roots of this of this selfishness that you're talking about all the way back to the Enlightenment and the French Revolution and thinkers like Rousseau and um and Freud and Marx and Nietzsche. And um He's you know, it's sort of it's it's eye opening, you know, to see how how the roots of this thing were planted hundreds of years ago. Back when back when um the y you know, like the Judeo Christian worldview was still largely in place, but this thing was growing behind the scenes and it's like We think that it's happening so suddenly, but it's really just the the blossoming of a plant that has been growing for three hundred years you know, or more. Um yeah, maybe we'll talk about that. Maybe we'll go into the intellectual roots of this stuff when when we do the unit on um on identity But yeah, it's absolutely true. A culture wants to communicate that children are a burden, right? That they stand in the way of what's really important, which is actualizing and fulfilling your own desires, you know, for who you want to be. But that's not true. You know, scripture says, Behold, children are a gift of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward Um it talks only positively about children and having children. Um and that does not mean that that having children is easy or always fun and joyful. That's because that's not what it's aimed at. It's saying that um having children is always a blessing, it's always an avenue of God's goodness to you, even if that's experienced in hardship and um sanctification and lots of hard work, you know what I mean? Uh okay, so I think, you know, we just have a couple of minutes to go through some of the egalitarian objections to to the argument that I've just presented, you know, last week and this week. Um about positions of teaching authority being reserved for men. Uh there's I have five objections written here and oops, I didn't actually finish writing the fifth one. But um We don't have time to go through all five of them. I'm just going to pick out the one that I think is the most compelling and and the most instructive for us to consider. You know, 'cause these objections are not just things that we want to knock down, you know, and and forget about. Like they're actually going to help illustrate um some important truths about men and women in the scriptures. Uh so I would encourage you to go and read the other the other four. Um uh on your own in in this outline. But we're going to focus on objection number four at the bottom of page eight. Okay, so one one point that um egalitarians make is that scripture has many examples of women who lead and teach. Uh they point to these these are the the four uh women, specific women who um are brought up most often. Deborah, who was a a female judge in the Old Testament in the period of the judges, and uh they make the point, the valid point, that uh a judge in Israel is the Old Testament analog of an elder in the church. Uh so that is true. We should we should grant that at the outset. Uh but they say Deborah was a female judge, so if women could be judges in Israel, then women should be allowed to be overseers or elders or pastors in the church today. And then they'll point to Priscilla, who was a woman who, together with her husband Aquila, taught this man Apollos. Um Apollos was someone he was a powerful teacher uh who went on to be one of the the great teachers that encouraged the the worldwide church. Um in in the apostolic age, and he was taught by Priscilla, a woman, about Christ. You can read about that in Acts eighteen, twenty-four through twenty-eight Um and then third, Paul talks Paul mentions a woman named Phoebe in Romans sixteen and calls her a deaconess. Um so uh uh egalitarians would argue that uh that is Paul attributing an office of authority to this woman, Phoebe. And then in that same section in Romans 16, he calls a person named Junia an apostle. And egalitarians would say this is a woman named Junia who, Paul is saying, holds the office of apostle, which there's no other there's no higher authority in the early church than the office of apostle. So, you know, if women can be apostles, they should be allowed to hold uh those lower offices of authority like eldership and and being the pastor in a church. So we're going to uh take each of these examples in turn and look at them and you know dig into how how they uh whether they support or or not uh the egalitarian argument. Okay, so let's look at Deborah real quick. So Deborah, um if you want to read about Deborah, which I would encourage you to do, uh you should go to Judges 4. The Judges chapter 4 is um is the chapter on Deborah. And just a brief synopsis of of who Deborah was and and what she did um So Deborah, it says Deborah was judging Israel at the time. Uh she was essentially holding court under um under a particular tree, which was trees were important landmarks uh back in those days, and all of Israel would come to her and she would judge um cases of uh you know of right and wrong disputes between people. Um Israel was under uh the slavery of uh a different nation at the time, I forget which nation, but um a different nation had come in and and conquered them and enslaved them and uh J this happens twelve times in the book of Judges where God raises up a judge to lead the armies of Israel to overthrow their captors and uh and liberate them. Right, so that's the recurring story of the book of Judges is Israel falls into sin, they get captured by their enemies, God raises up a judge to deliver them militarily from from their enemies. And there are twelve judges. Um eleven of them are men, and they lead the they lead Israel in that traditional sort of military sense. Deborah is uh the the o the exception. She is a woman who is judging Israel, but rather than leading Israel in battle in a military victory over their enemies, Deborah actually um reaches out to Barak, who is the male leader of Israel's armies, and draws him out. He's very afraid and reluctant at first But she works on him and draws him out and says, Okay, the Lord is is raising you up and commanding you to go out and lead uh Israel in victory over their enemies. So Um we see that uh Deborah actually in the way that she served as a judge Um, yes, she did have that that authority in Israel, um, but she also used it in a distinctly feminine way not in a masculine way. She didn't go out like Joan of Arc on the battlefield and leave the armies. She used her authority to draw out the appropriate male leadership um that led to the the military victory. And Um you know, so I think it's just very interesting that uh Deborah, the only female judge, led in a way that was that was distinctly feminine and more uh uh and not masculine like the other eleven judges. Um and so the other thing we have to remember about judges is that uh the book of judges, you know, it's a it's a history book Uh it's saying what happened, it's not saying necessarily what should have happened. So the judges in the book of judges are not necessarily presented as normative examples for what leadership looks like in the people of God. Uh the main point is God exercising his extraordinary provision through unexpected people, unexpected leaders, um, to to deliver Israel So I don't think that we can actually conclude anything normative about female eldership in the church from the example of Deborah. It's just um too much of an isolated incident and it has um too much difference from the other examples of of male judges uh to to really be comparable or for us to really extrapolate an entire principle from it. Um I will say that I think it is an example that that uh God can work through and and raise up uh women to lead in situa in extraordinary situations where men are really falling down on the job. Right? Like if you're talking about a family where the wife is a believer and the husband is an unbeliever. Um you know, the The biblical thing for a woman to do is not to just totally abandon the children to not knowing Scripture or not knowing the Lord. The biblical thing for the woman to do is to lead the family in um in studying scripture and in knowing the Lord. Uh so that in a sense is a situation where where God can use the the leadership of a of a woman, of the wife in the home when there's a vacuum of leadership from the husband But she can still do it in a feminine way, right? She can still do it in a way that invites her husband and communicates to him like, oh, I so wish that you would step into this role and lead our family to know the Lord Um but until you do, I I'm going to do this. I'm gonna take the lead here. So I think I think that more than anything is is what Deborah exemplifies is that God is using Deborah in a feminine way to um to sort of fill in for for a a failure and a gap in male leadership, particularly on the part of that guy Barak. But yeah, read judges for. Come to your own conclusion about that Um let's talk about Priscilla. Priscilla, remember she was the one who, with her husband Aquila, taught Apollos about Christ. Apollos He was a Jew from Alexandria and he was preaching to people about John the Baptist, because he had only heard John the Baptist's message of repentance. And Priscilla and Aquila heard him and said, Wow, this guy can really can really teach. You know, he can really preach. But he doesn't know about Jesus So what did they do? Priscilla and Aquila took Apollos aside, took him into the privacy of their own home, and sat down and taught him together about the gospel of Christ. And he accepted it immediately and became a Christian and and became a great Christian teacher. Um so does this sound more like Informal teaching or authoritative teaching of those two categories of teaching we talked about before. Okay, why'd you say that? Uh-huh. Yep. Sha it's more so like she's sharing the gospel. If where did you um try to push the rooms to see you and Upside down for both sides. Rather than Yeah, I yeah, that's um exactly. I would say this is definitely informal teaching uh rather than authoritative teaching. So um it's really not an argument against the complementarian position because the you know complement complementarians believe that that women should be engaged in informal teaching with men as well. So it's not really an argument for the egalitarian position that that women should hold authoritative office. Um Priscilla is uh, you know, is of course a a great example of of uh a woman who who informally, together with her husband, informally taught Apollos. Uh but she's not an elder. She's not a a pastor. Um okay, Phoebe. In in Romans sixteen, if you want to turn real quick to Romans sixteen. Romans sixteen verse one, he says, I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is a uh what do your Bible say as the next word? A servant, okay. Is there a notebook that says D. Okay. Good. So your Bibles aren't lying to you. Um they're telling you when there's when there's a uh a question about translation. I commend to you our sister Phoebe, who is a servant slash deaconess of the church, which is at uh Sancria. So um yeah that that highlights one of the questions about this text. The Greek word in there, I think it's diakonos or diakon dia diakona, the fe the feminine version of diaconos. That can either mean that's a word that means just servant in Greek, you know. It it's it's the common word for one who serves, or it can mean the official title of of an office, like Deaconess. Um, so which one does Paul mean here? Does Paul mean uh the office of deaconess, or does she does he mean that Phoebe is a servant, you know, as one who serves faithfully in the church? Um well normally we would use the the context to decide between the possible meanings of a word. Unfortunately this is a portion of scripture that's not like extended teaching, it's just quick mentions of people. So there's not a lot of context to work with. So this is one of those things that's that's kind of not decidable in the scriptures, like it could mean deaconess or it could mean servant. We're not sure. Uh but let's say for the sake of argument that it does mean deaconess Would that be an argument against the complementarian position? Not necessarily, because if you remember in in that passage in 1 Timothy we went over, um Paul addresses three categories of people Overseers, deacons, and women. And so some complementarians think that that third category of women refers to deaconesses uh some complimentarians like I think even John MacArthur's church has has deaconesses. Um Those deconesses are not given authority or you know, teaching authority over men. They're given teaching authority over over women and they're they're over like women's and and children's ministries. Um but they are deaconesses. So even if this is calling even if Paul's calling Phoebe a deaconess here, um it's not really uh decisive for an egalitarian versus a complementarian interpretation. We have to know what what the office of DKN S actually means. Um so this isn't really this isn't really an argument uh either way. Phoebe um is just an example of a a A great servant or deaconess in the church, and is not necessarily an example of a woman holding teaching authority over men Um and then finally Junia. So if you keep um looking in Romans 16, look down at verse verse seven. Um Greet Andronicus and How is that name rendered in your Bibles? Junia? Okay. Um whose whose Bibles say Junior Anyone okay. Whose Bible say juniast with an S on the end A lot of you didn't raise your hands. I guess you're just not looking at your buttons. Um okay, so that's again one of the uh One of the translational difficulties of this verse is that some manuscripts have junia, which is a a feminine noun, and some have junias, which is a masculine noun. So it's not really certain whether this person was a man or a woman. And by the way, even if we knew whether it was the feminine or the masculine noun, that wouldn't really be determinative either, because uh there are other examples of um people who are clearly men having n uh names that are feminine nouns, but that doesn't mean that they're that they're women. Um it's just uh like I guess an example of that uh is a a common name in in Latin America for men is Jose Maria, which is Joseph Mary. And it's it's not a it's not a feminine It's not intended to communicate that that this is an effeminate person. It's just, you know, it's a masculine name, but it has a feminine noun in it. Uh so there's we can't really be certain about whether Junia or Junias in this text is really a man or a woman. Um But let's grant, for the sake of argument, that Junia is a woman here. Paul says, Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellow prisoners, who are outstanding among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me. So the egalitarian argument is that this person is Junia, she's a woman, and she's outstanding among the apostles, meaning she is an apostle and she is outstanding. How else could you read that phrase? Where do you find Julia in the Bible? Um, Romans 16, 7. Uh-huh. The other way you could read that phrase is that Junior is uh outstanding in the view of the apostles. Do you see the difference between the two readings? Either Juni is an apostle and is outstanding, or Junior is an outstanding Christian in the view of the apostles. They are row name to the apostles and the L City. Yeah. Right. It seems like it seems like that's the more preferred phrase because the the other person mentioned there, Andronicus, is someone that uh I don't that we don't see referred to as an apostle in the rest of Scripture. I mean the apostle, the office of apostle, um with a capital A was was the very restricted to um uh to a a a very small subset of men. So they're well known to their fathers. Muscles know them, so it doesn't mean that they are console. Right, yeah. So this text doesn't can't really be used as an argument uh for egalitarianism because it doesn't clearly demonstrate a woman holding a position of authority over men. Okay, so And you know, just to sum that up, uh none of these examples conclusively show women holding authoritative church office, right? Not Deborah, not uh Priscilla, not Phoebe, not Juni, it shows women doing very important things in the household of God. It shows that that women Um, you know, if you read all of Romans 16, like half of these names here are women, right? So it it shows that women are playing just as important of a role in the kingdom of God as men are But it does not show them taking on roles of authority. So that that to me was the most compelling objection that I found uh from the egalitarian arguments that I read. But you can read the other ones on your own and um you know, feel free to ask me about them. Uh Either now or or next time. I think that clock is usually slow, so let me look at where we are. Oh yeah, okay. We're out of time. Alright. Let me pray for us