Um okay, so we uh are we're still in this outline complementarianism versus egalitarianism. I made a new uh version that has a little bit more um more of the outline done. And it has page numbers this time, so if that's if that's helpful. We're on page three of this outline. And uh remember there are two questions that we really have to look at with complementarianism and egalitarianism. They those two positions differ over how authority should function between men and women And the two main questions are, um, are headship and submission part of God's design for marriage? Um complementarianism would say yes, they are part of God's design. Egalitarianism would say, no, uh, they are the result of sin and the fall, and authority should be shared equally between husband and wife. Uh the second question has to do with are there certain governing and teaching roles in the church that are restricted to men or Is every position open to everyone? And we'll we'll look at that next week. But this week we're going to finish up that first question about marriage. So remember last week we looked at Genesis 1 through 3, and we sort of pointed back to our in-depth discussion we had on that a few weeks before. We uh we looked at that and saw that um authority, Adam's authority and headship and leadership of his family was in God's design before sin came into the world Um and so that's one of the two main biblical texts on marriage and God's design for marriage. The other one is in the book of Ephesians, Ephesians 5. This is the other big extended discourse in the Bible on marriage and the meaning of marriage. And so we're going to look at that today. And so remember we we spent a little while in the intro to this um you know this unit talking about hermeneutics. Who remembers what hermeneutics means? Exactly, yeah, that's perfect definition of hermeneutics. The method, the techniques that you use to extract meaning from a text. Or or from anything really. Like you can you use a hermeneutic when you're trying to interpret science, right? So so um you know, scientific discoveries or observations of nature uh also require a hermeneutic to interpret them. But It's important with the Bible to be using the right hermeneutic because there is such a thing as a wrong hermeneutic. There's a lot of ways to do it wrong. So we've got to make sure that we're doing it right. And really the core of the right hermeneutic is uh what are you seeking when you read uh a passage of scripture? Yes, the original intent of the author. Hey good morning. Um Yeah, so that's what we're after with our hermeneutic here. We're We are seeking the original intent of the author uh for a given biblical passage. And one of the key tools that we use to get at the original intent of the author is the context. Alright, context in in sort of ever expanding shells of context, right? You've got you take one verse and that verse has its own context. The words in in the verse. Um you uh the the verse itself is the context for those words that helps you choose the m the possible meanings of the words. And then You go out a little further and you've got other verses surrounding the verse that you're looking at, and that's um that's more context. And then you go out further, you've got the book or the or the passage that the that that chunk of text is in. Um and uh you go out even further and you've got the rest of scripture. And this is another sort of good hermeneutical principle is that you should look to scripture to interpret scripture. So we used some of those principles when we were looking at Genesis 1 through 3, and we're going to use those principles again when we look at Ephesians 5. 21 through 33 is the is the passage that deals specifically with marriage. But in the spirit of looking at the context, I'm going to give you some of the context from this letter of Ephesians. Alright, so. Ephesians was a letter written by who? It's Paul, yes. Paul wrote Ephesians. Paul wrote most of the letters in the New Testament. Um in fact, the ones that he didn't write are named for somebody else, like 1st and 2nd Peter or 1st, 2nd, 3rd John. And then he didn't he didn't write the gospels, of course, but the letters, you know, if if you have a letter like that's named for a place like Romans Uh that that was written by Paul. Uh so Paul wrote Ephesians. He wrote this letter to the church at Ephesus, but probably also to a bunch of other churches in the area. He meant the letter he meant for the letter to be passed around. Um so this wasn't just like you know, uh commands that only applied to the church at Ephesus. It was it was meant for every Christian in uh in the ancient world, you know, in the church at that point. And So the letter of Ephesians, it has six chapters, and it's divided in half. Like a lot of Paul's letters are like this. So the first half focuses on doctrine, right? Big concepts of the faith. This is where Paul lays out his teaching about who Christ is and who and what God has done for us in salvation. Um you know, we find big truths like, uh, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God Right, that that's a huge verse. That's in Ephesians 2. So those first three chapters of Ephesians are all about those big truths, those big doctrines that define our faith. And then the second half of Ephesians, chapters 4 through 6, take those doctrines and apply it to life. Alright, so the the second half is application. And within that application section, Paul starts out with general commands that apply to all believers. Right. We all should practice um speaking truth to one another, for example, or being kind to one another and forgiving each other. Those those apply to everyone, regardless of whether you're a man or a woman, or a master or a slave. Uh but then Here in chapter 5, he starts to move to specific commands that apply to people in particular relationships and situations. Alright, so he goes through three relationships. Wives and husbands, children and parents, and slaves and masters And all three of these relationships in Greek society were household relationships. Even masters and slaves. So these were all household relationships where Paul is giving specific commands about how to apply these doctrines that he talked about in in uh the first half of the book. And the key, the the sort of overarching principle here that introduces this section of the specific commands to the household relationships is verse 18, which is why I included it, even though it doesn't talk about marriage, where it says, And do not get drunk with wine, in which there is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit. Okay, so be filled with the Spirit. That is the umbrella command that lives over all of these specific relational commands to wives and husbands, children and parents, slaves and masters. Um It's all about being filled with the Spirit. And Paul is explaining, this is how you be filled with the Spirit in these relationships Um okay, so that's all the context, right? Um so that that is in indispensable. It's very helpful context as we go through and read this passage. So we're going to go through and read it. I'm going to read it to you. And um I want you to be looking for uh two things. I want you to look for where the sentence breaks are. um which you know our translations have punctuation uh unlike the original Greek uh Greek text, so that's helpful for us. So look for where the sentence breaks are and see if you can identify the main verb or verb phrase of each sentence. And don't worry, we'll go back and and underline things together. But um yeah, just see if you can focus on that. Because this this can be very helpful when you're reading a long passage of text and you want to get the main points and the flow of thought, it's really helpful to focus on the main verbs or the main verb phrases. Okay, so let's read it and then we'll go through and pull out the verbs together. It says, and do not get drunk with wine, in which there is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit Speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody with your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to our God and Father. And subjecting yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ. Wives, subject yourselves to your own husbands, as to the Lord For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the church, he himself being the savior of the body. But as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives in everything Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her, so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present to himself the Church in all her glory. having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless. So husbands also ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church, because we are parts of his body. For this reason a man shall leave his father and his mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is great, but I am speaking with reference to Christ and the church. Nevertheless, as for you individually, each husband is to love his own wife the same as himself, and the wife must see to it that she respects her husband. Okay, so big passage. Um, but let's start uh pulling out the flow of thought by looking at these main verbs. Alright, so the where is the first sentence Tell me what verses it spans. Uh-huh. Keep going? Yep. Yeah, 18 through 21. So one sentence spanning four verses. This is very common in Paul, by the way. Paul's writing, he loves long sentences. Uh where he introduces one point with the with the main subject verb and then he just hangs a bunch of dependent clauses off that point with with participles and modifying verbs and all that stuff. But anyway, what's the main there are actually two the construction of this sentence, there's actually two main verb phrases. Um yeah, so when you see something like that, uh that uh like a verb that ends in ing, um typically that's what's called a participle. So that's like a supporting verb. Uh that's not actually the main verb, but it I mean it's important because it modifies and describes the the what the main verb is trying to say, but um it's it has a supporting role. Uh So the main verbs of the sentence, the first one, is a verb phrase. Do not get drunk. Right? So write that up here. So that's the that's one of the two main verb phrases that sort of stand alone in this sentence. What's the other one? Be filled with the sp yeah, be filled with And then the object is with the spirit, right? So Do not get drunk, but be filled with the spirit. So, um, you know, he's drawing a contrast here between uh what what the pagan world did, which is uh and and especially in their religious festivals, is they would go and get drunk Right. And um they would they would use that as a way to achieve this sort of like heightened state of of ecstasy uh in their in their religious um experience. He's saying don't look for religious experience like drunkenness Your religious experience, the way you walk and live out your religion is being filled with the Spirit. So In a way, it's sort of like being drunk. It's like being filled with wine, but it's better, right? Because you don't lose control of yourself when you're filled with the spirit. You gain self-control, but you are also filled and controlled by the Spirit of God. Right? So he's he's drawing he's making a contrast essentially between being drunk And being filled with the Spirit. And he's saying, this principle of being filled with the Spirit is the the guide principle for all of your uh your Christian walk And then Alex like the verbs that that uh that you notice um giving thanks, um also speaking to one another, making melody with your hearts. Those are those are called participles, and they are verbs that support and describe what it means to be filled with the Spirit. Okay, so we could we could write them sort of like indented here. So speaking, um particularly speaking psalms and hymns and spiritual songs to each other, that's one way to be filled with the Spirit. Uh what what are some other participles that you notice here? Giving, yeah. Uh and I will include the word thanks because I'm pretty sure in the Greek the the word itself means giving thanks and not just not just giving anything. Um so so I think that's part of the verb phrase here. uh for that participle. Any other uh other participles you see here? Yeah, subjecting. Yeah, subjecting yourself. subjecting yourself to one another out of reverence for Christ or in the fear of Christ. Um and you notice I put um the ing after subjecting in square brackets there. So like the Nasbi translation, which is what I use, actually says, and subject yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ, which presents it as another main verb. But if you actually go into the Greek and look at The verb tense here, it's a participle, just like speaking and giving thanks. So this is a participle, subjecting yourself is a participle that describes how we are to be filled with the Spirit. So we're always we're we're to be subjecting ourselves to one another um in the fear of Christ. And we're gonna talk about what that means. uh a little later on. But this, this phrase, you know, that that uh c includes subjecting yourself, that's the transition phrase a transition verse between the general command to be filled and the specific command to wives to be subject to their husbands Right. Um so if you look actually in some manuscripts, verse 22 doesn't even have a verb. Uh if you if you look in in the translation we're using here, it does have a verb. What is the verb in verse 22? Yeah, subject yourself. So Subject. But in some manuscripts there is no verb. It just says Like starting in verse twenty-one it says, and subjecting yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ, wives to your own husbands as to the Lord. So in uh it's possible that that the word the actual explicit verb was added later. Um but either in either case it's implied uh what what the verb is. Um but the point is that This, subjecting yourself as participle from verse 21, is connected strongly to the main verb in verse 22. Alright, so it's clearly a transitional thing. Clearly this this wives subjecting yourselves to your husbands is an application of this of how you be filled with the spirit subjecting yourself to one another in love. Okay, so we hit the main verb from verse 22. And then what's the and so verse 22 is its own sentence. Um Then verse 23 is another sentence, but I'm going to argue that verse 23 is kind of a dependent sentence, right? Because it has that it starts with a particular word. It starts with the word for. Alright, who knows what kind of word that is? What's what part of speech is the word for? I know this is really reaching back to uh to grammar from, I don't know, whenever high school or something. So four is a conjunction There are these there are a lot of words that are conjunctions or or some might be conjunctive adverbs. You don't really need to know the distinction. But it's like words like for and therefore and just as and so that These these like words are or two-word phrases that link um clauses together and say, okay, what follows is going to be an explanation or a reason given for this. So um, you know, because verse 23 starts with four, it's giving an explanation for this command. Like why why should whys subject themselves to their own husbands, um for the husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ also is the head of the church. So um I'm gonna argue I'm just going to put that as like four dot dot dot because we're just outlining the basic things, right? So there's there's a command to wives. And then Paul gives a reason for that command. And so because we're trying to just hit the main points, I'm gonna breeze through the reason. that's given in verse 23 and 24. But then we get to the next sort of main sentence in verse 25. Alright, so what is the main verb in the sentence that starts with verse 25? Love. Love. Okay, so and then who what's the subject of that sentence? Sometimes it helps to have the subject too. Oh that's the object. Um the direct object. Which is also helpful too. Husbands. Husbands, yeah. So husbands are doing are supposed to be doing the loving. Okay. Um so husbands love your wives. And then and then what's that next pair of words just as that's another example of a what? Conjunction, yes. So now we get the reason, right? Uh or actually Maybe it's better to say better to say the model. Right. Um so just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her. So um you can really see the the main points coming out of this as you get to the main verbs of the sentences that that sort of stand on their own and mark the text, right? You have you have don't get drunk, but be filled with the Spirit. Um and then you have this transition between subjecting yourselves to one another and the next main command, main verb is wives subject yourselves to your own husbands, and then he gives a reason. And then he says husbands love your wives. This, because of the parallel construction here, is how husbands are supposed to fulfill this command of being filled with the Spirit and subjecting yourselves to one another. Husbands loving their wives as Christ loves the church, that's another way, that's that's the the masculine way of fulfilling this command to be filled with the spirit by submitting yourself to one another. Right. Um it's a submission that involves authority, just like Christ what Christ did for the church. is a kind of submitting himself, humbling himself by becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross. Um it's a kind it's a submission, but it still involves him having authority. Uh in the same way husbands are supposed to act out that kind of humble uh submission of self-sacrifice while still having uh the authority uh of of being the head in the marriage just like Christ is head of the church. Alright, so um you see how these these commands to wives and husbands are just different applications of this same principle up here, right, that comes from verse 18. Um and then uh so the rest of verse twenty-five all the way down through verse thirty-two is unpacking this reason. It's Paul giving this justification and this model for what it looks like for a husband to love his wife like Christ. You know, he's talking about Christ. He's talking about how Christ gave himself up for the for the church. So He gave himself up. Um so that so that he might sanctify her. And now I'm writing all these all these supporting verbs in here. Oh hey Amy. How's it going? Um You know, that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless So husbands also ought to love their own wives. And notice Paul does this too. There's this kind of parallel structure here. Um back you you know if you go back to the section to wives, uh that opens with wives, subject yourselves to your own husbands, uh and then it gives the reason for the husband is the head of the wife as Christ also is the head of the church. Um, but as the church is subject to Christ, so also the wives ought to be to their husbands. So he kind of repeats the command with us with this word ought, right So he repeats ought to be So wives ought to be to their own husbands. And he does the same thing with husbands. He says, husbands, love your wives, you know, and then he gives a whole bunch of ways or descriptions of how Christ does that. And then in verse twenty-eight he sums it up by saying, So husbands also ought to love their own wives. So he repeats it with an ought And this is also very common in Paul's writing. Okay, you got where he where he uses parallel structure a lot and repeats himself uh in different words. And it was a way to get his hearers to to sort of fix a concept in their minds, right? If he says if he says a thing, like wives subject yourselves to your husbands and then he repeats it, so wives also ought to be subject to their own husbands. That helps understand helps people understand. Or if he says, husbands love your wives just as Christ, and then he talks a bunch about Christ loving the church, and then he says, so husbands also ought to love their wives as Christ loved the church, then it kind of offers that repetition that helps fix it in in the husband's mind. So this is what you're supposed to be doing. Alright, and then finally Uh we come to the last verse in the passage, which is verse thirty-three. Um and There are two main verbs in this sentence. So I want you guys to find uh the main verbs for me again in this in this verse, verse 33. These these are more complicated because they're they're like verb phrases that are uh maybe a little bit convoluted. Uh-huh. Yeah, is to love. Yeah, so the husband that's um the first verb. Husband is is to love. What's the second? See to it. Yeah. Um and and to get the content of that verb we can kind of include the next phrase. See to it that she respects. Uh right, so so that's just the summary statement of everything here. So husbands, love, wives see to it that you respect your husband. So that hopefully I mean this was just sort of a a crash course in the um the sort of most basic and powerful tool of grammatical analysis, which is identifying main verbs and identifying those those conjunctions that show you relationships between ideas. Um And you know, we haven't like I don't expect you to be grammar experts at at the end of a a five minute lesson like that, but um I just want to show you how but by doing how um using the tools of grammar can really help you draw the main ideas out of a long piece of text like this Uh because I don't know about you, but like often when I when I read uh the Bible or any you know long piece of text that requires a lot of concentration, um sometimes my eyes just glaze over and I'm like, what are what were we talking about? You know, but if I do this, um, you know, at first at first you might have to do this on paper, but pretty soon you'll get to the point where you can do this in your head where you're like, okay, the main verb here are do not get drunk and be filled Uh, okay, there's there's a point there. And then you get to the next sentence and the next main verb is wives subject yourselves. And then the one after that is husbands love your wives, and you're like, oh, okay Some somehow the structure is becoming clearer now that I've identified the main things. Alright. Hopefully. Just want to show you an example of how of how we use grammar and how we use uh context and how we use these tools of hermeneutics to get the right meaning out of a text. So here I would summarize what we just said. In Roman numeral 2, here at the bottom of page 3, this is Paul's flow of thought. He lays out a general principle. All Christians must be filled with the Spirit. And submission here, subjecting yourself to one another, is an integral part of being filled with the Spirit. And then we have application in the context of marriage. Uh wives and husbands are both to demonstrate spirit-filled submission, but in different ways. Wives by obeying and respecting their husbands. And the wife's model for this is the church submitting to Christ uh with joy and reverence. And husbands must love their wives and they must take on their wives' interests as their own interests. And so the husband's model is Christ who gave himself up for the church in order to enjoy pure intimacy and union with her. That's how it summarized the whole uh section between verse 25 and 32. That describes a Christ-like husband, giving himself up for his wife. in order to enjoy pure intimacy and union with her. So I think that's how I would summarize Paul's flow of thought here And I think if we're focusing on the question that's at issue with complementarianism and egalitarianism, uh, which is does the Bible um our headship and submission part of God's design for marriage. I think we can pretty clearly see, just from reading the text and drawing out these main points, that the text clearly does teach authority and submission. in marriage. Uh but it doesn't teach authority and submission in the way that the world um generally thinks of authority and submission. It teaches authority and submission in the way God thinks of authority and submission which is humble and spirit filled from both the one in authority and the one under authority. So that's how I would say this text That's how I would say we can answer that question from this text. It's not the only thing going on in this text, but if we're just focusing on that question and answering it, uh That's how that's how I would draw out this answer. Okay. Any questions on that before we um move on to talking about uh egalitarian arguments about this text? Questions about what we just did, like the grammatical stuff. I have a question on the I'm asking about people. Yeah. Yeah, that's basically it. belief in egalitarianism is that men and women should share authority in the home and in the church and that there should be equal sharing of that. They would argue that Um that God's original design did not include any distinctions in authority between men and women, uh, but that that those authority and submission roles came in as a result of sin and that because we're saved and redeemed from sin we don't we're not subject to those anymore. And then the other view is is complementarianism, which says, no, authority and submission in marriage are part of God's originally good design. They've just been corrupted by sin into what looks like domination. um and passivity. Right? So we're we're redeemed. That doesn't invalidate authority and submission, but it does transform it into something that looks more Christ-like. So those are the two camps and those that's what we're exploring. So one of one of the main questions is what does marriage look like? You know, what does author is there authority and submission in marriage? And that's the question we're focusing on today. uh with this text. Um okay. Well so I've pretty much presented the complementarian interpretation of this text. Be and I think it's it really is the correct interpretation because it follows the Paul's flow of thought and it follows the the grammar and the context. But um egalitarians do uh pose some objections to this way of viewing the text and they they have their own um their own reading of parts of this text which I want to deal with. And again, I think we're going to see that it comes back to the hermeneutic that you use in terms of which which conclusion you end up with. Alright, so this this is on page four. Starting at Roman numeral four, we've got the egalitarian objections. These are the ones that I could find based on my reading of egalitarian positions here. Um and so just a technical note here, like I've I've put in italics uh sort of a paraphrase of the egalitarian position. So anything you see in italics is like an egalitarian would say this. And I'm trying to represent their position faithfully. I mean it's hard to do it in in like a sentence, but um I think that this is represented in a way that an egalitarian would agree with. Um but, you know, I'm of course I'm not an egalitarian, so um you know, I'm open to uh to people who who have had more experience with that position. You know, if if I'm missing something, please point it out. But one objection One argument that egalitarians would raise is that um is about the meaning of two important words in this passage. The meaning of the word head when it says um The husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church, and the meaning of the verb be subject Right, when it says, uh, wives be subject to your own husbands or subject to yourselves. So egalitarians would say head can mean source and and that's the way we should translate it in this context. Um source instead of leader, right? This is saying that um the husband is the source of his wife, um, because Eve was taken out of Adam uh from the rib. And um The what what Paul's trying to say here is not that um is not that the husband is in authority over the wife, but that the husband and the wife are intimately connected, like Eve being taken out of Adam's rib So when he says head and body, he's not talking about like the one in charge and the one um under orders. He's talking about two parts of an organism that are so tightly connected that they're that they're like one thing. Right, so um and then the egalitarian physician would say the the verb be subject It doesn't mean to obey, it means to be to show mutual concern, you know, to consider another more important than yourself. Um so that that's how we should understand Paul's command to wives to be subject to their husbands. It's be concerned for his interests above your own, because you're so intimately connected as head and body Yes. Finding those are weak or in the week or they can interpret it in another way. Um that's a really good question. So um it is true that um that the word head, for example, it can mean source in Greek Um its most common meaning is authority, but it has it has another meaning that can mean source, like the head of headwaters of a river. Right. So it is a possible meaning for the word. Uh and then also be subject. Um, you know, that that can mean to sort of yield your preferences and your interests to another, or it can mean to obey in like a military sense, like obeying orders. Right? Um so yes, these these words do have multiple possible meanings, but what do we use When we're confronted with a word that has multiple possible meanings, what do we use to choose the correct meaning? The context exactly. And that I think is where the egalitarian position really breaks down, is they don't deal accurately with the context in um They they choose the meanings that they choose, not because of the context, but sort of because of their theology, because they want um to demonstrate equality in this text. Right. And and functional equality, no authority and submission. But yeah, that's that's the argument that they would use. They would say therefore, you know, because of all these Because we've misunderstood these words, we've misunderstood the text as a text about authority when it's really a text about mutual humility. Alright, so we're gonna we are gonna deal with the the words source and be subject, uh and we're gonna look at the context to choose the right meaning for them. Um so the first one is source, right? And I think um looking at the context, source is or head, sorry, source is an unlikely meaning for that word head. It's not It's not likely that that in the context head means source. Why do I say that? Well, uh look at how it's used. The husband is the head of the wife as What? In what way is the husband the head of the as Christ is the head of the church. Okay, so um if we're gonna look to understand this word head And and how the husband is the head of the wife. We need to understand how Christ is the head of the church. Um and using the context um looking for other uses of the word head, uh we have to go back to the beginning of Ephesians uh to find the closest use of the word head by Paul. So in Ephesians 1, earlier in the same letter Um he's giving his grand introduction to who Christ is. And he's saying that God uh gave is giving Christ supreme authority over all creation. He's he's rolling up creation and putting everything under Christ's feet um and making Christ the head over all things. Now, in that statement, does head mean source or does head mean authority? If God's putting all things under Christ as the head It means authority. Yeah. I mean it's pretty clear when you read First Corinthi uh Ephesians one twenty through twenty three that Paul is speaking of Christ's authority over all creation. You know, because he has gone to the cross and and been raised from the dead, he now has uh God has now granted him all this authority over all creation. And so him being the head means hi means that he's in authority. So that's so Christ's headship in Ephesians means authority. So if the husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ is the head of the church, um that implies that head in that verse is being used as authority, not as source Um so do you see how the how the context comes into play in choosing the meaning of head? How would you have found that, by the way? Like if you were studying this on your own, what what tool would you have used to look for other uses of the word head that you could use in as context? A concordance, yeah. This is what a concordance is useful for. If you have a particular word that you have c uh um questions about, you can look it up in a concordance. I like to use um blue letter bible dot org. They it it has kind of a concordance and um a whole bunch of other tools rolled into one. But that would show you, you know, you look up the word head in your concordance um in and uh it would show you other uses of that word, and you'd see, oh hey Paul uses the same word earlier in the letter and you go read that and you say, Oh, okay, he clearly means authority here, and it's applied to Christ. So if Christ is if Christ as head means Christ is the authority, then that's what he means here too about husbands. Um Now the uh the the egalitarian argument does have a point, right? It's not um it's not completely invalid. Their point that uh the head is intimately and closely connected to the body is very true. It's absolutely true. The connection between the church the body and Christ the head is not mere is not it's not just authority. It also includes mutual concern. Right? But It i it does include authority too, right? The church obeys Christ. Christ does not obey the church. It is kind of that one-way um authority and submission relationship. So there is mutual concern, but there's also authority. Alright, let's do the same thing for for be subject or subject yourselves, right? That's the other word in this passage that egalitarians would argue we have translated incorrectly or understood incorrectly. So again, this word in Greek, it it usually means to obey, like in a military context, um, you know, a a uh A soldier would subject himself to his commanding officer. That's how it's used most of the time. But it can also mean just to to yield to one another, yield your preferences, submit your interests to another person in love. It can mean that. So how do we choose uh between those two possible meanings of obedience versus just sort of yielding out of concern? Well again we use the context, right? So um in this case uh we have to we don't have to go quite as far back as Ephesians 1. We can just go to the next section of Ephesians, which is which starts in chapter 6. Where Paul commands children to obey their parents and slaves to obey their masters Right, and and those instances are quite clear that that it means obedience, not just sort of like yielding your preferences. Right. Children are not supposed to just yield their preferences and interests to their parents, they're actually supposed to do what their parents say. Uh so Um but you know, we can we can go even farther than that and use um what's called a parallel passage. So you know if you search um scripture, a lot of the commands in scripture are not just found in in one place, they're found in multiple places, sometimes from multiple different authors. So it's the same here. Um the command for wives to be subject to their husbands is also found in in 1 Peter. uh written by Peter, of course. In 1 Peter 3. 1, he commands wives to be subject to your own husbands, which is the same phrasing as Paul uses here. And Peter clarifies that command Uh with the example of Sarah, who obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. So Sarah's submission Sarah being subject to her own husband looked like obedience and calling him Lord. And so clearly Peter, when he says, be subject to your own husbands, he means he means obedience is included in that. And so that parallel passage helps us understand uh and choose the the meaning of be subject here. Right, so um the context makes it clear that that be subject doesn't just mean yield your preferences or be concerned for his interests. It it actually does mean come under authority. Um it it doesn't rule out concern for his interests. I mean I I think the principle is uh clear elsewhere that wives are to be concerned about their husbands' interests and husbands are certainly to be concerned about their wives' interests. Um But that doesn't rule out the the connection to authority and obedience there. Um so I think the egalitarian argument here, um, you know, going back to your question, Amy, uh I think although those meanings are allowed meanings in those Greek words. Um egalitarians haven't really correctly used the context to support those meanings. You know, and and what's really I think the the the key fallacy besides you know the not using context correctly is that this argument sets up a false dichotomy Right. Do you guys know what a false dichotomy is? Um so like um It's it's a it's when somebody gives you says, okay, you either have to be A or you have to be B. And Well, you don't want to be A. Um, I'm trying to think I should have come up with an example before before class. Uh Like, uh this is sorry, this is gonna be really extreme. But like um someone might say, well you either have to be a Nazi or a communist. And we know the Nazis, you know, did the Holocaust, so you don't want to be one of those, so you better be a communist. Right. Is that a is that a valid logical argument? No, that's called a false dichotomy. Right? What what's the problem with that argument? Yeah, there's other there's other political philosophies you can have besides national socialism and Marxism. Um So there's a false dichotomy here in this argument too. What is the false dichotomy? This passage is either about humility and mutual concern, or it's about authority and submission. We see humility and mutual concern in the passage, therefore authority and submission must be not part of it. What's wrong with that? Um yeah, uh or or it's possible for the passage to be about both, right? And in fact, that is what it's about. Right. You you see both things. You see both humility and authority and submission. in this in the same passage. They are not mutually exclusive. They're not incompatible. That's the false dichotomy. And actually you'll find this throughout egalitarian arguments. the the false dichotomy. The assertion that that um Christ like humility is completely incompatible with uh a relationship of authority and submission But that's not true at all. That is not true at all. Like the rest you know, the entirety of scripture uh refutes that that statement. Um in fact, Christ himself refutes that statement. Right? Christ is fully equal with the Father He he is uh the Bible is very clear that he existed eternally from the beginning with the Father, that he participated in creation, you know, that he's equal to the Father in all of his attributes. And yet Christ voluntarily submitted himself to the will of his equal, his father Um so there is really no uh there's no mutual exclusivity. There's no contradiction between um between humble uh humility, equality, and voluntarity voluntary submission to authority. Right, there's no uh there's no contradiction there So yeah, I think that's that's the key point here is that uh we've got to recognize the false dichotomy and reject it and say This text, this passage clearly, absolutely is about humility, but it's also clearly about authority. Humility does not negate authority. Rather, humility is the manner in which we exercise and respond to authority. Is this making sense? Yeah, oh oh yeah, a lot of places Yeah, this is one of the b biggest logical fallacies that you have to watch out for in interpreting scripture is the false dichotomy. like God's sovereignty or human free will. You know, that's a big one. Which we don't have time to talk about right now. So yeah, just real quick I want to get through the rest of these objections. So because the rest of them are are maybe not uh quite as uh well-founded. So verse twenty-one, so this is another egalitarian argument. Verse 21 says, subject yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ. Um so because it's a mutual command, you that you got that one another, you've got everyone subjecting themselves to everyone else. Um That means submission is mutual and therefore authority in marriage must be shared. So that's another argument that egalitarians make. And what we've got here is So that argument essentially says pay attention to verse twenty-one, uh, because it's you know it's the better principle, and then ignore the commands in verses twenty-two and twenty-four for wives to subject themselves to their husbands. So this this interpretation really pits one verse against another, which as we saw Yeah, a couple weeks ago. That's a bad hermeneutical practice. We don't do that with scripture. If you find two verses that seem to seem to say opposite things or seem to contradict each other, what should you do Instead of choosing one and rejecting the other, you should seek to find an interpretation that harmonizes both of them. Right. You should do the hard work of defining the terms, uh getting at the author's meaning in such a way that I'm sorry? Yeah, the con you yeah, seek the context, seek seek the correct interpretation that harmonizes both of those things. Why do we do that? Why is that a why is that our guiding hermeneutical principle in cases like this Why don't we just choose one and reject the other? Right, yeah. Because who is the ultimate author of scripture? God, right? God can God contradict himself? Should we look at the words of God and choose one and say, um, okay, the other one he said he didn't really mean that or he You forgot, you know, you forgot what he was saying. No. We don't say that. We treat it all as God breathed, and so we look for ways to harmonize these things. So there are two interpretations that actually do harmonize verse 21, the command to subject yourselves to one another, with verses 22 and 24, the commands for wives to subject themselves to their own husbands. And then I'll just briefly lay them out. Uh the first interpretation is that verse twenty one is a general summary of what's going to follow all these relationship specific commands. In this view, verse 21, a paraphrase of it would be that, hey Christians, you all have people who are in authority over you Uh part of being filled with the Spirit is knowing how to submit to those people, um, out of reverence for Christ. It's not in this view, verse twenty-one's not saying that literally everyone in the church has authority over every other person in the church, which would be impossible. Um it's it's just saying, uh, you know, you all live under some kind of authority. Here's how to do it in your in your respective situations. You know that's a plausible interpretation. I actually don't think it's the best one. I think the best one is the second one here. The second interpretation is that verse 21 which says be subject to one another, that subjecting yourself to one another means actually takes on on the meaning of subordinating your interests and yielding your preferences, which remember that is one of the possible meanings of be subject. We decided, we looked at verses 22 and 24 and decided that that meaning didn't fit the context of those commands But what about here in verse 21? It's possible that Paul s is using uh this this other meaning of be subject in verse twenty-one And he's using the more common and and more sort of um authority oriented meaning in verses twenty-two and twenty-four. Um So in this interpretation, verse 21 would be similar to what Philippians 2, 3 through 4 says, uh, which uh is the one that says, uh do nothing out of selfish ambition or empty conceit, but in humility of mind consider others more important than yourselves So there is this principle in Scripture that everyone in the church is to practice this kind of yielding of your interests and your preferences to each other. So in this interpretation, verse 21 would be a n a restatement, an echo of that principle. And then verses 22 through 33 go in and specify how a wife does this which actually looks like the the obeying part of being subject, and how a husband does this, which is by self-sacrificing and loving his wife. I think that interpretation is better because it fits more with with the one another. It's more all-encompassing, like Paul intends that that introductory section, verses 18 through 21, to be. But I think either interpretation is viable and both interpretations uh harmonize the text, right? They harmonize the uh the command to subject yourselves to one another with the specific command to wives to subject themselves to their husbands rather than um choosing one and rejecting the other Any questions about about that or does that Does that seem um seem clear or Uh okay. Okay, third a third argument that egalitarians make is that um Paul's command here for husbands to sacrificially love their wives is a shocking and radical departure from what you find in Greek culture, which are these patriarchal household codes, um where the the husband has absolute authority over the home and um has um sort of absolute rights to dominate everyone else, including his wife. Um so this what Paul's saying here is a is a radical challenge to that Greek view of of um male authority. In that light This passage is actually subverting male authority and it points towards full equality. Um So again, this argument has a kernel of truth in it, right? It is absolutely true that what Paul writes here in Scripture is a a huge challenge to um to Greek culture, to the Greek view of marriage. And it's true that uh the biblical view of marriage is a huge challenge to the world's view of marriage Husbands um even though husbands are supposed to have authority, we're not supposed to exercise it in a dominating way, right? Um authority in scripture doesn't look like authority in the world. Authority in the church and in in a believing life shouldn't look like authority in the world. It should look like Christ. Um So this passage is a powerful antidote against male domination, but it's not that because it abolishes a husband's authority. Uh it's because it radically changes how the husband exercises that authority. He does it with nourishing, cherishing care as for his own body, not selfishly for his own interests. Right. Uh and the argument against this this view um the egalitarian position is that if Paul's goal is to replace male authority with functional equality then why does he still specifically and explicitly command wives to be subject to their own husbands? Right? If he's already offending Greek culture and radically subverting it with this um you know with this passage, then why doesn't he just go go the whole way and not command wives to subject themselves to their husbands Right. So this is this is another example of sort of using using the cultural import or impact of a passage to to sort of reject its specific meaning and specific commands, which is bad hermeneutics again. Uh it's also a false dichotomy, right? Um where's the false dichotomy here? Yeah, yeah. Like you're either you're either for male domination as seen in Greek culture, or you're for full equality. Falls dichotomy, right? The real biblical view is neither neither nor. Right? It's not Male domination, as seen in Greek patriarchy, it's not full undifferentiated equality as egalitarians would claim. It is authority and submission with humility and love. Equality with difference. Okay, and finally, last uh egalitarian argument that I could find about this passage, Paul only commands wives to submit to their husbands so that they will not give offense to the culture. This is kind of the opposite of the last one, right? Uh just as we no longer hold slaves accountable to masters because our culture has moved beyond slavery, we should no longer expect wives to submit to husbands because our culture has moved beyond male headship. So this argument takes a little more explanation. Uh it's basically arguing that like if Paul had told wives that they don't need to submit to their husbands um it would have caused a revolt and a riot in you know in in the surrounding Greek culture. And that just would have been too much of an offense. It would have hindered the gospel too much. So he's saying to wives, you know Wives, I know that you are fully equal to your husbands in Christ, and you should be sharing authority in marriage, but please just submit to your husbands in order to make the gospel attractive to your neighbors. That's the argument that's going on here. And the the intention is like, okay, once the culture is no longer offended by women and men sharing authority in marriage, then then you can share authority. And so egalitarians are like, well we've reached that point in our culture, so we should be sharing authority now. Because this command was a culturally bound, a temporally bound command But is it a culturally and temporally bound command? No. And how do you know? Yes, marriage is not a human institution, right? It's not a human invention like slavery is. Um God invented marriage, he designed marriage, and we saw last week that God's design for marriage, even before sin, included authority and So um it's not something that the culture can move beyond in in God's eyes. Because it's God's design, exactly. What's another reason? How else do you know? How else do you know that that um that headship in mar male headship in marriage is not a cultural artifact or something that the culture can move beyond? Yes, right, because he uses Christ and the church as the model for um for headship and submission in marriage. Uh why would he do that if it were a culturally bound thing? Right? If it were culturally bound, is he saying then that we've moved beyond Christ in the church? Yeah, no, that would be that would be anathema to Paul, right? He would never never say that. So if he intended this to be a culturally and temporally bounded command, he wouldn't have referenced this eternal reality of Christ in the church. The fact that he did means means he wants this command to transcend culture and be a universal a universal picture of how marriage should operate. And then finally, uh Paul's next command, we remember this passage occurs in a context of other commands to people in specific relationships. After the section on wives and husbands, you get to a section on children and parents. And so Paul says, uh children obey your parents So by this egalitarian argument, um, we should apply the same principle and abolish parental authority, right, over children. But Egalitarians would not agree with that concluding you know, they're not arguing that. They would say, no, that's absurd, we don't mean that. Um, but it seems to flow from their logic. But again, that parent-child relationship is designed by God. It's not a human invention. It's not something that we're free to sort of move beyond. And that's what makes slavery different. So the third example here is slaves submit to your masters. Slavery is a human invention That is a cultural culturally constructed institution. We are free to abolish slavery, and I'm I'm very glad we did. We are free to organize our economy in a different way that doesn't involve slavery But does that mean that the command slaves uh submit to your masters is invalid and inapplicable to us today? No, it doesn't. How would we apply that command to ourselves today, even though we don't have slavery in this culture? I mean, at least not in in official mainstream ways. Yeah. Exactly, yes. I I work at a big government agency, I have like ten bosses, um, so I can view myself in in the application of this text as the slave and I have bosses who are like masters and I need to submit to them um Not just to please them or not just to be noticed by them, but out of reverence for Christ. Right? I need to submit to them and obey them like I'm obeying Christ So that's what we do with that with that text. We don't just throw it away because slavery's gone. We seek the principle behind the text, which is submit to those an authority over you. and we apply it to the situations that we have in our modern society, in our economy. And we're able to do that because our economy, you know, God has granted nations the um the freedom to organize their economies in different ways, right? We have an economy organized around bosses and workers not around slavery. But he has not granted human governments and societies the freedom to redefine marriage or parenting. Right? So that's why that's why the example of slavery is different from marriage and parenting here. Thoughts about that? Questions? Yeah, so we are actually going to go over that text because that is that is probably either the hardest or the second hardest passage in the Bible on men and women to understand. Yeah, there are lots of difficulties in that text. But I think uh you know even that text uh the interpretation becomes pretty clear when you analyze it with the the proper hermeneutical tools. Um the short answer I will give you is that um Is that what that pad the principle that that passage is teaching is that men and women should use their spiritual gifts in the church should both use their spiritual gifts in the church, but in distinctly masculine and feminine ways. And there is So everyone I guess all complementarians would agree that that's the principle that that text is teaching. That um, you know, when a Uh when a woman serves in church or prophesies in church, she should be she should look like a woman, you know. Um and when a man does it, he should look like a man. where people debate about that is what does it mean to look like a woman and look like a man? Does look like a woman um today mean you have to have a head covering Um and that's where there's debate among complementarian commentators and scholars about whether you know, some would say yes that that specific application is still binding for us today. Others would say, no, that that specific application is not binding, but the principle still is You know, women should women should not go up in front of church dressed like men in in other in like ways that would be interpreted as like I'm standing before you as as a man, you know That's another another sort of third position is that um yes a covering is still necessary, but that covering can be hair. Um yeah, so there's you know, like I said, it's it is one of those tricky passages. Um, but I think I think what's clear is is the principle. What's not quite as clear is exactly how to apply it today. Wee j uh just ran out of time. Uh so yeah, let me let me pray for us and we can