Yeah, so this morning uh so last time we finished the uh the handout on marriage and sex. And uh now so like this is phase four of the whole unit on manhood and womanhood. And we're gonna talk about uh two sort of views within the church called complementarianism and egalitarianism So this is phase three, and then phase four will be like LGBT issues and how to address those from a biblical perspective. Um but phase three, this is important, um, because this is this is a serious debate within the church, within evangelical Christianity these days, um, and and for several decades really. Um And before we launch into it, I just want to introduce you to a concept, the concept of primary versus secondary and tertiary doctrines. Right, so um so who knows what a what a primary issue or a primary doctrine is with respect to Christianity You can give me a definition or an example. Yeah, yeah, salvific doctrines, doctrines that relate to salvation or to who God is. You know, so an example of a primary doctrine would be like the full deity and humanity of Jesus Christ. So primary doctrines are the are the kind of thing that if you deny them, you're not really a Christian anymore. Um, you know, so can anybody think of a a a religion that denies the deity of Jesus Christ, for example. Islam certainly denies the deity of Christ. They don't claim to be Christians, of course. But yeah, Mor Mormon the Mormon religion denies the deity of Jesus Christ. I mean it's kinda hard to to um you know, pin that down exactly. They will say that Jesus is God, but what they mean is that Jesus is a God and that he became a God. And we can become gods too in the same way that he did. So they don't they don't actually believe that he is the creator God, the eternal um transcendent deity that God the Father is So good morning. Hi. Um so that's a that's an example of a primary doctrine, the deity of Christ and and the full the full deity and the full humanity of Christ. But not every doctrine is like that. Not every doctrine is something where if you disagree on it you're not a Christian anymore. Right? So that's why there are these things called secondary doctrines Or secondary issues. So secondary issues are the kind of thing where sincere Bible-believing Christians can actually disagree on these secondary doctrines. Um, but they're still very important, right? They're still the kind of thing that it would be difficult for Christians who disagree on these secondary doctrines to be in a church and ministering together Um so can anybody think of an example of of this kind of doctrine? Oh yeah. Yeah, infant baptism. That's that's like a classic example of a secondary doctrine. You know, those who believe in infant baptism and those who believe in believers' baptism as an adult. Um, they consider each each other believers, you know, fellow Christians, and yet it's such an important issue that Essentially you have to go to most people go to a church that believes like they do on on that issue. Um interestingly, the church that we were at in Boston Uh is it's a very old church and it it takes a really interesting approach to these kind of things. It it tries not to divide over secondary issues. So there were people in that church who believed in infant baptism and the church would allow them to have their infants baptized. And there were chur there were people in that church who believed in believers' baptism. and uh didn't baptize their int infants but dedicated their infants. So we had both infant baptisms and infant dedications in that church and uh there you know there was that tension in the church, but but our our previous church felt that it was better um to live together and and sort of resolve that tension and work with that tension than to divide over those issues. So um it's not necessary to divide over secondary doctrines, but those are the kind of things that um that that like serious disagreements center around in Christianity. Um I'd argue that there's a that there's a third level of doctrines And and maybe doctrine is too strong of a word for this level, but like I think there are tertiary issues in the church, and these mostly relate to preferences. Can anybody think of of an issue like that? Uh yeah, dating whether to d date or or have some kind of courtship. Um what's that? Um Yeah, any others? Homeschooling. Homeschooling, yeah. Whether whether the the church takes a position on on homeschooling versus uh sending your kids to like a full time school out of the home Um a lot of a lot of the COVID stuff, you know, whether whether to have a mask mandate in church, um, whether to vaccinate, that kind of thing, those are tertiary issues. Music style in worship. There's a lot of these things. I mean some might consider music style a secondary issue, right? Because they'll divide over it. Um I yeah, and I think uh I I think what distinguishes a tertiary issue though is like it's something that we shouldn't divide over. It's something where we should prefer where where believers should prefer one another in love. uh you know give preference to one another in honor. And um so it's really important to have this kind of taxonomy in mind when we talk about something like complementarianism versus egalitarianism. which we haven't defined them yet, but just broadly, it has to do with um the nature of manhood and womanhood and how it relates to roles and authority in the family and in the church. So what do you guys think this is? Is it a primary issue, a secondary issue, or a tertiary issue? I don't know, just just complementarianism versus egalitarianism in general. the question of of authority and the roles of men and women in the family and in the church. Oh, okay, interesting. So um tell me why uh why is it why do you think it's a primary issue I mean in this day and creation of black black man and woman's supposed to be a breakdown family family all man and womanhood that would break down a foundation really a lot of other major ideas of children raising. So I completely agree that it's an important issue. The way we've defined these though, a primary issue is something where you you would say that someone who disagrees with you is not a Christian. Right. Would you say that uh that someone who who disagrees, who favors um you know, a sharing of authority between men and women in the family and in church would be not a Christian? Or Yeah. That's what I thought. Sorry, go ahead. Second yeah, yeah. I I would tend to lean towards towards it being a secondary issue. Yeah, I would say so so that this is a great point though. Like it is It being a secondary issue doesn't mean it's not important, right? Secondary issues are vitally important, right? Like things like eschatology or Or our understanding of Genesis. Those those are secondary issues, but they're vital also. I would argue there's something like the one for which are Christians who do believe in some sort of egalitarian sort of health Uh-huh. So Yeah, yeah, and there's there is sort of a spectrum of views in in the middle too. Yeah, I would agree that it's a secondary issue. I would say um, you know, those those egalitarians who um who approach scripture as authoritative and come away with an understanding that's different from mine and and from this church's are still believers, I would say. I I simply would disagree with how they're approaching scripture and how uh how they draw their conclusions from it So yeah, I think this is a secondary issue. Um and it's good to put it in perspective like that, right? To remember it's very important, but it's not the It's not the thing that makes or breaks the gospel, or makes or breaks the Christian faith. And we can still be and we should still be charitable towards other believers who disagree with us on this issue. Um yeah, so before uh so that was just sort of the intro. uh setting the framing. And before we go into the differences between complementarianism and egalitarianism, I think it is helpful to highlight where they agree Because there is a lot of common ground actually between these two positions. And that common ground can be summed up in the word equality. Uh so if you remember back several months ago when we started the phase one on um biblical manhood and womanhood, we went to great pains to emphasize the equality of men and women in God's design, right? And we found evidence for that all over the place. Um most notably in in the first few chapters of Genesis, Scripture is very clear that men and women are equal in a lot of ways, in in bearing the image of God, right? Um in the beginning God created them, male and female. In the image of God he created them. And we are equal not just in in the good ways, but also in the bad ways of uh the extent of our fallenness and sinfulness. We're both sinful. Right? It's not like It's not like Eve is more sinful because she was the first one to eat the fruit. Um it's not like Adam is more sinful because he was the the covenant representative of humanity. We're all sinful equally. Um but the good news is that we're all equal in our redemption in Christ. Uh you know, a verse that's Um that's often quoted in this debate is Galatians three twenty-eight, uh which says there's neither There's neither Jew nor Greek, neither slave nor free, neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. Um And I think it's possible to read too much into that verse, but what it is saying is that we are all equal in terms of our redemption in Christ. You know, we're all equally members of the body of Christ and of the family of God. And we're equal in how we've been adopted by God into that family and in the inheritance that we've been given. It's not like men are going to get a greater spiritual inheritance than women or vice versa. We all are destined for the same spiritual inheritance, which was a radical thing to teach to Greek and Roman society in the days of the New Testament because in that society only sons got inheritance Right, daughters didn't get inheritance. But Paul said to the entire church, you have all been adopted as sons and heirs, right? Even the women have been adopted as heirs in the church and given an equal share of the inheritance together with the men. So, yeah, we should all recognize that. And also we are all equal in terms of how we receive the Holy Spirit. Right? The Bible is clear that men and women uh equally receive the Holy Spirit to live inside them and dwell in them. So um yeah, it's very important to start off this this investigation of these two different positions by saying that we all agree on these things, that um that the Bible teaches a radical equality of intrinsic worth and dignity between men and women. And this is all kind of review. We all w we went over this um a few months ago And uh we also we sort of actually already covered the complementarian position too, because when I was presenting God's design for manhood and womanhood, I was presenting to you the complementarian view because it's what I believe the Bible teaches and it's what this church teaches as well. Um so a lot of the complementarian position that we're going to look at uh will seem like review, but I also want to present um the egalitarian position and some of their arguments and respond to them because uh it is it's a very important debate in the church and we know actually a lot of well we know several um couples in counseling for whom these issues have come up and they need to work through them both in a theological doctrinal sense and also in a practical applicational sense Uh so I think it's really important to know about these things. Um, you know, w when you're when you're still young, before you get into um the marriage relationship or these kind of situations where it's where it's actually very hard to work out these things Uh okay, so next we're going to go through and and sort of define complementarianism and egalitarianism. And so what I've done is I've gone to uh two of the big organizations. There's one for complementarianism called the Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood. And they put out a a statement called the Danvers Statement. So I took six points from the Danver statement and put a complementarian position in its own words. And then I went to an egalitarian group called Christians for Biblical Equality and took six points from their mission and value statement and put their position in their own words. And I think this is just a side note, it's really important to do this when we're uh debating with anyone and especially believers is to represent their position in their own words uh or at least in words that they would they would read and agree with. Um because you know if you don't do that then what you got is is called a straw man. If you construct the other person's position, hey good morning, in a way that is not true to what they believe but is easy to refute Uh that's called a straw man fallacy. And it doesn't really help anybody, right? It's um for one thing you're you're being deceitful and for another thing you're not actually learning anything by uh responding to a straw man argument. So I wanted to go out and find the egalitarian position in in its own words and present that to you here. So let's just go through and read these points from the complementarian and the egalitarian positions. Okay, so complementary in position. Number one, distinctions in masculine and feminine roles are ordained by God as part of the created order and should find an echo in every human heart Alright, number two, Adam's headship in marriage was established by God before the fall and was not a result of sin. That's something we we looked at several weeks ago. Number three, both Old and New Testaments also affirm the principle of male headship in the family and in the covenant community. That is the church in this age. Um number four, in the family, husbands should forsake harsh or selfish leadership and grow in love and care for their wives. Wives should forsake resistance to their husband's authority and grow in willing, joyful submission to their husband's leadership. So this point is important because it uh is distinct from um male domination, which is sort of a c a caricature that sometimes gets applied to the complementarian position that, oh, we just support male domination of women. But that's not what complementarianism teaches because it's not what scripture teaches. Um scripture teaches loving leadership, uh, not harsh or selfish leadership So, number five, in the church, redemption in Christ gives men and women an equal share in the blessings of salvation. There's the equality. Nevertheless, some governing and teaching roles within the church are restricted to men. So that's the complementarian position uh in the church. And these are the two areas where the positions uh really disagree in application is in marriage and in the church. Right? What is the role of men and women in marriage and uh are certain roles in the church restricted to men? And complementarianism would say, yes, some roles uh like governing and teaching are restricted to men And number six, in both men and women a heartfelt sense of call to ministry should never be used to set aside biblical criteria for particular ministries. like those governing and teaching roles mentioned before. Rather, biblical teaching should remain the authority for testing our subjective discernment of God's will. So, you know, that that point is important because it emphasizes um the epistemology of the complementarian approach, right? Scripture is authoritative and um personal experience and gifting is subordinate to the authority of scripture Okay. Questions on the complementarian position before we go on to look at egalitarianism. Now we haven't argued for the complementarian position yet. This is just definition. Alright, let's look at egalitarianism as hey, good morning. As the contrast contrasting position. And by the way, um you know Aaron brought up earlier that Uh there there is sort of a spectrum of belief here, right? It's not like complementarianism and egalitarianism are totally separate camps. There are people who um there are Christians who are, say, complementarian with respect to um eldership and and leadership in the church, but egalitarian with respect to husbands and wives in marriage. Or vice versa. There are other Christians who are complementarian with respect to husband and wife in marriage, but egalitarian with who can serve in leadership roles in the church. Uh so there's kind of a spectrum of views here. And um In particular, there's been a a sort of third camp that has grown up sort of on the egalitarian side, but but sort of rejecting uh complete sameness and interchangeability between men and women, but also rejecting any sort of role distinctions that are formally taught in scripture. So, you know, this the landscape is more complicated than we're presenting it here, but it's it's useful still to talk about these as as sort of the majority positions. Okay, so egalitarianism, uh if complementarianism was summarized as equality alongside authority and submission working together, then egalitarianism could be summarized as equal sharing of authority between men and women in all aspects of life. That's the main the main thesis of egalitarianism. And so here are six points from the mission statement from Christians for Biblical Equality. First point They quote Galatians 3. 28. There is neither Jew nor Gentile, neither slave nor free, nor is there male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. Number two, women and men are equally created in God's image and given equal authority and stewardship of God's creation. Number three, patriarchy or male dominance is not a biblical ideal, but a result of sin. And I'll pause there to say that this is um it's very common to I've read a significant amount of egalitarian literature in the past uh few few months and it's very common for them to distinguish themselves from patriarchy, right? Not complementarianism, but patriarchy. And so The sense that you get is that anything different from the egalitarian position must be patriarchy or male domination. Uh I don't see a lot of nuanced distinction in their literature between patriarchy and uh complementarianism as complementarians claim it should be lived out. Uh okay, number four. While the Bible reflects patriarchal culture, the Bible does not teach patriarchy in human relationships. And I think this is this is um you know, not not to get too much into commentary as we're laying out the position, but I think this is telling um about the egalitarian approach to scripture. What does it mean that the Bible reflects patriarchal culture but does not teach patriarchy? You know, does um this statement doesn't expound on it, but if it reflects the errors of a culture What does that mean for s for biblical inerrancy? Okay, but I'll leave that for for when we get into it. Uh okay. Number five, God calls women and men of all cultures, races, and classes to share authority equally in service and leadership in the home, church, and world. So there's that equal sharing of authority. that is emphasized in egalitarianism. Six, Christ's redemptive work frees all people from patriarchy, calling women and men to share authority equally in service and in leadership. So there's the concept of liberation, right? Liberation from an oppressive structure. Which, you know, sort of um puts us in mind of uh of the worldviews that we were talking about last year in the fall, um, that that sort of see things through this lens of oppression And number seven, followers of Christ are to oppose injustice and patriarchal teachings and practices that marginalize and abuse fam females and males. So just to be clear, among those patriarchal teachings that they say we must oppose are the teachings of complementarianism, like what I taught you all in the last few months. So that's the egalitarian position in a nutshell, in in its own words too. So questions on just the definition of egalitarianism. I assume that the compliment is complementary isn't is Yes, they do. Um they they most yeah I would say I would say in most articles and and book chapters that I read um that that's just an assumption, right? That Anything that's not egalitarian is patriarchy. Uh some explicit some make that that rejection explicit, right? They'll say they'll say like uh complementarians claim that you know the type of male headship that they advocate is not uh oppressive, but it really is Right? So they'll they'll go and explicitly say complementarium tries to distance itself from patriarchy, but it fails. But most of them just assume that complementarianism is patriarchy. Okay. So yeah, feel free to ask questions on uh either of those definitions as we go forward. But I think the important thing that we have to talk about before we jump into answering the questions, answering the debate uh between complementarianism and egalitarianism is we have to agree on a methodology. We have to agree on what's called a hermeneutic. Who knows what a hermeneutic is? Yeah, a methodology for doing what? Yeah, for interpreting something, right? It's a hermeneutic is the um the techniques and the methods you use to draw meaning out of something you know uh you can have a hermeneutic of nature where you try to uh use say science to to interpret nature and draw meaning out of it Um most most scientists don't recognize that they have a hermeneutic of nature. They think that they're just doing science and the data speaks for itself. But you need a hermeneutic. But another place where you need a hermeneutic is in reading and interpreting scripture. You need to have principles that guide your interpretation. Uh because if if you start with um with with a principle like oh I'm I'm going to read scripture to find out what it means to me, you know, in my specific situation. You're going to end up with a different interpretation of the Word of God than somebody who starts out with a hermeneutic of, I want to find out what this meant to the original author and to the original audience. You see how those are different lenses, different methods for trying to draw meaning out of a text? Um yeah, so this is where I think If you trace the disagreements between complementarianism and egalitarianism all the way back to their source, I think they diverge here at the question of hermeneutics. So, you know, we're we're going to talk a little bit about what's the wrong way and what's the right way to read and interpret scripture and to answer questions like this from Scripture. So first a few wrong things that people do on both sides, right? On both the complementarian and egalitarian side. It is wrong to do what's called superficial proof texting. Who knows what I mean by that? Mm-hmm. Yeah, what's proof texting though? Is that complication twice? Like trying to find that surface level versus that Oh yeah, yeah. Yeah, that's a good a good way to put it. It's like yeah, sort of cherry picking verses and and just sort of like flashing them on the screen and saying like, see, it's You know, the Bible says this. Without going through the careful analysis of like, okay, we gotta figure out what that word really means and how it was used in the context. It's basically removal of a verse from its context and assuming that it speaks for itself without any need to apply the rules of grammar or any sort of historical or cultural analysis. Um can anybody think of an example of of proof texting? Um like I can do all things through prices containing the same thing. Ah, yes. statement talking about um content regardless of kind of Yeah. What it really means to say do I give this spring new kind of ten whatever Yeah. That's a great example. It's a great example of how this practice of proof texting can sort of lead you astray without considering the context uh to discover what a scripture actually means. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. The world uses it all the time too, right? Right. And that particular Yeah, I mean uh trigonometric tables are true. Will those set you free, right? No. Um Okay, so yeah, so superficial proof texting, wrong way to approach it. And I see this on both complementarian and egalitarian sides, right? Um Number two pitfall uh is pitting one scripture against another. Um so uh that means like taking uh taking one verse and uh using it to to sort of discount or negate or overturn a different another verse. We're gonna see this later in Ephesians 5 where the the chapter the passage on husbands and wives starts with subject yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ And then it goes on to say, wives subject yourselves to your own husbands as to the Lord. And um sort of a a common Egalitarian argument that we're going to deal with is that that first verse, subject yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ um negates or overturns the later command for wives to subject themselves to uh their own husbands. And You know, so that is what what's wrong with that kind of hermeneutic? What's wrong with pitting one scripture against another? Mm-hmm. It one gets another like in everything against its own. It's just the whole screen system. Yeah. Right, yeah. You were you were Um about to quote uh that verse, all scripture is breathed out by God, right? Um so if God breathes out one verse that contradicts another verse that he breathed out, what does that imply about God? That he's contradicting himself, that he's lying. Is that possible? No. Is that the view of God that we want to have when we approach his word? No. Um Yeah, so we we should we should not do that. We should instead of uh what should we do when we see one verse that seems to contradict or oppose a different verse? Yeah, do more research, dig deeper, look at the context. What are we seeking when we do those things? Yes, we're seeking a greater picture that frames those two seemingly contradictory verses and harmonizes them, right? We're seeking a harmony Uh that's actually point uh four in the in the right way to interpret scripture. So we'll get there. Um practice kind of just wanted to say that this really is because Luke you know highlights it is uh in remembrance as uh as uh seroing if you understand you know this is like passwords password password was toneless symbols yeah so uh this If you did things symbolically then, you're gonna do things symbolically. Right. Yeah, I think there's um that yeah that's sort of a a combination of like that proof texting and pitting one scripture against another because I think in the in the Catholic position they would point to John VI and say See Jesus said, My f my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. And they sort of like proof texting that and saying You know, you gotta treat the the sacrament, the Eucharist as um the actual flesh and blood of Christ. But that ignores the rest of the New Testament teaching and the Old Testament typology on um the the sacrifice of Christ. Uh which if you take it all together and harmonize it all, you understand that that uh they are symbolic or that the Lord's Supper is symbolic and it's um It's a sign and a reference uh to to the historical reality of Christ's sacrifice. That's a good example Okay, third pitfall, ignoring historical and cultural context. Right? You know, this is paired together with with the fourth pitfall, assuming that all commands are culturally relative. There's sort of equal and opposite errors that you can fall into. There's a lot of commands in Scripture that seem odd to us or seem like they only make sense in a certain culture or time period. So one mistake that people make is assuming like, oh, those commands aren't relevant for us anymore today. Right? An example would be like uh not eating pork uh or shellfish, which is which was forbidden in the Mosaic Law. And it's true that we are not under that command anymore Uh but what we're not under is the specific application of that command. Behind that command that God gave to Israel was a general principle, which was to come out from the world and be separate from those around you. And we are still actually under that principle. We are supposed to come out from the world and be separate in our behavior and be holy as God is holy. Um so there's there's a sense in which so we have to really carefully distinguish between the general principle behind God's command, which is binding still for us everywhere And the specific application of those principles in a particular time and place, which may not be binding for us anymore Yeah, so one one error is to assume that everything is culturally relative and that we're not bound by anything uh in the commands of scripture anymore. And the other error is to uh is to sort of Ignore all historical and cultural context and say, Hey we're we're bound by everything. The letter of every command. You know, like the I guess the other the extreme of this would be um Christians who attempt to live Levitically. Right. Live according to the the dietary laws and the uh and practices in uh the book of Leviticus and Numbers. Things like that Which incidentally, yeah, our church in Boston had had kind of a wacky pastors like associate pastor who led a part of the congregation and living Levitically for a couple of months, I think. And you remember that? Yeah. Um we didn't participate in that, but uh yeah, I don't what the Yeah, like no no pork, no, they're beginning to install with the Getting to the stone of the animal. And I think the point of that exercise was not to I don't think he was saying that the pastor was saying that any of these are binding on us anymore. I think the point of the exercise was just to sort of see how much work it takes to to be holy, to live out the kind of holiness that God was calling the Israelites to. Um so, you know, there's there's probably a a good lesson in there, but it it just seemed seemed a little weird. Um but yeah that's that's another um So that's the error of ignoring historical and cultural context and failing to distinguish between the general universal principle and the temporal application of the principle. Uh fifth wrong way is and this is really, really wrong, uh to reject the authenticity of text that you disagree with, right? Like if there's a part of the Bible that uh that seems to speak very clearly against your position. Um some people will say, well, that probably was not in the original manuscript, right? Or, you know, maybe Paul didn't actually write those texts about um about women. And actually many egalitarians do make such arguments and they are uh for the most part entirely without basis in um in what's called textual criticism, which is the study of of the uh the manuscripts that we have and and the attempt to reconstruct what was in the original. So we'll get to some of those later. But but yeah, that's that's sort of it seems like sort of a last ditch thing. Like if if you really disagree with something and you can't find a way around it, um Just you know, assume that it's not authentic to the Bible. But that's that's very dangerous and it's a very slippery slope. Uh it's putting yourself in the judgment seat above above scripture. Uh Juno. Or or would say Yeah, yeah. Right. Uh-huh. So Yeah, yeah. A little fun idea. Yeah. There are times we can go I've heard yeah, some people that's not a good so there is an aspect of the project to interpreters for sure. Uh-huh. But because we're kind of into various things and we're gonna bound the other thing speech Yeah. So at that point we can't just reject the both of the videos. We just don't understand what's the Yeah. Yeah, I mean if the Bible is truly the Word of God and if God is is infinitely beyond our understanding, wouldn't we expect His Word to contain things that that are hard for us to understand, you know, that are difficult for us to comprehend. Not not things that are logically invalid. But things that we uh need to learn in order to more about him in order to understand, right? Yeah, exactly. Um So what's the right way to interpret scripture? What's the right hermeneutic uh approach to drawing meaning from the text of scripture? Well, in in one sentence It's basically using the tools of grammar and context to seek the plain intent of the original author to the original audience. This um you know, this plus point two is called the uh literal historical grammatical hermeneutic, which is the hermeneutic that um that our church uses and that uh Yeah, for example, John MacArthur teaches. Uh and it so it emphasizes seeking the plain intent of the original author. Um and that's important because like a lot of Christians, uh especially in the Catholic tradition, but a little bit in the in the Reformed Presbyterian tradition too, will seek the allegorical significance of Scripture. They'll say, Well the odd the human author of scripture didn't really know the significance of what he was writing. There's some deeper symbolism, deeper meaning in here that we have to pull out and you know it's kind of it's kind of like the secret or hidden meaning of scripture. Well that's we reject that because that's not the way Jesus treated the scriptures, and that's not the way the apostles treated the Old Testament. Right? When if you look carefully at either Old Testament prophets who who quoted earlier prophecy or if you look at Jesus and the apostles and how they used the Old Testament, they don't look for secret hidden meanings. They look for what the original author meant uh at the time that that he wrote those things. And so that's the the kind of hermeneutic that we use is we look for the plain intent of the original author to the original audience And we use grammar, we pay attention to the detailed structure of the language, to the meaning of words, to their syntactical arrangement, and we use the tools of context Right? Bringing in context from the same verse, from the same passage, from the same book and author, uh, and from the rest of scripture too. And we sort of have these expanding shells of context that we use to Uh decide what what particular words in a passage mean and to uh help interpret Um yeah, so and then number two, we also bring in context from history and the culture that was contemporary to the author. So these these are helpful. You know, knowing the history of Israel helps you understand and interpret um the Old Testament. And knowing the the cultural practices of Jesus' day helps you interpret the gospels in the New Testament. Number three, allowing clear scriptures to interpret less clear scriptures. There's a saying, let scripture interpret scripture. If you have a question about what this verse means uh look for other verses in the Bible that speak to the same subject and might shed light on it. Right? So um this is like triangulation. You know you get a bunch of points uh data points from scripture in different places and they point you they help point you to the exact meaning and the exact uh doctrine that scripture is trying to teach And and this the the slightly more detailed point here is that yeah, some scriptures are more clear than others, right? We should we should recognize that There are s there are some scriptures that hardly need any interpretation. They just kind of speak for themselves. There are other scriptures that are that are actually very difficult to interpret. We're going to come across some of those in our in our investigation in this outline, this phase here. But we should always let what is clear in scripture interpret what is less clear instead of the other way around. 'Cause what what could happen if we if we went the other way? We make b sorry. Yeah, yeah, we confuse both of them, right? We can you know if you start with what's less clear, you can sort of read whatever you want. Not whatever you want. You know, you can sort of read your own ideas into that less clear part and say, oh okay, the Bible agrees with me here, therefore we'll go to this other clear spot and say, no, no, no, this this first verse um cancels that one out. It's kind of referring back to that pitting one scripture against another thing. Um we start with the more clear scriptures because it's easier for us to uh keep our own ideas out of those texts and let God speak for himself. Okay, fourth thing that we should do in write hermeneutics is seeking to harmonize seemingly contradictory texts uh rather than ignoring one of them. You know, so so we should never um You know, uh like like Juno was saying, you know, it's it's not very common to say, I I reject that verse of scripture, I or I reject that text What's much more common is is to just ignore it, right, and just not not pay attention to it because it's hard to understand and difficult to to to deal with but we shouldn't do that. We can't we can't just ignore difficult passages of scripture. We have to work hard and seek harmony between those passages and the and the other passages that are more clear. And then this last one, number five, we did we talked about this a little bit, but carefully distinguishing between universal principles and temporal applications is very important. Right, it's very important when we talk about, say, the Mosaic Law because it is absolutely true that we as Christians are not under the Mosaic Law anymore. And we know that because the the council, the church council in Jerusalem, recorded in Acts 15, basically said that. They said, um, they met to decide what should the Gentiles be required to do uh uh in when they become Christians. Should they be required to become Jews and observe the Mosaic Law? And the council decided, no. Um they don't have to observe the Mosaic Law. They just have to Um do these these few things, uh like abstain from sexual immorality, which is what God commands everyone, and not eat meat sacrificed to idols, because that would be just utterly offensive to their Jewish brothers and things like that. But they're not subject to those six hundred and whatever commandments that are in the Mosaic Law So we know we're not subject to those anymore, but that doesn't mean that the law is useless to us or that we can ignore it. Jesus said that he came not to abolish the law, but to what? Fulfill the law. He said, not the least stroke of a pen, not you know some translations say not one jot or tittle of the law will pass away until it's all fulfilled. Yeah. Those refer to the little tiny uh ink ink marks above Hebrew letters that um that denote the vowel sounds because you know in Hebrew writing there are no vowels There are only consonants. And so sometimes it's hard to know what what a word. You know, like imagine you took all the vowels out of English. There would be some uh some words that are hard to know what it actually what the word actually is. Is it is it tip or top? You know, like um so scribes would use these these jots and tittles, these little markings above and below the letters to uh indicate vowel sounds. So Jesus is saying, not one of those marks will pass away until the law is fulfilled, right? So Uh and he also said um it also says the word of the Lord endures forever. So we as Christians we have to be very careful to Remember that the Mosaic Law and the Law of God in the Old Testament has not passed away. Even though we're not under the specific applicational commands anymore th that law has not passed away. It's full of universal principles. You know, it's all backed by by universal principles that God still holds us accountable to, like being separate from the world, being holy. Um you know, revering him, loving our neighbor. Much of the Old Testament law was was ways specific applications of that command to love your neighbor as yourself. So we're still under that principle, right? We apply it in different ways. So we have to be very careful in our hermeneutic to remember that. Um Let's see, is is Ricardo coming in today? No? Okay. Or was that from last week? Oh, okay. Cool. Let's see You know, I think we should stop here for today. Actually, uh I want to I want to see if anybody has questions about uh about hermeneutics first before we stop here and go to prayer. Oh that's a great question. Yeah. Um I will after I answer I'll reflect it back to you and because I know you you are uh involved in in teaching as well, so I want to hear what you have to say. But um what I use is um there's one of the great tools that I like is called blue letterbible. org. It's a it's a website that has a lot of these reference materials kind of rolled into it, like a concordance. A concordance, who knows what a concordance is? It's sort of like a Bible dictionary, right? It's um If you have a particular word, uh a concordance will show you it'll give you a definition of the word or like multiple definitions of the word, and it'll show you other scriptures where the word is used so that you can get a sense a better sense for the range of meanings that the word could take on. Because a lot of Uh a big part of interpreting passages like this is deciding on the wor on the meaning of particular words. And to do that You use context, right? Because words can mean different things, and the way we select from among those different meanings is by looking at the context. Um right, like I like if I say, um, you know, I I I spring out of bed in the morning, right? Spring spring could mean a season, it could mean uh a metal coil, it could mean to jump Right, which one of those meetings did I mean? To jump, right? And how do you know that? From the context, right, yeah. From from the context of the sentence. That's an easy one. But you know, no they're not all that easy. Um but a concordance can help you see, okay, what are the possible meanings of this word And then the context can help you decide which of those possible meanings to go with. And it can provide you other examples of scriptures where it's used. So concordance. Lexicon, uh, you know, sometimes uh one of another of the tools in Blue Letter Bible is uh an interlinear English and Greek Bible. So it'll show you the actual Greek word that um is translated as the English word, which can be useful because that'll show you verb tense. Greek has a lot of verb tenses that English doesn't have. Greek has also like gendered nouns and adjectives. um which we don't, and plural and singular nouns and a uh sing plural and singular adjectives, which we don't, um usually, I think. Uh yeah, any any other ones? Yeah. records will also give you some insight as to what the world is not like. A lot of people say, well, this will dispersion. And by colouring coins, you can add what you know is Right. Even this having like different translations on the label? Mm-hmm. And I'd be thinking it a little stuff. Yeah. Yeah, that's super helpful. Look at the other gospels. Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah, that's reading parallel passages. Huge, hugely important. Yeah, in the Gospels there's almost always a parallel passage for what you're studying. Even in the the New Testament epistles, usually there's a parallel passage in another of Paul's letters or Peter's letters that will shed light on what you're what you're looking at. Another resource that's sort of bundled in at with Blue Letter Bible is called the Treasury of Scripture Knowledge. So it that can help you find those parallel passages. Right. So it if you're reading like Matthew five, it'll say, Oh, go to Luke six or whatever. I I just made that up. But um Yeah, those those are good. Uh I think those are the primary resources you want to use, but also you don't want to do it solo, right? Like don't don't try to be a one-man or one woman Bible expositor. Um the Bible was not meant to be read individually by isolated hermits you know, trying to figure out what it means. It's meant to be read publicly in a covenant community. By not by That's not to say that like Bible reading is only for experts. No, it's for everyone, but it's for everyone together in a covenant community. Like that's why that's why preaching is so important. Uh that's why it's so important for us all to gather as a church on Sunday morning and hear the Word of God exposited publicly together so that we all have that shared understanding of what Scripture says. We're not just all like fragmented off in our own room studying the Bible. and coming to different conclusions about stuff. Um so a way you can do that in your own Bible study is to read like sermons or articles from other uh trusted scholars who uh who are committed to the same kind of uh scriptural interpretation and hermeneutic that you are. Um I'll go by the goal everything about the training or same information. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Commentaries, good commentaries. Yep. Yeah. Yeah, there's a lot of good tools out there. I mean I think one I didn't mention and is less of a tool and more of a a discipline or a a habit is you just have to have a lot of familiarity with the scriptures. And this is something you you just have to do from a young age through your whole life. You just keep reading, keep reading through the scriptures. Like a lot of when I'm preparing for these lessons, um a lot of the cross references and um you know, like parallel passages that I find are not because I did a Google search or or a blue letter Bible search. It's because I memorized some verses when I was in elementary school and they popped back into my head as I was reading this stuff. And so, like, I can't overemphasize the value of just being familiar with the scriptures your whole life. Uh that will help you that will help the word of God be hidden in your heart and help it to be more of a conversation between you and the Holy Spirit versus just an echo chamber in your own head, you know Alright, well I think let's uh break up into men and women for prayer last ten minutes. Oh, five minutes