Okay, um so let's turn to this question uh number four on our outline here, page two. Are headship and submission part of God's design for marriage? So remember we're we're comparing and contrasting uh these two views. Egalitarianism, which stresses um that authority should be shared equally between men and women in all relationships and aspects of life, uh, versus complementarianism, which says that uh men and women are inherently equal in their essence, but that God has designed different roles and different authority uh for men and women in, for example, marriage and the church. So now we're turning to the specific question of marriage. Are headship and submission part of God's design for marriage? Egalitarianism would say no, and complementarianism would say yes. And so we're going to talk, we're going to look at the two main two of the main texts on this question that address this question. Uh the first is Genesis one through three, uh which we've actually already looked at in detail in previous uh lessons. So um we're not going to go through and do like a detailed exegesis. So you can you can look back at the previous outline for that. But we're going to sort of summarize the main points that we learned uh a few weeks ago from Genesis one through three. Uh remember this is the the creation account um that uh shows that God created men and women inherently equal yet profoundly different. Where do we see the equality between men and women in the Genesis account? Enactal versus Um yeah, yeah. Or you can paraphrase. Women and man and woman living? Yeah. Genesis one twenty-seven. Um in his image uh so God created man in his own image. Um in the image of God he created him. Male and female he created them. Right. So there's man and woman bearing equally the image of God, um, full equality of essence. Right? Uh there are other Other places that we see the inherent equality of men and women, uh in the interest of time, um I want to go and look at the evidence for Adam's leadership in in the marriage between Adam and Eve. And this is evidence that is present in God's design before the effects of sin. Right, so we're looking at we're looking at the uncorrupted, very good uh way that creation operated before the fall. So what evidence is there for Adam being the leader and the head in that marriage, that first marriage between Adam and Eve? Uh well the first one is that God created Adam first. And he created Eve to be his helper Um remember Genesis two says that um God said, Let us make a suit a helper corresponding to him. And and so that's uh that was the the principle, the motive that God had for creating Eve. And You know, you m if if you're if you're like me, you'd um notice the fact like this and say, well, what does that have to do with authority, right? uh what does the order of creation, the fact that Adam came first and Eve came second, what does that have to do with authority? I mean after all, you could you could use this to argue the other direction, right? The um the animals were created before Adam. Uh, but they don't have authority over him. Right? So why would you say that uh that Adam being created first means he has authority over Eve And you know, so this is the this is a place where we really have to pr uh apply our hermeneutical principles, right? If you look up just a little bit. at uh the the right way to interpret scripture point three allowing clearer scriptures to interpret less clear scriptures Right, so letting scripture interpret scripture is a really important hermeneutical practice that we have to use. So yeah, we might um we might not understand why Uh Adam being created first implies his leadership. But if we look at the New Testament, we find a couple of places where Paul explicitly uses that fact to argue that um to argue for male headship and male authority. Uh so I've copied them down here. First Corinthians eleven, nine and ten. Um Paul's uh talking about prophesying and and the differences in how men and women should prophesy. And he says, For indeed man was not created for the woman's sake, but woman for the man's sake. Therefore the woman should have a symbol of authority on her head. So Here we've got Paul saying um saying that uh Eve was created um after Adam for his sake, to be his helper, and therefore um that's connected to the authority that God gave to Adam. So Paul explicitly connects the order of creation with authority in marriage and male headship. And then Again, in 1 Timothy 2. 12 he says, But I do not allow a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. For it was Adam who first who was first created, and then Eve. So again he's using the order of creation as the basis for um for saying that uh the man in a in a marriage has authority uh over a woman and in this case also in the church. Right? So Paul clearly connects the order of creation to authority. And You might you know that that leads you to ask why. You know, if uh if for example the uh like we said before, the animals were made before Adam, does that mean the animals have authority over Adam No? Well then why does Adam being created first mean that um he has authority over Eve? Just want to pose that question to the group. What what do you think? I think this is the case. Well, uh okay, let me rephrase it. So so often we come to this this kind of thing in scripture a lot, where there's something that scripture teaches that we don't understand, right? And Um often we're we find ourselves in the position that we're convinced that Scripture teaches it, but we don't understand why. So let me re let me ask a different question. What do you do in that situation when you become convinced that Scripture teaches something, but you don't understand why? What's the f what's the right response? Yeah, yeah, you wrestle with it, right? You you search the you search the scriptures to um uh to find principles that help you understand why. Um So there's uh there's a principle that God often calls us to to believe or to obey before we understand. Right. So uh I I went through this when I was um uh so some of you may know that before uh coming to hope like about ten or fifteen years ago, I was a theistic evolutionist, right? I believed uh that God created everything the diversity of life using evolution as the means. And um so that was uh you know I was I was wrong about that, um but I I believed it uh on the basis of not really understanding the scriptures very well. But then after, you know, through a gradual process over many years, uh, including some of the teaching here at this church, I came to understand that the scriptures are incompatible with evolution and that the scriptures in fact teach a young earth that's about six thousand years old. And I didn't understand how that could possibly be true I was in fact I I was really like angry that Scripture taught that. Um it it was tearing me up inside. But I was convinced that Scripture taught it, so I had to choose, right? Am I going to believe it because I'm convinced that scripture is teaching it, am I am I going to believe God or am I going to rebel in my mind, in my heart, and not believe it until I am satisfied in my understanding of how that's possible? Right? And I I had to sort of painfully submit myself to believing and obeying before I understood. Yeah, oh yeah, yeah. You you s you can't really be a professional scientist, um, and and believe in creationism, you know, in in the biblical account of creationism. Yeah, because um you know adherence to to the worldview of evolution is sort of uh enforced as one of those silent prerequisites for um advancement in in the scientific profession. There there may be some positions in like industry and government where you could um practice professionally without without believing that. But you know, so I think um you know in a lot of these questions about um about e uh complementarianism versus egalitarian egalitarianism, there's there's we get into places where um There are things we don't understand, but that we're convinced the scripture teaches. Um and the challenge is, do we believe? Do we submit to God's um God's command uh before we understand, or do we demand that He satisfy our our desire for um for understanding before we obey? But I think I think there is a way, an understandable way, that God's order of creation, the fact that He created Adam first, does relate to authority. Um and and I think it's this, that when God created Adam before he had created Eve, he gave Adam commands, right? He gave Adam the command to um to rule over the the earth, the beasts of the field, to cultivate the field, the the garden and take care of it. Um so he gave those commands to Adam And so uh Eve wasn't there yet, so the primary responsibility for fulfilling those commands rested on Adam's shoulders. um not Adam and Eve together because Eve wasn't there, but Adam's shoulders. And so and that's the way authority tends to work, uh, even in human institutions, right? It's the um like when when the United States was founded and and the Constitution was ratified and the office of the president was created He was the first office to be created in the executive branch. And then subsequently the presidency, the executive branch created the secretaries of the different departments like defense and Treasury and all that. And then those departments created sub-agencies and you know the the lesser authorities were created after the primary authority um because um they needed help. They needed they needed someone to delegate to. So even in human institutions I think this principle uh is operative, that the primary authority gets created first and then um subordinate authorities get created later uh as as helpers to that primary authority So I think the fact that God created Adam and gave him commands before creating Eve is is actually relevant to the working of authority in in marriage. Yeah. So so um God's word is good if there was to have The apostle had his warms of people. Equalist. Yeah. Right. Yeah, and then in fact we find it clear um in in various New Testament passages that um the husband does have the authority, right? And it's not authority like the world thinks of authority. It's not a domineering authority. It's not an authority to be used for selfish purposes. purposes, it's an authority to be exercised with humility, like Christ exercises his authority, um, willing to sacrifice himself, willing to give himself up for the good of the one under his authority. So it's It's absolutely a radical departure from the world's view of authority. But it is still authority. Um and if you're out in the in this crazy hurricane form. Uh-huh. Do you want to give the authority to the Catholic? But you want to give the equal authority from every order of the ship. Yep. Yeah. How about you go to a brain surgery and you give the authority to a nurse? Uh-huh. Right. Um and then so there are there's the order of creation um Adam being created first, which implies authority. There's also a couple other evidences we see in Genesis, which is um Adam naming his wife Um which again is not like a domineering exercise of authority, it's a loving one. Right? It's he says, At last this is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, she shall be called woman, for she was taken out of man. You know, it's a loving exercise of that of that initiating leadership to name his wife. God gave commands to Adam as the representative. I kind of already mentioned this. But another point that um is really interesting is that Adam had to have taught his wife the commands of God Right, because God gave the commands to Adam. Uh there's no evidence that he repeated that command to Adam and Eve together. Um Adam um seems to have taught his wife the commands of God. And I think this is really important because it draws a connection between authority and teaching. Which we see also in the New Testament. Right? Remember First Timothy? I don't allow a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man for it was Adam who was first created. So This is there's this connection between authority and teaching. And I think this is super important. And if we miss this, we'll probably miss the the heart of God's design. Historically throughout salvation history, um God's people have been under attack from the forces of evil. Right from Satan. It started here in the garden when the serpent came off and deceived Eve. Um it continued in uh with God's people Israel and the wilderness. Uh it continues, uh, you know, with the kingdom of Israel and the church. Satan is always trying to attack and deceive the people of God. And what's the attack strategy of Satan? The attack strategy is deception. It's lies. It's false teaching. So what is the defense strategy of the people of God? Truth, right teaching. Right? That is um so the and that's the basis of authority in the Bible. Authority in the Bible is designed to protect and safeguard the people of God against the attack Right? So Adam's authority here in the family was supposed to protect and safeguard Eve against the serpent. against the serpent's deception. So authority has to involve a teaching function and because it's because it's protective, um, it is a male occupation, right? That's why throughout the history of God's people, uh the people that God has raised up to protect and defend and teach his people have always been men Right like the the elders of Israel, um the the kings of of the kingdom of Israel, the apostles in the church. Um the elders after the apostles. The these are all men who are given the calling of protecting the church, the people of God, by teaching truth and countering Satan's deception So I think I think this is really the whole Bible argument for why positions of authority um are reserved for men. It's because they're positions of protecting and teaching. Uh there's a great article written for the Gospel Coalition on basically that point. Uh it's it's the whole Bible case for complementarianism. I should I'll I'll throw a link to it in the Slack channel, but I it's definitely worth reading. I mean And if the author of that could come teach this class, we'd be better off. But you can probably read that and and get everything that I'm trying to say here Um but yeah, so I think it's very significant that we see in the first chapters of Genesis, in God's perfect design, that God gave commands to Adam as the representative, and that his responsibility was to teach his wife as a way of protecting humanity from the schemes of Satan. And then the flip side of that is that when there was disobedience, right, when Adam and Eve sinned finally, who did God hold accountable for that? Adam. He came to Adam first and he said, What is what is this you have done? You know, why who told you that you were naked? So Adam bore the first responsibility. Now Adam and Eve both experienced the effects of the curse, and so did the serpent. But it was Adam who represented his family before God. And it was Adam to whom God came first for accountability. Yeah, and we also saw you know a couple weeks ago when we talked about this that um God's design of Adam and Eve's bodies also points to their their different roles. So it's not just that uh it's not just that they have different callings or different uh are given different authority in marriage, um, they're given the s sort of physical equipment to fulfill those callings. Uh Adam's physical strength for working the garden and for protecting uh his his family and then Eve's capacity to bear children and to become the mother of all the living, uh, which was her particular calling. So um part of what I want to do here is uh not just present not just analyze the scriptures that relate to headship and submission in marriage, but uh deal with the some of the objections that egalitarians often raise because um you know sometimes they're legitimate objections and and they make good points. And you know, we should always treat debates within the church this way. Right? The the people who we're debating against, they might be wrong, but when we deal honestly and thoroughly with their points, we will learn something. That's that is the the function of debate in the church. So egalitarians would respond to this view of Genesis in a couple of different ways. And I've shown the egalitarian objections in italics here in this outline. So uh some egalitarians argue that authority is not explicitly mentioned in Genesis 1 through 2 Which is true, the word authority does not appear. So, therefore, it's wrong to emphasize authority as part of God's design for marriage. Hmm. So w what do we think about that argument? I mean, does that argument make sense, first of all, or are the questions about that? If the Bible doesn't use the word authority, are are we wrong to emphasize authority as a dynamic. Well, and I would say that authority is least visible uh when both parties are gladly pursuing the same goals, which is the case for Adam and Eve before sin. Right? So it's like, uh we've used this metaphor before, but it's like a dance Right, when when a man and a woman are dancing, um, you know, and and I'm talking like traditional ballroom dance, right, the the man has the leadership role, but if you watch really good dancers, you can't really tell who's leading. You can't really tell who's in authority there, right? Um because they're both working towards the same goal. They both know the steps. Uh they both uh trust each other to do what what their roles require of them. And so what you see is something that doesn't look like an over exercise of authority. What you see is is two people working together. towards to make something beautiful. But there is leadership active in that in that activity, right? It's understood, right? It's below the surface. It's subtle. Uh which makes it beautiful. Um so I would argue that that's how authority worked in the garden before sin. It was understood. It was subtle and it was beautiful because both Adam and Eve were working towards the same goal of obeying God. And they both trusted each other to do what their roles demanded of them Um it doesn't mean that authority was not present. Uh it just means that that's that's how it's supposed to work. Authority is not supposed to be heavy-handed or domineering. It's supposed to be subtle and beautiful. Um, but it's still clear that there was authority there, right, because of the evidences that we that we just went over, right? Adam's role as the accountable representative is still very clear in Genesis 1 through 3. Even though the word authority isn't used. And um that implies that he's the head, that he's the the representative, the leader, uh which which implies authority. So what do you guys think about that that argument? That debate. Any questions or um you know aspects that I that I didn't bring up that you'd like to address Well, okay, we can move on to uh the second one. It's related. Uh the second egalitarian objection uh to this view of Genesis 1 through 3 is that the first explicit mention of authority, which is in chapter three, it says, and he shall rule over you, that's part of the curse, um, is is part of the curse in Genesis three and not part of God's good design. This is the basis of most egalitarian arguments, which is that male headship and authority in marriage is a result of the curse and therefore especially for Christians um salvation and redemption liberates women from male headship in marriage and reverses that curse. That's that's the primary egalitarian argument against um male headship in marriage, is that it's part of the curse. Well they I mean they they miss or or um minimize the indications of Adam's authority in Genesis two and say that um I don't I don't think this is legitimate. Uh they say that the authority only came in in Genesis three Uh that before that it was an egalitarian marriage and then in as a result of the curse it was a complementarian marriage, right? Um yeah, it it's convenient, right? And as we've seen, that's not uh that's not really accurate, and it's not an accurate reading of Genesis 2. And it also does not deal faithfully with the other passages like Ephesians five in the New Testament. But it's an argument. Um So I would respond to that argument with by looking at the other curses, right? The the the curse in Genesis 3, there were three parts to it. Well, there were maybe four parts. So w the curse on the serpent we'll we'll set that one aside, but um the curse affected uh work for Adam, right? What what did the curse say to Adam about work? Yeah, yeah. In toil you shall eat of the ground, you know, by the sweat of your brow. Um From dust you came into dust you will return. That kind of thing. Right? So work did but did that curse introduce work? Was was that where the first the first instance of work came in To creation? No. How do we know that? He was already working. Yeah, because God told God said, um He created Adam to work the ground and take care of it, to cultivate the garden. Right? So there was work going on there. It just wasn't toilsome. Right, so so that curse did not introduce work into God's creation. It just made it painful and conflict prone. No, yeah, I don't think so because part of the curse was the ground will produce thorns and thistles for you, right? Not that not that I think thorns and thistles were created at that moment, but just that Before then, creation actually obeyed human authority. Right? So if the human gardener Didn't want thorns and thistles growing here in the midst of of like the wheat and the the trees. They didn't grow there. Um But after the curse, creation rebelled against human authority just like humans rebelled against God's authority. Yeah. Uh-huh. And there tastes great, but they are taking over it is just It's part of the curse, man. Yeah. Hmm. Yeah. Well then there's the second aspect of the curse, which touches on childbearing, right? Um we know that one. In pain you shall bring forth children, God said to Eve. Um So does that mean that childbearing was a result of the curse and the fall? No? How do we know that? Yeah, God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply. Exactly. So childbearing, or or the intent to bear children at least, existed before the fall, before sin. What did what did the curse do? Made it painful, yeah. So um we see this principle at work in the other two instances of the curse that The curse didn't introduce a new element to God's design. It took an element that was good and made it painful and conflict prone. So it's best to see um the operation of the curse in the same way in marriage, right? When when God says as part of the curse that uh to Eve, your desire will be for your husband and he shall rule over you, um that's That's not God inventing male authority in response to the fall. That's taking the the good, um, beneficial, subtle, beautiful authority that existed before the fall and making it Um conflict prone and painful. Because like every mom is gonna walk up to handle just chunky Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Every every person every stage who arrives has Yeah. You blew it, man. Yeah. Of course we have to remember that um our our nature is such that we would have done the same thing. Right. God chose Adam as the representative for all humanity because uh he He chose rightly, basically, right? He chose a representative who accurately represented our inclinations and our our desires. We would have sinned too. So yeah, we don't get out. Don't yeah, don't punch out. Yeah Um okay, so I think um Those those are the two main egalitarian objections that I have read uh in in response to the reading of Genesis 1 through 3. Has anybody heard any other ones? Oh, and there are other there are other egalitarian arguments, but they generally uh reach to other other portions of scripture um which we're definitely gonna cover uh but specifically on oh y one thing I did want to mention, you know, egalitarians um there's a lot of agreement between egalitarians and complementarians on Genesis one through three. I don't want to imply that we interpret it completely differently. Alright, the egalitarians would say, look at God's creation, look at God's design and how uh man and woman equally share the um the image of God. Uh look at the word for helper. You know when God created Eve to be Adam's helper. That's not a that's not like a weak title or a weak role, that word is used uh for to describe God coming to the aid of Israel in battle. Right? So so we should read that not as not as like a uh a diminutive title helper, but as as like strong helper. You know, God God made a strong and capable helper uh to come to Adam's rescue to help him fulfill the commands of God that he couldn't fulfill alone. All of this we would totally agree with, right? That is that's all uh completely true and and and and right to emphasize about the Genesis account. But of course we would just say that doesn't negate the authority either. Um Yeah, so I think I just wanted to make that clear because I think uh in a lot of these debates, egalitarians accuse complementarians of minimizing or denying the equality and dignity. of women. But you know, we should be very careful to teach exactly what God teaches through Scripture, that there is great equality and dignity um in in women and between men and women. Uh yeah, I think most like mainline liberal Protestant denominations would embrace egalitarianism. Yeah. So like universalism I would see as like even outside of the scope of Christianity. But Um yeah, if you look at at sort of the the main Protestant denominations that came about in the nineteenth century, uh like the United Methodist Church or the Presbyterian Church USA, uh United Church of Christ. There's there's seven denominations that sort of in the early twentieth century dominated um American Christianity and they are all egalitarian in some form. Yeah. No, yeah, no, it's not um it's not just no, yeah, it's not just an academic position. It's not like a a fringe position or anything. It might even Might even be the majority position. I think there are now evangelicals who are um effectively egalitarian, although they may not uh take that label on. But they they they would believe in in sort of a shared authority and an abolition of role distinctions. Um Morning, by so okay, any questions? Uh about this. I think we're gonna we're gonna save Ephesians five for next time. That's that's where we're gonna do our first real in-depth exegesis. of scripture and we're going to apply the these hermeneutical principles that we've been talking about. Okay, well, I think let's let's break up for prayer