14 through 19. Yes. So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, person are you more than all cattle and more than every beast of the field. On your belly you will go, and dust you will eat all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth, and then you will bring forth children. Yet your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. Then to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree above which I commanded you, saying you shall not eat from it. Cursed is the ground because of you. In toil you will eat of it all the days of your life, both thorns and thistles that shall grow for you, and you will eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you will eat bread, will you return to the ground, because from it you were taken For you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Okay. I know talking to this group, I know you've seen this passage, you've probably studied this passage. Um So let's go over real quick. So uh provisions of the covenants, in other words, uh and he uses this a general term that uh uh uh Fruchtenbaum uses. I I kinda like it. It is it's it's not so much the consequences, the provisions. Provisions can be positive or negative. I guess so can consequences really, but uh just the way he labels it. So, the serpent, uh three fourteen, right? Uh There are three provisions for the serpent. The first is that the animal will be cursed more than all the cattle and the beasts of the field. Um I don't want to get too sidetracked. Some will say out of I looked at a couple of commentaries. Um I I don't want to split the hairs on that. Um uh it seems to me, even on a secondary level, that um uh the animals got cursed. Not directly. The serpent is being cursed directly. The ground and and you think about it and and the animals is is as a result is because of uh uh our fallenness. They and and inherit the result as well, but the serpents curse specifically. Second, the serpent would crawl on its bellies. Uh he's going to be cursed more than all the animals of the field, right? Second, the serpent would And Mel was talking about this. Although we do not know what the serpent looked like, it is evident that the form changed after the curse. Uh Kyle says uh that it's present with uh shape is part of the curse. Commentators see this curse as uh serpent uh pointing to the curse of Satan, who wanted to be lifted up uh above God, uh like the serpent, uh was brought low even on his belly. Uh Leviticus, whatever crawls on his belly is detestable. Um third, the serpent would eat dust all the days of his life. The Little Pole says that this expression to lick the dust is used as a Bible as an expression of humiliation and defeat. Uh I've given you some verses there in Micah, Isaiah, and so on. The serpent will crawl in its belly and lick its dust and Um if you're not familiar with Isaiah sixty five, if you look at the second half of that chapter, and it we won't do it at this point, we may do it a little later, depending on the time, but the uh it it to us us who believe in a millennial kingdom, it looks like the millennial kingdom. It says in there the people will live if they die at a hundred, they'll die as a youth. Um they'll build houses so and they'll uh they'll plant uh vineyards and and their their crops will come forth. So ki it it's not heavy, obviously. Uh so we assume that this is literal, uh that this is it makes sense to be in the kingdom. It says at the end there, it says that uh the you know, the lion will lay with the lamb and th but the serpent is gonna eat eat dust. So even in a restored kingdom Uh you know you see this in Isaiah eleven, right? Uh the child can put his hand into a cobra's nest, he won't be harmed. Uh we again we assume that's uh assuming we're assuming this is going to happen. It's literal. Um uh But the serpent is going to lick dust. The curse seems to be on the serpent even even in a restored millennial kingdom. Satan. Hmm. 315. We have a kind of a transition here, don't we? Let's read it real quick. Um I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed he shall bruise you on the head, and he and you shall bruise him on the heel. Um there are four provisions per se. First being the enmity between the woman uh and himself. Adam and Eve are in a state of human depravity. Uh and and we'll we'll look at this a little bit more later, but think about that. uh they're falling. Um we kinda have to assume they're in the uh state of depravity we are. We don't know that. But but there there is a they're hiding from God, remember that. Right? It's huge when you think about it. I mean what a quick transition. So they're hiding from God. Uh we'll look at this a little bit later. So uh they're gonna need salvation, right? Uh so uh three eight through thirteen, uh we see their disobedience to God's command. First they made uh uh they hide from God, they no longer see God is uh uh as their friend uh Rather they fear him. Adam and Eve blame God and the w uh the woman and the serpent, uh but are willing to confess their own guilt. So I mean w remember they all blame right, he says to the man, what'd you do? Well the woman. then he says, The y the Roman you gave me right? And then he says, uh the Roman says, Well the serpent tricked me, right? Uh but no one takes responsibility here. They are not friends, uh uh Adam and Eve blame God. The serpent, but are unwilling to confess their own guilt. They are not friends with uh Satan. He put enmity there. This is huge. We'll uh hopefully we'll have time to unpack this. Uh th you know they're f w we know now, you know, uh friends with the world, you're enemies with God, um uh uh you talked about the father in John eight forty four, he's uh Jesus talking to the religious leaders, he says, You you're of your father, the devil, right? Uh, according to the Prince of the Power of the Air, that's Ephesians two two, we were uh uh we were dead, right? Accord uh uh we were all dead in our trespassing sin according to the our sins. uh we walk according to the course of this world, the Prince of the Power of the Air. Um so we see that, but uh uh there's entire there. God put enity there. Right? Were they friends before? We don't know, but w he put enity there. Perhaps there was there was an open door there. It could have been friends. They weren't really hiding from Satan really at this point. Or the serpent. So God's grace saves them through faith, right? Uh but this uh verse prevents Satan from becoming the friend of the people and he relates and this relates primarily to redeemed people who were no longer enemies of God, right, but enemies of Satan. Uh once uh angels fell, their destiny was a lake of fire. There's no redemption for angels, right? God through his grace has provided salvation uh from his judgment uh through the sun, making the uh us enemies of Satan. This is huge. Enmity. God put enity there. And I'm out there on my s my I haven't really s verified this. There's definitely uh enmity with with s with saved people. But I I w I almost see it almost like uh uh Romans two. And again this is My thinking it seems like God has put a somewhat of an enmity with with man in general. They yes, there are people that that actually seek devil worship, but we we see that. But you see across it's almost like the the conscience of man in Romans too. God put on their conscience, you know, to do good or or to know good. Uh it doesn't mean there's salvation there, but uh I I it seems to me that God has put on our conscience that uh uh even under say people realize that uh seeking the devil th th is kind of a line there's a they're crossing a line. But again, that's my take on this. But it's definitely with redeemed people, right? We're gonna s that's gonna play out through all of this, right? We're gonna we're we'll look at this this seed, we'll pick it up here. The second phrase, your seed and her seed. Okay, this can be taken to mean generally uh offspring of Eve and the woman uh uh future generations, particularly those who are regenerate believers. Uh we see this in genealogies of of Genesis. Uh there are two lines, right? You see Cain's line, Seth's line, you see that going through Genesis. Uh Uh we we see it as as we go up through uh up to Noah. Noah was a line of Seth. Uh we s uh again we can make too much of this, uh but um God had chosen a line, uh e even before Abraham, uh right, the Messiah's gonna come to this this redeem, it's it seems. Uh I think Eve uh uh I'll say it now in case we run out of time. I think Eve was chosen, right? She'd fall in. He we're gonna see this. Eve was chosen, uh, to be the mother of of of of the living. That's why she's called Eve. Uh I I want to spend time on that, but again I know that it runs short. There's a lot to cover here. So. The ultimate seed, the one who would rescue them from uh from the power of death is Jesus, right? Uh Christ uh Uh Satan seed also is a general reference to fallen man. Right? We talked about that before, right? Uh uh we were all walking according to the course of this world, the prince of the paradigm, the spirit that is now working. in the sons of disobedience. Most people we think of the Holy Spirit working in the world, but Ephesians two tells us there's a demonic spirit in the world too. Uh w we're don't underestimate this. Uh there is a connection with Satan and the beast. Um but again this is this is uh uh remote even um uh the primary uh this most commentators, John MacArthur, uh uh th the other ones I looked at, the primary emphasis is not so much on it's a general hersey is i i uh uh i the primary reference there is on the seed of the woman, the generations, the chosen, the s the the the ones that will be sa uh saved against the sons of disobedience. There is a secondary, and we will get into that in and I think the secondary comes uh in a moment, uh uh, which is the third phrase we're gonna pick up here. Four phrases. In the third and fourth phrase, we see the conflict. He shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. You see a lot of things. About, you know, he's only bruised, Christ, Satan's crushed. Um just remember and and we we see that from scripture, uh Romans I think it's sixteen twenty says, you know, Satan will be crushed when when he but also what they you know, it says that in Isaiah fifty three, God was pleased to crush his son. So it's the same word in in these this text here. Whether it's bruised, crushed, it's the same word. Okay? So you have to whatever was of Um God or you know, Christ was of Satan, whatever was of Satan was of God as far as this word goes. You have to define it the same way. You we can't be just changing it. The the p uh the thing of it is, uh remember, mm I mean God was Jesus did die, he was put to death, but we're talking about the God man. He's a he's a creator. Death couldn't hold him. And uh I think I have that well I have that Acts two twenty four, right? Um now we see uh in the third and fourth phrases we see this conflict, all right? He shall bruise you on the head and you shall bruise him on the heel. Now we see in the masculine singular, he right, will bruise or crush, and again a lot a lot of them s uh s uh see that word there, you on the head, uh pointing to one who Was able to perform this feat, namely the Messiah. The seed of the woman finds us for uh fulfillment in the virgin birth, Isaiah 714. Uh but as many commentators remark, this is essentially a prophecy, uh not a prophecy. prophecy of the virgin birth as it is about the seed of the one who is able to thwart, right, or crush Satan's plan. Jesus Christ uh must suffer the crucifixion. I put down here Isaiah 5310. But the grave couldn't hold him, since it is impossible for him to be held in his power. It's uh quote for the last part of Acts two twenty-four. So we see what's going on here. We uh Satan is cursed. Um we see that this is we're we're this is a uh uh this is a snippet of the gospel. Well think about it. We're turning all this on one word. Again, uh what is the gospel? Uh Adam and Eve had the gospel, but not the gospel that we had, not the full gospel. But they believed God, didn't they? Uh He names her Eve. He knows he's gonna have an offspring. He knows they're not gonna die. They're he from this verse, your seed goes, Oh, we're gonna gonna live on. We're you know, we're gonna have children. Right? Adam believed that. He names her living. Eve means living. Eve is really it's it's Latin, it's Eva. Uh it's not close to the Hebrew. So Yeah, it's a Latin import, you know, it's a the theologians, but it's living and that's what that's what the Hebrew word means. Living. Life. Right? He said you're condemned to death if you eat this fruit, he calls her life. Okay, that's sal salvation uh uh uh is believing what gospel God has given you at this time. Right? And I said this before with Abraham. Abraham believed God. He believed God was going to give him an offspring, right? That's what it says in in uh Genesis 15, 6. Okay? He believed believe God and he think about it, Abraham's pushing uh in his eighties, pushing ninety. Uh actually he might have been older than that. Even after he told him that in Genesis fifteen sixty he waited another ten or fifteen years. Like I don't remember what the numbers were. That's a lot of waiting. That's and you're getting older and older. But he believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. That's the gospel, that's the good news. Ours is way more complete, but here it is here. He it's singular, not her seeds, which is right, either singular or plural, and we're assuming it's plural, her generation, her offspring. Right? he's offspring is he. It's it's it's singular. It's uh you know, it's a pronoun singular pronoun. And that's what I'm saying. D and that's my point. Do you see how we're going through this? how revelation is progressive. This is packed up and pushed down and compressed and ready to explode into a full gospel, but this is the beginning seeds of that gospel. That's what that is that's what we see throughout uh Revelation, right? The same principles over and over again. They didn't believe God, they trusted in themselves. It's disobedience, right? Uh Uh uh it's sin. It separates us. Uh there's a there's a provision to come back, a reconciliation. Uh it's God. Same still. Over and over again. And it's elaborated and it's expanded as we go through the the Bible. This is this is what we see. And we see these principles are going to continue, right? Uh so the woman. The consequence for the woman's disobedience was extreme pain and childbirth. Thus the first consequence for the woman is physical uh it's uh mental pain as well as emotional stress and anxiety up through delivery. Second Women would desire uh to usurp the leadership role uh by desiring to rule over to rule uh over their leadership, right? To rule men, to control. Uh the comparison of desire uh three hundred sixteen and four four seven indicates that desire in both instances is to rule over. So in four seven he's talking to King, right? Um if you do well your your countenance will be lifted up then If you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door and its desire is for you, but you must master it. It's the same phrasing as as we have in three sixteen. Sin wants to control him. So again, we're talking we're not talking we're talking about the fall, okay? We're talking about why things are this way. And remember this is just not this is a curse. God is specifically cursing Adam, Eve, and consequently we're us, right? It's not just some principle we put in into place. Uh okay, but God is gracious. He's also gonna provide a way uh of salvation, right? A way of return. So again Uh I I wanna get through this so we we can maybe spend a little time unpacking some of these. The man. But these are the concrete thing, right? So she has trouble and childbirth. Um a and We know that's true. And and th they also talk about uh he will increase uh uh i there a lot of them take this that actually the birth rate is they think could have been increased. The number of births. Uh you see this in some of these countries. Uh you see in Africa uh maybe a lot of 'em uh have a tremendous amount of children and they really don't have the provisions for 'em and they keep having children. Uh and w w it's it's supposed to have been a good relationship. Now it's a cursed relationship. They're having children they can't provide for, uh the relationships with men and women, uh uh certainly uh I mean, because of the curse, it's bad, right? Women are disobedient, men are are tyrants, they can be desperates, right? Both are bad. Uh the curse is on the relationship. The two primary things, her children and her relationship with a man. Right? This is a curse. Man. Three seventeen to nineteen. God gave five provisions uh uh in three seventeen. First Adam uh stands as a representative of the whole human race and consequently the judgment of Adam is applied to all humans. Adam, not Eve, is responsible for not obeying the command, not to eat from the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. If he was the head, he the head is responsible. Um uh my dad used to tell me that all time. Uh he wasn't saved but you know, just kind of on his work thing. He goes, um look, he goes the guy who's in control, the w the one who's responsible, the one who's in charge, he's ultimately responsible for what happens underneath them. If he doesn't know what's going on, that's his pri you know. Um a and I think that's good leadership, right? Uh it's tough leadership. People always say, Oh, I'd like to be the boss. Well do you want our responsibility comes with it? Right. Um but so Adam was cursed. It was his responsibility. Second, the earth was cursed in the Garden of Eden and and the ground uh would be brought uh forth uh It would not bring forth uh bountiful crops uh w with uh it well it would have brought forth bountiful crops with proper care, but the curse of the ground would bring forth uh thorns and thistles, which would choke and overtake the planted uh of vegetation, right? The ground produces but not without problems. It will sustain you but it's gonna be it's not gonna produce the same thing. Uh so s uh Surfardi or S I would get his name by Sar Fati. Um uh I picked up a he has a commentary on Genesis like one through eleven. If you remember, he's the one who did the conference here. Uh and he he does uh uh uh apologetics, you know, for scientific uh apologies for the uh uh verification that the Bible's accurate even if you when you compare it with science. And one of the things he was suggesting was that, you know we think about it, everything was a vegetarian and he was and he he suggested he goes, you know, plants not only would have been more bountiful, but they could well have had a lot more nutrients in the if you're gonna be vegetarians, what's one of the problems? have getting protein, right? And uh he you know, he said, you know, it it could've but also y plants would have enough for that to sustain things, right? I mean God can provide. So So uh I thought that was interesting. Um so third, uh human diet would continue to be vegetarian, right? We're still not um uh Right? We're not eating animals not till after uh the flood. Right? They're still vegetarian. Uh so that continues on. Fourth, the labor of the man, this is his work. Yes, the the earth uh would have thorns and thistles, I mean that's the curse of the earth. But now as a result, man's work, it's it's not gonna be pleasurable, it will be hard, uh not as productive, enjoyable. The earth will produce uh adequate food, materials for shelter, but it will require hard toil, labor, sweat order to survive. And we see that now with um you know, we have a lot of good things. Um this technology's good. Um but you have to be I d I say to my wife all the time I go, you know you think about it, they're getting us to do everything. Uh it's nice I can pay my bills online, but nobody's responsible. I'm responsible for all that. You ever notice they're kinda turning the administration over to us when you go to these businesses? Uh there's nobody there. I was like, I'm paying you, I'm calling you up, you take care of it. I don't want to go on and figure this out. Uh you know, there there's a there's good things but there's also it's like life is toil. I mean things don't work out correctly. Um sometimes I I hit on my computer and it just goes I'm like, what do I do now? How do I get it back to where I wasn't? I do. But he's not always there and it's funny, you know, he doesn't know the answer. A lot of times uh it took us a while to figure out, he doesn't know the answer. He just starts clicking on everything and he goes, Oh, there's We're not willing to click on anything. We assume no the answer is here, no, isn't that fifth, physical death, thumbulcy, uh Um uh the Edenic, remember uh uh let me read it. Uh physical death. Someone see the Edenic covenant is spiritual death, right, when they hide uh in that Adam and Eve uh hid hid um and were fearful of God. This is a uh thus a separation. Uh the Adamic Covenant, uh God uh says that you are dust and dust you shall return. I mean that's uh that kind of brings it home, doesn't it? The covenant applies to all Man, Romans five twelve, what therefore, just as through one man sin entered into the world and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sin. For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even though were those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam, who is a type of him who was to come. And I I have a question here, like, you know, what is death? Um What is death? Is death just is it just you know I in secular I would have said before salvation I said death is you know, it's it, it's final. I think it's that's why it scares so many people. I think uh this covet thing uh has scared so many people and and you know, we've had a lot of conversations and with um uh a and I say, well really it should scare up, shouldn't it? Right? What is death? I mean they don't know what death is. It's definitely separation from here, right? So is death just spiritual? Is it just physical? Is it physi you know people die that aren't saved? What happens to 'em? They kinda go on. Right? I mean they're separated but they don't so what you know I guess w w what made me think about this is spiritual death and it uh I I mentioned this before Ephesians two, you were dead in your trespasses and sin in which you walk, right? But we're we see a lot of dead people walking around through the dawn just right? It's death though, isn't it? And what and the reason I did that is 'cause think about the there are so many major themes in here to contemplate. God is life. And I I was telling this to my son, I said, you know, so w I asked him, I said, So what do you think death is? And I said, think about it. If if you know, people were you know, looking for the eternal life, some tree or something, or they're looking for the holy grail, you know, they drink out of the cup and to live forever. But think about it. Okay, you live forever. Where are you gonna live? We don't think it though, right? Who who provided the environment of where we live? Where God is life. We forget that. Apart from him, there is no life. And that's why God doesn't think of uh dead as just non-existent, it's being separated from God. That's death. We think of death as body termination. But we're not secular anymore. We know that even those who die go on. Eternally, right? And eternally separated. It also helps me think of the s that brings me back to the sovereignty of God. God rules everything. So this unpacking we uh So really w w we have depravity here, right? This is the Adam and Eve are separated. Um they're sin They need a savior, don't they? Even they're not even out of the garden yet. So you know this condition is comprehensive. It goes over everything. Uh we're looking at a a far greater reality. I mean it's this this is divine child. Judgment, right? By God on everything. It's not just you know, uh was it theistic, you know, where God makes everything and puts it into place and then sits back and and God cursed specifically The ground, the people, right? This the serpent. Well I I wonder if Adam knew what death was. Because he I there's no question. And these yeah, exactly. What what is death? I think I think when he got um from Dust You Came and Dust You Return kinda gave him a more of a picture. Yeah. Yeah. But he had never he had never seen yet. I I was reading I went back just just to check a minute ago. I looked at Folk and Bounds content comment on And he said that uh Adam's death was spiritual as you put in your noted in your in your notes here. Right. But I think I think uh he meant more than that. I think God meant that, hey, when you take of that fruit, you disobey me, you're gonna die. Period. And I think he meant both physical and spiritual death. Right. And w and when the minute that Adam took it that through he died. It just hadn't happened yet. Exactly. And we see that we see that in our own concept. when Jesus died on the cross, this resurrection was accomplished. It just hasn't happened yet. You know. I mean I mean the second coming. But it has it's it's it's certain as the fact that we're sitting here right now it just hasn't happened Right. And same concept with that. Right. And and and here's is and uh to follow exactly your your line, 'cause I agree with you, the Bible sometimes is talking on two levels at the same time. And this isn't the only example. Uh uh Yeah, you're right. Chr Christ did accomplish it. And how did he accomplish it? Uh we have the Holy Spirit. That came after he sended, after the cross. It w did not come before. This is a new thing. Uh this is the new covenant, right? I will he he he he came upon them before, but he has sealed us now. It's a new it's a new salvation. We're sealed for eternity. It doesn't mean that and this is this is with with difficulty. What does it mean? It came upon 'em before, uh, but now it seals us. I don't we I don't want to go too far, I don't know. But we are sealed for eternity. This is new. The old covenant, they were not sealed. Da David said, Don't take your spirit away from me. He didn't say I'll lose my salvation. There's a little phrase in there. He says, Uh, return to me the joy of my salvation. He thought he might lose the spirit's empowering, because David understood. I mean, he was writing psalms, he'd he'd conquered things he knew was was God's doing. Uh so I you know, I don't know. But yeah. I so we see g we see Christ working now. He has We can overcome Satan as individuals through the Spirit, right? And w we're gonna run out of time. Is we'll look at some of the others, but isn't that the solution to the whole problem? Salvation? God cursed them. The world a and we see God drawing back. We see w uh um uh what we call common grace being kind of pulled back and you Mm people can get wo I think there's a common grace there we can't put our finger on but it's there. People could be a lot worse than they are than they are, and I think we're heading that way. I think we see that. Romans one, God says I'm gonna turn Turn you over. And we s we've seen that in societies before, I think we're witnessing it now. I mean w we see the rapid change. Things are moving at a pace. People are speaking like they never spoke before. They throw Jesus uh uh out in public under the bus that they wouldn't have done thirty years ago, not on the media, but now it's no problem. So what I'm trying to say is that we see the the the the movement in there uh of how God is has worked, Christ has worked with us to save after the cross. We s we see it happening. Uh unfortunately, like like Mel. said is it's gonna not gonna be completed until he until he returns. The other thing um blah blah blah this so much here the woman We see the serpent. The woman um uh MacArthur does a really good job with this. Um her two primary yeah uh w what is what do we choose and when we choose something other than God? It's gonna satisfy us more than God. It's the same primary thing. It's exactly what Eve did. This is going to be better than God. Um I don't know how as she was or was thinking about that. But you know how it is, a lot of times we don't really analyze the whole situation. We see something looks really good. And that's that's what our focus stays. I mean you see this all the time in the Bible. I think of the spies when they came, right? And uh uh Joshua uh uh and and uh they're taking over the land and and and not the spies, they came dressed in rags and said we wanted to make a covenant with them. They didn't get all God. They they thought it through, they looked at all the evidence, but they uh Joshua didn't they didn't say, We better pray to God. No, they they went in and made a covenant. Come to find out they were their neighbors. They made a covenant with is exactly what God told him not to do. Um, Abraham listened to uh Sarah, right? Sarah's got a plan. Hey, we can have a child. We'll do it to Hagar. Right? That they can sol uh so we do this all the time, right? We don't we don't analy we isn't that the problem? If I could stop myself a lot of times, whoa let's stop. Let's think about this. Right? But we don't. We we it it's amazing how how some of us are better disciplined than others, how compulsory we can be. She chose something that was gonna be better than God. Never works, right? Uh we could say that's waiting on God. So what happened? She lost her two basic roo uh uh relationships. In a fallen world it is. And and again, here's the solution. Think of the blessing we have in a church. We see a lot of times families, uh, uh children, uh uh They're very a blessing. There's not all this problem. But why is there no problem? We've gone to the solution, right? Laura and I got married, neither one of them was saved. We argued all the time. And I think we actually kinda liked it. One guy was married and said, You guys like to argue, don't ya? And we really weren't mad at each other. We were just like, Oh yeah We definitely changed. I've heard Mike's testimony. Mike talks about this all the time when he does counseling classes, you know. The the uh the it's a r it's the restoration. Right? Ephesians 5. He tells us, you know, family relationships, husbands and this, but it's what's he saying at the beginning of Ephesians? Be filled with the Spirit. Here's the power. Now you can be obedient. it, you know? Uh make sure you're you're you're catching yourself, walking in the power. Yeah, uh women have uh uh some of the plight of women around the world s is i is horrible, is it not? Uh You know, they're abused, they're used. Um that was um Jesus' problems with with the uh religious leaders. They talked about divorce. Can't be divorced in their wives. that they were trading them in for newer ones. If they had money, you could do that back in that economy. And you were they were divorced new wives, they had it if uh you could divorce your wives for virtually no reason at all. You just had to write it out. And then up the woman with with uh they had no means. So yeah, there there there is a a an abuse. Again, you that's the man's side. They're in a relationship. Uh their their relationships are are now cursed. Uh again as a solution is God, the restoration. But without him we're we're we're not gonna go we're not gonna do that. Man's uh Um sitting here debating whether we should we should probably look at we won't have much time, but we'll we'll look at uh the last verses. Uh so man His thing is not in the home, it's in the field. God's gonna curse the ground. It it it's it's not gonna bring anything uh easily. went through this uh the first time. Our work. We have people that are are not pulling the in the right way, we're working in teams is difficult. Um sometimes we just can't hear each other. Uh it's uh w it's hard to listen. A lot of times it's just communication. Somebody will say, uh Laura and I sometimes law and I are saying the same thing from different we're saying the same thing, I'm in one way, she's dating in another way. We can't hear each other. And it's like I guess they're saying the same thing. Different just, you know, half dozen one sick from another, right? So let's look at this just um again uh briefly. And again, this is what I uh this this is the foundation, this is um uh uh this God's coming at God d uh what continues on? When you review this, right? Death continues on, relationship problems continue on, birth problems, even with modern medicine. Um Uh thinking of Sam and Amanda. Amanda had a uh was fortunately we live in a area where in in a s uh culture that uh we've got good uh medical but I understand the pregnancy was difficult. Uh um Work is still difficult. We we are living in uh the lap of luxury now, but think of the rest of the world, right? What uh missionaries used to say if you take a warm shower or and uh Yeah, we eat every day, three times a day. Well a lot of places they don't eat every day. We we take all this for granted, but there there's a lot of places that do struggle and they're working hard just to feed themselves. It's it's it's still There. Um so let's look at this real quick. I know uh we have uh very little time, but right now verse twenty, Genesis uh three. Now the main called is uh his wife's name Eve, right? Life. Okay? And and again, this is the gospel, right? He's calling her life. He should have had death and he's calling her life. He believes God. Um uh Because uh she's the mother of the living. Um, tells you the what the uh means there, right there in the in the verse. The Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and uh his wife, and clothed them. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become one of us, knowing good and evil. Now he might stretch out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God sent him out of the garden. Garden of Eden, to cultivate the ground from which he was taken. The So he drove the man out at the east of the Garden of Eden, stationed him and he stationed the cherubim and the flaming sword. Which turned every direction to guard the way to the tree of life. So he saw death, didn't he, for the first time. Did he see God slaying the animal and skin him? I don't know. But he saw He was he was covered with the garments. Um you know, it's funny, uh Cain uh Cain and Abel show up as a sacrifice. Must have told 'em about sacrifice, didn't he? I don't think they just got it intuitively. Right? Seemed like Abel knew what to bring too, didn't he? Must have uh again the the Bible's silent. You you kinda wish they'd spelled it out, but uh how did Abel know what to bring? Um So we see God provision. I mean again think about it. This is the gospel. We believed God. Okay? Uh God provided the sacrifice. And he protects them. He he takes them out of the garden. He does what's he protecting them from? Uh eat from the tree of life. They could be stuck, they could be uh living in in uh eternity, right? In that sinful state. Think about it. We and that's some of the the difficulty we have in the New Testament. What is uh the flesh? Is it uh uh evil in and of itself? Not necessarily, but yet it says sinful flesh, uh uh it it just seems as though um God had a plan all all along, right? And did God know he that these that Adam and Eve were going to do this? Did he know? Sure he did. You know, and in if if he he had the plan. When did he have the plan? So think about this. We got God plan in this is sovereignty over all this. We have election he said, Eve right? Her seed and your seed is gonna uh produce this. And I and I'll just finish with this in Ephesians one, right? Ephesians one uh Ephesians chapter one verse three uh Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Just as He chose us in Him in Christ, right? Before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless. before him in love. If you think about that, he chose us in Christ. Now why before the foundation of the world. So So if we weren't gonna fall, he wouldn't have had to choose us in Christ, would he? Christ wouldn't have had to uh become a man, right? Take on flesh, right? Before the foundation of the world. Well. You know, God has a plan. We we don't he doesn't tell. We right now we want to fill in all okay, so what was He gives us snippets. We just know he's sovereign. He didn't tell uh all the details. That's where we have to be careful. But he he obviously had planned this. He knew this was gonna happen. And that's about all I can say. We won't say y otherwise we'll be saying too much. I don't know what the details world with uh plan with Satan and and and uh we don't know. But evil was gonna come into the world and God was gonna redeem 'em. And so uh that was just a whirlwind. I don't know um how well I did, you know, when they start talking you up here on the on a ball. courses um uh to unpack these uh the fall of of the woman, the fall of the man and and uh it just really how connected all this is and this tells this is this is the corresponding This is the the what was the word you used? I used paradigm and you said it's like the uh you it's like a bracket or I forget what term you use. This is the mold, this is the the paradigm, this is f for right? For the whole plan of God. He's telling us there. We know why the world that God cursed it. But and He's also provided a way. We know that the sin is in the world. Uh The world doesn't know it. They're grappling right now. That's why this COVID thing has people in such a an uproar. They're trying to invent a system that will correct all this. Isn't that what we always do? I mean E was trying to take bio into a better system