So this is really not part of the covenant but uh yeah as you look at this I don't see how we can move on to the covenants uh uh uh with uh Noah uh until we consider Why the covenants there. So let's let's read real quick. Genesis 6, 1 through 8. This is a very controversial passage. I'm going to give you the clip notes, we can talk about it for a while, but I think if we look at the general gist of of what this is, we need to consider it. Um why did God flood the e flood the earth? Uh Uh so and there's some points there I think we they can be drawn out. Uh there's a tremendous amount written. Would somebody would like a volunteer to read that s uh Genesis six one through eight? Now it came about when men began to multiply on the base of the land, and daughters were born to them, that the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful, and they took wives for themselves whomever they chose. Then the Lord said, My Spirit shall not strive as man forever, because he also is flesh. Nevertheless, his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterwards, when the sons of God came into the daughters of men and they bore children to them. Those were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the philosophy's heart heart was only evil continually. The Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth. And he was grieved in his heart. The Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of my land, from man to animals to creeping things, and to birds of his cry, for I am sorry that I have made them. Mm-hmm. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. Mm. Amen. So, um I've given kind of a intro with this and then then we'll back up and and look at some of the scriptures. Uh I'm gonna s say right up front what it what I think it is. A lot of there's definitely different opinions. Who are the sons of God? Uh they're fallen demons. They're uh seem to be angels. Why do I say that? Job one six, uh they're called sons of God, right? Um Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them. Job two one. Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves. present themselves before the Lord, Satan also came among them to present himself before the Lord. And then uh again in Job thirty eight four, uh where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth tell me if you have understanding this is God rebuking uh Job questioning Job really I should say, but in rebuking him and questioning. And then in verse seven. When the morning star sank together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. It's in that context. Apparently these sons of God were there when the foundations of the earth were laid. It's the same phrase. are a lot of different interpretations for this. Uh what I wrote, th this is a uh uh kind of a overview or uh uh clip notes shall we say uh for many many different different people and I know that there's different views. Um clearly these verses are describing angels who were present when the foundation of the earth was laid, the arguments for mighty men, fallen, uh wicked men, and others present no evidence to to support these speculations. Uh but these and other verses give evidence to uh them being angels. I know a lot of people think they're uh there's a s godly line or this or that, but Really where they're getting that from is just a conclusion. There's there really is no evidence for that. Look at the verses. Let me let's just uh let's take some of the what we talk remember we talked about this. This is kind of a we should be going Hermeneutics, how do we get to this? Look at these look at verses one and two. Now it came about when men, okay, began to multiply on the face of the earth, the daughters were born to them. Daughters of who? What class? Men. That the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful. Y you've got a different class here. How do you put that? You look at the just look at the juxtaposition of these phrases. You can't put 'em in the same category. You have you're gonna have a problem. Regardless of how you interpret it, there have to be another class. Remember God and this the thing about God is so economical with these words. That's why you have to unpack all this. And and and trust me it's it's uh I've read you know, when you go to Bible college and seminary, this is one of the passages. Passages, you know, you always it's a it's a troubling passage. You have good godly men on a lot of different sides of this, there's no question. But again, what evidence do you have? You've got two lines of evidence. evidence. Just because we don't have a tr a tremendous amount of line of evidence, you have to follow what evidence they have. Can we be totally dogmatic about these things? No. But again, um some things give us more evidence than others. God wrote it that way. I we sometimes wish he'd come out and tell us exactly, you know, but it's there. Okay, this is the evidence. How you get godly lines and all that from this, y I don't know. No. Y you you have to assume a whole lot. You there's some leaps for your justification. It looks like angels. It's the exact same phrase. Okay? Bene ha Ah Elohim. And and and this phrase here in Genesis six and the same phrases I just read you in in Job. Okay, so uh you can tell from the context Job that uh we gotta be talking about angels. Uh so that being said, what's going on here? And again this g this gets um how how deep does it go or or or Or how how far uh w let's look at the verses. Okay. So unfortunately, we probably gotta turn there. I've got it written out, but turn to Second Peter while I'm reading this. Second Peter Chapter two verses four through eight. Jerry, what translation are you using? NAU? Uh I use uh uh NAU there. It's uh updated, uh it's I have it down there. Oh it's a it's updated in Nasby? Yes. Okay, that's what I want to know. It's good to look at other versions. He S V, why did E S V come up with some of these other versions, some of these other translations? Good to 'cause they're wrestling with those words. What did I say? Second Peter chapter two verses four through eight. I hope that's what I said. There is a there is one in first Peter. We're not gonna uh look at that right now. Okay, so um somebody wanna read that uh second Peter? For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to fit the darkness preserved for judgment, and did not spare the innocent people, but preserved Noah, a preacher of righteousness, the seven others. when he brought flood upon the world beyond godly, and if he condemned the cities of Sodom to their milk and destruction by reducing them to ashes, having made them an example to those who would live ungodly lives thereafter, and if he rescued righteous Lot, oppressed the sensual conduct of unprincipled men. For by what he saw and heard that righteous man, while living among them, felt his righteous soul tormented day after day by their lawless deeds. Mm-hmm. So talking in the context here in chapter two, uh You know, 'cause this look at chapter verse one. Uh but false prophets uh also arose among the people, right? And y that's what you're gonna have. Uh i it's been uh you know, that way from the beginning of the church. Uh uh Harris uh uh denying the master who brought them. Uh look at verse two. Many will follow their sensuality. This is a prevalent thing. Uh he's talking about sensuality and then he uses these examples from Old Testament, right? And each of these Sodom and Gomorrah and there seems to be some type of uh marriage or sensuality or whatever going on with the angels and men. Uh so that's the that's the topic he's talking about. Uh Uh Jude. Turn a couple pages, we'll look at Jude. Again, six and seven. Jude six and seven. And angels who do not keep their own domain. But abandon the proper abode. He has kept uh an eternal bond under darkness for the judgment of the great day. Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, since they in the same way as disease indulged in gross immorality and went after strange flesh are exhibited as an example in the uh under trying to focus there undergoing the punishment of eternal fire. So, um, again, he's talking about this category. What I said was uh was in these quick notes is that these two passages describe angels uh who are held in pits of darkness because he did not keep their own domain as permitted by God. Second Peter tells us that this happened at the time of Noah. Jude tells us that the nature of their offense was gross immorality, similar to that of Sodom and Gomorrah. So both of these, so this is the realm we're talking about. If this uh a lot of commentators say, look, if this doesn't relate to uh Genesis six, what's he talking about? So let's go back to Genesis 6 So now it came about that the sons of men began multiplying on the face of the earth and daughters were born to them, and that the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were Beautiful, and they took wives for themselves, whomever they chose. Then the Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever, because he is also of flesh. Nevertheless, the days shall be one hundred and twenty years. So I Just I thought I wanted to give us a context for a spiritual battle. I mean we we know this and yet we need to be reminded of what's going on behind the scenes. And and I regardless of how we define this, we have a spiritual battle here. I th I think it's I don't see how you can come up with anything besides angels being involved in this. Uh, regardless o again of how far we take it with what happened with these uh uh women and the angels, it's a spiritual battle and there's something going on and and the enemy is is trying to thwart God's plan ultimately, right? I the battle is w people are kinda in the middle of this battle, aren't we? It's kinda it's okay, think about it. It's it it's uh we see this over and over and over again, don't we? Let's let's uh Revelation twelve. four. And his tail swept away a third of the stars of heaven and threw them to the earth, and the dragon stood before the woman, who was about to give birth, so that when she gave birth she might devour uh him He might devour her child. Twelve four, twelve nine. And the great dragon was thrown down, the serpent of old, who is called the devil and Satan and deceived the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down to the earth. down with him. So it what scripture is telling us there is that this rebellion happened a and Satan took about a third of the angels. He says a third of of these uh angels followed him. Okay, so there's myriads and myriads. He's got a big these are the demons, fallen angels. So Satan rebelled against God. Okay, uh I don't know if you all are familiar with these passages. We're not gonna read 'em right now. Isaiah fourteen, twelve through fifteen. Um, it's a five I will. Satan says, I will ascend to the mountain of God, I will be, you know, uh head of everything. He he he's boasting. Um I know it's uh uh controversial uh passage. Some people say he's not he's talking to the king there, not not so much angels, but um I I'll I believe he's talking to angels. Uh a lot of other uh commentators as well. Ezekiel twenty twenty eight, the Sun of the Morning Star, he was uh if you're not familiar with this passage you should you should look at it. It's uh he he says i in this one you were created in perfection. Now Ezekiel's writing this we gotta be talking about somebody before sin, right? You were created in perfection. We know that David says in Psalm fifty one, right, you were cre you were you were conceived uh in sin. So if some this had to be before the fall. It's gonna be talking about Satan. Satan, uh in this passage, if you study this, uh uh was probably considered one of the probably the highest angel. Uh again, we could long time on this topic. We're trying to get to the covenants. But the they answer the groundwork, we I think we kind of miss what's going on in this Babylon in in back here in Genesis. Daniel. Daniel is I this to me, I love this. This this is when you meet through Daniel's prophecy is difficult. We study through Daniel's but this chapter ten, I think, we just God peels back and reveals to those who believe believe, look guys, this is what's going on. This is huge. Then he said to me, Do not be afraid, this is Daniel uh chapter ten, twelve through thirteen. Do not be afraid, Daniel, for from the first day that you're uh set your heart to understanding this uh and uh this and on humbling yourself before God, your words were heard, and I come in response to your words. So day the angel's coming, Daniel had a vision. He had no idea what it is. He prays to God for this answer. Okay? And this is the angel responding. Look, your your prayer was heard. Thirteen. But the prince of the kingdom of Persia was withstanding me for twenty-one days. And behold, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I had been left there with the kings of Persia. Is that think about that. He called he's calling him Prince of Persia, King of Persia, right? But he's fighting with Michael. We know Michael's the archang archangel, right? So and he's there for twenty one days. These guys are in a battle. Now they're spirits, we don't know what all that entails, but he couldn't get this Spirit overpowered him. He was stronger than him. He couldn't get there. Michael had to come to his rescue. But notice he's called Prince of Persia. Right? He's giving us a he's peeing on it back. He's letting us know. There's somebody behind these princes, these kings that's empowering them, that's uh at least giving them thoughts and ideas. Okay? Uh continue on, uh uh Daniel twelve, uh w uh Uh ten uh ten, twelve through thirteen. Uh uh that's what that was. Okay. Uh uh uh Daniel uh chapter ten, twenty, uh and twenty one, verses twenty and twenty-one. Then he He said, Do you understand that I've uh uh that I came to you, uh but I shall now return to fight against the Prince of Persia. So I am going forth, and behold, the Prince of Greece is about to come. However, I will tell you what is inscribed in the writing of the truth. Yet there is no one who stands firmly with me against these forces except Michael, your prince. A couple of things. things there. Again, he's going back to fight with this prince of Persia. Persia, remember now, is uh the kingdom uh after Babylon, right? There's the Persia, Medo Persians gonna take up this Babylonian kingdom. There's a Prince behind this, um uh an angel behind this. Uh and he's also look at what he says, the prince of of Greece. Now we believe Daniel was written well before Greece is on the stage. If there are anything there are small But the Prince of Greece is about to come. However, I um I tell you, I will uh he'll tell him what's inscribed, he'll tell him the Truth, and yet there is one who stands firmly with me against these forces, Michael, your prince. So a lot of uh commentators take this as Michael is the prince of Israel. He's the The guardian behind Israel. It's a deduction, but nonetheless, it's just a vision. Think about this. This is a you're seeing the heavenly battle, you're seeing what's behind the scenes. And we believe this, which is the neat part. Think about it. We believe this word is true. Everybody else, they don't have a clue. And think about we need to see what's going on today. We can't I be careful about identifying, oh that's so-and-so. I've seen some guys do that. Uh but we we know the general uh gist of what's behind these powers, right? It's it's demonic powers. We walk according to the prince of the power of the air. Right? Ephesians two. So I just want to set the stage for that. So we have Satan fighting against God, fallen angels fighting against righteous angels, we have unrighteous men, we're gonna see King uh Well, we we didn't look at it, but Cain, right? Fighting against righteous men, uh Abel. And in Genesis six we did a plan to corrupt the seed of men through demonic unions with women in order to thwart the plan of God. Right? That is the seed of the woman triumphing over Satan. Genesis three fifteen. A lot of commentators say, Look, God uh I think Luther somebody I was I read quoted Luther. Luther said, Yeah, he told Satan that he was going to triumph over you, but he didn't tell Satan who he was. And look at what Satan does. He does this over and over again, right? Uh he sends uh when Jesus was born, right, and the wise men come to Harold. Herod. What did he do? He w he didn't know which son it was. So Herod sends them and he wiped out all the children, right? From ages, uh, what was it, one to three? Anyway, 'cause the wise men he had he asked the wise men when did you see this vision? And so he's doing it on according to her vision. He doesn't know who he is, but he's why he has to wipe them all out. I I think it's what we're seeing here. Why are these angels doing this? I think it's to corrupt the seed. The seed is going to come from the woman. Let's corrupt the seed. Now, regardless, I think I believe regard uh people take this two ways. It's either they're corrupted spiritually and some will go physically. And I believe Leave no when we looked at this in hermeneutics, wasn't Pastor Leeks um I think Pastor Leeks took it as um uh actual physical union with angels. Wasn't that his conclusion? Remember we looked at this in hermeneutics? Wasn't that Pastor Leek's uh conclusion? Yes, this uh in the sermon's own June that's what he's what he thought. Yeah. All right, l we can't be a hundred percent sure. It it d again, let's look at the big picture. The picture is, regardless of whether it was a spiritual thing, okay, 'cause we don't have time to to go through this and then people will come on both sides. Or whether it was actually a physical spiritual thing. But they actually corrupted the seed. Which kind of makes sense in a way, because why would he I mean we know we have demonic uh uh possession in Jesus' time. Look at remember all the uh spirits he cast out? These spirits were thrown into the pit. You remember um what was that, gathering or whatever? He the the man he said he said he w went into the swine, he goes, You gonna condemn us in the pit? These guys were in the pit. They were locked up. They weren't allowed to roam. So again, it's just that's just it there was is if you go through MacArthur I I I think I that's MacArthur was uh and he's good. I mean y you may not agree with everything he says but one thing about him is you can listen to him and he's he's a reader, right? He's listened, he's boiled down uh and he even tells you, he goes, Man, this is like a a migraine He goes there's so much written on this. He goes and he he said it he goes, I'm gonna finish this one day. I'm not coming back to this. Because it is. It's true. Huh? Yeah, he said, I'm not I'm we're gone. I'm not I'm not stopping, we're gonna finish this, I'm done with this. 'Cause it is. And and uh but again, the big picture's there. So the flood comes. But isn't it interesting? Okay, regardless of of whether So then the Lord said, My spirit verse three back in uh Genesis six, then the Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with with man forever because he is of flesh, nevertheless his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. Nephilim were on the earth at those times, and also afterwards the sons of God came to the daughter of the of men and they and they bore children. Kinda sounds like something, I don't know. Sounds like a union there. There were these were the mighty men, uh oh excuse me, those were the mighty men who were of old, men of religion. Now Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. The Lord was sorry that he made man on the earth. Earth and that uh he was grieved in his heart. The Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, uh from man to animals, to creeping things and birds of the sky. that I have made them. But Noah found favor or grace you could say grace uh that word it is the word for grace. It could be either way, uh translated either way. Noah found grace or favor in the eyes of God of the Lord. Uh before we move on to th and this is the point I want to make. Look, um you notice he doesn't say he did condemn these uh i i if we're right, no I think we are. I think he did condemn these angels to the pit. But he holds man responsible. You see there he doesn't say you don't see where it says, Well those angels went and right they were responsible. Also I want you to go back and look at two I mean and again this is what uh a lot of these commentators unpack for me. Uh a and and you have to plant on single words because uh there is no force here. There is is no you see some some say uh they raped the women or you know i it was uh it was an overpowering thing. No, it says the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful and they took wives for themselves whomever they chose. What they're unpacking from this is that it it seems like these people, whether they were aware of this, that these were demonic or not, but no Nonetheless, they were embracing this. They took wives. They weren't forced, they weren't captured, they weren't slaves. Okay? And that that you we have to see that element in there. air and I and it's I believe it's true. Uh Jesus uh in in Matthew twenty four, di when I read that I was thinking this, I was surprised that they didn't mention this. Uh when he's guys coming uh you know, Matthew twenty four he's talking about end times, right? The disciples said to him in in Matthew, the beginning of Matthew twenty four, Wow, look at this temple and Jesus said, Look, I'm telling you, one stone is not gonna be left on another in this one. And so they said, When Is that gonna ha uh you know uh one of the two questions I should have in Matthew four four three? Yeah tell us then when will these things happen? Right, right. Well we're talking about the end times. And and in and in that he tells a parable. Look at what he said. I thought this was interesting. Now again this may be uh maybe I'm I'm just trying to tie something in the dumb belong, but it just seems odd to me. Verse thirty six he tells a parable 'cause and this parable is is um the parable is for timing. Now learn the parable of the fig tree, right? And the fig tree has leaves, the fig coming. So in order what he's saying, observe the times. That's what he's telling in this parable. And he says so he's saying it's going to come quickly and you won't know it. But of that day In our no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the sons of nor the Son, but the Father alone. For the coming of the Son of Man will be just like the days of Night. Noah. For as in those days before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark. I just thought it was interesting. I I think the the point is is that these what whatever level we don't know th they were embracing this evil, this wickedness. We see Noah, again, not a lot's written about it, but Noah was a righteous man. We know that uh he he was a preacher of righteousness. So whatever it was, they were embracing this. And and you see where God kinda he holds them accountable. The the the men In in uh five, uh six five, Genesis six five wickedness of man was great. Every intent and thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. This is what they're being judged for. And he got the uh just real quick, the controversy. I I wrote a couple things about, you know, God is not happy about this. Uh the circumstances and influences that were in the world. During Noah's time. Uh why did God blot out the uh animals with the flood? Uh uh then God saw the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and every intent of uh thought of his heart was only evil continually. Men had willfully turned away from God and sought demonic powers and sul and solutions for life. And you know we don't know that, but a lot of them are drawing that conclusion. Just like Satan came, he goes, you know, the Eva y you you could be like God. Right? It's a solution for your trials. Now they're being cursed at this time, I would imagine, like today w we seek things not because we know they're gonna destroy us, because we believe in the short run they're gonna be a solution to something, some problem. Uh even an addict gets a temporary fix, right? He feels good for a moment. He just forgets the consequences. Um So men had willfully turned away from God and sought demonic powers and solutions to life. But Noah found favor, right? Uh in God. He was a righteous man, blameless in in his time Noah walked with God. God was sorry that he made man. Um what is he what is he talking about here? I think uh God was sorry that he made man. He had to judge man. He knew this judgment was coming. But God is we this is where we see God is an angry guy, wiped out everybody, what kind of guy would do that. We know otherwise because we we we're in the but I think even here he's telling you he's sorry. He's not sorry made manly. Man, I'm sorry I did that. I didn't know this was gonna happen. That's that's not the s that's not the solution to this, is it? No. We know that that God knows everything. He's sorry he has to do this. And this is what came to my mind. I and um this is one of my favorites, uh Ezekiel because uh jail ministry, uh we get a lot of guys in there, oh, you know, my dad or you know, I'm the product of this and they feel like they're stuck and they can't get out and a lot of w I'd read in this passage a lot of times, uh Ezekiel s is answering here, he goes, Look, uh people aren't cursed just because they're dad and and this is how he answers it. Ezekiel eighteen four. Behold, all souls are mine, souls of the Father as well as the souls of the Son are mine. The soul who sins will die. Okay? Uh then the uh let's see, what is this? Uh uh not sure what verse of the R should have written down up front. Uh The person he sins will die. The son will not bear the punishment of the father's iniquity, nor will the father bear the punishment of the son's iniquity. The righteousness of the righteous will be upon himself. The wickedness of the wicked will be upon himself. But if the wicked man turns from all his sins which he has committed to observe uh and observe all my statutes and practices, justice and righteousness, he shall surely live. He shall not die. That's uh eighteen uh twenty through twenty one. And here it is. Do I have any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord, rather that he should turn from his ways and live? God is sor uh he's sorrowful. He's tight. We he's a loving God. We are made in his image. We have compassion 'cause we have a compassion of God. Uh you know, th God knew this was gonna happen. It's like Jesus wept at the tomb of Lazarus, right? He knew he was gonna raise Lazarus, but he you know, think about that. He wept. He empathized with these people. He he empathized with their plight, right? Did they There is death. There is all kinds of of trials in this this life. And he wept with that and empathized with that, even though he was going to provide the solution. So here we are. We get into the covenant. How are we doing on time? Ending quickly. We got 20 minutes. Let's see where we get. Really what we're going to try and do, let's uh read through it. Somebody read uh Genesis 16, 17 to 20. 22 You mean six, not sixteen. No, yeah, yeah, right. Genesis six, seventeen through twenty-two. Behold I, even I am fine in the flood of water for me. the earth to destroy all flesh of which is the breath of life from under heaven. Everything that is on the earth shall perish. And I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall enter the ark, you and your sons and your wife and your sons' wives with you. And the Every living thing of all flesh you shall bring two of every kind into the ark. Keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female. Of the birds after their kind, and of the animals after their kind, of every creeping thing that was around after its kind. Two of every kind will come to you to keep them alive. As for you, take for yourself some bowl of food which is edible and gather it to yourself, and it shall be for food for you and for them. Thus Noah did according to all that God had done. Commanded him, so he did. Uh eight uh twenty through twenty two. Um then no built an altar to the Lord. This is uh so I see we've gone through the flood. Uh they've come on dry ground. Uh they're out. Uh uh God has brought 'em through. Uh verse twenty, eight, twenty. Then Noah built an altar to the Lord uh and took every clean animal and every clean uh bird and offered burnt offerings to on the altar. The Lord smelled the smooth the s soothing aroma, and the Lord said to himself, I will never Never again curse the ground on account of man, for the intent of man's heart is evil from his youth, and I will never again destroy the living thing as I have done. While the earth remained, seed time and harvest. And cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease. And think about it. See, God likes to you you notice how in Hebrew uh he he gives uh illustration frustrations, uh you know, uh it's not didactic like Greek. We you know in Greek you we read things and they and they seem to have almost a perfect outline. This is kind of narrative and God always d does that. But look at what he's saying. He's he's talking about eternity there, seed time harvest. He's also gonna restore. We we know that the flood he may restore the seasons. Maybe the seasons uh were gone during the flood. Probably uh you know we may have bypassed the seasons. seasons are going to be returned. Right? But he he's saying he's not going to destroy this until uh uh cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night shall not cease. It's a way of just expressing you know, i eternity, uh uh until the earth is destroyed, the end of time. Uh somebody read um let's see, nine, eight through seventeen for me. We're gonna get a volunteer for that. And God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying, Now behold, I myself do establish my covenant with you and with your descendants after you and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you. Of all that comes out of the ark, even every beast of the earth. I establish my covenant with you, and all flesh shall never again be cut off by the water of flood, neither shall there again be a flood to destroy the earth. God said, This is the sign of the covenant which I am making between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for all successive generations. I set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a sign of a covenant between me and the earth. It shall come about when I bring a cloud over the earth that the bow will be seen in the plain. And I will remember my covenant, which is the Between me and you and every living creature of all flesh, and never again shall the water become a flood to destroy all flesh. When the bow is in the cloud, then I will look upon it to remember the everlasting covenant between God and the city. God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth. And God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. So we're gonna try and just uh before we do, uh we're just gonna pick out uh uh again, uh the facts. Uh I've used uh several commentators to help me with this, give me an outline. Um uh you you'll see uh repetitive of of uh uh different people obviously following the same pattern. Um but think about it, okay, so we're we're seeing a pattern here, right? God puts out uh commands, rules. Um man disobeys. We have the judgment. We have another set. Okay. And and think about w we almost have to think back think about uh what we had in uh in the Garden of Eden, right? Uh and the creation account and and and what was told the man. And think about the the few details we had. And and that's why we're we're doing this, because we're seeing okay, a lot of things uh Jan asked this early on. Will things carry over? Some things, yeah, well. I mean they'll be forever. They it they will not change from one covenant to the next. Uh we'll have uh you know, uh certain uh some things will change, some things will be abolished. But the point is, look at how we start with the l key details, we're expanding on the details. Okay, we're getting more and more And and this is gonna you're gonna see this particularly well when we get to the to the uh uh covenants when we go because when Abraham comes obviously we're gonna have a new system. We're gonna go through a line. And that's gonna I mean that's a total change. Uh but but just think about that. Keep the big picture in mind. We there's a lot of detail on all this. I'm not giving you I'm only giving you clip notes on it. There's a lot of this stuff of uh you know we we can go back and study uh if there's something something there, do it. Uh follow it. You know what I mean? God laid it on your heart. Check it out. See see what you find. Uh but we see this pattern, don't we? Okay? Uh this is the way things work, God's uh covenant. Man can't follow it. Right? The God uh uh he he blesses us. Continues, right? Uh well first we get the consequences for it. Uh uh, and then the establishes a and we see the thing continuing on and it's expanding. So so keep these things you know, what we've done in the past kind of keep the big picture in in mind. Uh what's the story? We're putting the story together. God is putting the story together. Um, so the recipients of the covenants. Um the covenant ultimately includes all living things as well as the earth itself and distinguishes itself from the covenants in this respect. Um Genesis uh nine, eight and nine, God initially speaks with Noah and his sons. God then explains his covenant to every living thing, even the earth and in ten and thirteen. Uh Lou Paul makes a comment on this. The reason for such detail is to make the divine concern for even the least of the creature strongly apparent to Noah. Again, uh I can't to unpack what he's saying to to think about what he's saying is we we forget this, right? God is the creator, God is sovereign, he's into the details. Uh each time uh man, all of us we we sin, we're we're basically kind of um forgetting or or or going around or are not taking God's sovereignty and his plan, his control, we're taking control. Um uh I I gotta say this, uh m we were in the prayer and Margot was talking about um uh Pride. Pride month. This is Pride is this Pride Month? Is that what I Thank goodness, I don't know. Not on my radar. But you know, she said, think about it, even in the name itself, pride. There's a problem, isn't it? That is that is the problem, isn't it? And I I thought about wow that's true. Never mind what they're pro proud about and that they just and it's a i isn't it indirect? And what what is the pride? Uh and my mind was thinking, Okay, what's the pride? The rainbow, right? You you're looking at a sign that God has for our protection and they're using that. See how it just the i we're not fighting against flesh and blood, right? Ephesians six, we're fighting against the rulers, the power of the authority, the prince of the power of the air. Which is why we're thinking judgment. I'm sorry? They should be thinking and remembering the judgment button. Yeah. That's what I think was that we're exactly what we're talking about. Yeah. Well, the Pride Week. Right. You know, actually exactly what well I'm glad you brought that up. Exactly I don't know if I I bring that up or not, but just one of the what one of the commentators says. He uses uh an illustration to show us our security And remind us of the judgment. You said it. Exactly right, yeah. And I think it's because it should also remind us that God is holy, which means you know, no sin. I mean he talks about the rainbow around the throne of God. I mean it it it is a blessing to see the rainbow but it should remind us that God is home and that there is judgment point. And but do you see how we can be and that's why I I like that uh uh Daniel, the prince of the power of the air, uh we can be puppets, you know, and and the enemy has us taken their rainbow and just slandering it he it it goes exactly against God's word. You shall not die. Exactly against God's word. Um again the that's uh uh these themes to see c the it's the same things keep coming up over and over again. The cycle of seasons is uh re established after the uh uh uh catastro uh catastrophic uh disruption or the the flood uh permanent is secured and that's why I was reading you with the eight twenty two seasons. And we see that with the covenant. That's right. If uh day or night cease, my covenant will cease you. We'll see that in Jeremiah and other ones. The sign of the covenant. God has set his rainbow in the clouds as a sign for Noah and his descendants. For every living creature And for the earth. Business, and I've I quoted this before, it's this journal article from Mat the Master Seminary. Uh it's one of the sources uh uh I'm using uh they've written He they've read an article on on all these covenants. They they wrote on the um uh Noahic, uh priestly, uh Abrahamic, Davidic and the New Covenants. Uh each and different writers wrote on in his journals. Uh so he notes that the sign taken from nature has incorporated uh an element of judgment and that is a reminder of the flood, sign of circumcision, uh and the Sabbath, they're also signs Right, were to re uh remembrance of God's covenants, requirements. This sign is to remend remind God of his covenant. Isn't that interesting? In 915 he says, I will remember my covenant which is between me and you. And again, this is this is an important aspect. God's not making a this is this isn't isn't a bilateral uh we're not he we're not in a contract here with Noah. And it's n it's not on his obedience. God is saying, I will do this. Because we know shortly after the flood right? We have the covenant and then what we have, we end up with another problem, right? Ga we cannot do this without grace, right? Uh we know that. Right? We need the power of grace. We were cursed. We saw that in the garden. It wasn't just that God put things in motion. We were cursed. This is our nature. We overcome that nature, right? By the power of God. His grace. We have to do our part. We we um uh it it's both sides. Uh Philippians uh what is it, two twelve, you know? Uh uh work out your salvation with fear and trembling. And if for God is at work in you, both to will and to do for his good pleasure, both to will and to work however. translate it. Both sides. We we we do our part too. Um we cling to God is what we do. The promise. Aspects of the covenant um uh are prominent. The first being that the living creatures will never be cut off by the flood of the water, nor shall the earth be destroyed by a flood. Um so we got you know, local floods do occur, but we and it's interesting he talk about the whole uh the the earth shall never be. I mean again it speaks of a whole earth flood, uh, for those that are want to say it was just a regional thing. Second aspect of the covenant is that uh it is ever Everlasting. Okay, we we've got uh our word there. We're gonna see this again. Uh Olam. Um that's the word foreverlasting, the Hebrew word. Uh we're gonna see uh covenant, we're gonna see Olam. and Barit and all these covenants. And that's why a lot of them look back at the uh uh Edenic and the uh Adamic. These these these phrases are not in there. Uh but again I uh I th I showed you the Hosea passage. passage where they said Hosea said, uh uh, you know, these people always rebel against me, uh my and my covenants, just as Adam did. I think it was uh uh Hosea six, verse seven if I'm memory serve me right. So uh the second aspect of uh the covenant is it's everlasting. Um uh this is from uh uh uh theological word book of the Old Testament. Uh the writer wrote this. We might therefore best state the basic meaning and this is of uh Olam uh arrange between remote past and uh perpetuity but it's been shown sometimes it it refers to uh not so remote past and this is the course some of the controversy about well is this eternal or not eternal. Uh for the meaning of the word in its attributive use And that's what it's used here, should uh uh uh note uh um designation of the Lord as is El, which is for God, right? Elohim and Olam, eternal God, and that's uh Genesis uh twenty-one thirty-three. Uh he talks about he's the eternal God. Uh so we know it it's uh it can be used that way. The Lord's promise in Genesis twenty one to twenty-two, he gives us the context, right? And that's why we read that. Um he's telling you a and that's why we talk about how is a word used? A word has a range of meanings. What did it say in the context? Um Heart. Greek. Heart, mind, soul, will. It's a vocabulary word. They use it a lot. You have to memorize it. If you study Greek, they try to get you to learn the words that are used fifty times or more. And it's a range of meaning. Heart, mind, soul, will. See you know, God uh uh he says that, you know, uh why are you reasoning in your hearts? Well we know he's not talking about the physical heart on that level, right? He's talking about uh uh the mind, uh the the thoughts and intentions of the heart. Same thing here. So what is the context? The context here he he says, look, it's seed time and harvest, cold and heat, summer uh and he says, um, uh this is an everlasting covenant, uh Uh he says, Never again will I destroy every living thing and then he gives that in E twenty two uh uh the different examples of the seasons. This covenant will be uh place until the Lord destroys the earth. So again, everlasting until um right, until we have the next age, new age, new uh heaven. Second Peter three ten, he's not gonna destroyed water, it's gonna be with fire, right? Um I quoted this. This covenant with Noah is the first of five divinely uh origin uh uh originated covenants in the scripture explicitly explicitly described as everlasting. The other four include the Abrahamic, Genesis seventeen seven, uh it's it's used uh eternally, uh priestly, uh Davidic And the new covenant. The Mosaic, uh, the uh divinely uh initiated is not described as everlasting. The covenants must be considered in the same light as the Noahic covenant as concerns the everlasting promise. So we're about out of time. So next week we'll pick it up. This will not take that long. Uh these are the provisions and and what we're gonna do now is this is pretty much, okay, these are the facts of the covenant. we just read. And all we're gonna do really is pick out what were the details. Okay? Uh i w we set the stage, we understand why the covenant was made, um and a lot of the implications. And this is just to look at, okay, what did God state at this time and then moving forward. So let me c close in prayer