So we're gonna finish up with uh the uh Noah Covenant. I think the uh preliminary we did before is is so critical. Uh I mean why do we just have these covenants? Why where are we in the narrative? And again, uh this is a class on biblical Covenants. Uh we we went through the uh Adam and Eve, we went through uh God's uh uh their their uh fall in the garden. Uh we're just following the story uh and these are major uh uh signpost and all of it. Uh we see things that will continue on, we see things that will change in these covenants. Uh but again, uh if we look at these stories and put 'em together and and certainly the detail will be we're not gonna fill in because it's the rest of the Bible. But uh these are signposts. Uh uh today we have a signpost uh uh in in the the the No Noahic covenant, uh the covenant with with Noah and really for everybody. So uh we set the stage, um we talked about um man's sin, how it became great, the intentions of his heart was only evil. Uh he saved Noah and his family. Uh everybody else was destroyed. He destroyed he cursed the earth, he the he uh uh flooded the earth, all living creatures uh above the waters, uh birds and and living things. Uh it judgment, right? It was uh uh God judges and and that's the thing we have to see. God is a God of judgment. Uh and yet here we are with Noah and we're gonna see God's provision. Uh God is both. He's not just a a a mean, wicked judge. He's righteous and holy. Of course, you know, w we we talked about that and I know most of you know and preachers of the choir when it comes to that, but you know, keep the main things i in mind. Uh we can get lost in the detail. So we're gonna look at the aspects here of the covenant. The Noah Covenant uh is found and these are the passages it's found in uh s uh s uh six uh seventeen through twenty two, uh eight twenty through twenty two, nine eight through seventeen, that's where the actual covenant words are. Um this covenant is found in the context of the Great Floods. one through eight, right? Uh Noah uh found favor and or grace in God's eyes. Uh uh this business uh uh business I guess it is uh uh points out that the flood uh reversed God's creation, yet through the flood God would reinstate aspects of his creation. When you think about it, um what he's saying there is that God created Man went on. He he was uh apart from God. Uh we we saw the lines uh you could go back and look at that, the line from Adam through Seth, uh Abel was uh Cain killed able, we see that it it became full. Really, he wiped out the creation, didn't he? He took man and we kinda have another kind uh again, this is just kind of general terms is look at it as it's almost like another creation, right? Really we all uh we we all go back to Adam, but we all go back to Noah, right? All the families of the earth really come from Noah at this point. So uh Uh think of what God has done here. The recipient of the covenant, the covenant ultimately includes all living things as well as the earth itself, uh, and distinguishes itself from other covenants. covenants in this aspect. This covenant is not to a specific people, right? It's to it's a general covenant. We're gonna see this uh uh we'll we'll kinda repeat this. It's uh God initially speaks to know and his son and God expands his covenant to every living thing, uh uh even the earth itself. Uh nine ten through thirteen, uh Lew comments, uh the reason for this detail is to make the divine uh concern for even the least of the creatures strongly apparent to Noah. Uh the cycle of seasons is reestablished. We talked about it a little bit last week, um uh during the flood, uh we it may have just been It's w one kind of s did the season stop? I mean, uh summer, winter, fall, uh uh y you know, it uh we're in a flood state. Uh the rain was coming, the the the groundwaters were coming up. So he he uh puts in he and he talks about a permanence. So going through that, let's read the text real quick. Uh somebody read the uh find your place in Genesis chapter 8, the last part of eight, uh verses twenty through twenty-two. I have it. Thanks. And Noah built an altar to the Lord and took of every Every clean animal and of every clean bird and offer burnt offerings on the altar. The Lord smelled the soothing aroma, and the Lord said to himself, I will never again curse the ground on account of man. For the intent of man's heart is evil, for his evil. two and I will never again destroy every living thing as I have done. While the earth remains, sea time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease. And uh I think we talked about this last week, but but look at how you know it's it's uh he Hebrew way of um of expressing itself for eternity. While the earth remains, seed time and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and day. night it shall not cease. In other words, as long as these things are there, it this is it's this is my promise. This is a way of saying eternality. Um so then uh In chapter 9, we have uh uh I'm gonna read uh 1 through 7. Uh and God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful, multiply. The fear of you and the terror of you will be on every beast of the earth and on every bird of the sky, and everything that creeps on the ground, and all fish of the sea. Every movement of the earth. Evening thing that is alive shall be food for you. I give all to you as I gave uh the green plants. Only you shall not eat flesh with his life, that is his blood. Surely I will will require your light blood from every beast I will require it, and from every man and from every man's brother I will require the life of man. Whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed. For in the image of God he made man. As for you, be fruitful and multiply, populate the earth abundantly and multiply in it. So this is God's this is what's required of of Noah, right? Um gonna he's repopulating the earth? Okay, some new things will come along. Everything that moves will can be food for him. Uh man can now eat meat. But na there's a prohibition, right? No eating of the blood. That's the light. And he also talks about capital I I shouldn't say punishment. He talks about taking if a man takes a man's life, that man's life shall be taken. Alright? It's government. It's uh remember uh king to Book Abel's life. Cain continued on. Uh we have a a new f new form here. We have a new form. This is a kind of government rule here. So then, uh can I get a volunteer to read Um here's the covenant itself and this would be in Genesis nine, eight through seventeen. Okay, Genesis nine eight. Then God said to Moore and to his sons with him. Behold, I establish my covenant with you, and your offspring after you, and with every living creature that is with you, the birth, the lifestyle, and every beast of the earth with you. As many as came out of the world. the ark, it is for every beast of the earth. I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood. And never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said This is the sign of the covenant that I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you. For all future generations I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth. When I bring clouds over the earth and the bowl is seen in the clouds, I'll remember my covenant that is between me and you, and every living creature of the flesh, of all flesh. And the water shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh. When the bowl is in the clouds, I will see it and remember that the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh is on the earth. God said to Noah, this is a sign of the covenant that I have established between me and all flesh place on the earth. Hm. So, I mean the first thing you recognize there is covenant, my covenant, my covenant. He's he's it's a promise. He's he's telling him uh Right, uh what aspects are uh uh what he's gonna do for Noah. Let's let's look at these aspects. The aspects of the covenant are prominent. First being all living creatures will never be cut off by the flood of the water nor shall the earth dis uh be destroyed by a flood. Uh local floods ha obviously occur but we're not gonna have a worldwide flood. So, uh both uh he's not gonna harm both uh creatures in and the earth and There will never be a flood of the whole earth again. Second aspect of the covenant is that it's an everlasting covenant. Uh again we I think we talked about this before, the word Olam, uh uh has a range of meaning, the theological word book. Uh i it uh concludes by saying we might therefore state that the basic meaning of this kind of uh range between remote past or e even uh perpetuity Uh they they do use it in different ways, but it's shown uh uh it is used in the not so remote past. Uh the meaning of the word uh in its attributive form, uh as it's used here Uh should be designated as the Lord as is El plus Ulam like eternal God, right? Uh Genesis twenty one, thirty three. Uh God is eternal. It's uh he means everlasting. It means uh uh perpetual. Uh the Lord's promise in Genesis eight twenty one that gives you the context. That's why we went over that, because uh he said, right, everlasting covenant, uh while the earth remains eat time and harvest and cold and heat And summer and winter, day and night shall not cease. Uh the covenant will be uh in place until the Lord destroys the earth by fire. So it's not like it's everlasting for eternity forever, 'cause we know this number one, it has to do with the earth. Uh but for unsaved man that's critical, right? Unsaved man's not going to the new heavens, new earth. Uh so it it's an eternal covenant. Uh this covenant. Covenant with Noah is uh first of five divinely uh originate uh covenants in the scripture. It's uh it's it uses the term uh uh be right covenant, beirit and olam. in eternal. It's it's that uh that's what you're gonna see in these other covenants. The uh f uh that's an everlasting is described as everlasting. The other four covenants, the Abrahamic, uh, we'll get into, uh priestly The Vedic, New Covenant all use the this term, they're everlasting. Mosaic is the uh divinely initiated, uh uh uh is not described as everlasting, right? It's conditional. uh w we'll see that, right? If you obey my commands, you will go you'll be blessed. If you don't, you'll be cursed. So let's look at this. It's what we're gonna do is kind of pick out the uh uh elements of it now. So God blessed Noah and his sons to be fruitful and multiplied. Man was to uh populate the earth, just as in the uh Eden it just as in Eden, right, the covenant, he was man was told that than a woman to be fruitful and multiply. But n uh Noah was not told to subdue the earth. Okay, as Adam was. Genesis one twenty eight. Satan who is called to rule this world In John twelve thirty one, the God of this world, uh Second Corinthians four four, is uh usurped man's authority. Satan is now uh permitted authority over the earth until Christ returns. And he in he sets up his kingdom. Compare Genesis 128 with Revelation uh two twenty-five. Uh and if you look at this it's interesting because right they're gonna they're gonna rule over the earth in one twenty eight. And of course we see the fall and the man does not rule over the earth, does he? But in gen in Revelation two twenty five, which is really kinda if you look at it, it's the end of the narrative of of the Bible, right? You got the new heavens and new earth, everything's the screen uh describe there. Hey, you may want to turn there. Genesis twenty two five. Everybody there? Um and there were no longer be night and they will no longer have need for light or a lamp nor the light of the sun because the Lord God will illumine them. And they will reign forever and ever. Look at the next verse. And he said to me, really this kind of concludes the narrative. Okay? Now he's talking to John. This kind of concludes the prophetic narrative. Kinda like in the beginning we were gonna rule over the earth while we fell. No surprise to God, right? We are gonna be restored. We're gonna reign. When you reign, you rule. We're gonna be co rulers with Christ. It's just we have this whole book. Here's the beginning. Then we have all this journey w that man goes through and all these different ages and w eventually we will reign with him in eternity. And I think it's kinda interesting. It uh it's kind of a Hebrew uh they call it inclusio. It's kinda like he says something in the beginning and and he this is what it will be and then yeah, we're gonna get there but uh Um it's not until the uh new heavens, new earth. So in the meantime, Satan is the god of this world. Man will rule over living things, but it will be in fear and terror. You see that? Uh w what he commanded he gets uh terror of them will be. Right? Animals will be afraid of us. In the Eden e uh economy in in Eden And in the n in uh uh uh I think I'll get to this. L let me read it. Uh in the Edenic economy, uh we see no such terror. Isaiah look at Isaiah eleven s uh six through nine. He talks about this too in in in a later chapter. Yeah, w we we were terrorized animals, but it's uh the point is is Not the way it's supposed to be. Somebody want to read eleventh Isaiah eleven, six through nine. And the wolf will dwell with the lamb, and the leopard will lie down with the Young goat, and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together, and the little boy will lead them. Also, the cow and the bear will graze, their young will lie down together, and the lion will eat straw like the ox. The nursing child will play by the hole of the cobra, and the weaned child shall put his shall put his hand on the wiper of death. They will not hurt or destroy an almighty mountain, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters covered. So it it looks like uh in uh millennial kingdoms the only place this could be. Uh it's not gonna be in heaven. Uh it's gonna be restored. So when we rule over something it again it's it's it's it's uh it's in a godly way. It's it's not as as a t uh tyrannical. We're not tyrants. But that's kind of what we're do uh this state of things now there's there's animosity between the all of creation right now. It's cursed. Uh there, you see, there's there's no problem. Uh the animals aren't afraid of each other and man is not afraid of animals. Uh so yeah. Um you can see there's a th there's there's a partial restoring here with NOAA, but it's under a cursed uh uh frame. Keep that in mind. All moving things um that are alive shall be food for man. Uh again, uh this is not a mandate but but uh permission uh to eat meat as well as plants. It is hard. to be a vegetarian. I know people do it. Um again, maybe uh and and this is just conjecture uh conjecture uh uh uh Safari was saying that um Maybe the the plants didn't have the protein after the curse that they had at one time. Um you know, it it is I know for vegetarians it it the difficulty is to get getting the protein, but um So man is prohibited from eating the blood of an animal, that is his life. Uh this verse and uh uh verse three of the same uh pattern as Genesis two, sixteen, and seventeen. Uh generous permission, right? They could eat from every tree of the garden except for the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Um they could eat uh everything with blood uh with uh that's living, uh animals, but not the blood. Uh you have kind of the same kind of provision here. Uh this is a strong prohibition uh in the Hebrew pointing out that uh uh this is uh permanently binding. Uh uh God is is uh Again, these are kind of uh think of them as paradigms. I mean, y he's pointing out there's life here. Don't don't re respect life, don't don't take life. The drinking of blood uh he associates with the life. you you you're not uh uh i uh it's not that um I don't want to say too much, but the point is is that respect the like. Uh and especially with man to man. Uh Uh it's you know, do not take each other's life. We saw that uh through Genesis when you read through it, you know, uh uh Cain took uh a life and the and it gets progressively worse. Uh the uh killing, uh We see it today. It's rampant. Um the covenant promised that God w would not destroy the world with a f uh flood again. Uh there'd be local floods and this is where the actual uh covenant with him this is God's promise. Um this is uh the first is a command for for what uh uh Noah and and uh the following generations are to do. Okay, but this This is God's promise. This is uh I myself, right? It's a unilateral covenant. Look at nine. He says, I myself, right, will establish this covenant. It has nothing to do with the other person. It's not a typical contract with a party. I am going to do this, right? Uh it's unconditional. Um he doesn't say I am going to do this. this if I'm going to do this. Uh man is going to continue to sin, right? We see it shortly after this. Uh we don't know what the time gap is between this and Tower of Babel, but uh right, we see what happens. Man's gonna try and uh make a name and do all of it on his own again. Uh uh but you you're gonna have a line. You're gonna have uh that's what we'll get to in Abrahamic. He's gonna do it he's gonna do things differently. Uh he's gonna go through a man and he's gonna create a nation and that nation's gonna be a kingdom of priests. So it's unconditional. It has nothing to do. This is what God is going to do. The covenant is perpetual, right? Uh Verse twelve says this covenant is for perpetual generations. Ours says um successive generations. Okay, it's just the way the the that's what my version has. I don't know what version of the Bible you go by. Uh but this is the word Olam, perpetual, eternal, uh forever. Okay. So it's going to be there there's uh he he's Not gonna flood the world again. Um it's universal. And and think about this. This is this is um really critical. Uh this company covers uh all living things No spiritual aspect to it. Um this is think about it, this is common grace, right? Until uh the end of the age. Um the rain falls on the righteous and the unrighteous, right? Uh uh God is guaranteeing uh this provision regardless of whether man is righteous, whether he totally rejects God or whatever. Uh you know, why do the wicked prosper the some right? It's common grace, right? Uh w we see it all around us. I mean uh the uh our country is prospering on a material aspect, right? But it it's just temporal. All this is temporal. But it is God's grace. These people think it's all I dumb doing this. They don't they we're we're getting you look behind the scenes, right? What's going on spiritually? This is common grace. It it really has nothing to do even with uh at this aspect. It's not um like I said, it's not spiritual, it has nothing to do with relationship to God at this point. on a general level. Ultimately, for believers, it's something we look at, we go, Well, we rec w when we recognize that God put the rainbow uh and he and he's he's uh keeping the flood back Yes, it has an aspect to it. But in general, this is just common grace. It's for everybody. So it it's quite different. The sign of the covenant. Um I've been written about this. The sign of the covenant and the rainbow, uh there were three passages in the Torah that refer to a sign of the covenant. Uh this one, Genesis, uh uh the one we have now, uh nine through thirty. uh nine eleven through thirteen. Uh well God will set his bow in the cloud, Genesis seventeen, nine through eleven. Males are going to be circumcised. This is uh with the Abraham. Uh the acts Exodus, um Israelites shall keep the Sabbath. Uh about these signs, uh Hamilton wrote in his commentary, the Sabbath, the rainbow, the circumcision are in fact three great covenants established by God at three critical stages of history of mankind. Creation, uh which would be the Sabbath, God rested. Um although God uh it's debated about whether God is Established the Sabb Sabbath, uh back then cre is a ordinance whether man was actually practicing that or not. Because m you know, regardless, the law is pointing back to that rest. Sabbath is a rest. It's a rest. God. God rested from his work. He rested in his creation. He f he finished. It didn't mean that he stopped and took a right, we know that. He didn't stop and take a rest as much as he finished with creating material the elements to make things. Right? All matter. All matter was is completed at this point. Look at it scientifically. We can't create matter, we can't destroy matter. I always like that. Think about it. can't even destroy matter. We can't even tear it up. We could change the state but we can't we can't destroy matter. So that's what and think about, each of those is a is an error. Creation. It points to creation. It's a sign of creation, the Sabbath. Okay? The r the rainbow, God restored. He it's a it's a restoration. And then With the circumcision, God's forming a nation there. Right? Abraham is gonna be a new nation. And we'll we'll unpack that. Uh a lot of times we don't think about the the ramifications of that. Uh of of what Abram did. Uh sometimes I I maybe you I I've become familiar with it and and you and and I don't look at it. He formed a nation. A new nation. So, this word bow in the Hebrew uh you know and and I read some commentaries and I thought, you know, uh a couple of people picked up on this, uh a guy named Hugh uh no, I won't call him Hugh, it's uh It's uh I forget his first name, it's Ross. He wrote in a Bible knowledge commentary. This word bell is uh the Hebrew and not that you really care, it's uh uh let me pronounce it right, Kesheth. It it's it's for a bow and arrow. It's primarily it's it's it's uh purpose or it's it's meaning uh after this time. Uh and so some will some will see this as that when gu man looks up he sees the bow and God is holding back his bow of uh a bow and arrow. It's it's either judgment or war, you know, you think of that or even hunting, right? It's killing. Uh but as I thought about that, uh and I was thinking, yeah, no that It's it's uh that's true, it's good. Um but then I thought, well did did they have bows? Was the was the word bow used right bef before Noah's time. But regardless, Noah's Saul the bow, the ark. And that is obviously one of its meanings. Ark. Right? It's a rainbow. For Noah, remember, he had just come out of of all of this Um it it's uh and and I I think I talk about this later in my notes, but they ain't seen rain. W and when he had seen rain he saw this flood. Uh It wasn't just the rain, uh if Genesis seven eleven the grounds broke forth. Um interesting little tidbit, we had a um uh uh let me call for a little sidetrack because it was something we had geologists come was uh to uh the seminary when I was there and he was speaking in a chapel and he goes, Look, I'm a doctorate, you know, he says I said so he said, If I'm gonna believe if I b I believe the Bible I need to find out how this these floods and these things worked and Uh in Genesis seven eleven it says the first thing that happens during a flood is the the grounds broke for. The groundwaters came up. And it's an interesting thing, he said, you know, the before the flood, the Lan uh the land was the earth was one land, right? Well we call it what Pangi or whatever. He says if you look, if you look at a topographical map, you'll see these mountain ranges around Africa and and and these other continents. And he says it looks like the water, the grounds came up out of these i without the water you see this topographical wall, you see mountain ranges. under the water, like the the water came forth. And it split right around where these these continents would fit together. It was like God just took and you know, the the waters came forth and these imagined these massive rock formations or whatever, just sliding and w what a what a tremendous powerful thing that would have happened. Uh yeah, and it makes sense during the flood. Uh so that was just a little tidbit that um I I thought and I did look at a I found a old natural geographic I had back in the day when you had maps books and uh there was a topical map without the water so you could see the mountain ranges and the oceans and and sure enough it w rings right around around there. Um so the groundwater's came, it's raining. What does Noah need to see? Um Noah needs to see uh he's thinking, well i I mean, is it gonna flood again? Are we going through this again? He needs that sign. Right? It's a promise from God. He promises this over and over again. I promise. I will remember, he says. A guy doesn't need to remember, right? He says in fifteen, I will remember my covenant. It's his way of saying to him, This is my assurance. I'm giving you insurance. You're good. I'm not gonna flood this earth again. It's my promise. You know, uh God is faithful. So and I thought about this and I thought, well, you know, God may have used this word and again, uh total speculation, but i i if their metaphor is right were g the li uh I remember when when um Noah wrote this, right? Or uh Moses wrote the scriptures. What are we talking? 1400 BC, somewhere around there? Okay, they come out of this is uh hundreds a year. years later. I I forget when I look I looked a little bit. There's some say the flood happened maybe around twenty five BC. It just depends, you know these dates are are are the point is, by the time that this is written. The the readers of this text are not really gonna be looking and uh worrying about the an earthwide flood at this point, right? We you know how we are, we forget. We we're generations beyond that. But they may want to see a bow in the sky and think of a bow and think that bow represents God's judgment. And wouldn't it have represented God's judgment even to Noah, okay? The clouds are there, the rains there. There that bow, that ark was oh yeah, he did judge the world. God holds people accountable. He's holy, he's righteous. Yeah, and we forget. We're forgetful. Um I know with myself, I mean, God is good. He he's blessed us with a lot of blessings. We forget how holy and righteous he is. Um Things I take for granted. Psalm seventy two. Psalm seven twelve. Oh, sorry. If a man does not repent, he will sharpen his sword He has bent his bow and made it ready. Psalm forty six nine. He makes wars to cause uh to cease, uh to the ends of the earth. He breaks a bow and cuts a spear in two. He burns the chariots with fire. Again, this word is primarily uh for this later reader is gonna see it more for a bow and arrow, uh uh instrument of war than than they are an ark. Um It has a range of meaning of both. Uh so God's promise is that he won't destroy uh the that the rains would occur but he's not going to destroy destroy the earth. There's n not gonna be another uh catastrophic judgment in that way. It's been uh let's see. I'll read what I wrote, um This is probably a paraphrase from some of the commentaries I wrote. It has been written that the narrative of the flood demonstrates God's just judgment and his holy wrath on sinful wicked people. It is also a contrast to his wrath and judgment. For it displays his grace and mercy, uh grace, mercy, peace, and patience uh with evil men. We also see that God uh redemptive plan will n will not be overcome by evil, but will Will continue through the one seed. Right? Genesis three fifteen, right? He will crush you in the head. Until the fullness of his saints is complete to the praise of his glory. Romans nine twenty three twenty four. Again, note that this is a physical and temporal covenant God has promised not to destroy the earth and provide uh and provide a common grace to all mankind This is not spiritual, it does not bring man into a right relationship with God. Mankind uh may prosper physically, temporally Uh, but his covenant is far from salvation. And you know, j just to finish with that thought, ma you know, I was thinking about the I didn't look it up at the Psalm, you know, why do the wicked prosper? The psalmist goes on, you know, they seem to to go and and nothing bothers them. And then at the end the psalmist goes, Yo yeah, that's right. But they won't come into the house of the Lord, more or less. They don't have salvation This is a temporary situation. And and really that for us, and that what God tells us, we need the eternal perspective, right? Set your minds on things above, not on things in the earth. It should be a heavenly, uh uh an eternal perspective And the world is busy, uh we get busy in here and it it just it it it takes our our focus off of uh really what we should be The next one is numbers. This is a quick one. Most people do not even um uh really recognize this um this covenant. They go right to the Abrahamic covenant. It's a little short thing uh that's in here But it's in a it has the same elements in here. And and really um If y and and this is a problem, when you study these theologies, dispensationalism or whatever, uh Reformed or uh our millennialism. The problem is it's uh w sometimes we get away, we get into these theological categories and that's certainly one aspect. The problem is we miss the other aspects. The God's telling us um He's given us his uh uh his gospel, his good message a lot of times in these passages. And he's uh and these promises uh are are eternal. Uh a it's what he will do. The coming given in uh given in given to uh uh uh Finehas and Israel, uh the Israelites, okay, they're coming out of the wilderness And uh preparing to go into the land, uh the Lord God has promised to to the patriarchs, Israel is in the plains of Moab. And uh Balok the Kings he fears his people 'cause right he he's he knew uh uh He knew that we he was unable to overcome them, right? Balak's heard what God has done for these people. Uh uh People n people know that uh they they had heard about him parting the sea, uh uh taking on the other kings before they'd even got to these plains. Um So Balach sends uh Balaam, a man who is known uh to have power to curse and to bless people. Balaam is unable to curse Israel. In fact, God used him to bless Israel. If you remember the story, uh uh he gets b uh Baal uh Balaam to come, remember the Balaam and his donkey, right? He's getting him he wants him to to curse these Israelites. Uh he he he needs his spiritual power that this this prophet has. And Balaam ends up giving him a blessing. He he takes him several times to different places and he says, No, no, that's not what I wanted. So he takes him someplace else and he sacrificed and he still gives him a blessing. But then Balaam, and this is this is the insidious uh insidiousness of of Satan and the world, Balaam advises Balach to intermarry with the Israelites uh worship together, right? Uh Finehas is jealous uh and he kills uh those who have joined themselves together with uh Baal, Baal, however you pronounce it, uh Paor. Uh, this is uh Baal worship. Uh it's before it think about it, even before they reached the land. What happened was a woman had taken uh a man had taken a woman, they were uh uh in a in his tent, they were Consecrating this union and this is what God sees. God sees this behind the scenes. This is not just a union or marriage. He's not just taking a foreign wife And think about the big picture. Why is God want to take out all these people? It's not so much that's it it's what lies behind, it's the evilness that w he knows will end up uh It's the spiritual forces behind these people. He he doesn't give us all the details, but but we s you have to see the big picture. Uh they they relate this to worship with Baal This this consummating this marriage. They'll take on these practices. We saw it uh over and over again in in Israel's history. They end up worshiping this worshiping the same gods that that the pagans did. That's why God said you need to take them out. What do you see this in Abraham? This is why Abram had to leave his land. Because of the spiritual aspects behind it. I I am separating you Think about what God did. W what did God do? God took uh Israel, Jacob. Through Joseph and the whole right, he took he took seventy people down to Egypt. Remember the story of uh uh uh Judah, Judah one with a Canaanite woman, just before uh Jacob takes them down, and you think, Why is this story in here? You can see The corruption, God's taken them down to Egypt, puts them in Goshen, he's got 'em isolated in the land. They're seventy people become a nation, right? He's separating them. They can grow apart from So in here there these these this this man and this woman, uh this key uh Israelite is is uh uh Consummating a marriage with this woman, uh Phinehas, the son of Eliezer, the son of Aaron, the priest. Has turned away my wrath from the sons of Israel, and that he was jealous with my jealousy among them So that I uh so that I did not destroy the sons of Israel in my jealousy. Therefore, behold, I give him my covenant of peace. And it shall be for him and his descendants after him a covenant of perpetual priesthood, because he was jealous for his God and made atonement for the sons of Israel. So God tells Moses here to say to Phineas Phineas that uh God is giving him his covenant of peace. God is the one given the covenant. It is not bilateral. It's it's depend it's not uh dependent on both parties. Uh and it's God's gift and plan, uh, to use uh Fenehas and his descendants. Or a seed, right? That's what God says he's gonna do. Remember where we are. We're we're all the on, we're in in We just come out of the land of Egypt, uh uh they haven't hit the promised land, they haven't rejected 'em, they the spies are you know, uh so Um they're they're excuse me, they're just getting ready to go in there and t and take the land. But God, uh uh needs to separate 'em. He needs to keep them separate. It is a covenant, Bari, and his perpetual Olam for a priesthood for his descendants after him. The genealogical line of Fenehas will continue into the millennium through Zadok, the descendant of Fenehas. Uh first Chronicles uh six fifty to f uh fifty three, it just gives a genealogy. You see the uh you see uh Finehas is uh Zadak is a a descendant of Fenahas. Ezekiel uh prophesies uh that only the line of Zadok would be permitted to minister in the temple during the millennial kingdom. Ezekiel 4515 But the Levitical priests, the sons of Zadok, who kept charge of the sanctuary, when it's When the sons of Israel went astray from me, shall come near me to minister to me, and they shall stand before me to offer me fat and the blood, declares the Lord God. That's Ezekiel forty four fifteen. Ezekiel forty eight eleven It shall be for the priests who are sanctified of the sons of Zadok, who have kept my charge, who did not go astray, when the sons of Israel went astray, as the Levites went astray. So This is Ezekiel. He's talking about the millennial kingdom kingdom from chapter uh forty to about forty-eight. He's describing this kingdom. And I'll show you a verse that can that really points this out. So uh this is a difficult thing. I mean, w what he's saying there is that you're gonna have priests during this millennial reign. Uh I'll get to that in a minute, but and this is this is what's d uh uh it's a difficult passage. Um These priests are are going to serve because Finahas was jealous for God and God blessed him and it it was also uh a point out it was his plan. He's he just like through Excuse me, through Noah, through Abraham, and he he th this is gonna be my line. These are gonna be my people. These these are gonna represent My kingdom. The covenant with Finhaus is with him and his descendants after him, a perpetual covenant. In Jeremiah thirty three twenty through 21. The everlasting covenant with David and his seeds on the throne and a levital priesthood will be ministering during this reign. So here's the passage Thus says the Lord, if you can break my covenant for the day and my covenant for the night, so that day and night will not be At their appointed times, and my covenant may also be broken with David, my servant, so that he will not have a son to reign on his throne And with the Levitical Priest, my ministers. So here's the here's the difficulty. And this is what Feinberg, Charles Feinberg puts out. You may be Some of you familiar with his name. In his commentary on Jeremiah, Feinberg makes this point, uh note that uh If we interpret the Davidic throne as literal with Christ, the descendant, the descendant of David Right, not many descendants, he's the ultimate descendant. Uh ruling perpetually Then we must interpret the Levitical priesthood in the same manner in this passage. If there is no literal earthly kingdom and Christ rules from heaven uh seated at the right hand of God the Father, that would mean the the Levitical priest would be ministering in heaven as well This is a problem for those who do who do not view Christ's literal reign on earth a thousand years. So what he's saying is if you don't have a literal millennial kingdom W uh w what do you do with this this verse in in Jeremiah? If they're gonna be there perpetually, right? Then we can recognize they king uh Christ is gonna reign. If he doesn't i uh these Levitical priests are not going to be reigning in heaven. It wouldn't make sense, would it? Would there be no sac would there be sacrifices for sin in heaven? See that and that's a re that's uh this this is a stumbling block. And this is God's word. I mean it's it's infallible. He he didn't write one and and make a mistake in another place, right? The descendants of Zaru is Jeremy Wolf. I'm sorry? I just want to touch the book, any training I got it. Thank you. Yeah. These notes are I don't I these were up. I can hear the Yeah, y you can access them from uh Hookbook, can you not? Yeah, there's a copy on Hope Books, but I think you've maybe edited them since it was a little bit. Unfortunately that's a uh online Yeah, I was able to print a copy last week. I that'll be a continuing saga. If I do it a hundred times I'll think, you know what, I don't really like that and you know, and that's the problem with doing these top things. You you you're afraid sometimes I think, you know, that's I don't know if I like that. That's we don't wanna cr I don't wanna cross lines. This is not inspired. The look get the big picture of this. That's that's the point with any of this. Uh trust me, I I'm fallible. I don't care who does this, we're all fallible. Okay? Uh so keep that in mind. Uh this is not I'm not inspired. Yeah, I usually I typically do, yes. And I'll go back and refresh it. Yeah, but I noticed you have some notes in here, but I don't have it in my notes, so I apologize. Yeah, no problem. No problem. I just open I just opened. You know, and I was talking with somebody about this, unfortunately it's one of those things y you could be co uh I could be obsessive compulsive, you find you know, i with commentaries you c you can usually pretty much narrow down uh Especially with the new commentaries on on a passage. Because the the newer ones, the reason they're so thick is 'cause a lot of them will go, Okay, these are the points, the major points that have been out over the centuries really. But with something like this, I mean you have different viewpoints and I'm not taking anybody's viewpoints, I'm uh I'm taking them collectively. Uh in this quote dispensational viewpoint do you have different different viewpoints within there, so that's why I don't even use that. Wha what is it you know, w y it's hard to define it. But it is I I pointed out as uh I think I used the real kind of Macr MacArthur's uh It's progressive revelation. Okay? It's progressive. God has given us more, and that's what we're seeing here. God is telling us in this passage, this is what's progressive about this. Jeremiah is saying, Look, David's gonna be on here or a seed of David's going to be on here eternally, we have with this and with Levitical priests, this is what we're going to have to deal with. These Levitical priests cannot be operating in heaven. Um I don't understand what Feinberg is saying. Well he's just that. He's saying You have they are Levitical priest. They are with this Yeah, I get that. Well well look, y is if you can break my covenant for the day and my covenant for the night, you see how he's using it again day and night day Day and night pass away, you can break this. That's what he's saying. He's the same he's the same it's his Hebrew analogy, right? Summer, winter, spring and fall. When that ends, this'll end. Right? This is the way he's saying it's it's eternal. Right? It's it's per I shouldn't say it's perpetual. I g I then then my covenant will also be broken with David, my servant, so that he will not have a son to reign on his throne and with him is little bit so in other words this is perpetual. The sun there's always going to be a son on the throne. He's the only son that is going to reign Forever in David's on David's throne. This kind of answers the question my wife and I were having a discussion on the way to church this morning, because in my daily reading I was in Ezekiel for forty four, forty five, forty six around there, where he's talking about the glory of God re entering the temple through the east gate and the prince entering and exit then through the east gate. Mm-hmm. And uh this may this may answer the question uh because We were wondering because Christ is the is is the uh perfect sacrifice for sin, why is there a need for a priestly line and a sacrifice? And so and we it would You were concluding that it must be during the during an earthly millennial kingdom. It's gotta be. Yeah. Yeah. That would be my conclusion from it. Right. Yeah. 'Cause all and and and even and even that's a stumbling block, okay? And this is what I'm gonna get into Uh oh boy, what a can I get a couple of minutes extra? It's I don't think it'll take that long. So d this let me li th and and I'll try and answer this is what I'm trying to answer here. The descendants of Zadok will offer sacrifice for sin. Because in the millennial kingdom there will be sinners, right? There are no sinners in heaven, thus no need for priests offer sacrifices. Life sacrifices when Christ, the perfect sacrifice, is reigning on earth. Uh it is a stomach block, isn't it? You think w Christ is there. Some suggest it is a reminder of what Christ did on the cross, that's it could certainly be. As an old cov uh as in the old covenant is a cleansing for the flesh to enable sinners to come into the presence of God. Look at Hebrews nine thirteen. I've got it written here. You don't have to turn there. This is a huge passage. I found I came across this when we were do doing a teaching Scott Now we're looking at uh Old Testament and and we were talking about uh the tabernacle and and some of this. Nine thirteen through fourteen for if the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling those Who have been defiled, sanctify for the cleansing of the flesh. How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offer Himself without blemish to God, cleanse your consciences from disappointment? Dead works to serve the living God. The Old Testament, think about the the tabernacle, the f the the altar was on the outside, they sacrificed, they were being cleansed to go inside. Cleanse the flesh. It's and you know I I'll just mention this, but uh uh this uh propitiation or you know, some say a covering. I don't think it means covering. I there's an article on it, Kafar, and he says, I I don't think that that's a good word definition for the word. Look at here. They were cleansed. See this in Hebrews? Hebrews is a commentary on what happened there. Cleansed. Catharuso, we we use the same word in English, uh cathartic, catharsis, right? The cleanse. It means to cleanse. But look at what it cleansed. It didn't cleanse the person for salvation, cleanse the flesh. They were they it allowed them to go into the presence, into the tabernacle to God. But it didn't mean necessarily salvation, did it? I mean we look at Israel. How many were uh were actually True Israel. How many were actually believers? And look at the contrast here. How much more the blood of Christ, New Testament, we're talking beyond the cross, who through the eternal spirit offering himself without blemish to God, the perfect sacrifice, right? Cleanse your conscience from dead works. That death is inside, right? That's a changed heart. People in the Old Testament still they came to to salvation through faith. That's always through faith. On this side of the cross, the cleansing. Cleansing those that have faith, we believe in Christ, we are cleansed on the inside. Totally different. Ours is ours is uh so let me just finish with this and then we'll go. The millennial kingdom is going to see the earth restored and Christ to rule over the whole earth. Satan is bound and he's not able to work uh in the world. People will be populating the earth uh and the work of their hands will be fruitful. Uh there'll be unbelief Uh living in the earth and uh Revelation twenty seven through nine reveal uh their unbelief. When a thousand years are completed, Satan will be released from his prison, will come out uh and deceive the nations. Uh which are from the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together for war. And a number of them is like the sand of the seashore, and they came up on the broad plain of the of the earth, surrounded the camp and the saints, and And a beloved city. Fire came down from heaven and devoured them. So Satan's bound, he's released. What's he released to do? He gathers up what? All the non believers. Gathers them up Brings them to the the city, they're gonna have one last war, God says this is gonna be a quick one, I'm gonna rain down fire from heaven, we're done. God's sovereignty is seen in working out a salvation even in this idyllic environment. Think about it. Here they are in a an uh ideal animals. Earth everything goes back to a a nice state again. People live. Uh Jeremiah sixty five I think it is. Uh people live a hundred years they die they're gonna be considered a child. Okay? The all is gonna be restored. It doesn't matter. Satan's bound, you're still gonna need God for salvation. You're gonna have unsaved people. Myriads of 'em as you see as they brought I think that's why we have uh sacrifices during this millennial kingdom. Because yes, Christ will be on the throne, but there's still going to be unsaved people. And they're going to come up. And I assume they're going to need a sacrifice, a covering to pray. your holy God. That's all the only thing I can think that makes sense. There you know. So anyway