Here we go. So this week we're gonna pick up a little bit with where we left off. We need that these are just some of the uh ground rules, the hermeneutics, the uh of uh you know how we look at the scripture. And of course, like we said before, as a quick review, we interpret scripture like we would any other ordinary uh uh thing body we're reading. Um uh the plain ordinary meaning of the text, according to the grammar, the rules and and uh the historical context, that's one of the challenges we have when we go back to the Old Testament, we talk about that. Taking all this New Testament back to in in in kind of importing it into what was maybe revealed to Abraham, uh on up all the way through, uh they weren't they didn't have the full gospel that we have. Uh and so we need to recognize that. This is what God was speaking at that time. So and that's when they talk about historical context. What's the culture? As much as we can learn about that, uh that's why good you know, um Bible dictionaries and things like that are quick references you can go to uh you know to get a lot of the qu answers 'cause you know how that can be. You can go off on a oh tangent trying to get the background and it's it's kinda like, well we still have time for all of that. Uh but it's sometimes it's a quick answer, especially when it's uh you know, there's all these connections God's making and we miss it if we don't know what it is. Uh so we're trying uh take it that way. Uh its original context is it's called the grammatical, historical uh uh uh s speaking uh or or just interpretation of the bottom uh the uh scriptures. Um real quick, so we're moving on. This is the next section. It's just covenant, Barit, the Hebrew word. Um uh I just want to give you a quick thing. Uh this is kind of what I boiled down with anything if you get into these studies. People did a long study on what does covenant mean. Uh uh so although much study has been done consistently. Concerning the etymology of Bari, the cultural historical comparisons with other societies, little knowledge has been gained on the exact meaning of the Hebrew word. Rather, the meaning of the word must be derived from the biblical. context of the passage in which it is used. That boiled down a whole lot of of uh uh study or or some things I read on it, uh uh how people uh etymological It's just uh it's uh kind of it's the root. They're looking for the root uh uh of a word. Think about it. Uh you have uh a Hebrew word, it's written uh in the uh first books of the Bible, you're talking what, fourteen hundred BC? Alright, so it's old. We don't have a lot of uh things to compare with. And what were these words taken from? Uh a lot of Hebrew is taken from other languages. is just kinda like ours, you know, we talk about Germanic or, you know, our words are based on Greek or Latin. Uh and so they're trying to get to the meaning of this. The the difficulty is is that, you know, sometimes y y you compare these things and it's not really that proud profitable. What he's saying there is really what I want you to get because we do this in Greek too and of course by the time Greek came along, especially uh Koine Greek, which is what our Bible was written in, you know your historical there's a there's a lot more uh data uh historically available so they can compare it. Um but it you you really uh we'll we'll look at this a little bit more when we look at some of these words If you look at a lexicon, the the uh uh okay. You'll see they don't have a tremendous this is a a a Bible app or it's a program I have and it's really it's a it's a kind of a grammar program. It it gets into the the grammar of the word. They don't have a tremendous amount of definitions. What you see up there are all those red it this is it's references. Okay, all these red right, uh if I right it's a reference, uh This is where this word is used. Okay? This is how a lex lexa lexographer, lexicons, write these things. These people write dictionaries will have these long uh explanations, but they it's kind of interpretation. interpretation. The men that do the groundwork, what they do, how do they determine the the use uh the definition of a word? They go with other usages, other passages. In Greek What they'll do for Corne Greek is they'll give you know, these guys who study it, they'll look at uh, you know, Homer and uh Socrates and how did they use the word? Pretty much like we do today. People don't think about it. When you're communicating, sometimes we we make i it's it's not uh we can get some uh uh insight from from doing these etymologies, but it's the way you use the word. I mean so you have to be careful. A lot of times people overdo it. They come up with theological things, but how the people during this time have known this and he's communicating to people, right? It's not just scholars, he's communicating to to people in general, right? How would they use the word? Um probably a bad example. but I mean it is a good example, but gay. We used to it used to be totally different. Right? Um now it means something to uh uh you know it used to be joy, happiness. You had a gay time, it was people were were were having a good time or you know, uh now it means well, we know, it's it's this whole uh sexual thing. But so you don't define a word so much. as with this the technical you know it's not it's not science, it's not math. It's language. It's thought. It's communication. And and and that's just to say, so when you take this word uh etymology you pr or um you take this word um you pretty much just have to I hate it when it does this. Uh you pretty much have to go with How does how is it used in the Hebre uh you know, during this time in the Hebrew? Context. So a covenant in the uh Old Testament is legally binding obligation. Covenant can be made uh in two ways. Most of the covenants made between two parties are in a basic agreement concerning some issue, right? Right? Uh this is voluntary to results o in a partnership relationship. Examples could be individuals like remember David and Jonathan made the covenant. Uh Jacob and Laban they didn't trust each other but they were both agreeing, right? As a matter of fact the reason they made the covenant is because they didn't agree and they go, All right, this is my end of the bargain, this is your end of the bargain, right? Um so we have this range of covenants and that's why see you can't just have this one technical uh definition. It has a broad range, most words do. Alright? So the the uh I have an example here. There's a second kind of covenant, right? It's the one that's imposed. Uh, first Samuel uh eleven, uh one and two. Uh now Nahash the Amorite came and besieged uh Jabez Gilead and all the men of Jabez said to Nahash, Make a covenant with us and we will ser and we will serve you. But Nahash uh Ammonite said to them, I will make it with you on this condition that you gouge out your right eye and every one of you uh gouge out the right eye of every one of you. Thus I will make a reproach. of all of Israel. So, I mean obviously this is something that's imposed, right? There's not an agreement here. It's like we make the covenant, this is the rule. It's one sided. And and that's kind of w w where you we're going with this. Um Um this type of covenant is made between men and men, sometimes men towards God, mostly God towards men. This is what God says. It's kind of the we'll go over this, I will. You see this all the time. I will do this. Okay? God's not saying there's sometimes we're gonna look at um where it God makes a covenant and in uh uh right? Uh uh it's gonna be um conditional. If you do this, I will bless you. If you don't do this, I will curse you. We'll look at that in a sec. So Bruce Walt uh Walkie uh he views the covenant uh as an obligation of the master to the servant, such as uh the Noahic, the Abrahamic, priestly, Davidic covenants as a grant. Uh this is to emphasize that God alone is obligated to keep the promise of the covenant. Whereas the Mosaic Covenant, right, this is the one where it's i he sees this as a treaty because there an there is an obligation on the part of those whom the covenant was made to abide by the stipulations of the covenant. If they obey I will bless, if you disobey I will curse, right? So and and that's the difficulty as we go through with this, we're gonna see where God m makes these covenants and it's not up to us if he says, This is what I'm going to do. Right? So there's a different phrase that describes the word covenant uh in uh different words, okay, different phrases. Uh Jeremiah thirty four ten talks about entering into a covenant with Dan uh uh uh into a covenant, excuse me. Daniel nine twenty seven, the Antichrist imposes uh uh by force a covenant on Israel. Uh God says to Israel or to Noah that I will establish My covenant with you. That's uh Genesis sixteen, eighteen. The more frequent phrase is to cut a covenant with one with another. This phrase has its meaning uh gets its meaning from From the fact that uh to seal the oath to one another, the two parties would cut the sacrifice in half. Both parties would walk between the halves, as if uh to if uh to say if one does not keep the covenant that which is done to the animal would be done to them. So this is what we're gonna see in Genesis fifteen, right? They cut the things in half, the two parties walked between 'em. This is probably what uh uh uh Jacob and Laban did. Okay? And it's it's kind of a oath. You know, it's uh that's why they're keeping the the covenant. Uh you know, same as kind of we do today, right? Um we don't really call it a covenant, we do it to a contract and you write a contract out and you go, All right, now if you don't pay this then this is what'll happen, right? Um I can take whatever property you're signing over So this is where you uh we get into different types of covenant covenants, uh conditionality. Um bilateral between two parties, right? They're both making the covenant. Between the two parties, condition conditionality was an integral uh was integral or basically the point of making the covenant. Failure to apply to uphold the conditions of the covenant, uh, made the agreement null and void and thus it would bring the consequences to the one breaking the covenant. Uh same again. You don't pay the you don't pay the This is what you get. So a unilateral covenant, particularly when the Lord initiates a promise, uh they're unconditional, dependent solely on his faithfulness for their fulfillment. So according to uh Busnitz, There are five unconditional covenants in Scripture. Covenant with No Noah, Abraham, the Priestly Covenant, Davidic, and the New Covenant. There's no evidence in Scripture of any obligation on the part of the recipients in order for them to be fulfilled. Now here's here's the point. I I want to read this. This is um uh this is what Wal Walkie wrote. And 'cause this is a difficult one. This is not to affirm that the subsequent obedience is not required if some or all of these five covenant benefits are uh covenantal benefits are On the contrary, obedience is demanded if one is to enjoy the benefits. However, failure to participate in the benefits will not thereby frustrate the plan of God as announced in the the covenant. Even if some of the people do not participate in the benefits, they must by virtue of their being part of Israel, or even more critically, of the Messianic line transmit these benefits to their successors. What he's trying to say there is that God beat these covenants, and even though this generation of Israelites or these people or the seed of Abraham may not uh get the benefits of this. And we'll see this with David too. Uh David was promised. And then and then we see what happens after that, right? We we we're reading to if you read through the Bible with us, we see how many times the kings don't obey. But God's plan is is going to come about, right? The seed of David is is going to be fulfilled, right? It was fulfilled. The Messiah is Jesus. The point I'm trying to make, the point he's trying to make is that the covenant stays in effect. Our problem is we're trying to appropriate it or say, okay, we may he made the covenant, that means this group gets it, this group gets it. See God's plan's bigger than that. And and that's where I think the difficulty lies with with a lot of people uh uh trying to understand these. So Leviticus twenty six. Let's turn there real quick and I'll show you what I mean. Actually God will. Leviticus twenty six. Because we talk about these concepts, but um you know, uh let's face it, I I want to try and make him uh the uh uh what's going on here concrete. I mean we see it in his word and we're just trying to pull this out. Um line, so I'll probably use this. So really the the setting of this, right, there there this is Leviticus, right? We know they're at Mount Sinai, we're gonna see this at the end. But like in tw verse twenty one, the in Leviticus twenty six. If then you will act uh with hostility against me and are unwilling to obey me, I will increase the plague on you. You seven times according to your sins. Uh verse twenty-five, I will also bring upon you the sword uh which will execute vengeance for the covenant, and when you gather together into your cities, I will send among you and ye shall be delivered in in the hands of your enemies. Uh thirty two. I will make the land desolate. Thirty three. You, however, I will scatter among the nations and draw you out with the out uh sword after you. Uh your land will become desolate, cities will become a waste, and the land will enjoy its Sabbath, all the days of the desolation. Uh just a quick note there if you do a study in Daniel. One of the reasons they got sent there, remember they were gonna be there seventy years. If you look in uh Jeremiah and Ezekiel, he talks about 'em uh they didn't fulfill the Sabbath. Okay? It really uh uh it looks like they were fulfilling a year for each of the Sabbaths that they hadn't fulfilled. What what's the point? He's telling them this. They ha think about where they are. They're a they just came out of Egypt, right? This they're at Mount Sinai. They haven't even wandered around, they haven't rejected anything, they haven't gone into the land, and God is already telling 'em what's gonna happen. Right? He's telling them already and this we were seeing this played out in in real time later in the Bible. So uh first forty. If they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their forefathers and their unfaithfulness which they committed against me and uh and also in acting with hostility against me, I also in acting with hostility against them will bring them into the land. Or If their uncircumcised hearts become humbled so that they make amends for their iniquity. It's always the same thing under all these uh different uh commands by God, it's always still the basic same thing. Faith in God, obedience to God. Just because Abraham didn't understand Christ was going to hang on a cross, uh, be buried, rise from the dead on the third day, doesn't mean he didn't understand. the the gospel that was being related to him by God. That God is sovereign and in control. Abraham believed God and it was credit to him as righteousness. Right? Uh you see that all time through the Bible. We know we've talked about that before. It's uh Genesis fifteen, six, right? It's always by faith. So, verses forty four, look at this. Yet in spite of this, When they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, nor will I so abhor them as to deny them, breaking my covenant with them. I am the Lord their God, but I will remember for them the covenant with their ancestors, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God. These are the statutes and ordinances of the Lord. Which uh the Lord established between himself and the sons of Israel through Moses at Mount Sinai. And if I didn't read this, but in forty-two he says, uh then I will remember my covenant with Jacob, uh my covenant with Isaac, my covenant with Abraham. It's the same thing that runs throughout all of this. It's God's promise. Okay, and he's telling them this before they even get into the land. So That's what I was talking about when I said even though the immediate people didn't recognize the covenant, God is making this with It's a theme that's running through here. Our problem is is I want to know m all the details, right? A guy it hasn't you right? But we see it unfold. The again these are big pictures. Okay? Um most of the time when we get into uh problems, again, we're trying to get too specific. We're trying to read into what God said into contemporary, into uh this era or this time or maybe even a a section in history past, you know, trying to make it uh too specific. Uh it's a big plan, it does fit in there but but um God hasn't revealed it to us. It's just that simple. Let me read this and then we'll get on to the Genesis. Understanding the Sixth Covenants, this is uh Busnitz. This is a uh these are journal articles that uh this part of what I uh really motivated me too to to do this. Um Master Seminaries put out a journal article on these covenants and they had uh each uh uh some of the different professors uh write on uh this these Abrahamic, uh Davidic, priestly covenant, Noahic covenant. So uh uh this is uh his quote and th he this is the introductory article uh on these covenants. Understanding the sixth covenant it will shape a person's understanding of scripture. It will affect our hermeneutical course. Uh in other words, remember we talked the science of of uh you know the rules of interpretation really. That will determine the pitch of one's eschatological sales. End times, right? That's what it means. Careful attention to these six covenants will bear an overwhelming abundance of faithfulness. When God enters into a unilateral covenant guaranteed only by his own faithfulness, when God enters into a covenant void of any human requirements to keep it in force, when God establishes a covenant that will continue to continue as long as there is day and night, and summer and winter, then great care uh must be taken not to erect man made limitations that would bankrupt the heart and soul of these covenants, and to annul the glorious full realization of all that he promised through them. Their significance cannot be overestimated. So I just that was his uh interpretation of this So, let's get to the first one. Now, um well let's read these and then uh we'll we'll work through it. Well what the the goal of this is and we'll see w what uh uh not so much that uh I'm going to give you this is what exactly what this means. We're going to pull out the details. We talked about that in the first section. We're fact finding. As we draw these facts, as we go to the facts that are in these passages, you will start to put together This is His word. We don't have to really reinterpret it. Let's just pull out the the facts of of each of these. Alright, so Some the can I get somebody to read uh this Genesis one twenty eight through thirty for us? I'll do that. Thank you. God bless them and God said to them or multiply until we earth you should do it and rule over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the sky and over every thing that is on the earth. Then God said, Behold, I have given you every plant and every sea that is on the surface of all the earth and every tree which has fruit the open sea. It shall be food for you and to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, and to everything that moves on the earth which has life. I have given I didn't see I have to read in it myself. And then uh somebody read through Genesis um two fifteen through seventeen. Then the Lord God took the man and put him into the garden of Eden to cultivate it and keep it. The Lord God commanded the man, saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For in the day that you eat from it you will surely die. So I have to have a n I'm making a note here. Uh we we went through the word Barita. Uh uh not many recognize this uh this e d Edenic and uh this uh Adamic pass messages a as um as covenants because they don't include the terminology of a covenant. Um this guy uh fruit and baum and and uh a he's not taking this all on his own this is this has been uh uh uh a foundation built by uh uh many, uh this kind of uh uh view of of looking at these uh as time elements. Uh but he refers to uh Hosea six seven as evidence that these this is in fact a covenant. But like Adam, they have transgressed the covenant. There they have dealt treacherously against me. So It it's not exactly strong evidence, but uh the point is if we're gonna look at a narrative, whether whether we get technical, we call this a covenant or not a covenant, I mean you can argue this Okay. The point is, these are these are uh major foundational blocks. If we're gonna look at a at a program that God has, what could be more important in the creation than the fall, right? Everything kinda stems from that. So, uh again, we can get scholarly and and we we can go round and round with this, but th that's not really the point. I'm I'm not trying to put this into uh a dispensational category Or anything like that. And I'll discuss that in a second. The Edenic covenant was made between God and Adam. Adam was the representative head of the human race. Consequently, Adam's actions are attributed to all humans. Uh right, um I I have this uh Romans passage. Therefore just as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men, because all sin For until the law sin was in the world. But sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam, who is a type of him who is to come. Certainly we could talk a lot about this this past, but um the the point is it it Paul attributes right to to the word God God is telling us, right? This all stem from Adam. We all get this from Adam. And this is our our passage to uh to verify that. So the provision of the covenant. There are seven provisions for the Edenic covenant. One, man was to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. The earth was created for the habitation of man and man was to populate and fill the earth. people m the man's responsibility to pop w was the man's responsibility is to repop populate the earth. It's just that simple. Be fruitful and multiply. This is what he was told to do at this time. Number two, man was to sub to subdue the earth. Genesis one twenty eight B. God gave him authority over the earth. Um uh he was to use resources and power derived from the earth. uh as a steward of God's uh reign over the earth. So he's keep right, we're we were given this um ability, uh this uh responsibility. to do this. Uh so d it's interesting. Um uh Sado is uh kibche. You know we we use that all the time. Somebody put the kibosh on something. And this is what he's this the word he's using but obviously he's he's using it kabosh means just that it's kind of to to knead, to to grind down, to control, uh uh but y it's to take authority over this. Um w w n actually that's not the right word when we use it's to take it's to physically with the resources he's given us, right? He's given us resources for housing. Look at all the things that w that we've done, right? Uh this is our our um This is our subdue in the earth. Now, granted, we're we're sinners, so we we do a lot of bad things, but we also have provided a lot of good things for humanity, have we not? And it's kind think about it, it we it It's it's thinking biblically. I think of the pastor week all the time. Think biblically. We think manly all the time. Well, look at what man did. Remember these are all our gifts and we forget that so quickly. Uh right? This is God's given us the ability to subdue even unsaved people. Man was given dominion over every living thing, right? God gave him authority over every living creature. Adam demonstrated that author that authority by naming the animals. Okay? God gave him fruit and vegetables to eat. Uh were we are vegetarians at this point. It's it's not a judgment, it's just a fact, right? We're we're looking at the facts. What what is God um what is his provision for us? Okay? Uh and and how's man to respond. God commanded Adam to uh not to eat from the uh tree of knowledge of good and evil. Uh this is in uh Genesis, this is in chapter two, right? This is the one forbidden or negative command that uh would test Adam's relationship to God. Adam would recognize God as the sovereign ruler over all creation or or w or or what is freedom. or give or would his given freedom, uh uh have authority over the earth to bind his uh blind his uh position as creature and not creator. Will Adam submit to God or will he usurp his authority? Again, think about some of these as you contemplate it. Um how many times do we not we act like we know God, but how many times do we go through w we really don't know God. W what was Adam's thought during that time? And we can only speculate, but w we can project it to to ourselves. We want to kind of apply this also to ourselves. How many times do we consider God as the author? W and think about how many times we slip into it and forget about that. Jesus i i you know when you read uh John seventeen, right, there's that famous high priestly prayer he's praying and people are looking in there and he goes He says, I have made you know. One of his things is I have made you know. I've done the work that you've given me to accomplish. I've lost none of them. I have made you know. to these people. Think about it. We don't know God. And this is this was man w was Adam thinking about God or or you know what I mean? I I I can't believe that he had on his mind a c uh obviously any kind of a a full comprehension that God created all this. Everything is God's. I'm breathing the you you know he didn't understand the full ramifications of this. He knew what he was doing, he knew it was wrong, right? We know that we know that from uh uh Timothy, right? Well uh He you know, Adam was not f the the woman was fooled, but Adam knew, you know, Adam was not tricked. So um just just so many things you need to contemplate. Um w w Sometimes we read this so fast we don't even think o of e uh what are all the implications of it. God's command or provision that if the fruit of the tree of good and evil was eaten, the man would surely die. So there are two opinions to the death, uh uh which death is emphasized here, i. e. physical death or spiritual death. Some believe that man was created immortal, others, Calvin, believe that man was mortal and would have passed. From the earth to heaven. Some read this according to the way uh the uh this word for death is used elsewhere. It clearly points to physical death if you take and uh uh uh look at the other uh scripture. passages that that deal with this. But spiritual death and separation uh and a complete change in man's nature, uh, we gotta recognize that uh here as well. Uh we see that Cain and his relationship to God uh the point of the consequence of separation from God, which is death. That's the point. If what is um we I I thought about w we should Think about this and and w we'll obviously see it again because we're gonna see this obviously in um Genesis three, right? From dust to dust, you are dust and from dust you came, and sh uh to dust you shall return. But think about I th I thought about this. What is death? Well, uh w we think oftentimes I uh go quickly to Physical death, right? Lack of existence. But it's is death is it's it's kinda broader than that, isn't it? Um what does the Bible say about us now? You were dead, right? Ephesians 2 You were dead. You're dead in your trespasses and sin. Um People say that the uh Adam and Eve were were were died as soon as they ate that fruit, right? And they did they weren't kinda separated. They were hiding, right? Uh so just think about it, what is death? Are you alive i if you're separated from God? Not really, I mean it's kind of one and the same, isn't it? They're a lot closer than we think. What is what is life? God is life. And it goes back to what Adam would have thought. thought, right? Uh or you know, whether he was do we have this um you know, in an in uh our s what is he thinking, uh am I independent of God? If I eat this fruit. So the status of the Eden Edenic covenant. Uh the first covenant of God was conditional on the obedience of man, right? The obedience of man to the mandate that he would refrain from meaning the fruit of the tree of knowledge. Man's relationship to God was changed from one of intimate fellowship to fear and hiding. This is referred to as a dispensation of innocence by many theologians. Others subject that label and have a different theology altogether. Dispensation can be defined as a system of order, government, or organization of a nation, community, etc. Especially as existing at a particular time. That's Webster's dictionary. The definition applies to this study with Guy being the institutor of all these aspects mentioned above. This is not dispensational theology we're going to do. to get into, but to recognize that God's declared order and requirement. Again, what we're going to do is dispensationalism as a uh can take on a a lot of different forms. Uh uh MacArthur probably said the best. Uh you know, I don't even want to to deal with this because what is as soon as you say y this is dispensational, it's like define that. What does that mean? But it's progressive. It's what we're gonna see is we're gonna see God working in different ways in different in uh different eras. aren't we? I mean the the most obvious one is the Old Testament and the New, right? The Old Covenant and the New Covenant. I mean, just the fact that fact alone we see God working in different uh aspects. So what we're what we're trying to do with this study is just go to these passages and pull out what was the aspect, what were the commands, and and you'll see the the uh again the different working of God. This is what God commands. Commanded. Typically we have a covenant and then people fail. We have a covenant and people fail. Right? So you see it over and over again. But it's still God's plan and He showed As you as we put all this together, we'll s we'll see how he's he how he's using this to show us his his overall plan at this. Can I ask a question? Yes, please. Um, along those same lines you were talking earlier about how God's covenant continues despite um you know, the human obedience or lack of God. Well n in other words, um the blessing that somebody that was what um Kyler was trying to say. Yeah, I want you to think about these aspects when you go f forward because some of them are still in place, are they not? That's what's gonna be my question. Are there things that we can see in scripture where we can know this one is done or parts of it continue and I think. Yes, and and and again you what well w what you have to look at uh is uh just that. What aspects of that continue and what what doesn't. And that is obviously I mean you can see where this is going. The big stumbling block is going to be on the wall, right? The big stumbling block. And the problem is is that there are going to be aspects of the wall that whole w what is what is what and we may as well go ahead and look at the elephant real quick and I'm not I I don't want to get into detail but big picture what was the idea of the law? What what what do you think the establishment of the law was? If you had I'm not looking for the perfect answer, I'm looking for a big idea. When God established that law, that Mosaic law and he did all the sacrifices and everything else. Well what was God's big idea? What was he showing the people in word pictures and And practice pictures. Right. And and what else about God? It was impossible to live up to this standard. He dead and there's a word I'm looking for to describe God. What about what was the show about God? Yeah. close. Big words. Exactly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Thank you. He's holy. And we threw that we see think about it. We use uh I I have to go back sometimes, take myself back. We use these words We throw 'em out, we throw 'em out, we throw 'em out. And we don't think about what you we forget what what we learned about 'em or what they are. It's holiness. He's separate. Totally, totally separate. And think about all that mosaic thing. Uh we i exp you and that's why when we read this we have to go back in experientially and think about what they were visually witnessing. Okay, it was scaring 'em. Right. They when they saw that mountain creek, you remember what they said to Moses? You speak to God for us, right? The thing and he was showing 'em, don't touch this. If you touch it, you're gonna die. Touch his mouth, you're gonna die. I'm separate. And and see, uh I I do this You know, we lose the fear of God, we lose the holiness of God, because God is so good to us, He's blessing us, I do feel comfortable with Him. That's a good thing. But He is holy, He is separate. Right? Then I that took a long way to answer. Did I get to your question? And these see and you can see how these the uh that's what I want. I want the big ideas there. The details they're intricate. It's the whole Bible. We can't go through that. But we forget Yeah, while we're in there, where are we? What or what is God doing during during this time? Right? And then he gets into all the I mean, Leviticus is detail. and you read that you have to come back out and go, Wow, where am I? Or you know, the genealogies. You know, we're reading to the genealogies now. If you're reading through the Bible, it's gave Pastor Gabe. That detail there is detail. So thank you for asking that. And and trust me, we'll be revisiting these kinds of questions over and over again. And we just have to be careful of our the details we're looking at, now we get to the interpretation, that's the tricky part and we don't want to say too much, do we? I think that's a problem with uh when we talk about this dispensationalism. We can people our nature is we want to define it and and and that's a good thing in a way, but we can over define it. We can start to import, right, things that aren't there. Uh let's see, where was I? So I went down a little spiel about dispensationalism. This is not that again. We're gonna draw you as we look at these facts, we'll draw our own conclusions and look at big ones. The record of breaking uh the covenant is found in Genesis uh three, one through eight, so I think we'll we'll we'll probably read that. We'll start to get into the Abrahamic covenant probably really next week. We need we need at least Talk to the groundwork. But Satan fell before man is all we know for certain. Uh Job uh thirty-eight, four through seven, he talks about the sons of God. Uh it's in uh uh Job uh one six two one talks about the sons of God co uh uh coming up and he says, uh Satan, you know, where have you been? So I I say that because um this is talk sons of gods is angels. It has to be angels. Um says that the Lord uh laid the foundation of the earth and the sons of God shouted for joy. That's in Job thirty eight, four through seven. You can read that passage on your own. Uh But he laid the foundations of the earth. The sons of God sang for joy, right? Again we're seeing we're s uh interpreting that to be angels. The angels according to this passage were were created before the foundation of the earth. In Genesis one thirty one, God saw his creation, declared as very good. Satan must have fallen after the creation, before Adam. Uh this is uh I this is Fred Dickison, uh This guy wrote a book uh Angels, Elect and Fallen. Uh it's out by Moody Press. Really good book on angels. It's not um it's it's uh it's biblical. He goes to the passages and goes works through them and it's complete. It's a good source to go through. Uh uh you want to look up uh I use it as a reference all the time. Uh so So the devil tempted the woman in the same way, and I'll repeat this again. 1 John 2. 16 describes the love of the world is the lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, the boastful pride of life. Why don't we got time to do this. Why because we uh and next week did did you guys uh see my email about reading these passages? I ch so and why don't let you do kind of go over and over 'em and go, okay, what like we did in in the text here, um, w let's take out the elements of the passages, right? Because remember, we're fact fact collecting God's facts. Not anybody else's facts. We're we're taking the facts. What what is he saying in these covenants? Right? And sometimes listing them out and and and kind of almost putting them in like that chart or what one, two, three, four. You know, i e again, it it you know, to me it compasses and kind of uh consolidates everything for us. So why don't we read um uh Genesis three? Because it is the setting for for what we're going to get into the next covenant. And again, the the covenant passage and we'll get into this next week is going to be uh fourteen through uh what, nineteen? And again, uh y you've done this before in many other studies. We'll take out the passages, uh take out the facts of these passages. So somebody want to read me the first five verses in uh Genesis 3:13. two five. Now the serpent was more crafty than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Indeed has God said, You shall not eat from any tree of the garden? The woman said to the serpent, From the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat, but from the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat from it, but touch it, or you will eat it. die. The serpent said to the woman, You surely will not die, for God knows that in the day you eat from it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Then the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise. She took from its uh fruit and ate. And she gave also to her husband with her, and he ate. So again, that one twenty one or the uh first John passage, um uh the woman saw that the tree was good for food, right? So lust of the flesh, he sees it's good for food, it'll feed her flesh. Uh it was the delight to the eyes. There's the adjective there, right? The lust of the eyes. It's desirable, right? And it the tree was desirable to make one wise. So, again, building yourself up. And these are the elementary things, you know, that the of course John puts out, uh 1 John puts out, uh 2036. fifteen to sixteen, right? The love of the world. Same thing. You know, and that's the thing about scripture. We see it in a lot of different forms, the same themes over and over again, because it these are the elementary uh principles of life. Okay, uh let's finish up. Uh somebody wanna read seven through let's go to thirteen. Then the eyes of both of them were open and they knew that they were naked. And they sowed big weeds together and made themselves wine coverings. They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to the man. And he said to him, Where are you? He said, The words have founded you in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid myself. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to me to be with me, she gave me from the tree and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent received me, and I ate. Mhm. So I'm sure m uh everybody here is familiar with these passages. You've you've probably looked at 'em over and over again. But it's just good to have it i in our mind. Um uh So they you see the consequence, right? Disobedience, right? First thing they hide, they're fear, they're afraid of God. Um that's important. They're they're afraid Uh, we're gonna pull this out next week. Something I read by MacArthur was was very good on this, you know, when he talked about enmity. Uh and to and to think through that. Uh they were friends with God, right? we see in the first uh w uh in the New Testament, right? We are we are enemies of God. Um so now there's there's a there's an opposition there. And uh think about that. Think about the the change in in relationship. Uh uh the other thing contemplate is and this is one of the things we pull out, um, what was their relationship with the the serpent? to Satan. I d I uh I don't want to say too much. I don't know I certainly doubt I I don't know where w Adam realized that probably didn't see what was behind the serpent. He saw the serpent, right? He dealt with whatever that was in that form? But what was what was his relationship with with the serpent? I mean, listen to him. So I I'd like you to think about it, meditate on some of these things, some of these Uh yeah, we can go too far with some of this, but just contemplate it. But wouldn't Adam have had demand elements as the creature that we created our work with a man to those are the Exactly, you know, it we won't be able to unpack this. I mean 'cause we could spend, you know, these are deep packages. He certainly didn't uh uh apply or demonstrate. straight his his dominion over him, did he? He listened to him. So yeah, I mean and these are some of the things to think through. So and Again, sometimes we don't always uh get the answer we want but it it helps us expand and and think about, okay, and then as we relate it to God. We w w we need God. Um so it's uh time, let's close in a quick word of prayer. Um we'll we'll pick it up. We'll get into um again this part of the covenant. Uh we're gonna pull out all the aspects of the curse on the serpent. Right? Uh Satan, the woman, the man. And uh again, it's gonna start to form a picture for us.