Okay, there we go. So today we get to talk about pride and fizziness. Week four, chapter three out of the book. Um The key verse that we have for today's class is at the top of our notes for the class, it's 1 Peter 5. 6-7. It says, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. That's part of the reason why the hymn that we chose today was trust and obey. I feel like the a lot of these chapters are really juicy. And when we get to the chapter about pride, it's really easy. We could spend a long time today just soaking up on what this is and how it fits into our lives and stuff like that. But I want to just back up a little bit. Last week Kirk taught on um Sanctification. I think I mentioned this to Kirk. I think one of his powers, his superpowers, is seeing the forest. And um And and he did a great job of kind of stepping back and giving us a a kind of a running start. I feel like uh maybe that would have been better in the second week and I I was sitting there in the back row last Sunday taking notes and updating the notes and stuff like that for the second week for the if God wills the next time this class is taught and stuff like that. It was fantastic. One of the things I loved about that is that This is a class where you get to see the gifting of both of us in this class. And one of the things I hope you saw is that God's built everybody in the body of Christ to have different gifting, different skills and different way of seeing and perceiving. And I loved what Kirk brought last week to the class. Excuse me. And I I'm looking forward to what he brings next Sunday. Yeah. The uh the last time in the last chapter, chapter two, there were three specific dangers that the author talks about. that comes with busyness. Raise your hand if you remember any of those three dangers Yes. Or rob our joy. Rob's our joy. Fantastic. And you know, the funny thing is, is as believers, we should have joy. Why do you think the busyness can rob joy from a Christian Margo. Because you don't have time to really acknowledge the words to be enjoyable. Yeah. Yeah. And along with that, I think the Holy Spirit's gonna give you a little bit of in discontentment To see that you're in a situation where you need to be in fellowship with the Lord. And if we allow busyness to sap that, it's naturally going to steal our joy. And I personally know the feeling of my blood pressure up, kind of out of breath, not knowing when I'm going to be able to get these five things done that are on my to-do list for today That I've set myself up for, and it's important that I said I set myself up for, because I think God gives us the ability and even commands rest. So anyway, that's another subject. Another Sunday. So dizziness can rob our joy, and that's a very serious consideration for us as believers. Anyone remember any of the other two dangers that come with busyness from chapter two? This is the review part part of the class. Yes. Oh wait, wait, wait. I don't remember the middle. I saw your hand first. I don't remember the Exactly the middle one, but the one is the one at the in the aspect of being so busy that we can miss the deeper things that are going on in our life and sometimes even um simple things that we really need to be dealing with that we're not taking the time. uh for that uh some to to see that. Yes. Yeah, absolutely. And and Life is fast enough as it is. And we make it faster. Yes. What was the other one? So busyness can rob our hearts. How can it rob our hearts? Does anybody remember the illustration that he gave when he talked about robbing our hearts? In reference to the Parallel of the the sower. And what he's what he's pointing out there is that that seed falls on all kinds of soil. And uh that's a picture of what life can do to us. You can be in thorns, you can have moments. And I'm I'm extrapolating a little bit from that, and I'm saying that people in general can have moments when their hearts are hard, and they can have moments when the cares and worries of this world take over. They can have moments when, and that's the picture that the author uses, and our hearts just like joy can have can be taken away and lose focus on the things that are most important and have focus on those things that are going on right now in front of us The last one is busyness can cover up the rot in our souls. And I'll ask a similar kind of question. How can believers have rot in their souls? Anybody? We start with that. We start with that. Okay, but no, you prayed and Jesus came and you had the Holy Spirit inside of you, he made you clean. Yes. And that's one of the reasons why it was important to go back and talk about sanctification last week in light of these things. Is that We are still growing into Christ-likeness. And busyness can hide from our attention the things that we need to grow in sanctification about. It can give us a sense of, ah, I'm just focused on these things today. And again, if it puts a bright shiny object in front of us that can distract from the thing that's most important for us to focus on And so that's why the author says it can cover up the rot in our souls. Yes, Kurt. Doug, I I was also thinking about the Sometimes the the sin that we choose to not deal with and to not confess and maybe not go to other people to restore a a situation that we've created or maybe it was maybe the other person created but we it's undealt with Things that displease God and sort of festers and rots. Yeah, that's fantastic. That's not just a rot in my soul, but that's the rot in my relationships. I don't have time for that That's hard and and just let's be real real quick for one second. Relationships can be hard and take a lot of time. Especially when we haven't been nurturing those relationships or we said something that we shouldn't have, which can cause it come about by the frustration that comes about by being busy as well. So when you think about these three dangers, and there's an implication in what you just brought up, Kurt, that there may be more than just three dangers associated with busyness. How what's our response to that? How does that make you feel? It can ruin our joy, rob our hearts, mess with our relationships. Cover up the rocks and our souls. When you hear those descriptions of those dangers, what do you think? Yes, well uh that sounds really bad, but also sometimes sick and I can't help it, like it's really busy I I did not ask him to say that, by the way. Thanks, Well. I really appreciate that. Um yeah, it's Sounds kinda scary and our response might be a response of of fear with respect to that. Oh warning and stuff like that. But I want us as we hear these warnings To not go, oh, that's scary, well it is scary, but not to be scary in the sense that I can't do anything about it. But to be scary in the sense that somebody is graciously hanging up for us a warning sign So that we can be in a position of taking action. We're not victims. And we are in control of our schedules And the things that we have going on, we may have signed up for them in the past, and we may be in a position where we need to clear out some of the overcommitments that we made But we can control and make wise choices and budget what God has graciously provided us with. And I think one of the things that's really important for us to consider is that God, you know, you see the parable of the talents Somebody gets ten, somebody gets five, somebody gets one, and they do stuff with those talents. And the egalitarianism in me is like, that's not fair, God should get everybody one But that's not what God does in that parable. God gives some people more and some people less. And they do stuff with it. Well, time is not like that. Time is absolutely level set across the board. You and I and everybody get 24 hours in a day. From the start, no more, no less, and you get to decide how to use that With the strength that God has given you, with the gifting that He's provided you with, and your abilities Not comparing yourself to anybody else, but looking at what I am and who I am and what that enables me to be able to do and make wise choices based on that So today we're talking about pride. Um Raise your hand if you read this chapter, chapter three. Okay, to the rest of you you still can read it today. Um if you don't uh um if you don't know What it is. We're reading a book by Kevin DeYoung. It's called Crazy Busy. The assignment for this week was to read chapter three. And can somebody really count count for me really quick how many pages chapter three? Five pages. Like I said, you can probably read that on the way home from church today. Um I recommend it. And if you haven't gotten been reading the book yet, Well yeah, sure. I say that because Diane and I have a practice of reading books to each other when we're in a car. Um And so you're right. Not if you're driving unless you got it on Audible or something like that. But um I think you'll get I I just want to say that because I think you'll get more out of this class If you had a chance to read the text before you come here. Um so there you go. I've said enough. Um Real quick, let's just go around the room and work on this because today's chapter is talking about how pride contributes to our busyness. What's the definition of pride? Somebody who hasn't put their hand up yet. Raise your hand before I call on you. Yes, I'm one of those teachers. Definition of pride. Person who goes first has the easiest time answering. That's a fantastic answer. Thinking of yourself more highly than you are. In fact, there's scripture that talks about that. Is that in the book of Philippians? I think it is. Yeah, I get a head nod. That's good enough for me. What's another definition of pride? Yes. Um I'll just sit this up down to self-florification. Self-glorification, that's really good. Making yourself look good. Yeah, I think we can continue to stretch this out a little bit more. Anyone else want to add to thinking more highly than yourself and self-glorification? When it comes to pride. Attitude of the heart. It's an attitude of the heart. That's really good because you know a lot of times when you start a definition you need to kind of like put boundaries around it. Pride is an attitude of the heart that um that that goes along with these other things. Anybody else want to add yes? Unwillingness to admit weakness. That's powerful. Unwillingness to admit weakness. And that also is good to hold on to when we talk about how pride can make us busy. Yes? Romans 123. Can you read it to us? For my grace given me as three one, do not think of yourself more highly than you ought. Rather think of yourself with a sober judgment in accordance with the measure of faith God has given you. There you go. Think in about yourself in a right way. Not too high, not too low. Anyone else? Yes. The idol of self. The idol of self. Wow. All right. Yeah. These are all good. Anybody else? Kirk, yes. Yeah, I just um even though it's not intuitive, but actually thinking of yourself too lowly Yeah, especially if you're a believer who's been given faith and gifts, but then you deny that and you think that you deny God by thinking of yourself too lowly that, you know, you shouldn't do that. I can't do that. Yeah. Absolutely. Does anybody struggle to appribe this past week? Henry's yeah. Okay, there's some nodding. Diane, you want to tell us about it? No. No. You don't have to, babe. Yeah, yeah. um trials. And in one of the trials, um I got extremely angry And um I was journaling about it yesterday and I wrote, you know, by any if I described the situation anybody would probably classify it as quote unquote righteous anchor in the physical way of what was going on, but it um the Holy Spirit inside of me let me know very clearly that it wasn't racious anger. And um I was surprised by how I felt inside and I just thought, well there's definitely the whole spirit going. You have no right to um to exert your will overline in a situation and lean into your anger. And it it stuns me. I was like, okay. That was pride. And then I so I I'm thankful for it but um and then God helped me to walk in the spirit and just do something different and then it It worked out for evil. I don't know if that was muddled, but Well I was there, I know what was I know more. I don't know if it's clear to anybody else. But I will say this, that pride can put us in a place I think it was one of the definitions. Pride can be sneaky and subtle in our lives. And and it can kind of come up from underneath and and it can create in us what we believe is a self-righteous, uh righteous anger Uh but really what's happening there is our our territory has been invaded and we get angry because you have crossed the line In some way in my life and my reaction is to defend that with anger or with words or with whatever it is To protect that. And yeah. Is a a humble thing to admit struggles like that. And uh so thank you. And um One of the things that if you've listened to teaching for very long or studied the Bible for a little while that you start to know and understand is that pride is oftentimes at the root of many, if not some people would assert, all, of the sin that we have in our lives Um and one of the things that can make it difficult to see and understand that is our hearts of the seitful. And and can very quickly, just like how Adam and Eve did in the garden, self-justify what's going on and pretend like it's not pride or it's and and and hold on to that. It can be hard sometimes to answer the question, did I struggle with pride this past week? Yes. Absolutely. And I'm willing to defend it, but I'll let you Uh well I'll I'll tell you what I what I thought about when I said that is um we can have a certain measure of pride in practicing our humility I I'm I've got this pride thing down. I've I've figured out this humility. And I'm lowly. In fact I'm more lowly than that other person. That uh that other person really has a trouble with pride. And I think that's a sneaky kind of humility there. That's really kind of disguising itself as pride. How did I do, Kurt? Yeah, I I think that's that's a part of it, yes. Is there something else that you want a nuance that you wanted to add to it? I'll let Walt go first. I I think there's sometimes going to be a pride in saying like, well, you know And not that we would ever say this, but we would have the attitude of like, well, God says he's forgiven me, and God says he's given me the Holy Spirit and given me gifts But but I know better and I'm gonna hold myself to a higher set and I'm not gonna forgive myself because it might be good enough for God, but it's not good enough for me. Oh, well now there's an aspect there of not trusting God's grace, and I'm gonna be proud in making myself righteous. Mm as well. Yeah. And the only thing I was going to add to that is in this the the book gets into this on a different page, but it has to do with perfectionism and nothing that I do is good enough. So I'm not even going to get in the game because I'm proud and I don't want to show any sort of weakness or unpreparedness. So it's it's still pride, but it's it's thinking um that you you have to attain a a certain perfection and so it's it's always characterizing yourself as um As too low and what you have to offer is never good enough. Yeah. Yeah. I I feel like in some ways these attitudes and and emotions and and things, actions that happen in our heart, there's an aspect of it we kinda know it But it may not be good to put we may not be the best at defining it or putting boundaries and understanding it If Gabe was here, he'd be like, he'd give us a simple summary sentence of what it means to be proud. And it would be astonishing, and we'd just go, wow. So Gabe's not here. I looked up the internet. And this is what I got. And this is in the notes. It says pride. Included are the ideas of arrogance, conceit. Cynical insensitivity to the needs of others and presumption. An individual who shifts ultimate confidence from God to self A prideful person could be insolent, presumptuous, or arrogant, a scoffer or a mocker, stubborn, willful, or contemptuous Pride led to Isaiah's downfall in 2 Chronicles 26. It hardened the heart of Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel chapter 5. It goes before destruction in Proverbs 16. It does not seek God in Psalms chapter 10. It brings disgrace in Proverbs 11. It breeds quarrels in Proverbs 13. It deceives in Jeremiah 49 and in Obadiah chapter 1. It brings low in Proverbs 29. It humbles It opposes, God opposes the proud. And that's in Proverbs 3 and in James a couple places. And that's a paraphrase from Bible Study Tools. com. That's kind of an ugly definition. And when you stop and think about it, there's as pride's not all that pretty in our lives. And so there's an aspect I kind of like want to hide it off to the side. But I think we today we kind of got to look at it. And part of the reason why it's important for us to look at it is it's better to be humble than to be humbled. Well, I'd rather be humble than to be humble. The end result of both of those is good. Um So, how does pride lead to busyness? We kind of talked around this maybe a little bit, but I just want to get it out there and examine it. How can pride cause busyness? Yes. Well I'm the only one clearly who can do this correctly. Yeah. That's it. Oh wow, what a fantastic answer. Thinking that I'm the only person who can do this right, underneath of that is pride, and that's going to put me in a position where I'm going to start pulling tasks toward myself. Yeah Yes, well uh well well so and so is getting all of this stuff and has all these accomplishments and well I can't be like following behind what they're doing. Yeah. Oh there's two things there, right? The comparison, but thinking that I need to be at a higher position, so yes. Sin to rest. Say that again. Yeah, we could take our prideful situation and actually there's a whole chapter on that we're gonna get into But we could probably proudfully think, I gotta I can't rest. Yes. Yes Jessica, my identity is in my productivity. Ooh Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And so I gotta keep working. And then then then It ties back to what Ian was talking about, is that I can't slow down because that's not who I am And that puffs people up. Yeah. I'm gonna call on Jessica right behind you. Sorry, yes? Um I think there's a situation to think if I say no, this person's going to be disappointed in me. Or if I say no, it's not going to get done. Yeah, there's two aspects there. One is being concerned about what other people think about you, right? And the other aspect is I think what you're saying is this has to get done. And nobody but me is going to get that done. Yeah. Oh good answers. Uh yes. Uh wanting to be noticed by other people. Wanting to be noticed by other people. Hey, yes. Yes. People need to know that the UB is a lot of me. People need to know I'm important. Yes. Yeah, the um Yes, yes, yes, yes. Too many rabbit trails in my head. Yeah, yeah. Uh kind of playing up with Jessica said an unwillingness to trust God that he's going to get the thing done. When you don't see who may be the person. Yes Yes, absolutely. Fantastic answers. You guys, I feel like in some ways I can sit down and let you teach the class, um, but I'm not gonna do that. Uh Good answers guys. Yes, thank you. Yeah, I'm gonna stay up here pridefully and tell you about not being too proud. Well played. Well played, Henry Um in chapter three, the author has an extensive list of things that can contribute to a pride. Is there wait if you if you had a chance to look at it, if not, skim real fast. Is there anything there um I don't know that specifically spoke to you in this? Yes Perfectionism, yeah. Yeah. Jessica. People pleasing? Yeah, absolutely. Poor planning. Amen. Uh-huh. Yeah, saying yes before you know. Yeah, and but just just go back to that one quick second, because that might not be apparent at at first. How is poor planning prideful? Yes? Thinking it doesn't matter what else I have, I think I Indian little. That's yeah. Yeah, that's one aspect. And and I was also thinking it's prideful to say I don't need to have a schedule. I can keep track of all this stuff in my head. Yeah. And the older I get, the more I need to have a list. Uh-huh. Um Anyone else? Specific ones? Yes. Uh position. Well, I'm I'm the leader of my family. I need to take care of these things. Yeah, and not just family, but at work as well. Um I'm not gonna get that raise if I don't. I'm not gonna people aren't gonna respect me, which is tied in the bolt, if I don't put in this extra effort and so I need to stay a longer. I this is the only way I'm gonna get this thing that I want. Anybody relate to yes, go ahead. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And anybody oh Diane. I think one thing that um can be teased out, uh, which might be more applicable to women, is that we're afraid that if we say no to some that we're gonna hurt them because they're disappointed and then it will um sever our relationship in some way or diminish it in some way And so if we don't say yes, it's gonna hurt that relationship. Right. And it it because we're gonna hurt them because they were posting they had their posting We don't want to hurt people, right? Because we're supposed to be the Lord and we're supposed to come people. And then I guess the the reason for that would be to have the faith that the person that we've disappointed is responsible for not holding that And we actually have dates about that, but that's really difficult. Yeah. So feeling all right Feeling like saying yes nurtures a relationship. And I would even, based on a conversation I had with somebody yesterday, As if I could say being guilted into saying yes. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Uh how much being guilted into saying yes is related to pride? Um I don't know, but I think it's it's close enough that I'm not gonna I I yeah, it's inside there's a It is interesting to take this first step into the, there are actually going to be seven words that start with P, and pride is just the first one. And it's the first one that can cause us to be busy. But let's not lose sight of that other six can also be contributing Or causes to our busyness in our lives. Let me just ask this question because it's worthwhile doing as we talk about this. Is there a positive side to pride? Based on your definition? Probably not. Yeah. We use in English, we use pride as a synonym for ambition And there's a I think potentially a healthy ambition. Um and so There's there's also I can be I'm gonna use the word pleased with the accomplishments of my children. Oftentimes we use the word proud in my children. And having a measure of satisfaction in others' accomplishments, I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think the line changes when it becomes my glory because there. And so I think that's important for us to be careful with our hearts. And how we consider where is this where is this landing in my heart? And it takes discernment to know the difference. I think we go back to the three dangers of dizzyness. Sometimes we need to take a moment and examine what it is that's going on in my heart. And think carefully about that. Siddha. Yes. She'd be able to tell you I shouldn't. I'm proud of you. I think in the way that we use English, there's nothing wrong with that. You can also use synonyms. I am so happy, I'm excited for you, great job, high-five me. If you don't want to use the word pride, proud in that context. And so if somebody ha if somebody feels like that's that's too close, I mean there's not yeah. It's that's fine, Henry. You and I can still be friends. I was just gonna say that I think it goes back to what you just said earlier that pride is a heart attitude So when we say I'm proud of you, what is our proud pointing back to? Is it leading us back to Christ or to our own goal? Because if we're proud of our child because of how God is working in them or gifted them, you know, that is still ultimately giving God glory. So it it really comes down to the heart Yeah, yeah, absolutely. He does look to Jesus and say, This is my son in whom I'm well pleased. So he conveys the same sentiment, but he does not use that word. So if you want to tell your children to well please, if you have a biblical reference for doing. Yeah, fantastic. Good answer. Yes. I also thought it would often say I take pride in my work. And the idea there, I think, is positive. It's personal responsibility. And ultimately as believers, it's saying, well, I'm doing it well because I'm doing it to God. So it's It's not pride in the sense of it's it can be looked good, but it's actually being faithful with what God's given me, what you we talked about earlier, curve reference being faithful with what God's given us Yeah, and that's kind of why I started with this question, and that is um we need to be careful about our motives and what's going on in our heart. And when back a couple of weeks ago, one of the things that I introduced about this class, and as we talk about these things, we need to very carefully apply wisdom to our lives as we think about these things. I wish it was simple. I could just have a stick in front of me that would turn red when we was pride and green when there wasn't, but it's not like that We really need to look at our hearts and ask, what is my motivation? What's driving me to the thing that I'm doing? Can I let it go or not? One of the author's questions to try to suss this out is, how would you feel if no one knows you're working on this? How you know how would you feel if somebody else, if you handed this off to somebody else, and they got praise for it, even if you did 60% of the work Right? Are you more interested in seeing the success of somebody else or me getting the praise? And to remember, right, is is this about, thank you for the words, is this about God's glory, or is this about me and my success? And so take some time and think about. You know, the first thing we did in this class was we drew out our schedules and the things that we're doing right now. Take some time and look at that and go, are there anything in this that I said yes to because of some of these things that drive because some of these pride-related issues that we've we've talked about today. That would be a big step, a real concrete positive step to consider uh you know, where's my motivation? What's going on in my life? Um And the author writes, it's okay to be busy at times. You can't love and serve others without giving of your time So work hard, work long, work often. Just remember, it's not supposed to be about you. Feed people, not your pride. So um if you're too worried about what other people think about you, if you're focused on your income or your toys, if you're um If you you know we already said this, you don't feel like you need a plan or um or even yet where is God in your plans and expectations Am I clearly waiting on God to provide, or do I feel like I'm the one who's got to be in here filling the gap? That puts gets back to the aspect of the definition of pride that puts me as the idol. I'm the one solving this problem because God's not. Ew, that's really that's really scary. Um I would say Pray for wisdom. And this may be a drum that you hear me beat a lot. You know, James chapter 1 says, if you want wisdom, ask God for it and believe that He's going to provide for it. He's going to take care of you. Get input from people. You have a trusted friend that you can go to and ask hard questions. Feel free to do that. There's nothing wrong with having honest questions and conversations with the people who are asking you for help. To say to them, you know, and getting back to what you brought up, to say to them, I just want to just want to show you a little bit about what's going on in my life, To help you understand why I can't say yes right now But maybe these two people over here could say yes to you. And I'm sorry, I love you, but I can't right now. My schedule won't permit me to do that. I would say in this in this big category, we've touched at this a couple of times, in this big category of how pride can influence us to say yes. Consider how what I do and what I say glorifies God instead of me. Are those class notes being passed out? Yes sir. Wow. Look at you guys. Don't do that. One of the things That we haven't mentioned yet, although maybe we did briefly touch on in the beginning. What are impediments that we have in our lives to delegating to somebody else? Well They're not gonna do a good job. They're not gonna do a good job. Ah! I'm not gonna trust them with this. This is my baby. Yeah. I'm gonna have to spend more time fixing the afterwards. Exactly. Exactly. Now then then touch my code. It's not even gonna pass yet. No, did you I was gonna say that similar thing. Yeah, it's taking longer to train the person to do the job they need to do. And then afterwards you gotta fix all their mistakes. Yeah. Even if they do a good job, it won't be done the way I would do that. Yeah. They might use Google Sheets instead of Excel. And also sometimes it's God has given me a set of skills that seem to really fit this need Yeah. Uh I'm gifted this way, so I should do this thing. I don't want to bury my talents. Yeah. What's that? Oh, I'm just interested. And and it's well i maybe if I'm just interested in it that might not be pride. God's gifted us in areas and it's important for us to do things based on how God has gifted us. Work hard in that. But if our attitude is I'm gifted, so I'm gonna pull all of that to me, then yeah, that may be a prideful situation. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. And then I'll have nothing to do. Yeah. Daniel talked about how being on the receiving end of being asked to do something can put you in a hard spot of like, is this gonna affect the relationship and so not wanting to put someone else in that situation? Yeah, absolutely. And it's uh it's uh asking somebody for help is a sign that says I might be weak. And I don't want to expose my weakness to anybody else. And it can be scary to ask for help. Um yes. I think uh I was thinking something along similar lines like I I don't want to admit that I have limits in my limitations. Yes. Absolutely. God is God, and we are dust. That's a really important thing to hold on to. God is God, and we are dust. Basically, what that says is we have limits. And God doesn't. And if I try to hide the fact that I have limits There's an aspect of me pretending to be God. If I try to and that's just things of pride Kirk, did you want to add something? Yeah, I I think I have to admit that within our family there's a personality trait of being not necessarily being an initiator where we would initiate communication with those around us It's it's there, it's not there all the time, but just that may be a characteristic just in how we relate to each other. And I probably inherited it from my parents, not not necessarily bothering other people or taking the initiative to to speak and address something. So that that kind of personality, maybe it's it's um what do we call being i introverted, but having having that personality trait where you would be reticent to ask for what you need or ask for help. Yeah. So Yeah, absolutely. There's a there's a story that the author gives, a really brief story, about how he went on sabbatical. Anybody remember that story? Yeah, go ahead. Tell us that story. You went on sabbatical and when you came back, they talked about how fantastic everything went. And he was like, I mean on the one hand I was so glad everything went well. How did he put it exactly? He said it funny and like Yeah. On the one hand I was so glad everything w went well, but on the other hand I was, you know, bummed that it didn't just like Yeah, because I'm indispensable. Exactly. And and that's kind of the heart that that the author was getting to and what we want to think about When we examine what it is that we're doing in our lives and the things that we feel we must do, and I'll tell you, the last time I taught this class It's been eight years. The last time I taught this class, I was leading the music ministry and I remember leadership in a church came to me and said, wouldn't you like to delegate some more? And I'm like, I can't delegate any of this stuff. And thanks for the laughter. Nobody knows how to do this work. And uh God was so kind in those last eight years to take me out of the music ministry. so that I could see some examples and so that I could recognize that no, there's a lot of stuff here that can be delegated and to put me in a position where there's other guys that are leading the music ministry and other guys and I've kind of come to the place I'm not there all the way. I'm not I'm not arrived. But I've seen joy in delegating. And I've seen so much pleasure in the success of others. But I'll tell you there have been some Sundays when I was just like, oh, I wish I could be doing this right now. And I'm like, dang, that's still there. It's still there. And It's very sweet the kindness and patience of God to work on me In growing me in sanctification. And I can tell you that God has promised that He's not going to finish working on you until He says he started a good work in you, and he's going to continue that good work in you. And so Don't dread the woodshed. Anybody know what I mean by that metaphor? Sorry. Don't just it don't don't fear the discipline of the Lord. Hebrews chapter 12 talks about when God disciplines us, it's showing that He's our loving Father. And there's times when God will use one another to discipline us. There's times when God will put us in impossible situations to realize That we need to be in a position of hands open, waiting for God to strengthen and provide and care for me. And if he doesn't, that's okay. It'll be alright. Doug, can I ask the question? Yes, Henry. The pride and the many ways that it shows up Um I think a lot of what I've heard us discuss has to do with those those activities or tasks that involve us uh planning ahead of time or deciding to get involved in them and all of that. One of the areas that I I'm not so sure that I've I've heard about our those moments when you obviously were not motivated by something prideful, but you did something that exposed the fact that That this does this pride in you can I come up it I find that I I find that I that's been more applicable to me, perhaps more recently than in the past, where uh I didn't I didn't undertake something Uh with a motive that I would look at and say that was trifle. But in the moment, maybe I'm talking to somebody or something. my what I said revealed that oh my goodness I'm so prideful. So what I'm the question that I want to ask is as I think about What scripture says about pride. I wish you know if anyone else has stumbled in on something or maybe studied something or in help. to realize something in scripture that teaches about how to to deal with that prize besides just stop Yeah, uh that's a really good observation, Henry. And I and I'm glad you brought that up because I have been treating this from the standpoint of the point when we say yes And there are aspects when you you say yes and then you see your responsibility start to grow in something that you're doing well. And so there's there can be follow-on small guesses that that grow that. And so I think that's really good. Um and you asked, and I'd love to hear what other people have said about that. Margot? I don't have to stay on that so but I think just praying for discernment and asking the Lord to show you in different ways as you pray about different things. Lord is this Is this pride or is it something I should be doing or in the way in which I'm going about it? What am I going about it? Did I say? I guess an example would be even to the word delegation And so for me, um I was I was explaining this to some friends recently. I used to be in a position where delegation wasn't actually actually possible. My principal would say, you go do it. And don't come talk to me about it until you it's done. And then so I got into this happen up, I have to do it. There's nobody else here to help me do this But I'm no longer in that place. Like I'm thinking like specifically like the folk academy. There are other teachers, other people, parents who can be helping But I haven't learned that skill of delegation. Sometimes I don't recognize that I e-delegate. And so that's prideful because I no I can I got it. I can handle this. I can do it. And then it's turning into pride and I have to ask the Lord constantly. Is it pride or is it at least something I need to do? Just, you know. So it's how you go about it or if you should be doing it at all And sometimes we can't see it because our hearts are to seeful. We need to ask the Lord to show it to us. That's a really good picture. I think that kind of gets what you're talking about. Diane, put her hand up. Um asking about your career. I mean your your Yeah. Scripture about it. Um here. Yeah, that gets back to the idea of of asking God for wisdom about what's going on. I think that there's also a having an attitude of are there as as responsibility grows as we start to see our our schedule fill up is to be in a position of thinking Who can I give stuff to? There are, you know, we're we're a relatively busy church. Um, but there are still some people in our church that would be blessed by you coming to them and saying I would like to, if you're willing, I'd like to trust you with something, an aspect of my ministry that I'm involved in. And I would like to I'd like to put this in your hands. I'll walk with you to get you up to speed. I'd like to get you going with this. But if you're willing and if you're interested, I'd like to get you more involved with what's going on here. And um having that kind of almost as a process that you're thinking to myself, you're thinking to yourself, how can I What's a chunk of work here? What's an aspect of what I'm doing that maybe I can peel off and give to somebody else? So that I can trust them with that. Maybe we have a couple of chit-chats and meetings and stuff like that to make sure it's moving in a direction, but you trust them to own that. and move forward with it and uh and and not to touch it anymore. And that can help with with that as well. Um and Cheer them on. Tell them how fantastic they're doing. And draw attention to other people. Say, look at what they're doing. Yay! And stuff like that. Proud of you. Thanks, Henry. Yes. Um Professor Henry. Um there's a book called Humility by Andrew Murray. A book called Humility by Andrew Murray. So it's it's really a book I can read just once a year or something because it's so hard and when you start reading it you realize you're very convicted by what how he describes humility and humility of Christ. And so I think focusing on humility Um doing the study of close study of Jesus and his humility would be one way of Yeah, and uh it's six dollars and forty cents on um paperback. So anyway, there you go. Um I don't think people have it was Uh I thought dude I just wanted to make a statement. I think sometimes um we have to be reminded, especially in the church, when we come to uh do work for the Lord that it's not it's not just a job. Sometimes I see people come to church as if they're punching the clock. You understand what I'm saying? And the biggest thing we have to keep in mind is definitely the humility and that we're part of a body where where we want to be we should be inclusive of other people to build to grow the fellowship Sometimes if we're not in the right frame of mind and doing our duty, um we could it could come off to people as you know, you may be insensitive or or uncaring because you're trying to get something done. But we have to I think there's a mindset of Who are we doing it for? And continue to look at Christ and how he worked and he included people into the word. Um so I I think that's something that is very important to to keep in mind who are we doing the work for. Yeah. Love God, love people. Those are our basic marching orders. Right. Yeah, thanks for that. Yeah, Kurt. Doug, uh this seems like a relevant Averse to the conversation, Hebrews 4, 12, for the Word of God is living and active. Sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And no creature is hidden from his sight. But we are all naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. So excellent reference. It's an attitude of always letting the Word of God maybe help you to understand, since we don't even know our own heart, but to let the Word of God make a discernment about our motives. and just really allowing God to to to do that to for us to understand why why we are the way that we are and the motive behind the decisions. Yeah. Thank you for that. Um I just want to mention that uh in two weeks We're gonna have fellowship, which means we're gonna switch the tables around. Everybody's gonna bring something to share. And we're gonna share a meal together. Just a little bit of a day of rest. And uh we'll chit-chat with it one another about the class, make sure that we're pleased with the direction that it's going One of the things that I want to encourage you this week is to go back and look at your time budget based on this first P that we've talked about, based on the warning signs that we talked about last week Um and just ask yourself is are are there things that there that you're maybe you're doing some things to make yourself look good uh towards other people Maybe there's some aspects there that you want to re-examine. Maybe there's a chunk of work that you can delegate to somebody else. Also read chapter 4. Um we didn't start with the book today, but uh we may start with that next week where just want to know if there's if you just underline one or two passages. out of the book that you'd like to share, that might be a really good way of kind of starting things off. But Kurt's going to do that and ONET, not me. And I'm not being prescriptive um in that. I did want to pause real quick and ask, does anybody have any prayers?