Alright, so we're looking at chapter 10 today. In this crazy busy book. I want to ask a question. And this is not a rhetorical question, but maybe it should be. So if you choose not to answer, that's okay. What's the first thing that comes to your mind when you think about God? Some of you are like, oh, I've heard this question before. It's can't been kind of Pastor Gabe's favorite question to ask in the recent past. Right now today, because some days it's a different answer. Right now today, what is the first thing you think about when you think about God? Okay, Brian, go ahead. Well early this morning I was actually on got questions And I was curious about their definition of holy. Holy, okay. Okay. Holy. God is holy. Yeah, absolutely. Bible. Yes. Yeah. I think of God's like gentleness and tenderness? Gentleness and tenderness, yeah. Yeah. Yes. His his creative power, like God's creative power. Like sheer power or stop power. Yeah. And and you see that around all the time and there's wonder and glory. You know, we've have recently gone through a period of time when we've had not much rain. And it's really cool to see how the plants react to not much rain. And when the rain happens, how they also react again to that. And how God's put that into all that He made. Yeah? Uh oh yes. God is love. God's love, yes. Despite how massively huge our universe is that God has created, he knows each one of us intimately And he knows us. Open your Bibles up to Luke chapter ten. And just put your finger there. We'll come to that in just a second. A lot of page turning. Some digital people too. I appreciate that. Nothing wrong with looking at your Bible in a binary format. Translated to English, yes. So this pat this past week we read chapter 10 in the crazy busy book. What did you guys think about this chapter? It's a nice ending. It's a nice ending. You know, it's ironic that you call it a nice ending because this quarter, well, I'll just say this and confess about this class was designed to be a 13-week class And so today would be the second to the last, and then next Sunday we would have a fellowship and the class would be all done. Yay, okay, cool, and it lined up perfectly to a 10-week, 10-chapter book, and then this chapter we got 14 weeks. I'm going to invent stuff to do next week. And good news is we're going to actually pull in some extra material. We're going to speak primarily about priorities next week. and thinking through our scheduling uh and some of the things that we might struggle with with respect to. I'm trying to make next week very practical and and almost like hands on about the things that bring us to to crazy busy. Just a little foreshadowing. So yes, sorry, all of that because you just said the words It's a nice ending to the last chapter. Well why did you say it's a nice ending? Um just in the beginning of um the chapter where, you know, he's explaining that that he doesn't have the answers per se and this isn't you know is not ten points or five bullets he gave a you know just a simple thing that we have to do that we have to Have more devotion with God. Spend time with them. Have more devotion with God. So many people are selling, as he was you know alluding to, selling all the you know how to you know how to get closer to God in seven days, seven steps and so on and so forth. Forty days, yeah. Exactly. Yeah. He he was so uh He was so honest about yeah you know you want to get better the more you spend time. Overall in this book Easy I got a measure of transparency that's kind of fresh. Mm-hmm. Anybody else? What did you think of this chapter? Yes. Uh I like the line on the first page where it says there's a good possibility you have it made all the way to Chapter ten. Yeah, yeah, you made it. There's definitely a few chapters where I didn't I didn't get to because you know, crazy busy and But I read this chapter and I read that line and uh we need to go through Yeah, yeah. There's good stuff in this book. Um it's not the only book on busyness And uh there are a lot of also good resources that are out there that speak to uh practical living life as a believer. Anyone else? Thoughts from this chapter? Yes, Thomas. I think w what I got was after everything, all the uh you know, when Ollie said it's done. Um it's that relationship with God that you should should be foremost and center and then let the other things fall around it. You know, just the way you put a big pebble up, a big rock first and then let other little things fall into place. Yeah. If some don't get in there, it's okay. But the most important thing is in there. It is interesting that he put this chapter at the end of the book That is a very interesting decision that the author made. Um let's look at Luke chapter ten Anybody want to read verses thirty-eight to forty-two? I can read it now. Please. Uh read it so that we can hear it over here, please. Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching. But Marjorie was distracted from much serving, and she went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her to help tell her men to help me But the Lord answered her, Martha Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her Yeah. It's interesting in the chapter the author sympathizes with Martha. And he's like, Isn't she doing the right thing? God, come on. Sh she's being responsible. Anybody here relate with Martha? Yeah. Yeah. It's like Bring the hammer on Mary. She's uh she's a dreamer. And uh it's time to put her feet down on the ground and get to work. Um you know 1 Corinthians 15. Since you got your Bibles open, look at 1 Corinthians 15. Look at the very last verse. Bill, what's that say? Can you do you mind reading that? Sorry, there's more than one Bill. Yes, Bruce. Oh, okay. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast Immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your toil is not in vain in the Lord. That's like Martha's verse right there. Always abounding in the work of the Lord, your labor is not in vain. Get to work. Come on. If you don't work, you're not going to eat. Simple as that. And then Jesus says She chose a better part. And and you know, the uh the people the task oriented people among us are like Well wait a minute Sput wait a minute and then we gotta go stop and and remember that God's God's wisdom is not our wisdom, and his ways are not our ways, and he's talking about the best thing. You know, um Who here relates to Mary? Okay. It's kinda hard to be like, yes. I know. Some of y'all are like, yeah, I chose the better portion, sorry for y'all. I thought maybe I didn't ask that the well the best way. But yes, there are people amongst us who are like, I do take my quiet time. I am in my place of devotion today, or maybe this week. It has been a week of Heart being filled with God's grace and mercy. And um and maybe we're both. Maybe we are people who work hard and we have both. Um and and praise God for that. Diane, you had a question? No, then I think that when God takes away your certain ground that you're standing on, if he takes away your job, if he takes away your health If you can't do like the a couple of the most basic things that you're used to doing, you will always be married. Or you will be married for at least as long as that is going on because everything had slipped on its head and you have no way of providing for your basic necessities And um it's just another thought. I mean it doesn't say that that's what was going on obviously with Mary. But that is Um that that kind of had those things grow me into like having that be more of a habit. And I'm not bragging or anything. I'm just saying, you know, when you get cut off to the legs then Well, Paul says that he went through his trial Right? His thorn in the flesh was to keep him humble before God and dependent on his grace. And so he said, I would choose my trial because it leaves me in that position where God says, my grace is sufficient for you. And and a lot of us, well, I don't know, I think Just looking around the room, we've experienced trials and seen God cause us to be desperate. I would just want to add on top of that Just for mercy to us all, right? There are times when God brings us to our trial and we forget that He's our source of strength And we're like, okay, I got a trial, I'm going to solve this problem, I'm going to get out there, I'm going to get this thing done, and it's going to be all better when I when I'm through with it. That's just being people. And you see stories of that in Scripture as well, where the trial comes and they look to the Assyrians. Or they look to the Egyptians to solve their problem, and the prophet comes to them and says, Isn't there a God in Israel? That's a story for us to pay attention to. Because it's you're right about what you said, and I'm not disputing at all, but I also want to see the other side of this too, that there are days when we forget that the place of our safety, the place of our refuge, the place of our strength Is founding God alone. And I think there's an aspect of Martha in that as well. My strength is to get the, you know, I've got to do this task. And I I expect Mary to help me to get this thing done. I want to beat your feet too, Jesus. And and I can't because. And one last thought is that And this is important for us to hold on to. Because we're married today doesn't mean we're not going to be Martha tomorrow. Just because you relate to Martha typically doesn't mean you're always Martha And I want to just acknowledge that because it we we go through seasons, we go through minutes where our hearts go back and forth, right? Yes. It's it's it's a heart issue. It's not the thing issue. You know, it's not that Martha was doing something wrong. It's that her heart was not to be worshiping Jesus And that's where Mary's heart was. Yes. And so and I have found that, you know, if you when she gets involved in a lot of ministries it's very easy to fall into this, okay, yeah, I'm doing I know I'm doing the thing that the Lord has called me to do, but I'm getting burned out, I'm getting, you know, starting to get resentful of the expectations and things that come with this. In those moments, yeah, I've forgotten that what I'm doing is supposed to come from heart of worship. Yeah. And remember where this book started off is that our business can cut up cover up the rot that's sneaking into us. Um yes. I felt like for years I could be the poster child of being a Martin and so I've read many devotions and books about it and one of the comments and encouragements was that this abounding in the work of the Lord isn't always being in fourteen different ministries. Sometimes sitting and worshiping God is also a work of the Lord Yeah. Yeah. There's been two primary area times in my life where God took me out of ministry. And those resulted in me having the realizing that I'd been making prioritization choices that were to my detriment and not to God's glory. And and we'll talk more about prioritization next week. And and a little bit this week too. So yes. Yes. I'm just gonna say I can relate to your what you said about being we can be Marthas, but we're not always Marthas, and we can become like Mary and Being a bit older, I guess I can look back and see the mistakes of being very focused on task and all that stuff and to the neglect of time with the board and how If I'd only done what I had the privilege of being able to do and wanted to do, it would have been so much better going through the the busyness Yeah. And that that is something I want to hold on to today and focus on. That was very well said. Um the the time And there's a choice, there's a deliberate prioritization choice for us. As we're thinking about our busy schedule, to consider the time that we have with our Lord And the author says, in our busyness, there's one thing that's necessary. And uh in the notes I wrote, the dishes will get dirty, the house will need cleaning. There will be food that needs to be prepared. There's always another project. Do you ever notice that all the time you gotta flosh your teeth? What's with that? I could save so many seconds if I didn't have to floss my teeth. And some people are going, ew, yuck. But there's a reality there that I want to compare to. Skipping flossing our teeth is a lot like skipping taking care of the cleanliness in our souls. Now, God's already, by grace, cleaned our souls, made us right before God. But there's a devotion, there's a polish, there's a growing in sanctification that we have as we walk with the Lord. As I I dare say graciously ignore the to do list Or better yet, make it part of our to-do list. I'm not gonna sacrifice this. Yes. Um also kind of comment out that analogy of One thing was um if you delight things like that, it can turn into a bigger issue that it wouldn't affect You have addressed it right away and you know over and over again. So like you know You mean the dishes? I well I'll think about blossom. Oh yeah, and that too, yeah. So it takes like, I don't know, a minute to blossom teeth but then if you don't do that you might have Yeah. So I think kind of similarly, um if we're not considering our spiritual state frequently and taking time to examine ourselves and spend time with Lord, we can find ourselves in situations that we wouldn't have had to deal with if we'd taken the small amount of time each day to Yeah. In fact, um there's a really cool quote that's in this book that's quoting another book. Um and uh I'm I'm skipping around in my notes. This might this might be dangerous. Um there's a quote towards the end of the chapter Kevin DeYoung is quoting David Tripp, Paul David Tripp, and he says, I'm more and more convinced that what gives a ministry its motivations Perseverance, humility, joy, tenderness, passion, and grace is the devotional life of the one doing ministry. When I daily admit how needy I am, daily meditate on the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and daily feed on the restorative wisdom of his word, I'm propelled To share that with others. I'm sorry, to share with others the grace that I am daily receiving at the hands of my Savior And that comes from um that comes from this book, The Dangerous Calling, Confronting Unique Challenges of Pastoral Ministry. And I want to submit that every one of you guys are in pastoral ministry. The roar of cordon can't see my air quotes, right? Pastoral ministry, not in the sense that you're going to be an elder, but in the sense that you have a ministry opportunity to the body of Christ You've been enabled by spiritual gifting and daily in all the time in our walk with God He's preparing us to have a fitting word to share with our brothers and sisters. Daily, minutely, God's preparing us So raise your hand real quick. Uh if you want to. If you want to. Um do you have do you do you have time with the Lord in the morning? Raise your hand if it's time in the morning. Some people do you have raise your hand if you're time in the evening kind of person? Raise your hand if you're middle of the day kind of person. Alright, cool. Yeah. Raise your hand if you're a all-day kind of person. Kinda sorta maybe there I I think scripture encourages us to be a all day kind of people. And what that may look like is going to be different from person to person. I really liked in this chapter Where Kevin Deeung says, basically, Grace, Grace guys, um, let's Hmm, I may have to jump into the brook. Yeah, here it is. Anytime we talk about what we should do every day We must make clear what God what Christ has already done for us. We can rest because He worked We can lay down our prideful busyness because he laid down his life. We can come keep coming back to him in the midst of our failures because he keeps all his promises to us The last thing I want to do is lay down a law that says you must read through the Bible in a year, or the Lord will smite you in his wrath. No Uh uh. Church has a really cool Bible reading plan, but And by God's grace there will come a measure of sanctification from that, being in his word. But there are a lot of reading plans. And there's a lot of ways to study God's Word. And if you're looking for one, you can talk to me afterwards. I'll give you one. I think the goal here, the goal in Mary esque living. Is to really think about who do I serve? That seems kind of black and white, but there's a reality underneath of this, and there's an attitude that's underneath of this. Who do I serve? Where is my heart? And do you really see your need being met in God first? That's an interesting question to meditate on, to consider in your heart about where you are and who you are. And if I ask those questions and you're like, yeah, I solve a lot of my own problems. Um, yeah, uh My I really need to hang out with my friends, or I need to do this, or I need to do that. And if your thinking in that respect tends to be answered in your own strength. Um look to God. Look to God and say, okay, God, look, I just want. Can we be real for a second? God already knows. He already knows. It's really between you and him. He knows the depth of your offering to him, the depth of your hearts. Dependence that he knows how much you are pursuing him and how much you're not And if you hear these questions and it kind of convicts you a little bit, first of all, go back to what was said before, depend on God's grace. Don't think of this as like, come on people, I'm gonna get down on you, you're gonna feel bad about yourself. No, I really don't want that I almost didn't ask those questions because I don't want that to happen. The reason why I ask those questions is for tender Consideration of who we are before God. So that we are prepared to honestly evaluate ourselves And to go before God as his loved children and say, God, I want to depend on you more and me less. I want my motivation to be not a motivation of duty, but a motivation of love and a motivation of joy. I want to not feel like my time with you is a burden. is a choice that I have to make, but a choice that I want to make. And I confess I don't always feel that way. Because God you already know. Well now you start on a place of humility. And you're already got yourself to a place of dependence on God. Because this veneer of I'm going to put on my good clothes because I got to go meet with God. Isn't really what we see reflected in how people talk to God in the Psalms? Isn't really how I think Mary was relating to Jesus I'll ask you a question. Why do you think Mary was at Jesus' feet? Let's just guess at this a little bit. I'm not going to judge your answers. Because the Bible doesn't tell us so I can't say you're wrong. Why do you think Mary was at Jesus' feet? Not very often you get to physically be there with Jesus. Sure. Well they're at the house. And and I would say even to us, Brian, how often can we be in God's presence? All the time. That could lead us to take it for granted. You know, I I don't know about you, siblings? Do you have siblings? I don't remember. Okay, you've got siblings. Have you ever been in a situation where you take your siblings for granted because they're always there People are only children, they're like, I don't know what you're talking about. And and the result of that is like you might like not treat them real well either because you just kind of assume that they're always there. Anyway, back to the question. What do you think Mary was thinking? For me at least, it's easy to relate to Martha. What do you think Mary was saying? Yes. I think she wanted to get as close as she possibly could. Right. As a female that is as close as she could get. Like she wasn't hugging him, but she was there at his feet. physically as close as you could get to him. And just thinking about how we don't have that desperation, that drive to be as physically or spiritually close to Jesus as Like you said, we just have access to them all the time and we just take it for granted. Yeah. And and other days, it's like, yeah, it's okay. I got these things I gotta do today. People are coming over And stuff. But yeah, yeah. She felt yeah. She wanted to be as close as she could. Yeah. What else? Anybody else? Thoughts about what Mary was thinking? At all? I'm kind of imagining the disciples took all the seats and so there wasn't any place on the floor. Um but she wanted she wanted to hear what Jesus said, so I'll sit on the floor. That's fine. Yeah, in fact scripture reflects that when you look at the book of James. James says that, you know, you get somebody who doesn't have a lot of money coming in, you say, Come here and sit at my feet. You, you've got money. Come over here. I got a seat for you. I got a special place for you. And it may be that that's what was going on. You're right. Yeah, she found wherever was left in the room. Yes. I kind of like to think about um what Shelby said, and that is that um you know when you when you're going to a concert per se or a play you want to get as close to stage as you can. So I'm thinking, you know what? I'm thinking that she purchased the best thing. She elbows she elbows. Uh excuse me, I'm sitting here. Yeah. Yeah. You think Mary was thinking about she heard Martha in the kitchen clang, I need some help. She knew her sister was doing the thing, right? In the kitchen And she's like, what do you think she was thinking? I don't know what their dishes would have sounded like back then. Maybe maybe she was thinking, let me get this part, let me get this, you know. Who knows? Maybe she had intended to go help, but you know, whatever Jesus was saying was so captivating, she needed to just hear some more of it. I I think that happens to us too where you feel okay, I know I have business, but you know what, let me just hear this one thing or let me just, you know It might be that. Yes. Have you had those moments where you finally are in your Bible time and the the noise of everything else has finally like settled down and cleared away and you're finally starting to see it? For me, that takes time for all that stuff to just settle away so I can focus my mind. And maybe she had gotten to that place. Where it had settled down and she didn't want to lose it. It was I mean when that happens for me, it's rich. I don't want to stop when I'm in the zone. Yeah. Diane? I think it's really interesting that you asked this question because it's I mean realistically um to women Who are two sisters that are that close? I mean Martha was probably like you know, in whatever door or whatever, just having a really attitude and she knew her sister so she could And the self-control that Mary had to have to stay there, I don't know, it's just really interesting. Yes. The other thing to consider, uh culturally, you know, women were not able to be in the same areas in the temple and things like this. Um And we know that he was at their home numerous times through the gospels. Um one of the comments I'd written down on there with Martha has served. It's not what she never does. It's just this moment She had the opportunity to be right up there in front and listen and I think, you know, sometimes we do need to feed the children or, you know, take out the trash, but sometimes we do need Yeah. Um Psalm forty three says then I will go to the oh by the way this is verses four and five. Then I will go to the altar of God, to God, my exceeding joy, and I will praise you with a lyre, O God, my God. Why are you cast down on my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. I love this verse because it speaks to this, it's almost like in in this psalm, you see Mary and Martha arguing inside the same person, right? Because There's a determination, I'm going to go to the altar of God. That's my exceeding joy and praise God. And then confessing immediately in the next sentence, why is my heart downcast? Put your hope in God. Psalm 16 says, The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup You hold my lot, the lines have fallen for me in pleasant places, indeed I have a beautiful inheritance. Can we just remember this morning we started off by singing How Great Thou Art Mary, and I love what was said, Mary is seeing through to how wonderful God is, in my humble opinion. And like was said, and she doesn't want to lose that. And how do I assert that is because of what Jesus says Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. Jesus says one thing is necessary just before that. Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things, but one thing is necessary. Anybody think about another scripture when you hear Jesus say one thing is necessary? Yes. It reminds me of uh the verse that says speak first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all other things would be added. Yes, Matthew five. Yes. Seek first God's kingdom, and everything else will be added unto you. And that's right on the heels of the Gentiles chase after stuff. But for you, seek first God's kingdom. And yeah, thank you. That's one of the verses that popped into my head too. Anyone else, another verse? Because there's a very good companion to that verse. I think of Deuteronomy 6. It says, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength. That's close to what it says. That's kinda I don't I didn't get it precisely. Sorry about that. I could read it and say. But That's, I think, when when the Pharisee said to Jesus, what is the foremost commandment? He pointed at that. He pointed at that verse. One thing is necessary. And because of that, that tenuous link, I think Jesus is acknowledging that Mary is being obedient to that Foremost command. And she is loving God with all her heart and sitting at His feet. Do you have experience the time when you hear that verse, you shall love the Lord your God and think that is duty? Me too. Mary has seen past the noise to recognize its treasure. It's priceless. It's the thing I need. It's the food for my soul. And when we have those rich times with the Lord, we also have the opportunity to see past The I gotta do the dishes to see no I need to feed on the Lord today. I need to know the strength that comes from knowing my God, and then everything else will take care of itself. Seek first God's kingdom. Love God. So when your heart tells you Just like when my heart tells me, that's duty. You gotta love God. Get out there and do it. Be in the business of loving God. Speak back to your heart. Why are you downcast, my soul? There is there is rest that comes from loving God. Yes, Brian? So when you start out the class by saying how great thou art, uh you refer to um Deuteronomy 6, Matthew 22, 37, which is the same verse, is a good reminder that there's things in the life. that we say are great. Take care of this, that's a good thing. Take care of this. Take care of this. But we can sing the song media. Look at the verses. It's a reminder that God is above all of those things. God is where the focus is. When you do all these other things, you do it onto the wood. So which means your focus is still on the wood. So Mary is at the feet of Jesus, but Martha is in the kitchen doing all these things unto the Lord. But Mary just wants to be so close to Jesus. Say, well we need to have our focus a little bit. It's a just a reminder. Yeah. I yeah. Some some just one other thing. Yeah please a few minutes ago you you brought up you need to be in a quiet place. Quiet place to be with the Lord. I need to be in a quiet place, extra quiet place. So during the day of my travels, I find a parking lot, I look around, there's no cars around I'll sit in the middle of the parking lot, read God's word, work on a lesson, whatever I have going on, it's quiet. Within minutes Doesn't matter where I'm at. A car comes over and parks next to me, next to me. I look out the window. All I can say is, really? Really? So sometimes I'll stay there, just deal with it, or I'll just move somewhere else. 'Cause I I it it I get distracted so easily. Yeah. I want to be so focused on uh reading. Yeah and I Sometimes we can't get quiet. It's really hard to find it. Uh when you've got a lot of little kids. It can be hard. There's seasons of life when when as soon as we wake up, we gotta go take care of aging parents. Or or we know that that thing, if I don't if I don't stay up tonight and wake up early tomorrow morning, that thing. But even in that yes. Go ahead, you have your hand up. Um something that Brian said earlier about how like Martha was in the kitchen and like she probably felt like she was serving the Lord, like she was probably preparing food so that he could eat and like doing what she thought was good service to the Lord and Mary was just sitting and listening. And so sometimes it takes humility to realize that we might not know the best way to serve the Lord. And so we need to like sit in his presence. and breed his word in order to learn like Mary was learning the best way to serve and love the Lord, where Martha just assumed she'd be the best way already and when he was trying to do that Yes, a powerful thing to say. And just want to also mention along with that, I had so many thoughts with the what you said. Learning the right way to serve the Lord right now is a measure of growing in sanctification. And there is a maturity that comes along with, I would say, even knowing how to approach your sibling, if you will, to, I'm going to follow the story, right? your sibling, your friend, your the person who is in your house at that time to say, um I'm struggling in my spirit right now. Because I would like to have some help. And you know, it's just That's a hard thing sometimes to say, to go, please help me. It's easier for us to take offense at somebody not being considerate to come alongside and help me out. I'm obviously busy. Um hold on a second. Yeah. Uh I I'm you know I'm obviously in need of this help. And so it may be that what ensues is a beautiful conversation. I I don't think Martha came in there with a humble heart. I I don't. I think Martha came in there, and there's a bit of scariness there, right? She came in there to tell Jesus he was doing something wrong by letting Mary do what she was doing. And it's a bit of a dangerous place. But look at I and I love the the author comes back and says, I think Jesus spoke tenderly to Mary. Martha. spoke tenderly to her. Hold on, Brian had his hand up. Yes. Yeah, so uh I know early you referred to First Corinthians uh fifteen fifty eight. That's one of my favorite verses. Yes, and it's a really important verse. It's a very important verse. in the sense for me that when you have doubt, like are you doing things for the Lord? Am I really having this with the motivation, the desire to show love to my Savior? Read that. You be steadfast, movable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your work is ever in vain in the Lord. That should be encouraging for us. There's many other verses That do that as well. But this one for me is a big not to give up. Does everybody still have your Bible up in the First Corinthians fifteen? How many verses are in First Corinthians fifteen? Yes. I'm gonna say that they're probably I'm pretty certain I haven't checked recently, but I'm pretty certain there is no other chapter in First Corinthians that has more chap verses than this And it starts off with the word therefore. And that points back to what happened before. And what happens immediately before that is thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ And what I'm going to say to you, without having time to explain it all the way, is chapter 15 is praising God for his amazing work that he did on our cross and our hope that we will be raised again from the dead. That finished work of Christ and our hope of resurrection is a therefore You can get to work. Be steadfast. Imovable. It's not under the basis of Look at how much strength you have. It's on the basis of look at what God has done for me, so I have the ability to be steadfast and immovable. I have the ability because of God to know that my labor is not in vain. Because I have a hope. I have a future. I have a savior. I have a God who is amazingly glorious And tender and loving and kind and fills my life with grace to work. And to work in a way so it is not wood, hand, stubble. To work to fill heaven with treasure and to bring glory to God Therefore, be steadfast and immovable. It's really important for us to not take that verse out of context. Because out of context, that's a verse that says, Come on, believer, get to work. But in context, it's a You have a God who's taking care of you. In light of that, serve him. But do you see how 1 Corinthians 15 is a verse that starts with doctrine and adoration? And even that is a model for our lives, our steadfastness needs to start with doctrine and adoration. And praise of who God is. Yes. Along that line, I go back to the point De Young made about the whole chapter in Luke. Yes. And it's a sense what the the message is here is that it's a contrast between serving, working for the Lord, and being with the Lord, and he says be with the Lord first Yeah, in chapter in chapter ten of Kevin DeYoung's book, he's pointing at um at this chapter that the Martha and Mary story is in. Hold on, get back to get get back. There we are Right? He's playing in this story. If you look at the context, this is at verse, this starts at verse 38. The context in Luke before this, the previous 37 verses are all about people working and serving and doing. And then just kind of out of the blue, God chose to, Spirit of God chose to throw this story in there about sitting at the feet of Jesus. As a contrast for us to remember, our lives are not about just working and serving and doing, but there is a better part for us to choose. The author writes, this is the an and and he says this is the antidote for the crazy busy. The crazy and crazy busy. If you are sick and tired of feeling so dreadfully busy And are looking for a one-point plan to help restore order to your life, this is the best advice I know. Devote yourself to the Word of God in prayer. This means public worship and private worship. I'm not telling you how much time to spend. You may start with five minutes a day, or 15, or 15. And he goes on to later say, and and that's not even taking into account the spiritual benefits. By spending time with the Lord in the word and prayer, we are likely to gain new perspective on our hassles and headaches. Starting each day with eternity makes our petty problems and long-to-do lists seem less significant. My advice for you, in light of what's talked about in this chapter, Is to measure your heart. Take time to consider your soul Is my soul downcast? Put your hope in God. Am I am I like nobody else can see this, but I see it. Is my soul starting to become dry and crispy? Or in the midst of the business am I like, yes, God? Yes, God. Let's go. Boo-hoo, let's go. Because you can have either one. And nobody will know but you. If you press it, other people will know. You will interrupt Jesus and tell them, tell Jesus, get my sister in the kitchen because I'm tired. Yes. I just also think one of the reasons he spoke so gently to her was also that she was taking her burden too. Yeah. She could've just stayed in this kitchen stewing. And so yes, I mean she's telling God what to do here. But she speaks so gently it makes me think that her heart motivation is also God help me, like do you not see how I'm suffering? And so just thinking through some of the Psalms where God is not afraid of our doubts and our fears and our struggles. He's there, already knows them And can walk alongside us with them, even with a gentle reproof of Martha, she's doing what the one thing that sends air, you know. Yeah. And I'm so glad you said that because as you consider God's interaction with people across the breadth of Scripture, you have this tender response to Martha. When Zechariah says, how can this be? God says, I'm just going to let you be mute for a while. When Mary says, how can this be? God says, the Spirit of God's going to overshadow you. And you're gonna have Jesus. When when Job says, I want to have an uh somebody to talk between me and God, because I'm righteous. God comes and says, Can you answer any of these questions? Oh, I got more questions for you You see God knows who we are, and in his infinite wisdom, he knows how to respond, and he is loving and tender. appropriately. And so I'm glad you brought that out. Thank you. You know, uh Ephesians Has two. In the book of Ephesians, Paul reveals to us that he has two prayers that he asks for the people of Ephesus. Well, probably that whole region, but I don't want to go into that now. And in Ephesians chapter 3, he prays that they would have strength to know the unknowable love of God. There is a love that God has for us that is pictured in the love that He shows to His chosen people Israel. As his treasured possession. There's a love that God has for us that is explained to us and illustrated in the book of Hosea. There's a patient tenderness God shows when he allows the Israelites to do all the things that he does, and the disciples to say all the things that they do and to interact with him in a way. And sometimes he says, get behind me, and other times he says, Martha, Martha And God is good and kind and tender towards us. And so it's an appropriate response to us to love God with all our heart, soul, might, and strength. And first John says his commandments are not burdensome. And the reason why God's command is not burdensome is as we know God better, as we truly draw near to Him and gaze upon His beauty. Loving God is something we can't help but do. So on the days when I feel like loving God is duty are days when I need to confess and repent. And see that as a warning sign to myself. And to be like, okay, okay, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Please God put my heart back in the right place. Please God put my I'm desperate if you put my heart back in the right place. That is a prayer God will answer will Hebrews chapter four says, For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. Praise God. But one who has been who in every respect has been tempted as we are. Which blows my mind. Absolutely blows my mind. Yet without sin Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. If your soul is code, memorize this passage And own it. In Colossians one, Paul says, And so from the day we heard We have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with all with the knowledge of His will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance And patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. There's a lot of stuff that are tied and dependent upon each other that Paul sees and understands and prays for the Colossians. That we can look to us as well. And I think to a degree in this story, Mary was seeing and understanding. And I think to a degree this is why David was a man after God's own heart. And you can too. Sorry for the weird grammar. Um So so when your life is crazy busy, uh Confess. You know, if if you're in a marriage, confess to your spouse, guy, husband, wife, I need to sign out. My head's not right right now. I'm a little if you got roommates, I I need I need to go seek the Lord and put my heart back in the right place. And and and on and on. Seek time with God. That could be emergency repair. It could be. I you know what? I need I need it right now. My life is wrong. My heart's not full of joy. I'm not steadfast. I'm not immovable. I'm not Bearing fruit in every good work, I'm not trusting in God and doing good and dwelling in the land. I'm not befriending faithfulness. I need to go ahead and take some time to, as it says in Psalm 37, delight myself in the Lord. There's an aspect I think of us. Again, this is kind of a theme that's kind of we've touched on. We are dust. Creation and God is not. And so we come to God with these open hands, going like, God, my strength is small today. Provide for me. Provide for me. It says in Psalm 37, delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. Commit your way to the Lord. Trust in him, and he will act. He will bring forth your righteousness as the light and your justice as the noonday. When you failed yesterday, it doesn't mean you're going to fail tomorrow. Says so in Scripture. Trust in the Lord and let him bring forth your what? Your righteousness as the light. Just because yesterday you you dropped it doesn't mean you have to tomorrow. And that means good news for us. I can seek God now. I can seek God tomorrow. And I can live and walk and breathe in this way so that when the crazy busy creeps into my life, I'm um insulated. Not a hundred percent. But I'm insulated. Because God's put a hedge around my heart. So next week we're gonna have uh as I already mentioned we've got an extra week and we're gonna talk about priorities and wisdom. in our time. And a week after that we're gonna have another fellowship. Uh and it's gonna be open mic time. You get to ask all the questions you want to. I know that people have been A lot this quarter asking a lot of questions, but who knows, there may be more. Um I appreciate your hearts and your putting up with us, me and Kurt, and our frailty. Um It's been an encouragement for me this quarter. Uh look, if you will, the homework for this week is not to read any chapter out of Crazy Busy. Not one. Unless you want to go back, let's say maybe, I don't know, you skip something. Um feel free to do that. But really take what we've talked about and consider today. And dare God to take care of you. Dare God to take care of your heart. And seek Him in the midst of your crazy busy to provide for your souls. This coming week. See what happens to your heart and what God does. I'm looking forward to hearing good stories this coming week. Because I know God is good and He loves to take care of us.