I just want to talk a little bit about the class, some of the things that we're going to hit. We do plan to start promptly at 9. 30 We also plan to end promptly at 10. 45 or sooner. I know that some bathrooms get long lines and stuff like that, and we want to be sure that we accommodate that and things like that. Yes. Boundaries. Um so that being said, oh we're gonna start each class uh with a song Today was day by day. Um One of the things I I think it sets our hearts right to start off with song. And um, you know, Psalm 13 says, I will sing to the Lord because he has dealt bountifully with me I think that's a really good framework to think about what it is that we're doing. What's the bounty of God Even as we're talking about being very busy, the bounty of God is part of what has contributed to that. But praise God, He's put us in a position where we have choices and opportunities I want to open with prayer. I want to start each class with some sort of opening question that maybe greases our communication and stuff like that. and have some class discussion. I want to give time at the end for prayer requests in this class. And we won't record that. Uh and there's going to be homework every week. I know you're busy, but I'm going to have to give you homework anyway. Um sorry We are gonna give you homework. This is this is our class. Um mine will be light homework. He whips you with whips, I'm gonna whip you with scorpions. And no, I I'm gonna try to keep things light uh but there are some opportunities that we have You know, as as everyone around the class, I want to learn biblical wisdom. Um, and part of that means that applying ourselves and thinking through some of the things requires a little bit of time setting aside some time to apply yourself and study for this class. And so give yourself some boundaries to be able to do that. But one of the things that, as I mentioned, that God's been teaching me is grace. And I want to emphasize that in this class as well. There's grace to show up after 9. 30. Um push yourselves, stretch yourselves. But the reality is I'd rather have you here late than embarrassed to come because it's after 9. 30 I'll push because I have a lot of exciting things to talk about. And you guys are going to be a part of that. And I think that that's that's a good reason to set the clock. And do what you can to get out the door and get here, but I know Sunday morning there is chaos that seems to happen. And so, grace, really. I also, God's been showing me my weakness, and so I understand if you don't have your homework done, I understand if you haven't had an opportunity, but I still want to push this every week a little bit to a right amount. And I would love your feedback because I don't want to be whipping you with scorpions, right? I want to be in a position where I'm giving us a helpful, I'm your friend, encouraging you push. Kind of like the personal trainer does at the gym to give you that push that might leave you a little sore but make you stronger afterwards. So let's as much as you can and much as you're available lean into this. In some ways, I wonder if this should be called a class because I really do want this to be interactive. Feel free to interrupt, raise your hand, jump in, especially when I'm teaching. And I think Kirk already said, and when he's teaching too. I don't think we're going to get to all the material, and that's okay. The notes are published on Hope Book. And if you didn't sign up for the class, make sure you get into the Hope Book group. Everybody who signed the attendance sheet will be added to Hope Book. The notes are there. We're going to be publishing more material throughout the weeks. We're going to be providing more information and stuff like that. There's going to be communication that happens on Hope Book, so you want to be attentive to that Um and the notes are there. So if we don't finish all the material that we wanted to on a Sunday, you can read it. Uh and and stuff like that. Uh get the book. And uh there was some communication already. Uh that's the book. I probably won't bring it again because I have it on my Kindle, which is right here, and that's easy, but that's the book. Uh it's a pretty green color I wore my green watch just because of that and um stuff like that actually. Kevin DeYoung, um So this class is called Crazy Busy because that's the title of his book. And because most of this class is organized based on the material that's in the book. So for each one of the weeks, the homework is going to be a s read a chapter of that book and then maybe a little bit more. And I think that he does a fantastic job of laying out The framework, the area for us to explore as we talk about our busyness and what brings us to a place of busyness. So kudos to him. And buying the book supports the author. So um we as we address busyness in this class Um this is not a magic wand. Sorry, sitting in this class doesn't make you less busy. Okay. It doesn't. It's uh it's gonna require a little bit of discipline, a little bit of prayer, maybe a lot of prayer. Um and depending on God and His word to show us an encouragement from others to tell us and you know to say, hey, maybe this is an area where you could cut back. Uh I remember back in the day when uh I had a sit-down with Pastor Leek, this was decades ago. where he said, Doug, what ministry are you going to give up? If you don't pick one, I'm going to pick for you. And that was a very, that was a gracious thing for him to do in my life at that time. It was something that I needed. And so there may be, it may be that what's right for your life is to get something out of your life. Maybe it's a ministry, maybe it's whatever it is that you're uh streaming Yeah, that was another thing back when I taught this class in 2018, I didn't stream any media at all It was a long time ago. Um, we didn't have any streaming services back then. And now I've got screening So anyway, why? So uh what we will each need to do is we're gonna have to look at our lives and apply wisdom. the things that are going on in our lives. And uh I'm just gonna say that's not always easy. But it's delightful on the other side. Um I want to amen a lot of the things that people said around a room. Uh it's very encouraging. Uh one of the the main things we're going to talk about next week after we read chapter one is Kind of almost already done. Everybody's busy. Well most everybody's busy. It's like the weather in Maryland. Yeah. Last night I was just like, oh, I should have had definition. Uh so I looked it up. Miriam Webster and uh The Oxford Language Dictionary really helpful. So I figured I'd look this up. Let's make this a little bit more academic, right? The definition for the word crazy is having a great deal to do That's I'm sorry, busy. That's the definition for busy, having a great deal to do. That's from the Oxford Language Dictionary. I really appreciate that definition. Being busy is having a great deal to do. And so Miriam Webster is helpful also. It says engaged in action. And B, it says, being in use, found the telephone busy I don't like that definition. Anyway, but I thought it was cute and I put it in there. Um crazy So for busy, busy is having a great deal to do. Crazy has a couple of definitions, right? It's an adjective meaning mentally deranged, especially as manifested in wilder or aggressive ways. Welcome to the class, guys. Um it also means extremely enthusiastic. Uh it's a as an adverb it just means extremely, and as a noun it means me a mentally deranged person. So um two out of three, I think that we're not using any of those except for the adverb which means extremely Extremely. So in this class, I guess if we get really crazy busy we can become mentally deranged, but um Uh let's be real about what it brings us to when we really become mental crazy busy. Um at least for me, when I get really busy, I get angry, I get impatient. My blood pressure goes up. I have migraines. I mix it so I can't see. And on and on it goes. It's not fun for me, and if you're around me, it's not fun for you And that sounds to me also like mentally deranged, especially, is manifested in wild and aggressive ways. Sorry for that. It feels kind of uncomfortable to say that. So that's why I preferred to just say extremely having a great deal to do. Which sounds a lot more vanilla. But one of the things I think that's going to be really helpful for this class and for us as we talk about these things is going to be a measure of humility. So um and the third week we're gonna talk about pride. Third week? Yeah, I think that's the third week we talk about pride. And um there's aspects of that that are uncomfortable. Um But that's the fourth week. It's the third chapter. Third chapter, fourth week. Yeah, thank you, Peter. It's uncomfortable to talk about that. It's uncomfortable to talk about humility, but it's a whole lot better to be humble than to be humbled. And so there's good work that we're doing together in this class to bring about the hard work of what I hope for all of us. is a peaceful busyness. Because God doesn't call us to laziness. God doesn't call us to sloth God calls us to labor in his field. He put Adam out in the garden and he said, get to work. He gave him the right work and the right way to do it and the right amount of work and that was before the fall. And so God, I believe, God makes us busy to the right place. In fact, if you look at the tail end of Ephesians, if you look in Ephesians chapter 2, it talks there about our salvation and what we were saved from. And then it says, for by grace you have been saved And if you look, it says, for the work that God's appointed you to. That's a paraphrase. Doug, I wanted to interject back to the definition of busy In my mind, and maybe it's only in my mind, it has the connotation of maybe disorganized You have a lot to do and you haven't really organized it in your mind, so you're you're kind of a little bit flustered and afraid of the quantity of of things that are required. And So it's yeah, busy in in my mind has that connotation that it's it's it's disorganized in your in your mind. And I know that when I make a list of what I have to do or look at the calendar That's a little better. Yes, it's a full. Sometimes the week is wall-to-wall, but at least I have I I know what's required each day or each afternoon, what have you. So there's there's a way of compartmentalizing the just the amount of it. It doesn't necessarily get lighter or easier, but I might be less That's a interesting that's an interesting point. So what you're suggesting is busy is more about being disorganized. than having a great deal to do. And I'm glad you did that. Is there anybody else who would challenge the Oxford language dictionary definition? I I think that's fair game by the way. Uh I like to put it that way 'cause it's entertaining, but yes. Yeah, my first thought was just because you have a lot to do doesn't mean you're doing Oh that's a point, yeah. Yeah, in fact my to-do list oftentimes only scratches down a little bit. And some of those things, I only get, you know, a percent of them done, so you can't even take 'em off a list. And I echo what you were saying. You can be busy in your mind without getting anything. done as well. Yeah. Yeah. There's a both a mental mental dizziness and a physical dizziness. Absolutely. Absolutely. Um we helped somebody move this past week And after that was all done, I was sore. And and I I was just like, I can't feel I don't feel like I can do anything. But I knew that I still had this weight of things that was behind me And I wasn't doing anything because I was resting, but I felt busy. Yeah. Any other thoughts on the definition of busy? Yes. It there's kind of for me it's a uh the perception of busyness grows as my capacity is less than what I'm being asked to to do. So from work I someone described it as I gotta write that down. That was really good thought. Wow. Keep going. Someone described it as having to put fifteen pounds in a five pound sack. Yes, I've heard that before. Yeah, and so I that's That gets me the anxiety, like like Kirk said. Even have having the list sometimes creates the anxiety because you see all the things you're accountable for, but you can't uh you don't see how you're going to execute. And that crosses over into crazy as well. Which yes. Um yeah, and that's hold on a minute, remind me your name. Josh. Josh, thanks. You know, I could almost say Josh, and I'm I'm safe in this class. I'm just gonna point out uh yeah, anyway, statistically speaking, um Inside joke. Uh the f the way we feel about our busyness is a very important thing. That's a good observation that both you and Josh brought out. Thanks Any less thoughts about the definition of busy? All right, cool. Um We're going to work on that. We're going to work through these concepts this quarter. And so I'm glad we had that little act. And that's precisely the kind of interruption that I want to have in this class. Thanks, Kurt. You're welcome. I'm gonna get you back. No. As long as long as you throw a softball my way. Yeah, I will. I'll keep it up hot. The verse for today, if you haven't downloaded the notes, you can't see this yet. But every week um we're starting with a verse. The verse for today, if you don't mind, you if you don't have it, open your Bible up to Matthew 22 I wonder, Marie, if it would be good to write that verse down up here on the board. Okay. If that's not too much trouble. All right. Might be helpful to uh remember. Um and I'm looking at in Matthew twenty-two verses thirty-seven to forty And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. And you wouldn't want to wager a guess as to why it is these verses were here in the first week of our class. Yes, Marie. So I'm thinking well it is first and foremost we want to keep God first But as you were describing, and I'm guilty as well, when I'm not thinking of others and in the midst of my busyness, I'm not a nice person to be around. That's a very good start. That's a fantastic answer. Fantastic answer. Anyone else want to add? Because there's more. That was a good start. Why these verses? Yes. Well three if it matters where your priorities are when you're busy. It's a good place to start where Jesus said your priority should be. Yeah, fantastic. Also good, right? If you're trying to figure out what your priorities are, these are the two greatest commandments. If your priorities are outside the bounds of these, that's a good place to cut, trim, snip. Any other thoughts? Why? Oh my computer. Maybe I should print the class out. Technology lets me down. Any other thoughts, Diane? The verse that says, um, he preaches the kingdom of God to his righteousness and all these things will be added unto you and I think um prior to that it was talking about all the basic And um if we start our days with that lens it goes with this Um and it helps us also. How does it go with this? Because um when you commit your ways to the Lord and you seek his kingdom first and you're not able to work your guide with all your heart and all your soul and all your mind is dots in there. Appreciate that. Yes exactly. So we're remembering to love others. We're remembering the priorities that God has given us in the two greatest commandments. And we're seeking God first for his, can I add on to what you said, his power, his enablement, his even dare I say, grace to do what needs to be done, to provide what I need for today. Oh, you don't need to write it down now. Oh, go ahead if you please. No, I got it. I got it back. I I found the right way to break it. Um Yeah, so even to to trust and rely on God as we seek him first Any other thoughts? Yes. I feel like this could almost be another thing on the list. I gotta organize my life. I've got to you know what I mean? That in and of itself can be another busy thing And like Diane said, I mean it's getting our hearts right with God first. Is my heart right with him? Because I can start getting in the Word, I can start reading this, I can start implying this and that But my heart could still be wrong. It could still be off with God. And if I don't take that time to sit down with him and start with that, you know, I could maybe not even be saved. Or I could just be there could be a lot of sin in my life or whatever it is. It doesn't matter if my heart is not right with God first and foremost. And then that will spill down into other people and then then we can start working on our prior priority. Yes. Yeah. Yes, go ahead. Well starting today, like you said, God, I don't know what today holds. It's your day. And I might have my list of things, but sometimes you feel these things come from nowhere and okay God this is your plan and just go in the bibliography of the notes um there's a uh I guess it's a blog or a message or whatever And it's from John Piper, and it's titled God's Sovereign Plans Behind Your Most Unproductive Days And I thought, oh this is good. And I listened to it and it's John Piper, okay. But it was really good. Um it was a good reminder that uh Part of my busyness is I order my life and I'm like, look, if I can go to A to B to C to D and I get these things done And there's no traffic, and I hit all the green lights, and you know, there's no line at the store, and I don't have anything drop on the floor that I have to clean up and stuff like that. I'll get all these things done And it gets to my plans versus how God's ordering things. Yes. Good news is you can buy the book, it's it's only that big. Yeah. Um But is it always good I don't think it's always good to be busy though. Um and I don't think you always need to be productive. So I was wondering if you thought Oh I can't say that because the author sounds like as if it could be the Dutch name and there's a Dutch phrase, uh Hazelik. Which means like just time set aside where you have no plans, just a few eyes, you know the concept, like just unplanned time basically. So There is a chapter on Sabbath. Okay. Yes. Yeah. And so uh it's it's uh And we'll talk about that. And if you want to know more, I think it's chapter seven. Um, but I don't I don't trust my memory anymore. Okay, and then chapter two we get into that. Okay. Yeah, so it's going to be around. Uh we get to talk about that more than once. Talking about mar margin in your life. Yeah. Good. I want to mention going back to Matthew 22, because Amy, you brought this up, and I think it's worthwhile pulling at, as a start to the class. It's important for us to preach the gospel for just a quick second. Look, if you want to order your life according to God's way and you want to be empowered by God's Spirit, you can't do that unless you have God in your heart first. and have accepted the free gift that he offers in his gospel. Where his son died on a cross for your sins and can make you right. With him. And as a result of that rightness, God sends his Spirit to enable you and gives you grace and strength for every day. And he will start a good work in you, and he promises to finish that work. And God is a God who fulfills his promises. And that's a sweet place to be. So if you want to be find interest in loving the Lord your God with all your heart, the first place to start with loving God. Is knowing God. And you cannot know God apart from the saving work of Christ in your heart. And I want to mention that looking around the room, knowing many of you. And believing many of you, if not all of you, know Christ, but also having a sense that maybe some needs still hear the gospel. And I'd rather share the gospel than have a Sunday without the gospel. And I want to mention one other thing too, along with this, that's related to that. Save people. You need to preach the gospel to yourselves every day. And remind yourself, today is a day that I need to be strengthened in Christ. I need to make sure that today is a day that I'm glorifying God. And that he is the one who orders my way, who is my sovereign, and takes care of my plans, and I want to serve him and glorify him in everything that I do. And that's tied back to this verse as well. Thank you guys for the input that you gave about that. I think that as you read through the scriptures, it's very interesting to take these verses. Almost as a lens on the commands that are in Scripture, and ask yourself as you get to a command, is this a command that is loving God or is this a command that's loving people? Because Christ said all the commands tie back to these. The wisdom, the instruction And it's a sweet thing to go, oh look, that's loving God. Oh look, that's loving my that's loving God's people. And to see how that all ties together, and God doesn't make mistakes in this word And be encouraged by that. Just like God doesn't make mistakes in the things that He puts in our lives. So that's the verse I want to start with. But there's another verse as well And I hinted at this already, but I want to read it. Turn to Ephesians chapter 2. And for this concept, I could have gone a couple of places, just like with the previous one. I could have gone a couple of places, but I want us to look at Ephesians chapter 2. And this is the second verse versus passage. Second passage. that I want to point to in this class. Ephesians two verses eight to ten. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not as a result of works so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared for beforehand that we should walk in them. Why do you think, just like what we did before, this passage is the second passage I wanted to have in the class for this quarter? Josh. Good start. I really appreciate that. That's a very good start. That's definitely one of the reasons for this. Yes. Yeah, maybe because I just want to say again what you said a little louder for the rest of the class. And and if I don't quote you correctly or paraphrase you correctly, jump in. Is that this is a reminder That we could be doing things to make our self feel more secure in Christ. But we're already secure in Christ because of what he's done in the gospel. Fantastic. Anyone else? Why is this the second first passage I think this passage also speaks to, in the beginning, the sense that we are his workmanship, that God has, yes we have tasks, but God has created us. for the task that he's given us. And then with that with his power and grace, the ability to not sprint through him, but walk. Wow. Dude, reach across high five. So yes, uh there's a lot of goodness in what you just said. Christianity is not a sprint We're going to talk about that a bit. Uh and some of the thing that makes us crazy busy is we think I can run fast, get these things done, and I'll be good, right? It's a walk. It's not a sprint. Um some people might say a marathon and if you ever some marathon runners are basically walkers, let's just be real. Um Five miles per minute. I just want to say I'm not a runner. I just want to let you know, and some of you all have heard this, I ran one 5K in my life. It is the only 5K I will ever run, I believe I'm committed to never doing that again. But yeah, there were some really good lessons God taught me in that. I'm glad that I got them. Um so and the other thing that you hinted at and what you said is that God's given us spiritual gifts. And he's enabled us to be able to do tasks. And it's tied in with this: is that God's appointed for us good work. And We're going to feel most useful and most at ease and most satisfied and productive as we're exercising in the ways that God has gifted us. There's going to be a joy and satisfaction in your heart. And if you're trying to labor outside of your gifting, you'll be able to do it God's well maybe. God's maybe. Uh God's gonna take care of you, but um There's one, and I think you hinted at this as well, James, and I want to pull this out, is that first word, no, the third word in the translation I pulled from is grace. And I think you hinted at this and I'm just gonna go with it, and that is I want to always be balancing out the commandment of God With the grace of God. And that is, we need to think about the first and second greatest commandment, but we need to think about the first and greatest commandment in the fact that God enables us by his spirit to do the first and second greatest commandments. And so as Amy was saying before, oh, she she started to say, when I hear the commandments I start to go, oh, that's more for me to do. But it's important for me to do that first, she followed up with. But let's remember, as it says in 1 John, his commandments are not burdensome. When we're in a position of crazy busy, we can start to think that God's commandments are burdensome. When you get into a time of burnout, and I'm glad you brought that word up, we'll talk more about there's actually a book in here about that and bibliography. It's a powerful book. You get to a place where you just need to, your body says, no, because the candle gets burnt at both ends and there's no candle left. Um God's grace gives us the strength to labor for him. And that's why that's the other reason why, and you guys brought out good points, but that was the reason, the big reason why I pulled that passage in, and that is I can run in my own strength for a little while. I can pull myself up by my socks and get out there and run, right? Or or whatever it is. For a little while, that after a minute my knees get sore, my hands get sore, I run out of strength But when God's the one who's enabling me, Isaiah says, I can run and not be weary. I can walk and not be faint. I can mount up with wings like eagles. And I don't think God, when he gave that word and that promise, was being facetious. I don't think God plays with us like that. There's a power that God gives to even people like Elijah. When he goes running all the way across Israel, he gives them a break. And then he feeds him so he can keep on going. I think that's critically important for our lives and how we live in our busyness. Is to hunger and depend on God and draw near to Him with desperation. Absolute desperation I can't let that comment happen. I gotta finish up. I'm sorry, Kurt. Look, we only have 24 hours in a day. We only have 24 hours in a day. What are you going to do with those? So the homework for tonight, oh, listen to this. The homework for this week. And Marie Wilton Kirk, we'll have to publish this for some people who left early. The homework for this week is to read chapter one out of the crazy busy book. And underline at least two passages that you think are important. And by the way, that's going to be the homework for every week. Okay? Just get used to it. And be ready to share those next week. Also, do a time budget. Raise your hand if you've ever done a budget Okay. Nobody likes to do it, I think. Some people do. What I'm going to ask you to do is a time budget. And if you download, if you look at the notes in the appendix is a spreadsheet slash table And it's basically the seven days of the week, every hour in the day. Look at your life and write down what you do in a typical week. Yes. Is it like what we're planning to do or what we actually do? Typical. Yeah. We'll talk about what you want to do later. And so it's not really a budget. It's more of a journal in that sense. Thanks. That's good. Yeah. Uh if you want to do two, because you got spare time. Thanks, that kind of looks slightly humorous. Um if you want, you can do both. You can but I think it's really important to capture a journal of what you do in a typical week. You can come around and reflect that into what it is that you want to do, like write notes into it if you want to. This is not for me. I'm not gonna collect it. This is for you. To see your weakness. And a lot of times this is why we do a budget. We do a budget, we add up all the things we're already spending money on, and we look at our income and we go, oh, that's why we're bouncing checks Right? So this is kind of what we're doing. In some ways it's an initial budget, but it's really a journal. So create one for the week. What do I do every hour of every day for a week? Um we really want to capture what we're spending our time on right now. Um guys, I I'm sorry, I did not leave time for prayer. Um that will be a goal for next week. I will talk less. Um but I really appreciated the input that everybody gave. I'm gonna close this in prayer because