Well, good morning everybody. Um last week uh we talked about the one thing That is most needed. And the text that we looked at was the text of Mary and Martha. And in that text, we saw how Mary pursued the thing that was most important. And the homework from this past week was to spend time uh taking uh uh with God every day this week and see what happens to your heart and what God does. Does anybody have any r anything to report from that homework? No worries. My recommendation is to continue to pursue God and wait and see what happens. I can tell you for my sake, there was some difficult moments that I had this past week at work. And those difficult moments were mostly inside of me. Somebody said something, was sharing some news with me that made me feel insecure and uncertain about what was going on and what my role would be in the future. And I took it to God. I was just like, God, here's this thing. Um and the very next day Um there was a sudden change, it was kind of a sudden anticipated change, which reinforced uh my role, purpose, and continue to do so during the week. And I look at that and I go, okay, God, that was a very tender way of answering the thing that was troubling my heart at that time. And for me at least that was something that I saw God doing in my life that impacted some of the busyness. I don't know if you guys are like this, if For me, if I feel insecure about work or my role at work, my temptation is to work harder And and God was like, um, no, you don't have to. It's already taken care of, and I'm in control. And that brought me back to a place of peace. And satisfaction confidence in God from this past week. And that was a rich moment. And it just proved who God is. So confession about this week. I mentioned that we're going to have all this, you know, we're going to really dig into the nuts and bolts, practical stuff. We're going to explain everything and it's all going to be laid out and your lives are going to be better as a result of coming here today I feel like I've got three weeks of worth of material to share. Um and and I've been s I've been Diane can testify I've been Sweating to try to bring this into something that we can talk about and discuss today and is meaningful for everybody in all the situations that you're in in your lives. And I know that God's Holy Spirit is going to have to do that because I can't So the verses today To kind of help us focus our minds, start with Psalm 39, verse 4. And it says, Lord, make me know my end. What is the measure of my days? Let me know how fleeting I am. You know, um we've got a variety of ages in here. I can tell you that when I was younger, I was just like, God, help me to to do that. And I see as I get older, God's helping to answer that prayer. Because, you know, I'm 58 years old. And um There's a chance that I will live to be 80, like my parents have done, and that means that, you know, in that case, I got twenty-two years maybe left. in my life. And there's a closeness of that, a reality that uh is kind of apparent to me and I I want to really make these 22 years, if that's how many years I have in front of me, to be solid, to be impactful, to be meaningful. And that's going to require, for me at least To be considering how how I spend my days. And there's a a a friend of mine Who gave me this analogy about budgeting and he said if you worry about the nickels and dimes, the dollars will take care of themselves. Because sometimes we're like, ah, I'm not going to worry about the small things. And and there is a sense of I don't have to really worry about the small things, but if I pay attention to the details, some of these details the bigger things will take care of themselves. And in our time is the same way. If we're cognizant of what's going on, so that we're paying attention to the half hours in our lives. And what we choose to do with those half hours, the weeks will take care of themselves. And scripture says, I'm not going to worry about tomorrow. Today has enough trouble for itself. John 21, 17 is the other verse today. He said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? And Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, feed my sheep. And so today, you know, last Sunday we talked about loving God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. And today I want to speak to and kind of lean a little bit more into the second greatest commandment, which is love one another. as yourself. And there's an aspect of in how we spend our time, if we're covering those two things, We're doing pretty good. It's almost like if I pay attention to these details, the big picture will take care of itself. Um but as we're gonna see today as we go through this, loving others with all, you know, like yourself is not a small task And I got I got 24 hours in my day, right? And I need to consider what it is and how I'm going to spend those times, those half-hour blocks. So that I am loving God with all my heart, and I'm loving people as myself. And so here's an honest question. How do you want to spend your time? In some ways, that's in light of what I just said, but let's also just be real in who we are What our desire in our heart is. How do you want to spend your time? And this is not a rhetorical question. Like, what do you have? What do you want to do with your time? Ah, I'll go first. Yesterday, the first thing I did in the morning, soon after I woke up, was I got on my bike and I rode my bike yesterday. That's one of the things I really enjoy doing with my time. Anybody else? Yes. Did you have it oh you no, you don't. Oh sorry. It looked like you just went ooh ooh ooh sorry. At the end of the day, I just want to go to bed knowing that I made a little piece of everything better. My spiritual life, my husband, that kind of thing. Just everything a little better. Moving in the right direction, even though it'll probably be undone the next day. But you know Yeah, I'm gonna write that down. Because I want to come back to that and I don't want to forget. Little piece of everything. Yeah. Gotcha. Anyone else? Here's another question. Based on what we've done, this is week 13, and I know that we've not all been here every week. I know that some people haven't read every chapter of the book. Um and that's a reality. But based on the things that you've seen over the last twelve weeks, is there one thing That you want to do based on all that we've gone over. Yes. Start my day. in uh reading and pressing. Fantastic. All right. Yeah. Yeah, that's powerful. That's a powerful thing. In fact, you know, in preparing for this class, I asked the artificial intelligence associated with Google Uh how do I live daily? Right? And the pretty and and it did a really good job of the synopsis, putting together a synopsis of um things. And the very first thing that it said was, start your day off with the Lord. So fantastic, yeah. Anyone else? One thing Okay. Just real quick segue. Real quick segue. Sorry for the abruptness of this. We're going to talk about this. We'll come right back to the class. Next week, we are going to have a fellowship time here. So prepare. Start planning about what it is that you want to bring to share with one another Uh love on the brethren and the sister by bringing something. Now here's the question. This is not the first time we've done this as a class. I think it went really well the first time we did it. More food than I could imagine. It was all delicious. Do we want to put some more coordination and organization into it, or do we want to just do like what we did the last time? I think the way we did it the last time was good. Thank you, Selma. I agree. Let's go with that. You and I are gonna make this call. Yeah, we're gonna do it just like we did it the last time. Um, breakfast. What is breakfast? In my mind it has to include eggs and some meat. And I pr some people think it's gotta include some fruit and sweet stuff, right? Uh some people like to drink coffee, but the most important part is the food. Some people would disagree with that statement, and that's okay, you're allowed to. Um now Henry's gonna be leading next week. I won't be here. Uh Henry, sorry. I just made Henry sweat. Uh Kirk is leaving next week. Diane and I are going to be in Nashville with the Singh conference, uh, and we'll be back the following week. But um So, yeah, that'll be fantastic. That's an opportunity for you to ask any question you want to Any question, and Kurt gets to feel those questions. The harder, the better, right Jessica? He loves hard questions. All right Um just ask him things like how do I fix my schedule? And go from there. Um So last back in week seven, if you remember And if you were in town, we spoke about priorities in this class. It was kinda, in my mind, high-level overarching priorities. And I thought maybe today we'd take that same topic topic and we dig a little deeper and make it a little bit more practical. And so that's kind of the goal today If you think about the book and the text and the flow of what we've done in this class, we've spoken about specific priorities. We've spoken about the priority of our children and how we think about that. We've spoken about Mary and Martha and loving God like we did last week. started with uh acknowledging the busyness that everybody has in their lives. It wasn't that long ago. We talked about the fact that busyness is not necessarily bad There is a measure of we should expect to be busy, and we should expect that to be uh hard work sometimes. Put us here in this world to work and to labor, uh, and we should expect some sweat from that. Um And since we were last week really focused on loving God, I really wanted to think a little bit more about loving people today. So That's the direction we're going to go. And to start us off, I wanted to remind us of a very important thing that Jesus said. In Matthew 11, he said, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. I just finished saying we should expect to have lives that are busy and we should sweat a little. And then I bring this up. Jesus says, my yoke is easy and my burden is light. And both things are true. Because there is a work that Christ has done on the cross that's made us right before God. And I wanted to start here because the busyness in our lives should not be thought of as something that makes us right with God. Jesus has already taken care of that. And we work in our busyness under the umbrella of grace. Under this position of justification, which means declared right before God. So we can't, in our dizzyness, be thinking, I am working hard to make myself pleasing to God. And that's really important to start at today. It's important to hold on to in everything that we do, because it is tempting to think sometimes I have a life and I need to be worthy of God. And Christ is the one who's made us worthy of God. You can't wash away your sin. Only Christ can do that. It's like doing that is is trying to clean up a dirty spot with a dirtier rag. It just smears it around. Reorients it a little bit. If you line up your dirt, it's still dirt. It might be organized dirt. But that's all it is, it's just sin. Um So, with that thought firmly fixed in our minds as a foundation, let's talk about what we have to do as believers. Because God calls us to labor. What's the very s what's the very second most important commandment? Love your neighbor as yourself. Love your neighbor as yourself. Right. So how do you love others? What are some things that the Bible says that we can do to love others Be of service. Be of service. Yeah, absolutely. There's a lot of verses that talk about that. Romans chapter 10, 12, verse 10 talks about that. Be of service to others. Yeah. What does that look like? What do you think that looks like? Give us a quick example. Someone comes to the church with a need and someone's able to fulfill it. There you go. Fantastic. Taking care of somebody else's need. What's another way that we can love people Come to my house and You know you said that, Henry, but it wasn't but a month ago, maybe even less than a month ago, we were at small group And I confess that my lawnmower hasn't been working. And one of the other people in our small group said, I have off tomorrow. And they came over and cut my grass. I know! I know! It was my backyard, not my front yard. Oh yeah. It was my backyard, so yeah. It was hidden. It was like that room that nobody goes in. Um I came home from work and I could actually walk in my backyard again. What a blessing it was to have somebody come over and cut my grass. Yes. I don't have a scripture reference for that. What's another thing way that we can love on a brethren? Um I I think it often starts with how we think about each other. Like let all fitterness and wrap and climber and climber be put away with you along with Be kind to one another, be tenderhearted, forgiving one another as Christ has forgave you. As God in Christ is Yeah, how we think about people? And for me at least, that's starting with a benefit of the doubt. You know, unlike the way I treat people I drive around, it's the people that I see fa and I'm like, okay, um I I know that that was probably not I probably shouldn't take it the way I took it. Um and stuff like that. Or going to them and loving them enough to say, hey, that that was painful what you just said and talking it through, which is also not easy to do, but is a loving thing to do. either covering in love or confronting in love, but not letting it set your own. Yeah. Yeah, fan that was a fantastic answer, yeah. Anyone else? How do we love the brethren? The brethren or the name? Ooh, yeah, you want to be a Samaritan too, huh? Oh Now the scope of all I gotta do is love the people in church, just expand it to now I gotta love everybody. Okay. Yeah. I knew about nothing well when um Friend Jesus went to city to tell our congregate. So to arrive us, we tell Congressman water enjoying Christ And to the brethren, we forgive one another that we're encouraging. Yeah. It's pretty loving to tell somebody that they're in danger of hell. Yes. Yeah. Anyone else? Last call. Yes. Speak like the listen so to speak. Ooh. Yes. You know, I I don't know, ingrained in me is the be quick to interrupt. Because I have something important to share. And so that's a challenging one. It's a challenging one in my my family and and stuff like that. So yeah. It's loving to listen to somebody else and to consider them I also wrote down uh hospitality. Opening your home up to people to have them Come over and to love them in your house. Um I wrote down intercession, Second Thessalonians and a bunch of other places, verses three, verse three, chapter three, verse one, talks about praying for us. Along with that is just being available to somebody else. We already mentioned service, investing in others. 2 Timothy 2. 1 says, that thing that you've been entrusted by me, entrusted to other people. Helping people, sacrificing for people. 1 John 3, 18 and 19. We just heard a message about this a couple weeks ago. Little children, let us not love in word or talk, but indeed and in truth, by this we shall know that we are of the truth, and reassure our heart before him. And it is interesting that that John lets us know that our assurance is tied Or can be encouraged when we love on people. When we walk in obedience, our hearts are going to be encouraged. I would say too, as was already said, thank you very much, we are commanded to be a light to the world. Jesus says in Matthew 5, you are salt of the earth. And he goes on to talk about being salt and light. And where that passage ends down in verse 16 says, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works. And give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Your work, the things that you do, are on display for other people to see. And just being. What that implies is You've got to be outside of your garage door so people can see you doing and shirt serving and sharing and being taken care of. So there's a practical get out there. In my mind, this is a get out there in my neighborhood, but it could also be Get outside of your cubicle at work and take care of other people. Maybe it's get outside of whatever boundary that you hide in. I'm sorry for saying you because I I know that that that is typical for some people. It may not be typical of us in this room, is to go to my safe place, work hard in my little heads-down way And then move on to the next thing. But this passage is talking about working in a way so that people see you loving others I gotta get out of my ivory tower sometimes. If you know what I mean by that We also are called to work hard in what God has prepared for us. Ephesians 2. 10, which we've talked about a lot, says that God prepared work for us a long time ago. That's a paraphrase. And we also last time talked about 1 Corinthians 15, 58, which talks about being steadfast and immovable and abounding in God's work. I would say too, in the work that we do all the time daily, we should strive for efficiency, but not for perfection. See, efficiency helps me move a little faster through my tasks. I might be able to get a little bit more done. But perfection winds up slowing me down and introduces friction. How are you perfect? That's a different kind of perfection. Being perfect as your heavenly father is perfect is a spiritual perfection, and that is a requirement. That we strive for in our growing sanctification, which is next on the list. Thank you, Henry. And that's important for us But if I I'll tell you that uh somebody who is very dear to me, Strice, and he's an engineer also, and he won't start a task until he has thought through every step this task is going to take. And it drives me a little bit nuts to work with him. Because I'm the kind of guy that cuts twice and measures once. So there's a wisdom somewhere in the middle there, isn't there? There is a certain amount of preparation in reading the instructions that you should do. Anyway. Uh have you ever picked up a task to just put it down later and go do something else and then do something else and do something else? And I'm sorry, Amy, that's part of the reason why I wrote this down. Is because we could try to do a little piece of everything And the danger of that, it's a good thing by the way. There's a way to do this which is right and good. Because uh but the danger also is at the end of the day you finish nothing Right? And so I I could be in that situation, but I could also, and I'm sure this is what you meant, I could be taking my big tasks and dividing them down into smaller tasks, and I am completing things on my to-do list, but I'm completing the chunks of those things in ways that are intentional. Rather than I pick this thing up, I get partway through dusting, and I go do the next thing. And dusting's not done, it's still on my list. Um so there's a wi the there's also wisdom there in both sides. Make sure the tasks that you have are small enough that you can finish, pick them up and finish those tasks. And you can design your schedule so that by the end of the day you have done a little bit of everything. In ways that are wise to take care of and do. Because this is a long list. I'm not done with this list. I need to also budget. And budget has to do with planning my time and planning my money. Right? I I got to work, sleep, spend my money. Proverbs says In 2120, precious treasure and oil are in a wise man's dwelling, but a foolish man devours it And Ecclesiastes 1. 13 talks about this as well. We, as stewards of what God has placed in our responsibility, we need to be careful with these things. There's also just doing maintenance, right? Uh a leaky pipe fixed quickly is a small job If you wait, it's not gonna stay a small job Diane's over there going preach to yourself, Doug Family. You know, we talked last a couple weeks ago about taking care of our children. I want to also, amen, that we take care of our parents at certain ages as well. In 1 Timothy 5. 8 and all the way down to 16, it talks about if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever. Again, these all fit underneath this category in ways of loving people and the brethren Just, we already started off with life is short. Psalm 90 says, our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. The years of our life are 70 or even by reason of strength 80. But it's toil and trouble. Oh geez. I can't read anymore. It's so depressing. But the reality is his life is short, so let's treasure the moments that we have today. Not only this, I will always treasure. There was a guy I worked with who was dying from cancer And he had days, he was, you know, he was in his 70s and he hadn't retired yet, and he was coming to work. And there was days he missed because of cancer And I may I said to him, I asked him a question about how hard life was. And he said, Doug, every day's a blessing. Even though it was a struggle for him to come get up and come to work, he looked at me and he said, every day's a blessing. And that was wisdom for me to remember that no matter how hard or difficult God takes care of us. And He provides for us sparkly, sunshiny days and dreary days, but they're all a gift from His hand. And to be received as a gift. And to spend spend those days with care and wisdom. And I just want to acknowledge too that we have emergencies. You know, there's days when the dog chews up the children do the thing and uh something burns up on the stove Right? Not only that, you drop the thing, it shatters all over the place, and you can't do what you wanted to do. And then somebody calls you up and says, I need some help. And you're like, well, I'm going to forget about the lemonade and I'll fix it later. To come home to find out there's ants all over the, right? There's days like that where it's just one thing to the next, and you're like, maybe I'll go to bed and it'll be all gone when I wake up. Job knows what emergencies are like. And he says The Lord gives, the Lord takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And we may not always see ourselves come to the other side and have restored four times what we had before. But I know that God's hand is open with good, tender kindness. And He will take care of us. Even in the emergencies, when it feels like Somebody has upset everything. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us. To his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises so that Through them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped from the corruption that's in the world because of sinful desire. And there is a reality too About our sinful desire, right? Henry had mentioned perfection. Growing in sanctification, and I know I said I would spend my time talking about loving on the brethren But as Bill pointed out, loving on the brethren is also tied back to growing in sanctification because I can't love you well until I grow up in Christ. So that I can walk in forgiveness, walk in self-control, walk in love for you as I know and understand the love that God has shown to me. And I will tell you that growing fruit in our lives, just as growing fruit in your garden, takes time. Your tomato plants don't sprout up as soon as frost is done this high with red tomatoes all over them. You can just walk out and poop Tomatoes. Uh-uh. It takes almost to this time of year before you start actually seeing tomatoes show up on your vines. Your lives are the same way. It takes time to grow spiritual fruit. Galatians 5. 22 talks about the fruit of the Spirit. You know, for all our lives, and you see it when you're two. You've been growing fruit of the flesh. And God called you to Himself, and we're now putting on new clothing and taking off that old clothing. And it takes time and effort to do that. Hebrews 12 talks about running this race and being in the business of laying aside weight and sin that easily entangles us. Paul David Tripp says, we need to think of ourselves as a child of God in daily need of grace and in the middle of my own sanctification. Still in a battle with sin, still in need of the body of Christ and called to pastoral ministry. That takes time Taste being, as we saw last week, being at the feet of Jesus. Growing in wisdom. is associated with that. And I've got a couple of verses here for that, but I need to press on. You know, one of the things that is a hindrance and a roadblock, I think, to us in our priorities and working hard is fear. And God has an answer for that. He says, don't be anxious about your life. Or what you're going to eat. Or what you're going to drink or what you're going to put on. Life is more than food and more than clothing. And he goes on to say, seek first God. Psalm 27 says, God is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? He's the stronghold of my life. Whom shall I be afraid? All of these things and more, right? All of these things and more are essentially on our to-do list And you have twenty four hours. Make it fit How you read what? Um And the next section on my notes is just called discipline. The D word. We want to take and consider and evaluate these things that God has for us and put them in our lives in ways That is being faithful to the calling that God has for us. And I would submit to you that there are days when you can't We need to apply wisdom in the things that we do and the calling that God has for us. And set goals and be mindful of what's in front of us. There are going to be times when we have to say no, and we need to be wise and disciplined in the things that we say no to. And that's going to require some time set aside to look at this list of to-dos. I would suggest and submit that potentially the first thing for us to do is to make a list. What's God me called me today? Where's my urgent? Where's my calling? Where's my wana? And let's put these things down so that I can start considering them. And remember the things that we've talked about. God has for me In the things that I do, a tender, loving provision of twenty-four hours. And he also wants us to rest so that we can labor well. He wants us to be renewed in his strength and to walk by the Spirit. And so for me at least, it starts with that consideration of what do I have in front of me? And I would submit is anybody else here do that process, make a list first, and then start to do you actually formally do it or you just do it in your head? Yeah. Yeah. I'll write it down. Yeah. Yeah, it'll take a few moments in the morning. Uh-huh. All over the place. Mm-hmm. So I'll settle myself down and write down what I need to do. Anybody else? Do something different? Okay. Maybe for you the phone's ringing before you wake up. Um Proverbs 12:1. Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is stupid. That's a NASP. I've mentioned this already, but I want to mention it again. God not only gives us grace To save us, but God gives us grace for living and grace to strengthen and enable us. Um you are a skillful laborer. And Bezalel Beazel That guy who built the tabernacle. Bezalot, thank you. Bezalot was obviously enabled by God. To do what he would do in the tabernacle of God. Scripture also tells me that everyone whose Christ has been gifted by God. You are a skilled laborer in God's kingdom. That's pretty cool to think about it like that. Now the question is, did did Belzelo join a choir? Maybe, but probably not. He was busy hammering and sewing. He probably should have joined the choir. Everybody should join the choir. But ASAP, as far as we know, besides the fact of joining the choir Wrote songs and led in that way, but we don't have any record in Scripture that he did anything hammering together the temple He might have helped out, lifted a load or something like that. But he spent this time according to his gifting. And I think that one of the things that helps us to shrink our list of to-dos down to the things that we should have on our list is how's God gifted you. And I would say that it's really important to know how that is. And one of the wise guys in my past said, I said, well how do I know my gifting is? He said, start doing something. If it feels right, it's probably your gifting. That was a really wise way of saying it. Because you can sit at home and stare at your belly button and you're not going to figure it out. You're gonna be like, I'm jealous of that person over there. That's probably my gifting. And you're gonna find out Wow, this is really hard. I don't like to do this. Clue, that might not be your gifting So I look around the room here and I see a a certain level of maturity in this classroom. I don't think I need to go too far down that route that route. But if anybody wants to talk to me more about that I would be delighted to help you find out if the music ministry is part of your giving. Just saying. Oh, oh, and that brings up something I was supposed to do in the beginning of the class. And I just if you know, one way to find out your gifting is we do need class assistance. And anything else you want to add about that? Oh, I just wanted to say if you wanted to know more about being a class assistant, you could talk to um Uh the Amy Dossett from Jeff Libco. How about yourself? I'd say it's uh So making your list And figuring out what the priority order in that list is. I would start off by praying for it. I would seek God's wisdom. And remember that everything that you do is enabled by the Spirit of God, who's made you into temple, because he's inside of you. I already mentioned this verse. Matthew 6, 33 and 34 says, seek God first. And he's going to take care of adding other things to you as well. I already mentioned this, but I want to say it again. Some of the things that can discourage us and make us feel like I never get stuff done is if I put huge tasks on my to-do list Right? And let's just I'm looking around a room, right? Learn cello today. Right? How hard can it be? There's only eight notes on a scale, right? Yeah, and there's only four strings. That's only twelve things you gotta learn. Oh, and there's a boat. Yeah, so how hard could it be? I want to write today's sermon. I want to write next Sunday's sermon in the next hour. How hard could it be? Right? I've read the Bible. I'm going to be a doctor next week. Let's go. I want to learn how to write Java programming. Right? I'm going to teach kids. I'm going to rebuild my engine. Maybe I'll get two afternoons to get that done. Right? It's it we we think Maybe we think too highly of ourselves or too low of our task. And we think I can get these things done if I just work faster or harder. But take instead, put on that list, I want to learn how to hold the belt Right? I want to start reading scripture. Maybe I'll watch a YouTube about how to take an engine apart. Start planning the task, making sure I have some tools in my hands so that I'm getting myself ready. Maybe I'll practice by taking a smaller thing apart and seeing it work and build my skills. But I have a place to put it away so that I can get a little piece of everything done by the end of today. And in my breaking down of small tasks, I'm going to go spend a little bit of time with this child. I'm going to go help this person. And I'm going to call this person over here. Because I want to make sure I'm doing some of the one-anothers. I can't do all the one-anothers. Maybe what that means too is I'm going to take somebody aside and I'm going to invest in them so that they can be more effective in God's kingdom. And can be more invested in others. And I want to do that because I want to multiply the things that I'm doing Because I can go to the playground and I can evangelize, or I can take somebody else with me and teach them how to evangelize And now they're coming along with me, encouraging me. We're challenging one another, sharpening one another, moving forward, and then I can say to them, you know, it might be time for you to teach them what you know. And entrust other people. But all that takes planning and thinking through how is this going to fit together in the list of things that I have on my schedule and my to-dos. I would also say that you gotta make sure that you save time on your schedule to do the icky things. There's a book that Diane and I read together that refers to this as eating the frogs. I don't remember who the author is. I'm sure we could Google it and the AI could tell us what book that's from. So I should probably give them credit. But you want to make sure that your Doing those things, some of those things are in a little piece of everything. Because what happens is if you don't, the frogs get uglier And smellier. A task delay because you're afraid of it gets worse And bigger in your mind. You can still take those tasks and start to chew off the edges. There is a sometimes there's a ripeness in waiting. There is sometimes. Earlier this summer my dad cut down an oak tree This was an oak tree. The bottom of this tree was this big a cross. At least And I like to split wood. That tree fell down, I'm like, let's go We're gonna pop these pieces open, we're gonna turn them into firewood, bam, right? The guy who cut they paid a guy to cut down the tree into little donut little shapes, you know Cylinders like this. I went out there that first week and slung the axe like this and it just went boing right off. It literally bounced off the wood. There is a time when it's right to wait on a task. There is. Some and this takes wisdom, right? Some tasks, if you wait, they get worse Sometimes if you wait, they get easier. Pray about it. I was out there yesterday, I was splitting wood The smaller pieces, not the big ones yet, but the smaller pieces I could start to open up and crack them apart. Yeah, so so be wise about that. Think about who you are, how God has enabled you. And and what's going on? It may mean that you need to get some help to go along with you to finish up a task With the right tools in your hands, you could take apart logs. You could own things that you can't do otherwise You know, I was a little sore after splitting wood yesterday. I came home and I tried to open up a bottle of cranberry juice. I couldn't do it. So I got the channel box off the shelf and was able to do it. Just like that. It sometimes takes the right tools. So consider that as you're doing this. I would suggest that your calendar app on your phone is one such tool. Because you can take this list of to-dos and you can start smearing them around so that you don't have to worry about all of them and hold them in your head and you can focus in on the one or two things that you need to get done. Does anybody ever use any scheduling apps like Trello? Okay, this gets beyond the writing the notes down, right? This is this is really high-tech stuff. You can look it up. It's free. Basically what it does for you is it allows you to Write down each one of your tasks and move them around inside your computer. Picture it like this. Another way of doing this is you could write all your tasks down on a bunch of individual post-it notes. And you can have your calendar up here on your refrigerator. And you can take those post-it notes. And rearrange them in your schedule four or five different ways until you go, I think that fits. Look, this gives me rest time, it gives me margin, it gives me time with God. And if chaos happens here, I got some risk assurance, I got some bandwidth in here where I can give myself a little bit of squeezy space. Do you guys know what I mean by squeezy space? Okay. So plan your schedule for the emergency that's going to eat that squeezy space. It's going to happen. So, if you don't like Trello, write down your schedule, write down your list of to dos onto post-it notes in chunks that you can get done and start to rearrange them I would suggest to you also, from a standpoint of thinking and figuring it out, the most important day to plan in detail is today. God says, I should not worry about tomorrow. Today has enough to-do's to worry about itself. That's a paraphrase. But you know what I mean. Anybody like Kung Fu Panda? Oh, okay, some people were afraid to say yes, but another restaurant. Henry, we should go on the road together. There's a line that the turtle the tortoise says, he says, and today is a present. And what do we do? We treasure today, and that's why it's called the present. Or something like that. Anyway, look at uh Ugwe. Uh it's one of his fancy quotes. Um It's not biblical at all. Except that it does fit with this idea that I want to worry about today first. So plan today with detail. You get up in the morning, you make your list. I know I got my list. And that starts well off with inheriting the things that I didn't get done yesterday and evaluating if they still matter Do they still matter today? Because maybe today already has enough stuff on it, and I've lost my window until maybe a future day. And I'm just going to have to push those things off Because there is some urgent, there's also the necessary, and there's the I wanna. And we've talked about this kind of in the class loosely, but let's make sure that as I'm planning my day today, that the urgent has its proper place. that the necessary has its proper place, right? And the I wantas are in there to the right degree I would suggest too that we should look over the week. I should plan my today, I should look over the week. And I should glance at the month. What that means is I'm concerned about today and I'm thinking about how it racks and stacks, but I'm also thinking about two weeks from now I got a vacation coming up. And four weeks from now, I gotta be ready for that thing I gotta do. So I've got to start putting some stuff into today so that I'm not scrambling for that. So I'm starting to be wise about what's coming, but I don't worry about it. Because I'm going to apply wisdom today to make that thing smaller. Here's a picture. One of the things that's scary on my list is I'm going to be teaching this Ephesians class coming up very soon. The notes are almost in place. Almost. I will tell you this, I could spend another year preparing to teach Ephesians uh decades. But there's there's a level of preparation that's right and appropriate to start the class. And Scott and Daniel and I have done a lot of preparation up to this point The outline's in place. The notes are in place. The keywords are there. Everything's in place. But there's they're still getting it over the finish line. And in order to be prepared for the first week in September, There's some lifting that needs to be done between now and then. So today, by that I mean just the day that I'm in, has to reserve some of my time today. To be focused on that. That's coming up. We've got a trip coming up. We need to spend some time thinking about what it's going to look like because that's a special trip. Prepare for that trip to make sure that we're not running around looking for, I don't know, stuff at the last minute. That also requires a little bit of making sure that we go to the store and buy some shoes For instance. Right? That's got to fit into our calendar and our schedule. On top of that, I got to finish power washing my deck. And painting it so that it's ready for the winter time. And when snow and ice sits on it, it doesn't just, you know, rot the wood. It's gotta be sealed. And needs to look nice. So these are the things that I've got on my and oh by the way I bought a plant. I gotta go dig up the old plant to make room and then put that new plant in the garden So I've got to think about, oh, and did I forget? I gotta go spend time with my dad, who is wheelchair now and can't get up and stuff like that. And I just want to share the gospel with him one more time. Because how many more minutes does he have and stuff like that? Anyway, do the icky things. Eat the frogs. Break your big tasks into small tasks and stay focused on today. I would say too that every day beg God for strength and mercy. Every day. Because you know, this past week I had you know uh I drink tea. This past week I have to get up out of my desk, walk down to the place where the water boiler is, pour water in, and stand there while the water boils. I don't have time for that. There's a lot of things that are going on in my day. And this past week I walked down there and somebody and it went literally I heard it go click, somebody had just finished boiling water. That's God. I just got back five minutes of my day I filled up my water, I'm walking back going like yeah. Let's go. It's like that moment where you're driving up and the light turns green Woo Let's go. If you don't God's in control of absolutely everything in the universe He can help you remember that you depend on him in all these ways. And he can also lubricate your day so it just runs smooth as anything. He could teach you. He could teach you. Yeah, God, in his wisdom, knows precisely what you need. Praise God. Praise God for that. But I would beg God for strength. I would also beg God for joy in the midst of what goes on. Uh, this is really important for the married people in a room. Share your schedule with them There was a comedian I listened to this past week. He said, when when God took that rib out of Adam and put it in Eve, He must have took the mind-reading part of it out of Adam. Isn't it a funny assumption that we can read one another's minds? This takes time, but it's really important. Find a way to share your schedule with your spouse. Some of our biggest arguments have been over miscommunication or assumptions. And I'm going to just tell you that our argument is not efficient. In your day, it will eat your minutes. And you can prevent that with a little bit of communication up front. And coordination. So that whole plan your day, plan your week, plan your month thing should probably include your spouse. I would say this too. Build a good routine. Now, your routine's got a plan for the ridiculous, because it's going to happen. But strive to build a routine, and that routine is going to have to change as life changes. Right? We're about to start a new school year. The routine changes from the summertime routine. Maybe you're starting a new ministry, maybe you're joining in choir, maybe you know, fill in the blank is just starting to happen. Think about how that fits into your routine. Adjust, but live in your new routine. That simplifies your planning. Along with that, though, I would recommend That you take periodic practice to evaluate your routine. Evaluate your assumptions. Because you might be assuming it's the best thing to me for me to I could give some bad examples. It's the best thing for me to go to bed to to only sleep for five hours a night because I'm getting a few more things done. You might want to look back over time and evaluate if that assumption was true. It may be that you assume, you know what, I can leave the house and I can have my quiet time on the way to work. I'll get it eventually. I can focus on God while I'm driving. I'll read a verse in a parking lot before I walk in a building. Or substitute in that your life. After a period of time, evaluate your routine. Is it helping you walk closely with the Lord? Is it helping you love people? Because remember, those are the first two most greatest commandments. Is my getting five hours of sleep at night helping me to love people? Am I happy or am I grungy? Am I shortening my time in the morning, is it a valid, good compromise? Is it a good compromise? And now this is It n neither good nor bad. Is it a good compromise for me to have my quiet time in the evening before I go to bed? Versus in the morning when I wake up. Take time to evaluate your choices, and this is really important. Your choices as a steward that God has put You in charge of, right, he's giving you all this time, he's giving you all this cash, he's giving you all these talents. Periodically look back. And it may be good to have your trusted friend take a look at it, too. And I'll tell you why. There's areas of my life where I need to be disciplined, and I don't have the strength to do it. The willpower or the desire. I don't want to turn off the YouTube video. I don't wanna. I don't want to stop looking at those advertisements for watches. I don't wanna But my friend, who I trust, is going to come alongside me and say, that's choice. Should you really have another ice cream? And she's kind to me to say those things because she knows, right? And I need to get over myself, and I'm saying it me, but it's us. We need to get over the things that our flesh hungers after. That aren't on our priority list or our to-dos, and be prepared to put on our big boy pants and say, you know what? You're right. Today I gotta say no to that I wanna. I might get to that tomorrow. I got one last thing I want to share. And I'm sorry for talking so much. Your urgent things evaluate the things that are on the on your urgent list And be certain that they really are as urgent as you think they are. Some things are noisy and not needful There are some things that will scream to get done, and you might be able to say to that thing, no. Not yet. Because in the evaluation of your to-dos, you might come and go, you know what? The deck, even as urgent as it is, has to wait today. I'll look to that tomorrow or next weekend. And that's where you're going to apply wisdom. That's when you need to look at these things and you need to be considering in your life, right? In your life. What is the best way for me to be a steward with today's 24 hours? And that can be that can require some hard choices to make But in the end, you can be going to bed knowing that the everything that you took a little piece out of was the right everything that you took a little piece. I think that's really important. And you can have peace in your heart knowing that you labored carefully in God's field in the way that God wanted you to to the best of your ability Put your head on your bed and like, yeah, I was a faithful steward today. I have no regrets. Few regrets, maybe. And you ask for grace for those things. Right? Don't beat yourself up. That's really important. Don't beat yourself up Do better tomorrow. Strife