Oh all right. Just to give a little uh review and we are in r week three and we're gonna be talking about here, there, and gone. And we won't spend a whole lot of time on this, but the on the first week of class we looked at two verses, at least two, there may have been one more, that had to do with the greatest commandments and how that What how that is related to the whole idea of crazy dizziness. Does anyone remember why those two uh verses were were relevant to this class? The two greatest commandments? Okay, the greatest commandments, love the Lord thy God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And then the second to love your neighbor as yourself. So from that, the point that Doug made Soon to be Pastor Doug. Just joking. Is that if we're if we're doing those things, if our vertical relationship and our horizontal relationships are are right then we have a better opportunity to have the right motivation to prioritize all the things in our life Every hour of the day and every day of the week, every month, annually, we should have a better chance to prioritize those things in our life. And and then Doug introduced last week, hello, my name is Busy. And what I got out of that is that I think it's important for any author that you read, a Christian book author. is to be able to relate to them and to understand where they're coming from and to actually know that they live in the same world that that we live in and for particularly for a subject like this, in terms of your Looking at yourself, you are trying to make evaluation and see where things line up with the exhortations of Scripture or where you fall short or where you may patently be involved in in a sin. And so the this this author Uh Kevin DeYoung, he definitely is saying that he's not above the the same struggles that we have, that that many people have in terms of just so much uh chaos or clutter in your life your life and not only recognizing that that's there but okay how can I how can I change so And next week, don't miss that, the the killer peas, and I won't go through all of them, but people pleasing, uh looking for pats on the back, perfectionism. Uh performance, over evaluation, um proving myself. What what is that what is that term where you're you're a You you're always a um I didn't write down I didn't write down this term, but you feel like you're an imposter, the imposter s syndrome. Is anyone familiar with that term? Okay. So always proving yourself and feeling the need to, no matter how much you prepare that okay the standard is perfection which that's not God's standard for us except for for in fish and maturity and then after that a a fellowship time Then we'll get into mission creep. I haven't I've read that before, but not in the last few years, so I need to if it's anything like scope creep creep, that is something that I'm going through right now. I have a small company. And you just same for you, things happen where it's a whole lot more work once you get into it. and start executing the the work that's expected of you, what you would read for. You didn't sign up for all these things that are going to happen. So I don't know if mission creep is similar to scope scope creep. Greek. The last one that I'll touch on, a cruel kindergarten, and that is week six. No, it's chapter six. And if I have it correct, it's week eight. Those may have gotten misaligned. No, that's right. Thank you. But it is looking and and maybe our families are this way, but we have so much emphasis on not making even one mistake with our children and giving them every advantage in life that we we overdo it and that's not really God's ex expectation as far as the our responsibility. There's only one perfect father. It's Father's Day. And he ultimately is is responsible for the outcome of our children. And he has entrusted them to our care. But if we really o overdo and really go way out of whack being crazy busy in terms of providing every advantage conceivable for our for our children. I realize that's an exaggeration. That it it actually is counter beneficial because the author makes the point that when our children grow up uh beyond being a small child, what they'll remember is that we were frenetic and crazy busy. And that's the model that they that they'll carry with them. Probably more than the Sunday school lessons and Bible lessons that we we shared with them. They're looking at our attitude and our patterns as a parent and without margin and then feeling there they may end up repeating that and in their lives. And I I think probably my children have have picked up on some of that just because of my sin of having uh wrong wrong p priorities See the I wanted to introduce myself a little a little bit more and The I was born into a an Air Force family, and my father enlisted when he was 17. He retired when he was 37 years old, but he he had always worked. from age thirty-seven up to when he passed away at the age of eighty. And so I was born in Washington state and Spokane and then we lived in Tacoma So at the age of eight we moved to Alaska, Anchorage, Alaska. We were there a couple of years. I remember looking down in the plane and it's like, okay, are those clouds or is it snowing? And we got there, touched the ground. It was just Snowing like you you couldn't believe in terms of the amount of snow. That was a lot of fun. Moose on our playground in the for the elementary school that I went to snowmobiles, I could ice skate school. We moved from there to another cold country, Maine. We're there for four years until the age of 13 and then Texas, where my father retired. I got an opportunity to work at an architectural firm as a senior in high school in Fort Worth, Texas. There, I it was strongly recommended that I go to to school at it ended up being Texas Tech. And it turns out that God providentially, he was ordaining my my salvation and it was it was incredible and the first time that I heard the gospel was on my campus there and there were a group of uh young men and women that had the four spiritual laws. And I remember where I was on the campus and one of them he was kind of practicing. And Pastor Leake at Hope Bible Church, he said, yeah, always use this as a practice opportunity to to present the gospel and never feel like you you have it down, which is so he was he was practicing and he went through I heard it First time I had heard the gospel, I did not grow in a fit grow up in a Christian family. I don't think anyone in my family was saved. We were going to a false church, false religion at that time And I brushed it off when I heard the gospel. So God lined up another person who was a classmate of mine and we're still very close today. We still text each other. This is like 40, 45 years later. And but he he had become a Christian in high school and he kind of watched me and we became very close friends. He he kept prodding me and asking me about my understanding of scripture and His mother worked on me when we would go and visit on breaks and really praying for me and pleading And suddenly I I I heard some things on a at that time cassette tapes that were very convicting. And I knew that I was a sinner and I I was at least willing to to try and see if there was any if I if I on on my own understanding could kind of validate the the gospel and of course that's really foolish. The the um all it takes is is is faith and then it um god God validates it So from there, uh worked in San Antonio for a few years, worked in Charlotte, North Carolina, and heard from North uh Charlotte, North Carolina Carolina about a a church in this area and I felt like I had a a pretty good opportunity to find a wife, which which I did. And I think less than two years after moving here Margot and I got married. That was in 1992. And she had moved here from finishing graduate school in in Michigan at Michigan State And so there we were in the same church. And the Baldridges, the Reeds were at that same church. And we moved into the Reeds basement and then left for University of Illinois for a couple of years And then and then came back. So that's a little that's a little bit of our history. We've been at Hope Bible Church for it'll be 24 years this fall. So the the things that I feel were very effective for God to humble me and change me. And is still changing me are the the difficult things, the the hard things, and I think that they could have been avoided if I had done some of the things that we're going to talk about today, which is just a really increased vertical relationship with the Lord and relying on Christian brothers and sisters in fellowship and counseling and friendship and having brothers and sisters pray pray for you. I think if I had been more intentional and deliberate in making use of just the the church body And that probably would have uh s grown me grown me better uh rather than resisting I one of the things that kind of defines me as crazy busy is that the the profession that I chose. I actually feel like I had been called to it since age thirteen, as soon as we moved to Texas when I was age thirteen. And from that time on until going to college and then the early years being a young architect, I poured a lot of intensity to the expense of my relationship with my wife and relationship with family. So there's a lot of missing years that are it was like here, there, and then it's and then it's gone. So you might consider that as far as your own choices as a parent or as a as a husband or a wife. Just the the things that seem like, okay, it's the right thing to do. But it's it's not it at least it wasn't for me uh to have that kind of intensity. And I remember about every i even though my employers it was not expected of me, I would probably Pult uh put in an overnighter probably every six weeks um at least. So It wasn't money that I was after, it was actually authorship. I I wanted to to author designs, and that was that was kind of my dream since age 13. And so it wasn't a bad goal, but it was disproportional to what I think God's better better plan for me was. So there's a definite cost. And what I wanted I think this will be helpful. And I I'm trying to to beat Doug before he shows you this. I think it'll be helpful. Okay, anyone heard of the Ordo Saludis? Okay. Randall? Any anyone else? Doug? We we studied this. And It's a Latin term, the order of salvation, and it it refers back to God's election. In eternity past, there was an agreement between the Father and the Son that Jesus would agree to to die for the sin of the world. And so that and along with that the the names, according to the book of Revelation, would be written of everyone who would be who would be saved. And of course we don't know who that is or and our position is that potentially everyone that that we are come in contact with God has designated for salvation. He has elected. And then the general calling, which is This is from Ezekiel that God takes no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but he wants all to repent. So in one sense there's a general call that goes out. for salvation is offered to all and God gives general revelation such as Psalm 19, the heavens declare. So all people at all times in All contexts, they have an understanding that yes, there is a God. They can see through his creation, it testifies of who he is and his invisible attributes are clearly seen through what he has made. And then there's an inner call for those who have been elected to salvation When they hear the inner inner call, when they hear the gospel, they will come to faith. And God ensures that And we that we have a, even though God doesn't need us, He blesses us with the opportunity to actually give that that call. We give the general call. We never know if it's actually going to be the special call as God did in my life. And From the intercall, if you've been elected, you will uh God will regenerate you, cause you to be born again, and will put his spirit in you similar to back to the Ezekiel chapter on the that there would be new bones There'd be new life from dead bones. And of course that's specifically relating to Israel will in there will be a future time when these the entire nation or a large portion of that nation nation will will come to life and they'll realize the crisis in Zion. And there's a even though we don't have a work in our and we don't have any credit in our salvation, there is a responsibility that we have. Everyone has the responsibility to to believe. When you hear the gospel, you You have that responsibility to put your faith in Christ. And justification, the next step in this order, is that God declares you righteous. He imputes the righteousness of Christ into your life and he declares you righteous. And even though we're very imperfect on a daily basis What God sees is the righteousness of Christ, and he credits Christ's righteousness to our our account. So we're we're justified. And the reason one of the reasons why I'm pointing this out is that this book falls into the category of sanctification. And the other Parts of the order of salvation. They are all of God. They're not of us. You you could say that yes, we have a responsibility to place our faith in Christ and but even Is it Ephesians chapter two that even God gives us that that ability if I'm referring to the to the right verse? In this not of ourselves. So God gives us the faith to be able to respond to Christ and place our trust in him. So everything is in the order of salvation is all God. But today we're we're talking about sanctification. And that's a cooperative work. And there's many verses that exhort us to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. And to to allow God to manifest the fruit of the Spirit in our lives. So there there's commands that we're to to follow and we're working, even though God is doing the greater work we we we deal we do still have a responsibility. So reading good books from good authors and looking up verses and going through scripture, those are Those those are our uh that's our responsibility. And one of the things I wanted, another kind of word picture I wanted to give is that The Lord already knows at what level of sanctification we will attain in our lives. And he's going to be faithful to allow that to happen. And it's going to be through our church family, it's going to be through hearing the word. The when the word is planted, it's going to grow in our hearts. When we listen to a sermon, it's going to be effective. It's not going to return void Our flesh can resist. We hear a good sermon. We might forget it. Our flesh is going to keep us from that really being fruitful in our lives. the uh the flesh, the devil, and the world are are going to be disruptors from sanctification. But as long as we know that we do have a responsibility And we're cooperating. It's synergistic as opposed to monargistic. It's synergistic. It's cooperation with the Lord. then we we can do something about it. And there is great benefit in increasing our sanctification and being very deliberate about that. And the the rewards are out of this out of this world. They're astronomical. But we don't really feel that every day, that there's there there's benefit. And it also is a blessing to others around us. It's a blessing to the Lord. This is how we give glory to God, is to actually cooperate with His Word and saying, yes, Lord, you are true. You are right. I I need to align my priorities with with yours. And uh my my father who passed away at age eighty He thought that he was going to work that day and he kneeled down. Each of my family, I believe, are believers, and most of them I know for sure And I feel pretty confident that my father was a believer as well, because you could see dramatic change. But the reason why I mentioned him is that I could see where he had come from and he kind of attained to a certain level of sanctification in certain areas of his life And then you would ask, well, was God faithful to to him? Why why didn't my father uh exhibit more fruit of the spirit or obedience in other areas. And the The only thing that I can kind of reconcile in my mind is yes, God was faithful to him and brought him to that sanctification. And there's many things that my my father did and said and served and sacrificed that I I can't that aren't visible to me Yeah, but but they'll be remembered and he I believe he's in heaven today and he'll be rewarded for what uh what he did. So glory to God, and then blessing to ourselves, blessing to other other people is our motivation, and eternal rewards would be our motivation for sanctification. And then of course glorification is that we would be removed from the presence of sin and the the indwelling sin in our or the rediding sin in our lives, even though the power of sin has been broken. at the regeneration or maybe faith in Christ, the power of sin is broken, but we it's uh we still live in an atmosphere of sin and the world, the flesh and the devil So I I thought that would be a good a good word picture just to kind of put into context where we are and what what the purpose of this book is. So it's sanctification and we do have a role. Well, I I've been doing all the talking, so now it's I need to turn the tables. Alright, I'll go down. I'll go down off I wanted to spend a little bit of time with Wisdom. And your font is very tiny, so And I w I want to just spend like five minutes on this and then move on. And the the whole idea of We went through some verses last week having to do with with wisdom. And one of them is blessed Proverbs 3 13 to 14, blesses the one who finds wisdom and the one who gets understanding. For the gain from her personification is better than gain from silver and her profit than gold. So then it raises the question, well what is what is wisdom? And so I kind of in an untimely way, uh as Doug was teaching last week, I asked about that. And I put in here that the definition of wisdom, according to Wayne Brutum And he's writing a chapter on the attributes of God. Wisdom is the doctrine that God always chooses the best goals and the best means to those goals. So kind of looking back over the years, for me, age 13, okay, that wasn't a bad goal that I had, and it it wasn't a sinful goal. Um, but did I choose the the the best means to it. And of course I couldn't choose the best means not being saved. I wasn't saved until I was age twenty two. So at age 13 I had a goal. Age 22 was kind of the beginning of discerning and being sanctified toward maybe choosing the best the best means to that goal and to not let so many things be sacrificed. Um I I realize that there are seasons of our lives. Uh there's seas seasons of medical school, there's seasons of residency. And but it it is wise to recognize what season you're in and pray pray for God's grace to Let your family not fall apart, let your body and soul not fall apart during that season in which or other seasons of losing a parent or losing a child And uh the the all the various seasons of life that require faith, but it it does require some recognition of what what season you're in. and how to really be faithful to the Lord for that particular season. So God always chooses the best goals and the best means to those goals God's greatest displays uh display of wisdom and his own glory are found in creation, which we talked about, and the gospel. So it's foolishness to those who are Not saved and who are perishing, but to those who are being saved, it it's the wisdom of God. And Okay, so I'll move on. Um the next verse, Ephesians five. And this has to do with wisdom. Look carefully then how you walk, not as eyes unwise, but as wise, making the best use of time, because the days are evil. So that that is another thing that undergirds the book that we're reading, reading, uh Crazy Bizzy, is We're attempting to walk like Christ, and that is our best model, that best example for walking in wisdom as we're growing in Christ. And both through the pleasant times and not so pleasant times, we're walking in wisdom. I'll skip down to 1 Corinthians 4, 16. I urge you then be imitators of me Paul urged urged the Ephesian church to be humble and follow his and Timothy's way of life. So another reason for walking in wisdom and growing in sanctification is you're you want to be a model for others in the church. You you want to be a model of Christ for those who are not believers, maybe in your workplace or school, in your neighborhood. So that that's a strong motivator for actually growing in in wisdom and walking in wisdom And yes, trials and disruptions happened. Some of them we we caused and I really convinced Margot to to buy this house in two thousand and five, not knowing that the bottom was gonna fall out of the real estate market and everything would lose its value by like fifty percent. I don't know if anyone else went through that. But that was uh what really went out on the edge financially and just too far and did was not wise. And it took like a decade or more to to recover from that. And thankfully God gave grace. But it was another good humbling moment that I can actually look back and okay Lord I'm I'm thankful for I needed that humbling, and I still make unwise decisions today, but hopefully not as dramatic. So that's another thing, another motivator for sanctification is to learn to walk in in wisdom and to be an example to the rest of our church family. And uh so as you know, many things are more caught than they are taught. So having a good picture kind of solidifies, okay, that this person's wise. The uh another point I wanted to make about wisdom and it says in James That if anyone lacks wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all men generously and without reproach. But let him ask in faith, without any doubting. But the The whole idea of asking for wisdom, the context of that verse is a trial. And yes, you could apply it to almost anything in our lives on a daily basis. But the that specific tr context is in James chapter one is it's trials. And The I'm not sure how God answers that prayer. As far as wisdom, there was a particular example when Marg and I, we, I guess it was cold. Outdoors were cold, so we decided to go to the North Laurel Community Center to do some walking And Margo and I put down I guess our sweater and Marg had her phone in the in the pocket of her jacket or sweater. And there is a there were some people there that were caterers that were serving food for a family gathering. And the caterers picked up Margot's jacket, thinking that maybe it was among their belongings or it had been left behind by people that were there for for this family reunion. And they picked up the jacket and put it in their car. And so we were scrambling around looking for the phone and looking for the jacket. And I I remember distinctly praying Okay, okay Lord, I um please please help us during this situation. I I need wisdom. And so the thing that came to me was to go outside and kind of look around to see what I could see and there was a person who was putting things in their car. They were like sixty seconds from driving off And it occurred to me to just go and ask them if they had seen the jacket. So the reason why I mentioned that story is we every moment of the day we have opportunity to ask for wisdom. And and then you think of well where what's what does that look like? Where where does it come from specifically? And in that instance that I mentioned, I I think it was God just using my mind to maybe think a little more analytically. and to to figure it out. And another kind of story that that I was telling this past week, I had a lot to do. There's a lot of projects in our office. There's uh design projects for all kinds of buildings. There's like a list of 77 of them. And maybe 30 of them are active and need some sort of attention. So I was praying, dear God, what what can I do to just make it through this day and walk as wisely as I can. So the the thought after praying that prayer was that okay what I need to do is to call quite a few of these clients, especially the ones in which the uh the project is on fire or it seems like it's on fire, and just just be uh very upfront and say, okay, we're We had one person, one employee who was sick and has just come back from actually an extended And we have quite a few projects that came into the project into the office at one time. So it it just came to me the wisest thing to do is to communicate with these people and not try to hide or scramble or what what have you. And most of them they they were fine. There's plenty that have a lot of borrowed money on the line to get their building built. So they need a building permit like yesterday. So and I'm cognizant of that. I didn't want to discount that at all, but that's that's what came to me. The there was a question last week about Solomon. He God gave him this kind of open-ended question, ask for anything you want. And so wisely, Solomon he asked for a a sp specific type of wisdom and it was to be able to to judge the kingdom and to operate. He said he didn't know his right hand from his left. I think specifically as far as being a king and yes, his father David was, and then there the model of Saul uh before before that. And so he was given uh it seems like super you would agree was uh he was given the supernatural ability. to understand things, uh whether it was of a spiritual nature, and then the particular writings, book writings, Song of Solomon and Ecclesiastes and Proverbs that that he wrote. And or co-wrote with the the Holy Spirit. And so he had he he was this brilliant guy and could understand whether it was spiritual or even the natural creation. He was just given a mind like that. And then you you raise the question, well, what happened later in his life? And The I think the same thing we are vulnerable to is you don't really see King Solomon kind of going back to Deuteronomy and keeping his life in check in terms of not accumulating chariots and horses and wives and So that that's an indication of okay he was doing all these great things and God had given him all this wisdom. But his vertical relationship there there was something wrong wrong with that. And it was it was deficient. And there was rot there in his soul without him perhaps realizing it. And he writes the book of Ecclesiastes. So you you get the impression that he's aware, he's self-aware of the the vanity and having the great ideas, but the maybe the wrong motivation or the or the wrong goals that he's he chased after in in Ecclesiastes. And then at the end of the book, he of course he said that the the wise thing is to f is to fear God and to to be obedient. Can someone read on their sheet what uh what his conclusion was? The end of the matter? Any volunteers to read? Bill Fry? Too tiny a print. I can read that. Ecclesiastes 12, 13, and 14, the end of the matter. All has been heard, for God Oh fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God will bring every deed into judgment and with every secret thing, whether good or evil. Amen. And and then you it begs the question, well when when did he write that? Was it at the end of his life? Uh was it Somewhere not at the end and uh because it's clear in is it Second Chronicles That he uh his wives, he he loved many foreign women, uh, along with the daughter of Pharaoh. And eventually he catered to their idolatry. And I don't know if it says it says it's it turned his heart away after other gods. So he may have been even participating. in in their id idolatry uh because he because he loves them and maybe wanted to kind of placate their their worship of a false god. So again that uh was Ecclesiastes written at the end of his life or or not? And I looked to see what different theologians have to say about that. And the one that I probably believe the most is that in Kings, the there's not a mention of after he had committed the the gross sin of idolatry that he ever repented from it. Um do you recall any any repentance where at the end of his life he moved away from from those things and the Holy Spirit recorded it in in Scripture? So that kind of tells me that even though he was cognizant in Ecclesiastes of the wrongness and the badness of of it, that that may not He um his his level of sanctification that God had for him was here and not And not here. And so there's certain rewards and certain commendations and honor that that he will he will never have because of his disobedience. But there's these other things that Wow, um he he was faithful and obedient to to the Lord in in those ways. So it I I wanted to raise the question of where where does when we ask for wisdom where what does it look like? Where does it come from? I know in a church setting it It comes from the word, it comes from sermons, it comes from fellowship and praying with other brothers and sisters, it comes from classroom settings. Did you have a comment, Henry? Yeah. Um It's often I I think in many cases it's it's easy to to look at a goal for objective and see what steps of insight um helped to get to or achieve the goals that were intended. And it's not uncommon that we would say that it was wise to get to that But I I find that there are many times when we need to distinguish whether this was the true wisdom that God gives, or this was just man's um I guess wisdom if you want to call it that Which is why I appreciate what the book of James says in chapter three from verse thirteen to eighteen. If you know it cannot read it Oh please. Let him show by his good behavior his deeds in the gentleness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart. Do not be arrogant and so light against the truth. This wisdom is not that which comes down from above. It's earthly, natural, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there is disorder and every evil thing But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, Reasonable, full of mercy, and good fruits, unwavering, without hypocrisy. And the seed whose fruit is righteousness is sown in peace by those. So the longest short of it is, I often have to ask myself, this this seemingly wise insight that I think I have Does it meet the criteria that I rehear? Is it peaceable? Is it full of mercy? Is it gentle? Is it all wavering and without hypocrisy? If I cannot rule all those things out, it's a very good chance but I'm acting in my own I don't know if I actually have to do it. Yeah. And and of course none of us are perfectly going to exemplify each of those characteristics all the time. We can grow in many of them and we can be intentional about growing in some of them on a daily daily basis. And then over time we're we we do mature. And we can look back and kind of see that okay, the same circumstance doesn't trip me up like it did before. But yeah, I'm I'm hearing you say that there it's James is defining two different origins of wisdom. And one is the attributes of God that are communicable to us. And then the other are the attributes of the world. that are also very communicable. And in fact we were our nature was born with those those a we were pre-wired with those attributes un until God places the Holy Spirit within us. All right, Will. Henry, what was that reference? Okay, Diane. I think that um the scripture is talking about uh the heart. This chapter was talking about having a rottenness in your heart And so if you're not putting God first and spending time, then your heart will rope hold and you'll start to focus on things that you shouldn't. That's a weary way. But There are choices that we can make in this life that at the time before God we think are wise And we might suffer from the circumstances from those choices. Unbeknownst to why And so I think the hierarchy of this might be, or one of them might be, is that God is still God And our responsibility is to act justly, love mercy, and work humbly with our God. We can also go too far over to the, well I gotta do this, this, this, and this and this, this, this, this, and I gotta do this, this, and if I do this then I'm going to have this glorious thing and and I would never want any human being that is called the child of God to think that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. To um Part of what I'm hearing is really discerning what is our responsibility versus the the Lord's sovereignty in our our circumstances. Yes, we have a responsibility before God to to further our sanctification and grow in our sanctification and walk wisely. But that doesn't guarantee a a certain scenario for our lives that's trouble free. I'm wondering if um this might feed into what Henry was saying, if our goal was to glorify God And as we're looking at scripture, we're trying to ask him and trying to figure out is this going to glorify God or is it just going to glorify me? Is it something that's we need it To do something for God. I know in my own life I can be pretty busy and I have to ask myself those things and their warning signs. So if I'm just being very busy, but then there are things falling apart at home. Um or if I'm asking other people to pick up the pieces that are falling then then that means that I'm too busy and it's it's obviously not something the Lord would have me doing of everything else is falling apart. That's not going to glorify it. Uh my role is is, you know, be a wife and a mom and a daughter to my mom, and I'm not able to take care of those things well And I'm asking for help. You know, can you help me with this? 'Cause I'm doing that over there and this is falling apart. That's not gonna harm you Mm-hmm. And sometimes there's um as we know, there's more accountability with certain of our responsibilities. Um particularly if you uh work outside of the home and that's a that's a huge responsibility. But even with young children, okay, there's a lot of accountability. You you may have quite a few mouths and eyes to to to Shepherd. So that the the things that you're uh that we're most accountable for, those are the ones that we put t uh time and attention to and they they take discernment as to how how not to go overboard with with those In ministries in the church, there's people counting on you to be there and to show up and to advise and serve. So there's there's a lot of accountability there. And just like you said, okay, I I may need to ratchet down and I've got to be humble. and make some of those deliberations in in my life that are going to bring more glory to God and for me to be in balance and for me to have more margin in in my life. Margin not only for recreation, but margin for quiet time, for prayer, for singing a hymn to yourself on Be Still My Soul. Okay. Just one other thing from the book on that. Yeah, and I was going to open it up to to the book now. During the last 10 to 15 minutes. Um, I like how he mentioned well, he he kind of made the assumption in what he was saying is that it's it's okay to have certain struggles, but it's not okay to stay there and realize that you can He was talking about his pastor friends who have ever getting together and um you know it's like is it Is it shameful for us to have these struggles? And he was saying no, but it's a good thing that they're starting to recognize. Different things need to change and they're starting to meet small changes. So I took that as an encouragement for myself and everyone in the room. That things don't have to stay the same. You actually can ask for a change But once you recognize, and of course the one way to recognize is to look into the mirror of the word and not walk away without any change, but when you when you look into the mirror to to walk away and actually identify that okay there's A, B, and C things in my life. Well, I wanted to open it up and you've listened to me for almost an hour or 45 minutes. What what hit you out of uh for those who read this chapter or chapter two? What Uh danger of losing our joy, uh danger of robbing our hearts, danger of covering up rot in our soul. Any any particular aspects of the book hit you? So I was gonna say that, um, to be honest with you, I didn't think that this book would would be that impactful to me, it's just because of the circumstances of my life But when I read what he said about the dangers of being busy, I realized suddenly that I am not It does it does affect me. And I say that because he pointed out something that one of the things that being busy does is is uh rubs you of your jaw joy. And so I looked at myself for the last uh maybe a month and a half. And and and I was doing something that I enjoyed too, generally speaking But then it occurred to me that one of the things that was really lacking during that period in my life was the joy Not not not the uh the the happiness that comes from you know good happy stance, but just that deep sense of peace and wholeness that I I suppose we call joy. It was missing. And as I looked at it try to give you my my life over that period of time, I was doing the same general things that I numbly do. But I think this pointed out to me that somehow I missed the mark because I didn't have that joy And something that would typically be a you know perhaps a good and an enjoyable part of my life turned out not to be. So long and short of it is Even like I said, I thought it wasn't gonna be as helpful to me or as relevant to me. It will turn out to be. Amen. This is just a rhetorical question and then we'll move Move on to what you got out of the chapter, but if you saw a family in our church, a husband and wife and they have small children, uh let's say they have four or five children. And the the children just happen to be very stoic and they're not expressive or joyful, not very playful or happy. Um I realize there's some circumstances where okay there's a reason for that, there's a good reason. But if if that's character if you see that family, what what goes What goes through your mind? Is there something about the children? Is it something about the parents where there's a lack of joy? Um so it's just a rhetorical question. What what are some other things from the chapter that you You got Will. I thought it was rather prophetic from page twenty-nine. Your boards are coming up. I would rather show that every board too. So uh your boards are coming up in Kind of write up like the seasons of of life where your boards are coming up or you've got dissertation or you've got the household of little children. You are in that season of time where you're you're gonna be busy. You know, for for farmers it's harvest time, right? That's when they have to go full board. Yeah. And that's just part of life and we don't want to have to steal your joy yet. But to realize, okay, I'm in this season. I'm going to have to trust me to three minutes. During the three years of the spiritual leadership training, I say that I can confess that my vertical devotional time with the Lord was like way down here and which is kind of counterintuitive. You're you're taking these great theology classes and yet I feel like, okay, my heart devotion to God is is on a back burner. So any anytime there's intensity, if you're in it, especially a busy season Or or being a mom or dad with young children, it's like, okay, how do you how do you avoid that During the entire season. Not just a day or two or a week or a month, but during the entire season. Any other any other comments? The the danger of robbing our hearts, where busyness can can rob our hearts. I guess we've been kind of covering that all already. Any any input from that particular part of the book? Yes. Um Jeff I did not read the book, but I can attest to when life gets really chaotic, you kind of lose your joy in it. Which um is super sad for because I am a mom with a little. And then when it gets so crazy because you're homeschooling three kids and you have three toddlers you don't have a moment in the day to take a breath. So you're doing months changing diaper and all of the other things. It that tends to realization several months I'm not enjoying this right now. It was very humbling to stop and think, okay Lord, I there's nothing I can take away right now. In that moment. There's nothing I said, oh can't to stop changing diapers and doing laundry. There was not or Ph my children, there's nothing that could come off the table Yeah. So I had to stop and think, okay, make sure I don't say yes to anything extra and also change my mindset in this Yeah, that you're acknowledging that what your season is and what your rightful priorities should should be, even though there's some tweaks. that you do have. The when it uses the word rob, it it has the connotation that there is something that you are not defending well. And but in your case, okay, you you your circumstances they're they're built in and there's not much to defend against. I I guess there's always some wisdom Can be put to put to bear even within your to to maximize your time with the Lord, time with husband. One of um One of the things that Randall Hartman shared with me even this past week, and we're in the same small group. And it was very interesting. This is something that is readily applicable for each of us. But as good as any Christian book or book by a Christian author is. There will inevitably be some things that kind of have a ding to it that maybe you're maybe you're not in full agreement or the way it was stated was Maybe not in the context of the way scripture would have framed it. And but the The Christian books that we do choose, and I'll put that into the bucket of margin, is that if I get to the point in my life where I can actually sit down and read read some things, even the newspaper. So but uh a book by a Christian author What Randall told me is he's going back through the book that he read and then assigning scriptures, relevant scriptures, to those portions of it. So it's similar to this book where you read the author's thoughts and some of them may be more practical and then others are a scriptural foundation to reinforce the practicality of it. But you might during your times of margin, you as you're intaking things, to Actually go back and think of well what what scripture was this Christian author's thought derived from, if it's not explicit in that chapter. Yeah, don't uh I will yield to anybody else, but under the danger the danger of dizziness that can cover up the rot in our souls It it the author writes, busyness does not mean you are a faithful or fruitful Christian. It only means you're busy. Just like everyone else. And like everyone else, your joy, your heart, and your soul are in danger. I thought that was a pretty powerful warning. Insume in prior weeks we've talked a little bit about some that busyness can make us feel like we're in a good place, but it really can be hiding what's going on. You know, it wasn't that long ago I had a I needed a root canal and from the outside my tooth tooth looked fine. But I could tell when I stopped and felt, you know, what was going on, that there was something underneath that really needed to be addressed. One of the things that we were trained as far as fundamentals of counseling to minister to people with the Word of God is when that person and Marg can describe this better than I, but when that person is seeking counseling because of some underlying or maybe presenting symptoms And problem in marriage, um difficulties, financial difficulties, relational difficulties, what have you. that there's an intake form that they are asked the couple or the individuals asked to to fill out. And it's similar to to taking a getting your vital statistics stay taken when you go to the doctor's office. What are your vitals? And so anyone any medical professional can't really give you credible advice unless unless they at least know the basics of of your body, what's going on. So that intake form is like, okay, these are the These are the vital statistics. And one of them is are you having a are you reading scripture? How is your quiet time? How is your vertical relationship? How is your prayer time? Are you going to church? Are you fellowshipping with other believers on a regular basis and talking about and letting other people know your your difficulties and struggles? And are you under the authority of elders? Um and there I'm sure there's other things on there, but the there's more uh um possibility of really, Doug, as you just mentioned, of hitting hitting the road hard If we're not not even doing those those basic things of the Christian life And we're so busy that we those are not even on the table that we're the things that we should be doing. And so it sometimes God gives us grace and we we don't hit the hit bottom And then others, sometimes God gets our attention and that's how that's how we learn. Whether it's financial difficulty, you hit kind of hit bottom and okay, wake up and to uh turn to me the way that you should and be walk wisely. So thank you. This this was a little different class and but I I had some things that I I was thinking about so I wanted to share those. And So the assignment for next week is to read chapter three on the various p P's, the perilous Ps, is that what it's called? Killer killer killer peas killer peas. Killer peas. And please bring some good good thoughts because that's how we grow is we hear you talking about how the Word of God and even the exhortations of this author, how they affect your heart. And that's how we grow, it's it's collectively.