As usual, I I wanted to do a little bit of review time and I printed what we covered in chapter seven. Do you feel like you've been keeping up with some of the readings, most of the readings? Raise your hand, some of them. And d do you recall Or have you made any changes as a result of us going through chapter seven, Deep Calls to Deep? And it has to do with our feverish attraction to to screens and media and so any anything else that you remember in particular about that chapter on how screen time can Sometimes not be helpful to and lead us to living a crazy busy life more than we more than we should Has the needle moved at all in terms of maybe behaviors that you you desire to adjust or have adjusted already The I remember Caitlin, I is it Caitlin Neal? She was here that time and she mentioned that She has a practice of using, I think a it's called a brick on weekends. And a brick will kind of dampen the types of media. She can't get Facebook or other other social media. So it her her brick her brick prevents that for periods of time that she determines. So for her, that's that's a necessity for her not to be consumed by and and be fixated on uh on her phone And Henry, I thought, made this very beautiful observation after reading that chapter. And he you you you described that you have friends that uh whether this is something that can be replicated by everyone, but friends that uh believe that they get to a quiet place when they're not caught up in media and shuffle and hubbub. that with scripture and with prayer they can they can hear uh God's direction and voice in a more clear way And that fascinated me just on the subject of what what prevents me from hearing his voice when I read his word and I pray. on a on a daily basis, what what gets in the in the way, what um what clutters my mind. And sometimes it's messages, because I do keep my my phone right there. Sometimes it's a text message For something that sometimes I'll read scripture online and it's a it's an advertisement that just takes my my thought away So I thought that was a very insightful type of comment. Did anyone else hear hear that comment and have have you been affected by it in any way? as far as desiring to have that get to that place of solitude and quietness before the Lord. Not that we're gonna hear his audible voice, which we don't, but So it might hear just really be impressed by a particular sc uh scripture Any anything else to to add to that chapter that comes to mind, a comment that might encourage someone else in the in the room? Amen. No no deer in the road, uh no animals. No. Any any else uh before we go to the to the next chapter? Any comments on quietude and solitude before God? Undistracted attention. And then we I believe it was last week we Doug covered rhythm and blues and the One of the things that stood out to me is okay, we cannot truthfully cheat on sleep. We may be able to do that for a period of time, but it's gonna As we all know, it's going to catch up to us. But any any takeaways that we can try to put into practice from having gone through that chapter together on rhythm rhythm and blues, establishing some good healthy patterns in our life of of rest and activity. Amen. Sometimes the most uh spiritual thing we can do is to t is to take a nap. And at our former church, I remember a a distinct sermon on that topic, and it was Basically it boiled down to God cannot use you, some of you, because you need to be sleeping. God can't use you Which is not absolutely true, but it uh it it carries quite a bit of truth. So it's it's funny and and true at the same time. Yeah, I I I think each of us would admit that that On any level we were resistant to we have this set-in inertia called the flesh in which we may recognize that it it's not uh our practices aren't best, but we're still uh not motivated to uh to follow what what God may be prompting us to do. So one thing that if I can recall that Chester mentioned, let's see Well um I'll uh mention something that I I brought a a verse last week about uh when Jesus said to really to not worry about tomorrow. And Today there's a there's a sufficient number there's a sufficient amount of evil in today, but to um to really in some ways this is my translation but to compartmentalize and trust the Lord for for today and to look for God's wisdom today and to uh uh we can rest in him by not taking on more uh responsibility and kind of solving all the problems of the entire week. It's just so that that's something that It's a uh it's a good exhortation from our Lord to to to do what we can and to to trust him to exercise wisdom for within the confines of today. And that that helps me a lot. Uh I as you I have plenty to to balance and to do in a given week and in a diff given day. And so I usually break up my workday into about five different parts. And if you include the quiet time. would be a sixth part and then the evening a seventh part. And so I try to really have some sort of prayer for each part of those uh of that day and to There's things on my list that I don't get to and uh so when I get to the seventh part of the day in the evening, it's a matter of Okay, Lord, please uh help me to rest this evening. Uh help me to not fixate and be anxious about the things that didn't get done and rest. and then come back tomorrow. The I I gave a a a book that that's to me was very interesting. It's a secular book that's on here and it's called Why We Sleep. And it's supposedly a a well researched book and it's not coming from a Christian's perspective but you might I I've listened to some of it, not all of it, on uh audio and It's very fascinating to know what how God designed us during like when we go to sleep and what our mind is our mind is still fully awake and is doing some things that are very helpful then so that when we try to cheat and not not rest, we can bad things can happen. And The one one example is that the the the various kind of toxic thoughts that we have and things that are unresolved, our our mind during during our sleep time is still actually trying to to solve those and to put things in the right slot. And so when we're when we don't sleep, we wake up the next morning and we're still kind of frazzled and not thinking as we should, not thinking properly. I know those in the counseling ministry are reading a book that even attributes Schizophrenia to to improper sleep. So there's there's definite bad effects. So that's an interesting book that you you might want to read and just to to understand it at least from science or social sciences. The other book that I placed on here under our fixation with screen time is and it's actually mentioned in the Crazy Busy book by uh Kevin DeYoung, and it's the The Shallows. And I happened to read that book maybe eight or ten years ago. And the the thrust of it is is that the unwittingly the our addiction and w with our screens It actually has the the effect, even though we may not realize it, is that it's inducing a a type of uh attention deficit disorder. And the extreme example, one extreme example that was given is that we may get to a point where we actually just do not want to read a book any longer. And it's It's because our brain has become uh rewired and remapped to take in information in in different spotted ways and we may actually lose the ability to uh track deeply with an author. So we we may not want want to read any Christian books or other books and really trap uh track deeply with with an author And that has a s maybe some spillover connotations that even with scripture, uh, do we really want to to uh deeply dig into scripture and to do some cross-referencing and to think deeply about it. And so I realize that's a that that may be true for some people and then others may maybe You uh don't really buy into that. But I I think it's good to at least read up on it and be be aware of what some some studies have shown in that area. And I thought it it could even affect our ability to listen to a 45-minute or one-hour sermon is that we're we're used to distraction. And I know some some people in the unfortunately during the worship service or during the sir the sermon are kind of doing this and so to to some degree it's it's true where we have a a uh unhealthy addiction. What I wanted to cover today is chapter nine and and then I've placed the We have three weeks after today. Doug is going to cover chapter 10, and to kind of give a little preview to that, it centers on the story of Martha. and Mary. And Jesus commends one of those women and gives a gives a gentle uh ad admonition to or rebuke to the other. So And the last of the during the thirteenth week, I think we're going to be doing a doing another recap and then some planning on the the week of the uh the fourteenth week, which which is the last day of this month. Let me ask you for embracing the burdens of busyness Any anyone who was able to read that? Did any portion of that chapter stand out to you? Would you actually like to read the the paragraph or the portion that impressed you? So so this is probably the context of caring for someone in a who called upon you or you you heard about their need and it's unexpected. It's It's not planned or something that you do regularly for that person. So so helping the uh if you're embracing that busyness is a good thing and that we should be busy for the right reason, then there inevitably we're we're we're gonna desire and we we're gonna care for people. And it's not gonna comfortably fit between ten ten AM and eleven A. M. on a Tuesday. So we've So we're we're gonna we're gonna be busy. Any other thoughts before we go to to Henry? I guess Gala uh Galatians chapter six as far as putting on the the full armor of God. So there's a There's a acknowledgement when we read that, uh however frequently is that okay, there's things going to be coming coming at us and we should actually be proactive and there's advanced preparation needed other than rather than saying, okay, not much happened yesterday So it's probably gonna be the same today. It didn't rain yesterday, so probably gonna be smooth sailing and sunny skies today. And and yet they're um That may or may not be what God has has planned for us for today. Any any other paragraphs, any other parts of it that stood out to you? The the Epistle of Joy that that we went through last year. He's probably uh uniquely qualified to to write on that subject, having uh gone through the the various types of trials that God ordained for him. But yeah, the the whole I the whole idea that we're it's It's normal and we need to find ways to to normalize dizziness in our lives and acknowledge it. That uh as a as a one of God's stewards that um it's going to manifest itself in a certain amount of busyness, but hopefully not crazy busyness. because that we're taking on too too much and not delegating sufficiently. I I wanted to take a minute and I I did a little bit of interviewing of some busy people this past week and I wanted to read to you my notes on a few people and I'll try to try to do that for two people. Maybe if there's time at the end of the class, I'll cover the the third one. And the the first busy person is Pastor Christopher Green. And I'll start with I would like to call attention to a couple of humble yet diligent men in our church who we might look at as examples of those who have taken their stewardship seriously, yet have avoided living a pattern of crazy dizziness. And the first is Pastor Christopher Green, who, as you may know, is the father of seven children And served as a senior officer in the Air Force, served in various ministry leadership and support roles in the churches over the past twenty or more years, one in Massachusetts most recently, and in Utah before that Moving his family around. And Pastor Christopher's current day job involves serving as a managing engineer at APL, the Applied Physics Lab And as you know, he and his wife Corine recently returned from Paria, Colombia. Is anyone here who who went who can pronounce it better? So and where he taught and ministered to a young church that we have the privilege of supporting. Pastor Christopher, I I asked him how did you in past years or how do you now achieve proper balance regarding maintaining a God-honoring stewardship of the various areas of your life Devotional time with the Lord, your marriage, your parenting, your ministry, preparation and effectiveness, your vocational commitment and effectiveness, all the while ensuring proper rest, margin, and physical and mental health. First uh this is his answer. Firstly, as I look back over the past two years I have been truly joyful. Maybe that's a sign of the um really appreciating the Philippians sermon sermons. And however, I have not felt settled with the idea of needing to balance my priorities in daily life. I think of my time and efforts as more of a tapestry rather than a part, a pie chart, requiring balancing priorities. Balancing priorities carries the connotation that one responsibility or opportunity is always competing against another One thing or even several things are always being sacrificed for something else, or the quality of some things are always less than they could be So he he doesn't uh view his responsibilities and the way that he his operating principle as trying to necessarily balance And that that's his view. Others in fact one other uh that I interviewed, he he did use the word balance and he he tries to find balance. Rather, when I step back, my life and responsibilities are a unit, a fabric, if you will, that the Lord uses to sanctify me and has the goal of bringing him maximum glory All is from God. For example, I do not take work home. When I'm home, I see it as an opportunity to be fully present. I need to put the phone down. And that's not always possible to do for the for the reasons Diane said that okay, there's sometimes there's a we all have urgent matters that are unexpected. During the season when our children were young, Corrine and I looked for ministry opportunities where our whole family could be included versus split apart. Sometimes in the past, Corinne and I did not share ministry responsibilities together outside of parenting our children. Now, in our current season Corrine and I carry out biblical counseling together with couples in need. This brings us together. She is present for me and I for her. As we minister the Word of God and minister hope to couples Those those things occur. Pastor Christopher concludes with, know your triggers, become spiritually mature to a point where you know how much is too much for you, for your marriage and for your family. So I think Doug, you were alluding to that. You you're you're mature enough to know, okay, there's There's some pink lights or maybe yellow lights or even red lights at times. And okay, now what am I going to do about that? So uh number two, as far as his conclusion, is Establish goals and priorities, set goals for parenting, for your family, for our family, having a musician mom, Corine. The natural low-hanging opportunity was for Corrine to give music lessons to each of our children, which he did. We specifically for our family stayed away from sports. for our children, be believing that it would require an unhealthy time demand on the family as a whole. We did not educate our children as for um for preparation to enter an elite college. So that was that was their choice. That wasn't their their mindset in terms of and I believe they they may have homeschooled their their children Uh we focused on being together at mealtime and for ego devotions, especially during the younger years of our children. By the Lord's grace, I can honestly say that I've been given much joy and peace over the years, even during times of surge. And I I thought that was a cool word that he used. An example of Surge was being deployed at various military locations away from my family and without today's technology to stay connected. So remember those days when you you didn't have those those connections? A recent example of surge was undertaking months of advanced preparation, followed by joyful ministry execution in Perilla, Colombia. The threads, if you will, in the fabric of my life are def definitely stretched They were definitely stretched during these times of surge, but serve as opportunities for him to cultivate Thanksgiving in his life. And that's um as you know Pastor Christopher he's he's a pretty upbeat, pretty joyful guy, and but he confesses that that that's real joy It's not um it's not Sunday morning joys that he he definitely has that. Any any comments on anything that might be helpful for you from At least his short testimony about being busy but not crazy busy. Anything stand out? Yeah, to recognize and uh reduce, hopefully reduce the those things that are eating up our time and maybe there's some degree of value to it and a little bit of downtime and just uh sanity but to to really not major on on those things and to be busy for for godly purposes and for things that are that are have long term and eternal value in including loving loving our neighbor as ourself, as was preached on last last Sunday. And refer to the pastor green, you know, if you're doing those stuff, you will get you all from doing those stuff. Yeah, amen. Let's move along in the in the notes and we flip back over. Okay, our, if you'll go down to the the third bolded or second bolded uh item, our work, done for the right reason, gives God joy and glory. And we'll may I have a volunteer to read Matthew twenty-five, twenty-one. Ellie, would you like to volunteer? Uh Matthew twenty five twenty-one. His master said to them, Well done, then faithful. President, you have said maple over a will. Pavel said, I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master Okay, thank you. Th this is a trick question here, but which of the servants did the master give this commendation to in in that verse? Was it the The five-talent servant or the two-talent? Which which one? Yeah. So in this particular verse, verse 20 w twenty-one He is speaking to the, I believe, the five-talent person. But as as you're pointing out, yeah, thank you, Bill. It's it may be word for word in later in a later verse. So it's the same for us. And it now I recall the the comment that Chester made, I think it was last week, is that he was able to observe a a very effective pastor, uh Pastor David Platt. And this person he must have been given like a hundred talents. Or he's like a a 30 talent person and has acquired quite a bit of ministry training and experience and has been able to been able to to use it effectively So the point that Chester was making last week is, okay, I'm never going to be what this person, what what God has given to this person And yet I'm called to be a good and faithful sir uh servant. And this passage, just the the parable that Jesus is giving, is that we're gonna be commended And even rewarded not for what we the resources we don't have, but based on our very faithful and humble and diligent use of the of how he has uh wired us and gifted us and designed us and the experiences that we have, even the sufferings that we have uh mentioned by by Henry, the things that Paul went through. So those were those were things that fueled his ability to really bring God uh derived joy and to recognize that it's it's all God and it's uh it's His grace. So do I have a a volunteer for Matthew chapter five, fourteen to sixteen? Oh okay Tina? Uh fourteen to sixteen. Oh, you're reading it in your version. You are the light of the world, as safe as on the hill cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp, put it under a basket, on a sand, and it gives light to all in the house In the same way, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Hin, what what's the context of the Beatitudes? It's it's God uh Jesus exhorting And he's uh preparing hearts and getting people to acknowledge that uh the there's a kingdom and there is There are commendable beatitudes or character qualities that should be, should characterize the lives of those who are rightly related to the king. So this is a a verse that exhorts to uh exhorts those character qualities and that it's ultimately a way that we uh give give glory to the Lord uh here on earth. We give glory to the Lord in heaven. And this probably is the strongest statement. I I think there could be others that make the point that every aspect of our life, uh whether we're changing a diaper or we're uh writing code or managing employees, or raising a family, and deciding who to marry or not to marry, planning a wedding, that all all of it is It's an opportunity to have the to be a a walking, talking, living example of the character of Christ in every every setting And so there is no setting that we encounter, whether it's a trial or suffering or pleasant times or relaxation or vacation that we're not on display for For Christ. We're we're not too we're never under a bushel and we should never place our think of ourselves that that way. But to to realize this is an opportunity, whether we're d uh involved in direct evangelism, as is the case for there's uh evangelism outreach this afternoon after church at Lake Elkhorn Um uh picnic and then just approaching people to uh with with the gospel And so any any comments on that, on this verse or others as far as how we, how you Give uh give God joy and glory through your activities. Any examples from your life Aaron, how about it? I know there's something bubbling underneath the surface. Can you repeat the question? Uh oh. In in what ways uh uh does God derive uh glory and joy from the busyness and activities of your life? What's what's an example that that God might be driving that? And yeah, spending time uh to together as a family, especially with with a young child. My my wife, she would be embarrassed if I say this, but she remembers being in the crib and she remembers like just a few months after after being born and that that's on her videotape uh in in her mind and the the so it's not un unheard of that your your son will remember uh some of those things possibly from from a young age. Uh right. So they're uh just going through life and the through the mundane and and through the the more interesting aspects and really seizing that and really uh understanding in your mind that this is an opportunity to have the right motivation, the the uh the attitude, the Sermon on the Mount types of motivations for what we do and to of offer that as a a uh a nice fragrant sacrifice uh that uh that has e eternal consequences. Hey, Amen. It it reminds me of uh Pastor Allen. He said that while the reason Uh God's design for giving you a desire to be married. The reason why you have that desire is that God is gonna sanctify you in in your marriage. So we all we all know that's true. Is that's one of Many one of the ways God t uh sanctifies us is he gives us the desire to be married. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um And then what the same thing that Pastor Allen said is, well, why does God give you desire and ability to bear children? Because he wants to sanctify the parents. That's his main motivation. So I don't know if you could carry that uh too far, but it's it's true. So same thing that you're saying. Well why does God give us a desire to operate within a uh ministry, either to support a ministry or to have influence over a ministry or pray for a ministry or to to lead a ministry. Is that God's objective is to sanctify you So it's it's counterintuitive for we we think, okay, I'm I'm in this um because I want to do great things for God and I want to help other people and and yet Okay, God is always doing a work on our heart, uh beginning with our desires and then carrying that on Yeah, yeah, there's always a um The world and the devil are uh can always misinterpret. Uh the world can misinterpret our our actions And say, okay, you're a good person. You're an example of a good person, and that's it. So it's incumbent upon us to use that as an opportunity to point to the Lord rather than to us You see I had I had a a thought related to what you're saying but I but I lost it Let let's take maybe one one or two more to squander a squander an opportunity uh because of not uh realizing and believing that it's that it's important. And that reminds me of what Jan said that in just in every circle, every opportunity, it's a It's an opportunity to to take this seriously and be be humble and realize that it all belongs to to the Lord. And for this period of time, God has ordained the opportunity and to not squander it or bury it in the ground and to be envious of that maybe other people have a a much more important opportunity but to to really use it What what I'll do now and I think we're are we supposed to close, Doug, at ten forty or ten forty five? I always think of it as quarter of. Oh okay. Okay. Seems like an old book I've read once, ten ten twenty. What what I want to do is close with this other interview that I had and And if I can make a few points on the the third, I I will. But I I think we're getting it is that yes, we're supposed to be busy and it's for the we're supposed to be busy for the right reasons. And for the right motivation. And the second example of avoiding a life of crazy dizziness is Pastor Alan Plumley who served as the first small group leader for our family at Hope Bible Church beginning 24 years ago. And I think we were we were in his group for about three years before we got booted out. Literally. Um He and I've mentioned this before, but he visited the hospital for the birth of our youngest daughter, Victoria, who is now twenty, and so time flies. And Our Victoria just underwent the membership interview la last Sunday. So time they do grow up. They um God may graciously bring many of them to to faith and I and I think He has for our youngest Regarding my question about how to be a good and effective steward unto the Lord, yet without lapping into patterns of crazy busyness. Pastor Allen shared with me that he is primarily focused on the why of good stewardship rather than the how. So he kind of turned the table. and shifted the the question, so to speak. He he stated that over the years and even now, he must take one step back from his activities and efforts. Marriage, parenting, ministry involvements, financial family financial budgeting, time budgeting And his former 39 years plus with uh being an IRS employee, he takes a step back and acknowledges that he is merely a steward. So that's that's how he views his world around him. He he's a servant, he's a slave, a steward. He has been given resources from the Lord. He does not own anything, not even his himself, his body. Similarly to Pastor Christopher, he starts with a realization that all is from God. So high level and The Lord is his kind master and owner. He sees, so this sounds very much like the Pastor Alan we know, definitely. He sees his life. As all about advancing the Lord's good purposes. He does not see his life as being about himself, his work, his family, his things. So he's doing he's getting to do some woodworking in in his basement. He's set it up. I haven't seen it yet. Pastor Allen believes that he and Each of us will be more effective as stewards once we understand who we belong to and from where everything we possess comes. He states that each of us, himself included, will gain a deeper appreciation for correctly prioritizing the responsibilities and opportunities set before us as we submit. to our master through his word and prayer, listening to his voice. And these responsibilities and priorities are not in competition. As stewards We desire to be faithful. We desire to be faithful. We are accountable for all. So we uh what was that chapter that we read on the um Total responsibility, total obligation. So we're responsible for all. We may not have our hand on everything. We can be concerned about everything. We may be praying about many things. But we're accountable for all. You can't say I do not have time for evangelism and discipleship. You can't say I lack time to take care of my health. I'm not good at living within my income You can't say that before the Lord and still receive a good commendation. Pastor Allen's Keys, renew your mind with Scripture, then establish Godly priorities. Easy to say, harder to do. Make sure lesser priorities do not squeeze out the greater. You must make determination. Detetermination that lesser priorities may not get done today. The same applies to making financial decisions. Not all spending is actually needed on things today. Maintain reserves time and money. Don't squander your margins of time and money and energy on things of temporary or lesser value. Take time to determine whether an urgent matter should rightfully occupy your priority for the day. Godly discernment may lead you to downgrading matter to the category of being important but not urgent. Establish long-term and short-term priorities. Short-term priorities should ultimately be fulfilling the long-term. Recognize the season of life you are in. Staying balanced and being a good steward will look different depending upon whether you are single, whether you are married. have younger children, older children, whether your children are gone and have started families of their own, or whether you are retired from your means of income, as did uh Pastor Allen in January of this year. So I I hope that these have been helpful. I I feel like I've been sanctified by putting putting materials to together and hearing your testimonies of trying to understand that yes we should be as Christians, as followers of Christ that yes we are s servants, we should be busy and uh this course is course is designed to maintain good emotional health and to raise your hand and get help, to not be crazy busy, to not have such a high view of yourself that you feel that you're the only one who can do this job and no one else and don't even ask if you can if you can help. So would anyone like to offer a closing prayer? Doug? The the interviews and the whole buffer, the information line? Oh oh sure. There there's one more and maybe During I won't be here next Sunday, but I will the following. So maybe the following Sunday I can share the the interview with Pastor Rob Thompson. And he gives a it's it's a different perspective Of course. He he's a different person and it's an interesting perspective, but I will post him. Thank you. And Diane? Can you just mention that everybody might want to pray for you and your travel? Oh yeah, yeah, I I I uh go to Bangkok for a week doing some architectural inspection on US Embassy construction in downtown Bangkok. Bangkok. This is my second time doing that. And I chose to fly through China through uh on a Chinese airline. I chose to do that um because of a student trip with my classmates 40 years ago And we spent three weeks in Chi China, so I wanted to at least put my feet back there. So I won't be able to travel there this time. So yeah, yeah, please please pray for for me. Okay, Doug, and we're eating into the the margin that we have before worship service. Thank you, Heavenly Father, for today and for your mercy and grace. Thank you so much for uh The work that Kirk did prepared for this class and the abundant material that he had prepared. I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would help us to be good stewards this week And help our hearts to enjoy you this morning and grow in wisdom during today's service. In your name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thanks a lot. So please read the next chapter.