So last week, late last week, I published a new edition of the notes of the Hopebook. Um if you don't have access to Hope Book, you should talk to somebody in the church office and get your access figured out There's a lot of stuff that's kind of like flying around in Hope Book, and it's a way our church uses to communicate. And it's something I'm leveraging, Kirk and I are leveraging in this class to bring other stuff to the class as well. So last week, uh let me just stop myself and and keep my word. What did you underline in the book this week that you thought was important in this chapter. And just so that everybody makes sure that we're on the same page, we are in chapter five this week. That's a chapter that talks about priorities. Yes. So on pages 62 and 63, there in the middle, 62, one reason we never tame the busyness beast. is because we are unwilling to kill anything. And at the end of that section on top of 63, but if Jesus is an example, God does expect us to say no to a whole lot of good things so that we can be freed up to say yes to the most important things He has for us Yeah. And so what you quoted is that we need to, in order to tame the busyness beast in our lives, which is kind of a cool metaphor. We gotta we gotta say no to some of the things. We gotta kill some things that are going on in our lives. And um that's an important what do I do with what I've learned now? What how am I going to straighten this thing out and bring some structure and order into the chaos that's going on in my life, if I could use those terms. And the picture that he uses is reflected in the verse One of the key verses in that chapter, which is Mark chapter 1. Can we turn open our Bibles up real quick to Mark chapter 1? Anybody ever do a Bible drill growing up? Say the first word. Mark chapter 1, verses 35 to 39. Mark chapter 1, it says, and this is talking about Jesus. And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place And there he prayed. And Simon and those who were with him searched for him, and they found him, and said to him, Everyone's looking for you. And he said to them, Let us go on to the next towns that I may preach there also, for that is why I came out. And he went through all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons. And this is one of those passages, in some ways, you might think is nothing's really going on here. It's a flyover passage. It's not a genealogy, but it's a you know, it's just some action is happening, but it gets us to the next parable or to the next point. But the juicy aspects of what's going on here is it's exposing to us how Christ lived his life while he walked on the earth. And it's astonishing. While it was still dark, Jesus gets out of bed and he goes and prays, and they have to go hunting for him. He could have gotten up, he could have had breakfast with everybody, he could have had syrup on his pancakes and sausages and stuff like that. But instead, Jesus goes and he spends time with his father. And when they find him, he's like, everybody wants everybody. Everybody is looking for you. And our thought might be, oh, well, I got needs. I got to go take care of those needs. They're looking for me. Kids want food put on a table. I got guests coming over. Somebody, I've got obligations, if you will, that I've got to go take care of. And Jesus says, no, I'm going to the next town I gotta preach there also. The implication is Jesus said no. to the demands that people were putting on it. And that's what that's key to what it is that we're talking about in this chapter. for this week. Any other things? That was a really good one. Thank you. Any other things you underline in this chapter? Yes. And thanks by the way for going first. Setting priority for an expression. Setting priorities is an expression of love for others. What and God? How is it that setting priorities is a expression of love for God? I kinda get the others part. Your everyday you're you're involved in like that can be like an everyday thing and so it's easy whenever something new comes up to put the everyday thing to the back border, but if you're setting priorities of like no, this is a priority for me, that's not going to get shoved to the back border. Yeah, that's a really good answer. Any other thoughts? Any other thoughts around the room? Why setting priorities is an expression of love for God? That's a really good answer. Yes. It gets to the uh people pleasing aspect where you're not driven to please these people, but it's like no God is Directing me to do these priorities. It can be. Yeah, it can be. You're right. Any other thoughts? Why is it loving God when you're setting priorities? I think you're able to give your best in what you're doing instead of just doing half-hearted jobs in twenty different things Doing your best and and maybe you're being a better steward of what it is that you're doing. Yes. Yeah. I think potentially, and I agree with everything you guys said, I think also potentially by implication is, if I'm setting priorities, I'm taking the time to figure out what God's purpose is for my life. And I think that's implied in the author's statement when he says that. Because I can set priorities, and the author kind of implies this: my priorities is to take care of my house and do the next thing and go to work. Which aren't bad. But when you take a look, the author outlines some God driven priorities that cause us to draw near to God, which you're talking about, cause us to not fear man and can cause us to be good stewards Because if you look at Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10, God saved us for good works that he prepared before the foundation of the world. And it's important for us to know those things, and it ties in with the passage we read about Christ. Jesus set priorities because he knew God's purpose. for his life. I think that's critical when we're choosing priorities. God's given us liberty, right? Grace and He fills our lives with options, which sometimes is also contributing to our busyness. But he fills our lives with options because he's a loving and gracious Father Our rooms are full of toys, if you want to treat it like a metaphor, right? And then he's he says, you know, to borrow another metaphor, go work in my garden. Go work in my garden. And then it's up to us as faithful stewards to establish God's priorities and work hard in them to God's glory, to love him. I think that's that's tied in with with what's going on there. And I yeah, thank you for that passage, because it led us to some other thoughts. Any other things you guys underlined? I did uh I'm the truth number one. Well I must set further because I can I can't do it all Oh, I must set priorities because I can't do it all. The person who never sets priorities is the person who does not believe in his own affinitude. We don't expect to be able to buy anything we want because we know there's a limit to our money. But somehow we live as if time knew no bounds. When in fact time is much more limited than money. Wealth can be created, but no one has the ability to grow more time. Yeah. Wealth can be created, but nobody can create more time. Yeah, and we live like we can create more time And one of the aspects, there's a powerful book that it's in the um bibliography. It's uh it's an author named uh Oh geez. The name of the book is The Myth of Multitasking. How doing it all gets nothing done. And the author writes, why do we celebrate multitasking when it's neither a reality nor efficient? You can't, and the author goes on to say, you can't multitask. For about ten seconds you're doing two things, and then your mind is going to force you to just do one. Maybe even not 10 seconds. For a brief amount of time, you might be thinking about two things, but you're tricking yourself, you're lying to yourself if you think you can keep working on two things at the same time for any extended period of time. As part of the reason why they say, don't be on your cell phone while you're driving It's yes. Or talking to your wife. Oh what? You're saying I gotta listen to my wife and I gotta shut my phone down while I do that? Oh dang. Yeah. Yeah, I know Gabe. Good point. Um Rachel, you put your hand up. Yeah, so um on page fifty-four to fifty-five, I like the part we're talking about how uh you know, we may have this particular idea of Christ either that he's just, you know, um overly busy doing this and that or um uh It's it's so funny. Our Lord does not sit around listening to heart music all day while the hand is brought in heavenly manage. Jesus was tempted in every way, just as we are, yet without sin. And that includes the temptation to be sinfully busy. But he wasn't. He was busy, but never in a way that made him granted, anxious, irritable, proud, envious, or distracted by lesser age. But also from awaited for new healing touch, even a good place or a place, a desolate place to pray And when the disciples told me back to the screen. So just that abstract, I think it was um top my attention because it was something that I had mentioned when we first came into the class, right? The the crazy part of the display And that um that temptation to to allow the business to um even that anxiety or whatever friendly tape or whatever it is and just um He understood that all things were good. Things um he understood that all the good things you could do were not necessarily all safe jobs here. So Yeah, and so I think the main point that you are holding on to there, and correct me if I'm wrong about this, is that Jesus was busy, so busy he like fell asleep in the boat and all that kind of stuff, but he was never so busy that he sinned. And in the author's vernacular, he was never then crazy busy. And that's that's a powerful example for us to hold on to on what it is that we do. The key verse that I had listed for this chapter and for this week was 2 Timothy 2. And if you want to turn your Bibles there, you can. 2 Timothy 2, verses 3 to 6. 2 Timothy 2, verses 3 and 6 says, Share in suffering as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him. An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules. It's a hard-working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops. And the reason why I picked this verse is because it's a call for us to be disciplined in what we do in our lives. It's about being a soldier that's not entangled. And for me, being entangled is streaming services Right? Because I can I need a little bit of break, but sometimes it turns into too much because YouTube says, Well, you like that one, why don't you like this one too? And it's only five more minutes. But the reality is, is I really need those five minutes for the next thing And I need to be disciplining myself in the things that I do because God has already given me all the time that I need. I know this because he didn't give me more than twenty-four hours. And he's good. And that's important for us to take seriously for this Sunday the challenges that we have about setting priorities and seeking God's wisdom for our lives. So there is a ruthlessness that we should attack this with. There's a purposefulness, and we need to take it seriously and not lightly in what we do. Take it to heart. Um the fur the second week we talked about how dizziness can ruin our joy or rob our hearts or cover up the rot that's in our souls. And we need time to go off and be with our Heavenly Father. We need time to go minister to people and to love them. And sitting on a couch is maybe. Please hear me say maybe not the wisest thing for us to do. And the reason why I said maybe is because we do need to rest. And that's important to use wisdom to know the difference. Many of you this past week heroically served the children in BBS And it makes sense that yesterday you might need to just put your feet up so that you're ready for today and the rest of this week. So please, as we're thinking about priorities, this is not trying to make your life more efficient so that you can do more. It's being in a position where you can do the things that you have in the front of you well, to God's glory. But you know, if you go to the gym, and I'm still on this example of the soldier, if you go to the gym and every day you lift a little bit of weight. It's not going to be that hard to add a little bit more weight on eventually. If you skip the gym and you think, well, by now I should be up to this much weight, I should just go lift that, you'll hurt yourself. And I think sometimes that's how we live our lives. You think, oh, well, you know, the elders do this. I should be able to do that too. But you haven't been working on to it, etc. Anyway, the other verse that I added in today comes from Ephesians 5. Please turn to that. Ephesians 5. Because I think this is really good to what we're thinking about today as well. Ephesians 5, verses 15 to 17. This is the end of the book of Ephesians, and Paul's given, you know, a couple of commands here at the end, and he says, look carefully then how you walk. Not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time because the days are evil. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And I think that's powerful to what we're talking about today. We do want to make good use of the time that we have. And we want to walk wisely And be careful about that. So um as we've been looking through this book, the first week uh we talked about how pride can uh lead us to make choices where we can be overcommitted and busy or we can forget the reliance that we have on God to Give grace to do the things that are in front of us. And last week we had fellowship, but the week before that we talked about how Our perceptions of obligation can cause us to do, or to try to do, because we might not be able to do it, can cause us to try to do what God doesn't expect you to do. And so flowing from pride and the tyranny of obligations, we come here to priorities And was already shared, and thanks for sharing that, it was already shared, as people, we can't do everything. And I submit to you as evidence, Jesus didn't do everything. And if he didn't do everything, we got no business thinking we can do everything. Right, Darianna? Yeah, she's looking at me. Jesus knew he had a mission, and he focused on that mission and did executed the mission Here's a question for you. Do you think Jesus had it easier than us? I mean, he was just like he came from heaven, he knew God's will already, and he just did it. Okay, sim some people are saying no. Some people are afraid to say yes. Um It doesn't matter what you pick anyway. I I think there's some things that we just have to say no to. Does it matter? If you're busy. Some things we have to say no to. Um I have a quote here by Pastor Gade. You didn't know I had this. When our lives are turbulent, it's hard to see that God is a rock. He orders everything. I don't remember when you said that. Might have been an earlier week in the class. I was just like, yeah. That's important. And it gets into that idea. Um, Jay Oswald did I say that right? Jay Oswald Sanders. He wrote a book called Spiritual Leadership, and in that book he says, our problems not too little time, but making better use of the time we have. Each of us has as much time as anyone else. The President of the United States has the same 24 hours as we. Others may surpass our abilities, influence, or money, but no one has more time. No one. So here's a question. In all of this, do we know what our priorities are? It's kind of important. I mean I'm up here going like, be good stewards, execute on your task, be a soldier, focus on this thing. But what are your priorities? So I just want to ask the question, right? How do you set your priorities? That's kind of not rhetorical. That was a question for the classroom. How do you Let's just talk real for a minute, and then maybe later on we'll talk about what's right and proper. But the reality is right now, how do you set your priorities if it's just me being honest? The urgent things I do them first. Yeah. So you know God wants us to do everything for his work. Every single thing that we do, whether we're busy or extremely busy. Okay. And um if you look at uh Colossius three seventeen and also um 1 Corinthians 10, 31. They both say a similar thing, but it sums up our entire life as believers live in. To bring God glory. So whether we eat, drink, in word, deed, running the race, doing whatever, going to church, speaking God's word, everything that we're doing If we're doing some things that are keeping us busy, that we we stand back and we think about it, are these things not bringing God glory? Are they just taking up our time? These are things that maybe we shouldn't do. But if we s sit back and we think I believe based on God's word that this is bringing God glory. Pray for God's strength and grace and the desire to be there. to continue running and bringing him glory doing those things. Even those things, it could be overwhelming. Maybe God is calling you to maybe pull someone else in to pick up pick up the swamp But either way you're doing things that you know based on God's work that are playing God. Yeah, so if I'm working to God's glory, I'm in the right lane. That's a good place for us to start. And Excuse me. Go ahead. So that verse that passage referred to in Ephesians fifteen. Remember a few years ago, I made these magnets. And I titled it Carpadem, remember? Oh yeah. Carpadem for Christ. Yeah. Which is seize the day for Christ. But even in the process of seizing the day, you can get overwhelmed and you're doing too much. Sorry, you're making me laugh. I'm thinking about putting down carpet in my house. Some DM Carpet. Yeah. Carpet. Do you love carpet? Carpet DM. Yeah. Find out who does that. Alright, sorry. Yeah, but you're right. Cease the day, uh the Latin carpetum is yeah, that's really important. Um Whether I'm cleaning up after the grandkids or the kids. or ordering things, that could be to God's glory. I could be taking a day of rest for God's glory. Um I could be rising up in the morning and singing praises. I could be going to work for God's glory. That's important. How But but in the land of I want to make sure that I'm executing on the mission that God has for me. And that's similar to what you're saying, how do I know that I'm in the right lane, as it were? And you're right, I can do all things to God's glory. And you could think about it from the standpoint of cleaning the house or sitting at Jesus' feet. And I'm thinking about Mary and Martha when I talk about this. Jesus said Mary chose better, even though both of those may be to God's glory. And so that's why I'm a that's kind of where I'm trying to get to about thinking about our priorities. Diane, you put your hand up. Is that true? You know, basically in that kind of Yeah. Seeking God's f glory first. Really good. Yes, perfect. Yeah, and to answer your question about establishing and how to think about your priorities I was thinking of this navigator verse, John 14, 21, whoever has my commands and keeps them is the one who loves me. The one who loves me will be loved by my Father. and I too will love them and show myself to to them. So it's like thinking about starting out as a Christian and trying to Read scripture and pray and understand God's will for your life. Yeah. Just kind of one verse at a time and being obedient with that And then as you're um faithful in doing that and build some maturity, you continue to follow follow other commands of scripture and until until your so it's cumulative And while you're doing that, you are understanding, okay, these are these are priorities, this is what my life should consist of. This this is what should characterize my life. And then adding wisdom to that as far as what type of job and how much you're gonna do and whether or not to get married So it's all within the stream of, okay, I'm being fed by God's God's will, and I'm making choices according to according to the Word of God. And it's is cumul is cumulative. So it's It's not um your priorities are not detached from what the revealed Word of God is Yes. That's really important and powerful. The things that I do are not detached from what God's Word tells me to do. Henry, you wanted to add something? Yeah. Um I hope I see this right. Um I think where the struggle is, perhaps for me as well, is when you have competing uh needs or competing tasks that in and of themselves, if you did each one, considerably is direct glorifying So when we have competing tasks Sorry I'm repeating for So when we have competing tasks and both of those tasks are God glorifying and I even add to them and both of them might be in your gifting If I can add to that. Yeah, and now so so making that decision about how to prioritize them, I think that's where the challenge is I see. Because you could take either one and either one would glorify God, at least as far as you can see in the terror. So how did we prioritize Which is what brings me to something you said a little earlier about which one is more urgent. That would be one way to look at it. Another way to look at it is I think about that passage in Romans 12 2 where it talks about you know your mind being so renewed that you can prove what is that good perfect and acceptable I don't think that's a question or a comment, but what you just said, Romans twelve talks about renewing our minds in God's Word Fits in with what Kirk was saying and some of the other things that were said as well. Let me change the question slightly. What is our mission? What's God called us to? Glorify God. Okay, cool. Yes. I would add um Matthew twenty-two, when he says, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, so align the strength and let me go as yourself. Yes, love God and love people. Mission. And enjoy God, which gets back to I think loving God. Yes. And that's why it those two commands cover everything else. Yes. And it also gets into glorifying God. Thank you. That's our mission. Love God, love people. Yes. God gave me a family. I need to serve my husband. I need to serve my family. That for me when it's prior prioritizing my time, it's what things will not happen if I don't do them for my family my kids will be not going to school or they will be stranded at school by something like that. So as I fill out my calendar, it's carpooling is a big one, making dinner, um, cleaning house, that kind of thing. That takes up that much time. That helps a little bit as I fill in here and there. And then the other thing that really stood out to me in this chapter was that Jesus did not he was not driven by the needs or approval of others And so last night I heard about this little boy who is a friend of a friend kind of thing who fell and he's in the hospital and she's a single mom and I thought, no, I could go down you know my first thought, I could go down and you know, help them out in wherever they are, Bakersburg or whatever. And I'm thinking that is not going to line up with my schedule with my family. My family is first and then charge, you know, my local area. So I think a lot of times something pops up. But Jesus it says, I mean, everybody was looking for him. And just because he could he clearly could have met every single person's need We we might be gifted and be able to meet needs, but that does not mean that we're required to do that. So we have to keep going back to what are we specifically called to and for me it's my husband, my family first, and then Yeah, and that fits into the question that Henry was asking because, you know, in the land of I've got twenty-four hours. I've got needs, you can think of it as concentric circles of needs, right? There's the things that nobody else is gonna do. I can't delegate these things, they have to be done here. I can't delay these things, they have to be done now. Um and but That maybe I can say no to 'em if I can't delegate 'em, or I'm gonna have to schedule 'em for later And that's what we're talking about here. And the thing you mentioned about the child down in Gaithersburg fits in with what was talked about in the last chapter, where Just be where I can care, but that doesn't mean I need to do Um yes. I was gonna say that that what what you just shared fits to me in the category of stewardship where the scripture says It's required that stewards be faithful. So we're stewarding, if everything's given to us, he's given us physical bodies, money, time, families, relationships. So that maybe helps with Henry's question of how do we pick and choose, how does it fit within the stewardship of the things God's put in front of us. Yeah, and I would say too that in in this land and we'll talk about this more in a future class, but in in this land it's important for us to pay attention To the things, the maintenance items. It can be very easy for us to be in a business of I'm going to focus on the urgent all the time. But if I don't take care of changing the oil in the car, I'm going to have a bigger problem that I'm going to have to spend more time in the future dealing with. And so in that land of how do I order my priorities, there's the urgent things, there's the list I got to do, but there's also I've got to start queuing up the things I've got to maintain. And in that land, I'll also say, um, nope, nope, I'm going to save that for the class. I'm not going to jump ahead of myself. Yeah, so let's get back to the what it is. Sorry, I started going down a rabbit trail. Um bring me back. So we have our marching orders, right? Our marching orders are to love God and love people. And under that, we're in the business of glorifying God, we're in the business of bringing Him glory, and we're taking care of people, which in our example we have is: I gotta make sure my kids get to the things they need to do Which Kirk's going to talk more about next week. But I also got to make sure my parents, who now I'm taking care of, You know, because some of us are in a sandwich, right? I gotta make sure my parents are being taken care of and have their needs met. I've also got to make sure My wife, spouse, isn't just like, hmm, yeah, I saw you last week. And uh there There's imp the critical things I think we need to look at our schedule. We need to very carefully think through what it is that we're doing. And that also takes time. We have to take time to consider the things that are in front of us. Otherwise, one of our busyness our busyness might make me forget to take care of the things that I need to take care of. And so lists, right? Sometimes we've got to take our lists, we've got to take a look at it, and be ruthless with our lists as well. And consider what that looks like. Oh, well. I know I got a list of ten things. I know I'm only going to get to one today. And I'm going to get to one tomorrow. And I'm using exaggeration to help us understand. If I can only get to one thing well today, I know these top five things are really important, and the sixth thing I really want to do. But I gotta take care of this one thing. If nothing else, I've got to make headway on this one thing. And I think that's where we start to we start to really carefully consider our priorities and what God has for us. Yes. Um and in that like say understanding our limitations and uh we can get distracted like say by a good thing, but it may not be our our first priority. And I'm understanding even with family um extended family that it is or other people. And it's okay to say no. Some people feel guilty by saying no because people that may not be believers will, you're supposed to be a Christian, you're supposed to do this That's not limited, you know what I mean? Yeah. And some people are not secure enough to stand or know when they already have their priorities. So I've learned Just say you know whether it's um someone want to borrow money or and it constantly comes to the well, it's like I the Holy Spirit star let me know that if You give them your testimony about being in Christ and that you've been where they've been, I said this is, you know, this word is will make you rich inwardly and outwardly. So I no longer felt obligated to help family or friends who have not prioritized Christ in their lives. So we shouldn't feel guilty by saying no or feel bad if something you have to do personally that you know you have to put it to the side. Yeah, and and with that check your heart. Right. Um because it may be that it's the right thing for me to sacrifice at this time for somebody. It may be that it's the right time for me to help them out, bail them out, even though I know it's not going to ever come back to me. They asked for a loan, but I'm not going to see that again. But you're right, there's going to be times when, no, you're going to have to pay for this yourself. You're going to have to discipline yourself and say no to some things and pull yourself out of this. And it's painful, but look hard, painful lessons teach us to be disciplined. And that's really important for our friends and our children and our parents to understand those things. You know, there's three things that the author pointed out in this book about setting priorities. And you brought the first one out, and I'm glad for that. Truth number one is I must set priorities because I can't do it all. And a couple weeks ago I brought out this quote that says, we are dust and God is not. And it's important for us to remember who we are and what we can and can't do. The second truth is I must set priorities if I'm to serve others most effectively. Right? If I'm going to take care of my kids. And they need to be picked up at 1 o'clock, but I'm in the middle of doing something and I show up at quarter after, uh, I'm not serving them effectively. Just made that up. There's probably better example. And truth number three is I must allow others to set their own priorities. I can't pick your priorities for you. That's between you and God. And it's really easy for me to look at you and go, ooh, you're forgetting that more important thing, aren't you? And to be a little judgy. And sometimes be a lot judgy. And so we need to check our hearts on that. Um there's nothing wrong with going to somebody and ask them a question. It's a loving, friendly thing to ask. Say, hey, I just wanted to know if I see this in your life and I see the choice that you're making. And I'd like to be your friend. If they say butt out, you best butt out. You don't have permission there. But if they're like, oh, oh, thank you. Even if they don't take your advice right away, but five minutes later they realize that you're right, and they humble themselves at that point, it's okay. But it's really important When we go to question somebody else's priorities, that we be gentle. We show them love. And they don't have to defend themselves to you. I mean Paul said, You're not my judge to the Corinthians. God's my judge. So hold that because that if you're like me, you can pretty quickly change from I try one to help to Oh, I'm judging you. Right? So guard your heart and check your heart on that. Those are three the second one is I must set priorities if I'm to serve others most effectively. The first one I must set priorities because I can't do it all. I think the second one ties in with the second greatest commander. If I'm going to love people, I gotta set right priorities. A friend of mine was talking about uh construct a cool little construction project that he's gonna work on. And I thought that would be fun. New construction is a lot of fun. I'll show up, I'll get to use my tools Maybe it can dig holes in your yard and stuff like that. That sounds like a lot of fun. I'm gonna come over, I'm gonna set some time aside. We're gonna fellowship together, I'm gonna love you, we're gonna get this thing done And I said all of that, this is me being honest, right? I said all of that without thinking about the whole pile of other things I would have to set aside. To go do that fun thing and to play in his dirt. And to help him build something. And it sounds really cool, and but the reality is, is I really needed to, before I jumped in there, I really need to step back and go, when is this going to fit into my schedule? And if in the end I decide, you know what, fellowshipping and loving him in a list of priorities is pretty high. Then maybe it makes sense for me to toss something off that I've already said yes to. And go find that person that I might be causing an inconvenience for and apologize to them. And ask them permission. Can you wait another week? Because I won't get to it. I gotta I'm I feel like my and I don't have to explain myself all the way, but internally what's happening is I've made an evaluation My mission from God to love others means that this thing that just popped up in front of me is more important than And I'm going to go do those things, understanding that those things aren't going to get done today. They aren't. Don't fool yourself. That's when the crazy part starts to get into your busy. Does that make sense? Diane, you had your hand halfway up? Is that was that for real? I don't remember if he gets into the you know, if you um like Amy mentioned the husband and the family And I think that, you know, when you have a spouse, there's there's a whole other element, a whole other chapter could be worth about that. Because yeah Say some more words about that. Why would you say when you have a husband spouse that there'd be a whole nother chapter about busy? Um because you're two different people usually. and you have two different energy levels and you have two different ways of resting Yeah, two different ways of sleeping or not sleeping and being okay with it. Yeah. And so there's that's huge Yeah, so in a marriage, you got two people that grew up in two different families, they have uh two different backgrounds, and God's made them and gifted them differently. Probably. So that oftentimes what I think winds up happening is God puts these two people together and their strengths are not the same and they get stronger as a result of that. And the differences in their marriage wind up having the potential of being a strength and a launching point forward to greater things. Potentially. It can also cause a lot of friction in a marriage. And this isn't a marriage class. But We need to in our priorities accommodate to the strengths or weaknesses of our spouse and what we do, how we pick prioritization. If let's just say our wife needs to have a little bit more sleep than us, we need to make sure we're not planning for only five hours of sleep for us. There needs to be or let's just say you're uh uh happy to never socialize with anybody. But your husband is a social person and he thrives on having people over the house. Let's just say. Your priorities that we're talking about in this class are our priorities, not just my priorities. Y'all are one flesh. Your pronouns change to us and we, not so much me and I, when you're thinking about these priorities. So anyway. Thanks for bringing that up, babe. Suitable helper. Alright, so um I had that quote in there too. A person who never sets priorities is the person who does not believe in his own finitude. And again from the myth of multitasking Because we can walk and chew gum at the same time, people are tempted to think they can do two tasks that require the thinking at the same time. Many people think they can text and drive. I crashed my car one time into a guardrail, not somebody else. So yeah. And it was an expensive lesson. Um It's important for us, I think, to to make lists. At least for me. This is a real practical kind of thing for me. To make a list because I can't hold it all in my head. and correctly evaluate priorities. And you know, we started this class off making a schedule for ourselves and seeing the schedule laid out in front of us and understanding what it is that we're committed to already and how we're trying to fit those things together. And that's also another tool to try to see where our gaps are and the kinds of things we can plan. One of the things we've already kind of realized is in our twenty-four hours A small percentage of our day is actually days time that we can prioritize and consider. Because we've already committed to a certain chunk of our day for sleep. And for some of us who aren't retired, we're committed to a chunk of our day to show up and work for the man Okay? And for many of us, that eats up 16 hours. For some of us, that eats up 20 hours. In the day. And I don't know, you gotta eat and you gotta brush your teeth, right? And so after that's all done, you've got just a few hours of time that you're Looking for prioritization. That's precious time. And it's really important for us to consider in that time what it is that we're going to do. And I think when you draw that picture out And when you hold on to that in your head, this makes this even more urgent to ruthlessly consider what we do at that time. If we choose to be impulsive, then we may not be able to do the things that are already on our important list. Yeah, it's an appropriate time. Um going back to what uh the question of what we under underlined in this chapter, this is on page sixty-one. Uh stewarding my time is not about selfishly pursuing only the things I like to do. It's about effectively serving others in the ways I'm best able to serve and in the ways I'm most uniquely and call to serve. And that's kind of a sermon, a one hour sermon in it in itself. But it really caused me to search my heart, okay, the things that I that I'm doing, is it because is really serving me because I like I like to do those and so it's it's a very searching type of statement that was made here yeah to what a what am I what am I truly motivated by? And is it Truly the things I'm doing it's because of my own flesh, because I'm serving myself and I like to do those things. And it may be helping other people but because I like to do that. So it was just a very searching statement to to think about our inner motivation. Yeah This past week, um well let me just start. The week before last I was on vacation the whole week. We went to Deep Creek Lake, we had a great time, um At the end of that week at Deep Creek Lake, I'll just say this. For me, that was a very needed break. I was I was at the point. I was just like, you know what, I can't wait for this vacation. And by God's grace, at the start of this vacation, our kids who were coming also along with us didn't show up at first. I loved them, but it meant that Diane and I had a little bit of time to just Sit and rest. And that was really needed. We got to the end of that week and um I was just like, I'm not really quite ready to go back yet. Uh sometimes your vacation is so fast and furious that you need another vacation to get back to it. But that wasn't what it was. There was a lot of restfulness. But I still wasn't recovered all the way to be ready to go back into it. I don't know if you've ever experienced this before or not. I needed a little bit more time. And by God's grace, I wasn't committed to VBS this past week Um which meant that I had some extended time this past week to just put some things in order when I got back home. And that was a priority that I had to execute in my life to just be ready to go off and and hit the rest of the stuff with energy coming up on this, what's coming up in front of me in the next couple of weeks and months. And so I I wanted to paint that picture for you to make sure that you're when you're thinking about your priorities and what it is that you're doing, that you're also paying an attention to your heart. And your strength. And I think that one of the reasons why the author says, I must allow others to set their own priorities is because I can't judge your priorities To rest because I'm able to run harder, faster, longer And if you're like me, you can very quickly think about the list of people that run harder, faster, longer than you, and somehow seem to be able to keep the balls juggling And go in and catch them all and throw them right back up in the air. You're like, don't they ever rest? Don't they ever take a break? It's really important also, I think, with number point number three, don't allow others Abilities to cause you to set priorities that are beyond your ability Does that make sense? It's not appropriate for me to go, you know, because Diane can run all the time, all the time. I need to have a break. I need a rest And get some downtime, I can't keep up with her. So me the dog Tell me about it. So it's important. What I wrote here is stay in your lane. You know, you we need to think about how God's made us, how God's gifted us, the things that are in front of us. that we personally need to do and attack those things and recuperate when we need to recuperate And we're going to have a whole week when we talk about Sabbath and resting. So I'm going to go back to the question that I asked before. How do you set priorities? And I love the Bible verses that people represented. But practically Today, this week, what are you doing in your life right now to set priorities? And the reason why I'm asking this question is because the rest of the class is going to benefit from your answers. Jessica Um when I think about setting priorities, I think about the different routines and rhythms that I have in my life. Different routines and rhythms. Help us understand what that means. I think this is this example is different because it was like a different season of of life. But there are routines and rhythms around the things that are important that then like if if those things are set in set in place and not negotiable than anything else has to have it around them and they help to they help some of the maintenance things. Um and so I think For me that started when I was in college, which is which is why I say it's not the terms of season. Um where um like Saturday night at dinner time through whatever whenever we went to bed was like friend friend time. And so Uh we'd all be doing different things during the day and then dinner time started and then from dinner onward it was like a a no homework zone. Um and so like dinner time Saturday through like Sunday afternoon ish was no one no one was doing doing homework Um and so you had to since that rhythm was in place you had to figure out where homework was going to fit in the weekend. Um and then we had uh we had chapter three times a week Um and you only had to go to two out of every three chapels. Um but because chapel was an important maintenance sort of thing for me as far as um my relationship with God. Um chuckle three times a week was like a non-negotiable a not Skipping. Um and so I have to figure out where where else in my time I'm going to do my homework because skipping skipping chapels homework is not a is a rhythm that I don't I don't want to break. Alright, let me let me stop you for one quick second because there's a lot of really good points and I want to summarize those. One thing is is that you coordinated with your household things that you wanted to share with your household And that was in college so that you had a fellowship night with the people that were in your household on Saturday nights. In families, that might make that might translate also to, you know what, we want to have dinner together So we're going to coordinate dinner time together, or we want to do this ministry thing together, but what you did was you had a conversation about that to prioritize that And that was really important and that translates into all of our lives. To have conversations in a marriage, that means you and your wife or husband need to be on the same page about what's coming up and where you're going to put those things into your lives. That's important. The other thing that you said was you personally needed to set time aside to enjoy your relationship with God, just like how Jesus went off in the morning to the dark places to have a time with his Heavenly Father. And that's your important thing no matter what anybody else is is doing, and that meant you had to accommodate other P things in your schedule around the non-negotiables. There's an illustration that people give, and I don't know if you've heard this, but I want to bring it up. If you want to fit a bunch of rocks and pebbles and sand into a jar, you put the big rock in first I'm just reminding you in case you know it, I'll talk more if people are like, what are you talking about? Put the big rock in first, the pebbles will fit around the big rock, the sand will fit in later. And so that's important. One of the pictures that somebody quoted in a book, I don't remember what it is, is you got to eat the frogs If you've never heard the illustration, you can find the book, I'm sure, with that reference. And there's a third thing you said, I don't remember right what it was, but those were all really important practical things. Thank you. Yeah. So now it looks great. And this season applies because there's way more things that are convenient to my attention than when I was like. Um but like small group is one of those things that is what every pretty much every Thursday our small group week. And so that's like a non-negotiable time to support or like weekly open college press keep up those relationships like non non-negotiable things. Um and so having having rhythms and routines, um help with some of the maintenance things and help help with like if this is my priority and it's it's set in place and it's not moving. I have to figure out how to fit other things Okay, life gets more complicated as you get more choices and as you get more stuff. And this is important when you're talking about prioritization. Your toys demand your time. And sometimes, if you want to prioritize your life, what you need to do is sell your toys. Put them on Facebook, eBay, or whatever, or find somebody who will take your toys so you don't have to play with them anymore. And when I say toys, I'm talking about this past week I was just trying to get my lawnmower started. Do you know how many hours I spent trying to get my lawnmower started? That I could have been doing more important things. But the grass. I don't have a goat. Alright? So that was one of the things that you said. As our as God blesses us with more choices. We gotta be really careful with the choices that we make. And one of the cool things is, and I think this was said, is When we're faithful with little things, God gives us more things to be faithful with. But that means that we need to grow up. Dang, that sounded harsh. But it's a reality. We gotta grow up and make hard choices and sometimes say no. And that means that you know if you're not gonna sell your toy, it means you're not gonna play with those toys. Um thank you for the yeah you've got another example. Wow. Oh no just one one more thing speaking about routines is to be aware is to help you to be aware of what kind of routines are that are helping Uh social media was a big a big one for me where my routine was to get home from work think I was going to be on social media too online because it's not a time and then it ended up being more time than I really thought it was when I actually sat down and and parceled out how much time I was there. And so that's it's a thing where you're recognizing what habits you're in and then breaking breaking what you still want it. I will say um Yeah. It I after about five minutes I'm usually done with getting Any kind of rest from that. And the reality is that my soul is much more satisfied if I go and start studying God's Word at that time. Or if I go and have a conversation and love on somebody else. And it makes sense. Our souls are much more fed when we do what God commands us to do. Gabe, did you have something you want to add? Yes. Yeah, go ahead. So two questions that I asked, because I know we're shortened back. Um I'm learning to ask, I should say is uh is there someone else that should do this because it's their responsibility. And therefore I need to let them do what their responsibility is rather than take it upon myself Or can someone else do this? Um and especially in the life of the church, you know, uh when it comes to discipleship, encouragement I'm meeting with people. Uh obviously I can't meet with everybody, even though I would love to. So I'm also thinking who can I connect who can do this? Uh so that I I can maintain my own priority. Yeah, discipleship and d uh delegation. Two di really important Ds. We've hinted at these things. It's a art. And it takes time, but it's time that gets multiplied later on. Some of the things that I've done in my life is I know I need to exercise. And in my busy schedule, I don't have time to exercise. And so what I do is I ride my bike to work. If you have the ability, if your commute's not that far. That's a way of doing things so that you're you aren't multitasking, but you are getting two things done at the same time. It is a it's a wave that's that's been helpful and works well for me, but there's things like that that maybe make sense in your life that's multipliers. Look, for next week, and uh we're gonna be reading chapter six And Kirk's going to be teaching, but it's really important to think about the things that you that speak to you in chapter 6 that you want to bring to the class. And I think it's time for us to update our budget. Our time budget. Remember, in the first week, everybody put together a homework assignment was put together a time budget that covers the seven weeks, and this is representing reality. You can build the picture that you want, but this is the reality in your life, and go back to that, especially with this prioritization week that we looked at, and ask yourself, am I doing the right priorities for my life? Be like a good soldier and start considering is there things I need to change in my life right now, based on this time budget. I'm going to close in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for your mercy and kindness. There is so much to talk about this class. And to talk about our lives and and how to order our lives. I pray, Heavenly Father, that you'd give us wisdom to know and to understand. Help us, Heavenly Father, to take the time with you to know and understand your will for our lives. Help us, Heavenly Father, to see the example of Christ and to know in the things that He did to pursue you that set Him up. for doing exactly what you had for his life. I pray that we would also reflect that in our own lives so that we can be more like Jesus.