So I have to kind of really ask for God's grace to to be able to to lead a small group or ask other other men in our small group to to lead it. And that was a blessing from the Lord, but it has been a learning experience with this like inverse of that where I'm required to be at work for eight hours a day. And so my main question is sort of like how how do we prioritize what we're plugging into um Yes. uh certain type of construction. And it asked other. uh lack of progress in his sanctification. do it to the best of the only skill. And then we'll we'll work at least through 6 p. church family and our relationships with uh relationships with God is uh probably what guides a lot of what I what I set up for what I spend my time I'm doing. But yeah, I really honestly don't have silicons. So it's an opportunity to to be able to lean on him and and trust on him trust in him. So did you see it that way, Henry? I I wouldn't say it was exactly that way that I saw it. No. frustration gets frustrated. does not have the time to like take action on those things and that's okay it's not like you have to prove that you care about all these things by like actively being involved in all of them And then kind of going back to like the prioritization light thing, a helpful metaphor that I heard once was like you'll be struggling all these balls and at some point you're gonna like will inevitably be smaller than our circle of concern. And it'll just break if I got someone. and to not let tiredness be a an automatic ticket excuse for uh for not doing certain things. you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world by lust. For as long as you practice these things, the various uh wise disciplines of the Christian life, you will never stumble. uh attentiveness and diligence in cooperating with the Lord in our sanctification. We are here. whether it's by Jesus' return in the sky or through our death and going to Christ, is that we're we're going to be made like Christ and perfect and keeping your eye on the Lord. He doesn't need us, but he uses those who are faithful to give the gospel, to preach the gospel. to get people's attention as he did for me in nineteen seventy eight, even though I didn't come to faith until nineteen eighty two. And we designed a lot of different types of buildings and additions and renovations for people. And so I do that for about an hour, and usually every day I'll go out for 30 minutes of physical fitness. and work on those feverishly when it should just be one in which I charge what I what I should be. If I'm not reading scripture as I as I should, it's it's be probably because of that. more crazy busy than than normal um is taking and going through an uh continuing education program that my work found out about and is paying for. Not feeling my best lately, I'm having like a little health issue and I've been spending more time laying down. Um, but one of the things I noticed, so this is a different issue, right? to an audiobook. like two more weeks and then you're off to medical school. uh prioritize these what has to happen, but definitely I'll I'll be reaching out for uh wisdom from my siblings who've gone through it. going through like for me personally I started off being a stay-at-home wife which was you started off with us being a stay-at-home wife and so I was like for a full year just at home and then I got a job you know, weddings and and just dealing with life, it's finding the car, fixing the house, or moving, all these things that are you know coming in at once. So not feeling the burden of having to do everything, but still caring about everyone, but not necessarily putting your hand rolling your sleeves up and putting your hands on to do it. that you know that you just need to do more. He's not Jesus. Um he did not heal everybody. to steward all the other things he's given us. that's the season he's in and he's not gonna be able to do all the things that someone else that is not involved in all of that studying and all that he's gonna have on his There's gonna be too many balls for you to keep on air and you just have to determine which balls are rubber balls and can bounce Until someone else can pick 'em up and whipped balls or glass balls and if you drop that ball, it's just gonna break a chatter. That's going to be harder to maintain those those disciplines. Kate mentioned that our our bodies are are limited and I'm I'm pretty drained in the in the evenings and I I need like a one hour nap after doing what I do. By the righteousness of our God and Savior, Jesus Christ, grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, seeing that His divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness. Yes, positionally we we are justified. And in your moral excellence, knowledge. and in your brotherly kindness love. And it's a quality of commendation that is going to last for eternity. uh in order to rule and reign with him. If you are a believer in Christ, if you have come to him in repentance and faith, then you're then we are know for sure that we are saved if we're living a righteous life and if we're making righteous decisions. At that time, God selected, he chose, he elected those who would be recorded in the book of life as stated in the book of Revelation. So all of those people that he chose in eternal past are going to come to faith. And it's a testimony to his glory. God gives them that that faith, according to Ephesians chapter 2, 8 and 9. And we did talk about that there's seasons of of life in which we're really in a in a situation either at work or at home. Or as Jan mentioned, on a particular day of the week, we we we feel anxious and worried about this, or or maybe a little too And then again, glorification, we're uh when we see him, we will be like him because we will see him as he is. Doug characterize almost all of these fit into one type of pride or or another. Listen to say that he was proud. and power. And maybe it's still things in which we're not following Christ in that particular area of our life. in our lives in a specific way, playing a musical instrument, doing a good job in in our stewardship at work, other other things. can lead to wrong motivation for being busy. Maybe eliminate or fine-tune or perhaps add add to it that would is that I own a small company and it's about nine years old. Maybe two thirds of the time I can do this, but I'll I'll spend a t uh about an hour reading the word and trying to keep up with the the reading plan or a reading plan, whether it's the Hope Bible Church or one that kind of devolves into my reading plan I'll try to get to work around 9 o'clock, maybe 9. And by by the evening time I'm pretty I'm pretty s pretty spent and I don't have a lot of energy then. is a way that I can ensure that okay we're gonna we're gonna make it and we'll be able to cover all the needs as well as neat neat um desires for giving and and being generous as well. my rates on what I'm charging people uh because I should be doing that. I can sit into or uh moved into this field from a different one and so having the the background knowledge helped me uh Are there things that you see that you can actually cut back on or you've already cut back on? knowing that you're gonna be in a a busy season for like four years. So I'll do that for about all day except for 30 minutes or so. the schedule's gonna play out. And we need to learn how to how to suffer well and trust the Lord during that time. And same thing, medical school, it's not an end-all-be-all. then there is a better opportunity that again when things really get off that we're going to have those disciplines in in plate place and the raft will sink, will float and not s this requires that makes us busy and in all of that realizing that I don't know how to prioritize the Lords like with work and all these things Are there things, uh one or two comments that you identified with that or that you feel would be helpful? So that's definitely been an area where I don't know what I'm doing anymore in terms of that and I need to learn how to just reorient my schedule. after Henry as far as uh trying to summarize the chapter. And there are people that we know that maybe have that type of ambition and personality type. Uh maybe the Apostle Paul, that same personality type where he was just obsessed with with uh In which there is not necessarily a defined way of not feeling a burden for every obligation that may be I wouldn't chase down a couple of those passages in John where he said, My food is to do the will of my Father. And I know I've heard like okay, God first and then yourself and immediate family second and then after that what the truth I was special as child and that's where we are. everything else that a lady at my season of life could do. Remember that we used to be here and when Belinda would talk to the young people, the young mothers, she would always say, and she did it with my daughter And I tell myself, if the Lord allows, me to resage that my mother is, okay, during this is what it's gonna be too because Two two different seasons or sometimes both of those seasons at the same time. Wow, what we do is a reflection of what we value. the role that necessity and proximity play in establishing divine obligations. There'll be some like examination of your own pride in that of like, okay, do I think this is a glass ball and it's actually a rubber ball and somebody else can pick it up if it falls, or is it a glass ball that only I can handle Yeah. And we can't physically go and uh give care to them or or give words to to everyone or to tend to every situation. our families at home and and maybe extended family to really to be there and maybe not physically but to know that let them know that we're praying for them. We're under obligation to spend time in fellowship with our church members. a and being a part of a a small group is and being present there and attend as much as we can. So so Margaret's trying to get her to um to church this morning. and to really to live for him and return the have the greatest return that he has invested in us. I wanted to read a a few passages in the last few minute minutes. He may use our our friend or our husband or wife, sometimes our children, that are going to bring that wisdom. It may come through the the sermon that's that's preached today. to use as a guide within our lives to make good choices, including choices that of our s uh schedule It's also a fruit of the spirit. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they render you neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For he who lacks these qualities is blind or short-sighted, having forgotten his purification, his purification up here, blind or short-sighted. So it's there's something at stake here. And so there's always a a maturing of sanctification in this life. That Jesus, because of his love for us, he made a commitment to the Father that he was going to die for the sins of the world. Any comments on on that from last week? Faithfulness. Is those things the same uh thing uh thing for house? And it's parts of us, our ways and our thinking, that God has not redeemed and not made like Christ. So all all of that is the uh back to the crazy busy book is that the the killer peas of pride It's all ultimately from God and we are we're created in His image and reflecting Him, then ultimately the the the I guess the pride your time your weekly time schedule and give it some thought as to whether there are things that you can Kind of responsible. to not accept every opportunity that comes through the door. It's temp it's temporary because it's an eighteen month program and I'm almost at the end. Yeah, yeah, that's pretty dramatic. And you'll have some some help from Walt in your crazy busy. Uh reading the Bible. during the sessions of medical school to to make sure that you maintain a a right focus. like when do I have time to uh focus on the word, studying, when do I have time to take care of my health? 30 minutes or an hour, what have you, and praying and maintaining your your connection with the with the Lord, as well as other disciplines such as fellowship with other Christians and going to church. Those aren't if if you're disciplined and you have conviction and you've been growing in your conviction about those things in life that help us to establish what our priorities are so that we can look at all of Any answers or thoughts that you've given. So losing out on that time in the word and in prayer that I had this time to do previously when I wasn't working or wasn't doing these things, it was like such a blessing. furthering the the gospel, but I don't see where he where he burned out, so he must have had some s safety guards in there, his time with the Lord and his meditation on So that kind of tells us we need to discern what we should and shouldn't do. It can be frustrating with differ depending on the situation at that time. And as people are have have said, yes, discerning which season of life you're in, one of the reasons why Margot left is that we're in the season of life of taking care of her mother. how you are wired and how much energy you have. And ultimately the source of that knowledge is going to be God Himself and the Word of God. And in your knowledge, self-control. is going to bring us to a certain level of salvation in this life. in which that was emphasized in terms of growing in your obedience to Christ and growing in becoming Christ-like in your Christ-likeness and serving other people And we we talked about last time that there was a point in uh eternal past And they clearly understand the gospel. And those who do receive the inner call are going to recognize that they need Christ, they need forgiveness, and they come to faith, and they're regenerated. And of course that's a term that is positional sanctification. And so we're for the book that we're studying Crazy Busy right now, uh I categorize it more as that it's a it's a look at specific types of sins, uh specific types of missing the mark, where The manifestation of that type of sin is having a a crazy busy life that is often Frazzled and maybe too much emphasis on the the wrong things But when you're uh when you have the wrong priorities and you're spending an inordinate amount of time for those things that may not have an eternal Is there a good sort of pride? for allowing uh back to the whole idea of grace. and doing being obedient to to him. Did anyone go through go through that exercise of looking at your schedule to see what what may be wrongly motivated? So the the thing that gets me off the most in in terms of just really being uh inordinately busy is So but that's that's an example of just okay can I trust the Lord enough to in some cases raise my kind of just triggers not being in balance. Okay, Jessica. um what they are working on developmentally right now. I felt a little bit like, well, uh my job really wants me to do this. So you you added that to your schedule. But we can uh hopefully put things in place as a matter of standard discipline and practice now We all know that busyness and maybe scope creep and different things are just going to happen into our lives and some of those the Lord brings into our life for our sanctification. But the if we are faithful and disciplined in all the ways of mimicking Christ and and seeing Christ and being with and abiding with him So that's just a a thought that came to mind. complexities that are that are greater than what you had before. And he w he was a senior pastor of the Denton Bible Church and he kind of hit Said me don't pick your obligations based on emotion or guilt trips or even the prior chapter of pride motivation to do what Jesus did. his um table at at that time because the Lord is gonna want him to be the best doctor that he can be because he more than likely gifted him in that area to be what he's gonna be. dealing with older people, they tend to become childlike in some areas of their lives. But the the exhortation from this chapter is that we should be conc concerned, um, especially those who have that proximity within our church family. To send text message, email, communication, I'm praying for you. But to to discern and even in the midst of that, to pray for strength and grace to be able to do all the things that that I feel God has has called me to do Um understanding your gifting, the that would be particularly marked by what you really enjoy doing. Positionally justified, and we have a a new name for God's child. And I I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago that yes, God is going to bring us to a a certain level of sanctification in this life. when we uh when we're perfected and we're like Christ, uh our faithful stewardship and our wise stewardship in this life will actually merit a commendation before the Lord. the ability I think to actually diminish that by uh if we're lacking in the due and proper attention to each of these things the um Each of these things having to do with our our schedules and how we spend our time and the priorities that we we have in this life. I'm running running out of time. A fellowship meal, a breakfast for next Sunday. cover some things during that time and answer questions, but it'll mainly be mainly be fellowship time and eating. We went through it before and basically what this does is just talk about where we are in our point in time of The what the essence, or maybe uh a small summary of the sermon last week, is that we can General revelation, which is his creation and all the order and just the beauty of the and design of creation, God uses that. And uh for those who so he gives that general call and he gives testimony uh really inordinate amounts of time, attention, and energy for things that may not be necessarily bad or sinful So it so it's uh having to do with your uh striving for quality and to give it give it your best. Henry just stated the boasting. Okay. And we didn't really save up for that, so we're kind of paying out of pocket as we go. One day off for a week, uh per week? So kind of a a balance between or a kind of a mixture of those of those two things. that God may or you feel like maybe it's not solved, but you you know you need to give some thought to different aspects of how you spend your each day and each week. wasting time. Kevin DeYoung, he is naturally going to air toward the side of being overly busy But maybe he was just just wired wired that way. a very severe struggle in in his life, a a depression. So it's a it's a caution on just how much responsibility can and should you take on and what what are good reasons for I'm in a season of life where I can't claim that I have all these obligations that I keep doing ACE and that I'm truly away from media and all of that. What he said the antidote to that roast, you mean he began by saying first of all that And in any way trying to compare myself with Jesus, that would be such a ridiculous. Any any other comments? No, I mean I just appreciate what you just said and what um Andy said about I think um I mean I you know, moms our age, they're and as I get older I'm finding um, you know, a a lot of stuff that we're feeling obligated to they're all good things kind of um spending spending our time in the wrong things, maybe inordinate amounts of time in in our schedule for things that do not that are not of eternal value. And uh another another commendation that he'll give is that he'll give positions in positions of responsibility for eternity. It it's very important and there's th there's something greatly at stake if we don't give And he, I think, really worked in his salvation and he was uh part of a a church And um back to election, there may be some Armenians in in the realm that uh consequence or impact, eternal benefit, then there is a a a certain wrongness to it. I wanted to spend a minute to just to review chapter four, The Killer Ps, and please glance at the notes that I wrote. was going to express his um satisfaction in uh Jesus's um in in just being pleased with him he you know the Bible says he was well pleased Which which there is to of course um I I I was saying that I think if if it is, there is this passage in Jeremiah where where it says um um Let not the rich man boast in his riches. is not in ourselves, it's it's back to the Lord. be uh more more honor honoring to the Lord and less uh less feeding your own flesh And come back. ability to to trust God in in terms of what I charge and then how much work I bring in. know what the kids in my classroom need and how to um set up an environment for them that's going to help them thrive and how to create good lesson plans and that because you're you're over the edge most of the time. Even if we're if even if we haven't signed up for for medical school or signed up to get married We're involved in a l a lot of stressful things or schedule. And but we have been implementing discipline in our lives all along. You're very gifted and you have a lot of experience, ministry experience, and a great love for your congregation, and it kind of leads to your demise and burnout. He chose not to. Your children are your ministry at this time and season in your life because she didn't want them to feel guilty when they couldn't do And same thing for for other obligations, we're we're under obligation to to be good evangelists. And I'll go ahead and read. Through the true knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and grace. Now, for this very reason also, applying all diligence in your faith, supply moral excellence. of determining and discerning what perhaps to add on to our schedule or what to cut back. Will actually the Bible says will merit a um a a certain common commendation But I wanted to and I'll follow up by way of hope book, but for you to bring lean more to the side of its human choice that chooses Christ. The general testimony of God he gives to every people in all times, in all situations. erring on the other side and and not being uh a good steward with our with our time and talents. And we we also looked at, well, is all pride bad is uh are there I'm proud of my child's accomplishments. Okay, still working on that. Alright, I don't know if this is a slightly different perspective. Oh all right, let me give a a quick summary of of that chapter. I should learn how to maybe be a little more patient and um forbearing with myself that I can't do all the things that But sometimes it's even just like, okay, here we are and we're at like God and immediate family and that's all we can handle right now because mom is sick or whatever. I guess one of the widest circles of concern would be and I I don't read hope book as much as I but people posting their concerns and different supplications For in this way the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be abundantly supplied to you. The one of the things that we can look forward to is that uh the way that we cooperate with the Lord by His grace in this life. The what is coming in the future is um I pointed this out last time is that God in his faithfulness Are there any kind of follow-up types of comments that you wanted to make on that chapter last week when Doug was teaching? People pleasing, pats on the back, performance evaluation, possessions, poor planning, poor communication, power, perfectionism. Having pride in your children's accomplishments or whatever, I I remember us um um being reminded that when God Type type of pride. Thankfully, the Lord allows the phone to just keep on ringing if people have these needs, either personally for their home or for their business, or a contractor needs a building permit for But I think the worry about well what is someone gonna think of me if I say no or say that I really can't take it on or That when when we're in the moment of when things are out of whack and we're for real the the realization that there's other people in the gifted people in the church, there's other other people on your job that are just as capable or maybe even more more capable of doing that particular task. And maybe that's why you know he talked about having this modeling feeling that In my mind I feel like I I'll be able to do more of this and that and that. That seemed to be the contrast that I saw with the chapter. So that that whole chapter again we summed it up as different forms of pride and then as And I think for me, when I look at my schedule, what stands out is that my relationship with other people and my relationships with my And that that just it won't fit in in my schedule tends to be like a a continuum pattern uh and not just related to this one this one season of taking classes And even though you signed up for being engaged a week ago, which has its own format, you you you you suddenly put that into your schedule. the aspects of our our lives. all along was to bring us to this this level of sanctification. Oh, okay, Randall first and then Delma. The flesh could be defined as that part of us, even though we're believers, we still have residing sin. Yeah. Will you turn with me to 2 Peter chapter 1? Now, for this very reason, also applying all diligence in your face, supply moral excellence. We don't bring the same degree of uh glory to to the Lord in this uh life that He is due. Um let him that boast um let not the the uh wise man boast his wisdom As well as sharing of faith, evangelism, uh giving and hospitality, those A way to look at various motivations of our heart that would lead us to erring on the on the side of Within his family, within the church, things that he wants to write about or blog about or uh what have you. Um there's so many other things I can do, planning for things, because I can do all of those things laying down, but it's so much easier to waste time using yourself when that time And it's a physical device, so you have to actually get up and touch it with your phone. Purification from former sins. Either thinking of ourselves or thinking of our children or others, in which we're actually giving glory and credit to the Lord. And and Jes of course Jesus himself did everything that the Father wanted him to do. about where we are less medical school or the sandwich generation or whatever these actually Any um any particular the homework assignment that Doug gave last week was to number one to look at your schedule. To me it said, well other needs to be what God wants, namely scripture. There are some choices that we need to be making that are morally excellent and not not worldly. And last week the the sermon, and maybe that's going to be alluded to more in 1 John chapter 3 on glorification. Um so not a sense of uh uh making myself look good, but I'm trying to be faithful to what I'm doing. I'm responsible for that because I'm I'm the gatekeeper of how many projects come into our office. That's going to be where we should probably be spending the majority of our time is just how God has either naturally gifted us or spiritually gifted us. So that's again another way in which we can check our motivation and check our heart. Um it's so easy with your phone to waste time. Simon, a bondservant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have received a faith the same kind as ours. Call the bricks and I'll scan my phone and it will take off the app that I don't want on it Um I was thinking about the fact that the meeting it right now was making me uh kind of tip over the edge into being Yeah, but it's just it's it'll be one one month of being super crazy city, and then it'll maybe have been normally crazy city. So he attained a a certain level of salvation. Okay, Randall again. But for for this particular season, taking the class where my my job offers pay for it. Yeah, yeah, good illustration. And I could really relate to that, and maybe in my case it's justified that I feel that would I don't do as much. Right. So my w my need is just for greater wisdom and trust in the Lord. I try to during during that uh Bible reading time I'll uh spend time reading and then praying about different things in the day. Yeah. But God faithfully brought him to a a point in self uh sanctification and he does this he's gonna do the same for us. For those who did read the The Terror of Total Obligation Mm-hmm. And then some people weren't here before. I can look at my job and say, okay, this isn't the the end all be all. What what would be an example of uh one thing that you know you're using your time more wisely? For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they render you neither useless And in your self-control, perseverance. And do you remember what the what we talked about even for the goods good uh So I'm thinking if there is one instance when it's okay to be proud, it's be proud of our God. Are you are there as well as uh and that of course it's a good commitment to to someone of a lifelong partner. But I think definitely once the first week gets going and I feel what the demands are, I'll definitely have to What um what I want to do is to we won't be reading a chapter and talking about it for next week. The invisible attributes of God are clearly seen through what he has made. m. But what I was gonna ask you specifically is what what is your game plan So that's a character quality having to do with uh with sanctification. Anyone here last week that uh we were talking about the what you could call the good side of pride He did not. Therefore, brethren, be all the more diligent to make certain about his calling and choosing of you. And we have to understand that it's it's very important and it has eternal consequences. So then it kind of led me back to at the beginning the outline asked what are our obligation sources. I was gonna say I think what you all have just said sums up in page fifty one where he tells us not to overlook So what is that knowledge? So all all of the things that we're talking about in this book And I remember my brother saying we could tell our children we're well pleased in their you know in their accomplishments instead of saying we're proud of children. Uh the other one I thought of was uh pride in in your work, so meeting And that that was that was uh encouraging and uplifting for me, uh not because An indication that if he if that was okay, certainly I, you know, uh So I saw it as reorienting our basis for choosing our obligations. Jen, do you have your your book open? As far as the the establishing limitations for how much responsibility you you choose. I mean I I I was there was there was one thing that he said that I could relate to Um it that that uh chapter on the killer peas in possessions and prestige And there but there is a a right motivation. Sorry, yeah. It's it's a part of uh the way the Lord may want to use you as a steward in in in life. Thelma, any anything to add to that? I usually eat at my desk. But the I I think that because of the personality type of the author It's the opposite. And don't compare don't compare your life to somebody else's. He regenerates them. So that's okay with uh with your employer to do that. But this this chapter kind of goes into the direction of crazy busyness for the author. Not everything that we value is going to be reflected in what we do. I I know that I don't charge enough. Maybe you have summer breaks to kind of rebalance. So God actually uses our circumstances to help us make these decisions. But there's something that we can do in each of those arenas that helps us to be a faithful steward. Is that is that something that you you uh are conscious about, the your areas of of margin so that you can stay in balance He didn't he did not I mean he didn't do everything. Anyone want to add add to that? Pray more or you know, help more And then in uh within our sanctification, we actually have responsibilities and to exert effort We won't be having the same sort of book discussion. I'm a licensed architect. Well we all make frustration because the season of money by now you know is elderly parents. And there there's uh plenty in the church as I think I asked this question, but I'll I'll see if there's any Yeah, even before you spoke that I I was thinking along those lines. Definitely. Um and that that goes to the the season that you are right in your life. So uh how many people were able to read chapter chapter four? What I kind of think about that is that if there is a way in which we are And one of um this maybe speaks to Johnny what one of the things that you stated is that And that is a that's God's uh knowledge and wisdom that He's giving giving to us to Let him who boast boast in this that he knows and understands me and I am the Lord who exercises loving kindness justice. And it's definitely helped me use my time that I'm laying down more wisely. The life raft, we pull the cord to the life raft and it still floats even in rough waters. So just don't feel guilty remembering the season that you're in. But one of the things I noticed is that if I'm laying down, I'm more prone to And we have one last college, uh, one last child we're we're putting through college. Any any other things that you are thinking about that And then in when he promotes us to glory It's all it's all good. And uh please jump in also raise your hand after 30. So are there are there things that you've thought about and and what is the heart motivation behind behind that thought? Reading the Bible, reading a book. So I I think I I fell I felt in search but Positionally, we are like Christ. So just remembering the seasons that we're in, just like when you go to medical school Um so once it's off, it's just And this is back to the area of sanctification. And I gave you the example of my own father. And I don't know all the great things he did or all the all the sins or lack of I'm wondering if If we're acknowledging God's grace in a And that He He gave us the grace to be able to do certain things. So my my own particular schedule, I mean I'll try not to talk about it too much. I've come to do the things that he has sent me to do and accomplish his work. We we should be going to And we have Being a little less busy But what what you just said made me think of that we know in advance that things are going to get crazy. Yeah. But there's different paths that if we ask for wisdom and we ask for the wisdom of God And in your perseverance, godliness. And that's done through our cooperation and through his sovereignty. I have two employees. So uh this has been for about seven weeks. Do you do you plan margin? And I think I I try to remember because I don't want to be frustrated So that's a that's positionally Yeah, uh well, when you ask about um uh And another, I guess, indicator is understanding how And our church teaches election, which is it's God's choice. And at that point we are justified. Kind of the the latest arrival time for myself and two employees is 10 o'clock. So taking in more work to my office. I want to I want to be better at my job, but then also I I don't know how it's gonna go if if I say that I don't want to wanna do this Um And some of it is involved suffering. And I thought of him, I don't know all all about uh this pastor, but that type of personality where you're So it sent me back to thinking, well, what is what does God want us to do? But it's also So do do you guys know who Tommy Nelson is? Anything you want to contribute? It's wisdom from the word. And it's it's really uh boasting in the Lord and really doing being a good steward for him. And then also don't forget or remember that our circle of influence They have an obligation to express faith and repentance. And I usually start the day at about 6 or 6. Now, in your sanctification, I'll add that in. And what what we and I th I think the auth both the author and then Sometimes that's small group evening and So any anything else that you you have identified in your life that you know I I know that you have this burden. And maybe this is all that we're going to have time for. Um so I have been God also has at his expense the So consequently I've got to bring in two projects But that's that's my biggest thing is that gets me off and out of balance and Yeah. Any any other comments from the ch chapter, Randall? Like so there There's an inner call that God gives for those who are elect I work in an office building in Columbia on Snowden Parkway. But he uses the general call of the gospel. I bring my lunch, eat at my desk, and just kind of work 9 to 6 p. But what what is your game plan during And For by these he has granted to us precious and magnificent promises, so that by them So there's a cooperation going on. And so for me the motivation was well I want to be a better teacher, but then also But the fact that Jesus as a man And yet Jesus didn't do a lot of things on earth. It's we're motivated out of out of the flesh and pleasing ourselves. So like you can value certain things and So on your fa on your face that God has given you And um so the frustration they have little children and older parents and you have all of that. So there's going to be certain seasons of life that And And they there's the things that we have to do. We're going to go through and cover Yeah, you're in a in a different season of life that has its And what God does is Yeah, um I thought this chapter kind of good reminder that like So if you if you are reading the word consistently, whether it's 15 minutes or I mean obviously he he could have asked God, but We're in Christ. So it's it's that And what are they gonna think of me if I say that I don't have time? I'm going to take the the false vector off It may come through someone within our church family And ultimately maybe who you're seeking to please, right? Don't compare your family's life And So Okay, Peyton? And in your godliness, brotherly kindness. And so we're we're waiting for that day. So it's gonna be a it's gonna be a hard time to figure out Thankfully he came to faith and probably in his forties, maybe. It has consequences in this life It's a small part, it's an important part of God's plan for me. Is it really of the Lord? And And So the the again the crazy busy book is We have the Holy Spirit. Do you plan vacations? So that's another way of So glorification. Put you on the spot. I think it's a little hard just because I don't know what Since since it's gonna be A lot of us are in elderly parents and So about two weeks ago I got a I think sometimes the mic is kind of that required dizzy. 2 Peter chapter 1. Yeah, I was and and um But uh nevertheless though 30 on an ideal day. And then we also have the requirements that we had previously And then I have a little bit of a wind to to keep on going Maybe my parents for some insight Well And it's He's gonna be faithful to to bring us to that point. Right. So Positionally, we are sanctified. I don't know how you know work that out If we're acknowledging that it's all I would don't want to let Henry said it you know it seemed like the the chapters Great commission, great commandments, and then Please pray with me as I close. And that was his intention from a You're seeking the please God, so you want to be faithful and But realizing that I always took that for granted, now I don't know how to do it. So Are we satisfying flesh? Well and sometimes it's not guilt, it's even just like Do you plan But Yeah. That's kind of the latest acceptable time. Same would be for our Any Or my husband's deployed or He chose It's going to come from knowledge. Yeah, thank you. Right. Um m.