What are you doing for margin on a daily basis in your life or on a weekly? Or maybe over the summer, what are you doing to take some margin in in your life? Anyone want to be brave? I know for my wife, there's an annual, this is very wise, but she and three other ladies at from Hope Bible Church. Take some downtime, some margin, and go to the Eastern Shore and check into a hotel and just just take some margin and spend time with the Lord. My wife said that her endeavor is to wake up every morning and go down and sunrise at the ocean and just just commune with the Lord, read and pray. So any other things either that you're planning in the coming weeks for some margin or today or that you do on a on a daily basis? Okay, Doug? Well the skin doctor forced me to have some margin this past week. Um and uh it was You know, I was planning to go break back to work and my body said no. Um, which gave me opportunity this week to um spend time doing some studying and getting caught up between icing my face that uh was a pleasure and a joy. Uh it really set my spirit into a a place of contentment that I wasn't anticipating. Uh a blessing in disguise. And of course, all of life is blessing and sometimes it's disguise, but it's still a blessing. Any other times of of margin? Either things that you plan or things that you're looking forward to in in coming weeks I'm watching with my daughter, Joanna. It's just been a great opportunity to get to get to know who better and uh struggles and things like that. So just walking with our it's not as consistent as I'd like to get about two Three two or three times a week. Oh, okay. So we're leaving close to two. So it must be a daughter who lives in the in the same home as you Okay, Walt, you have your hand up. Uh yeah, I I try to have morning and evening devotion times and during those times I try to take two minutes of silence before and two minutes of silence after I do the I do whatever reading I have and that helps me to like calm down and not be like rushing through whatever I'm reading. Spending time with the Lord is uh under the category of margin. And unfortunately sometimes that that margin goes away for whatever quote, good excuse that we have where we reduce that margin and we're there there's dangers If if that kinda is a pattern anything in our lives of not intaking the word and not not praying as we should. Maybe maybe one more person, example of uh margin in in your life on a regular basis? Okay, Erica? I um vote in our home we start our day early, but I'm also a person who my energy is earlier in the day So anything I'm going to do that's productive is going to be the first part of the day. And um so I do start out with reading the uh spending time in God's Word um and then get all the things that I need to get done but and I started doing this when we still had our kids. at home in the afternoon usually it's around 2 2 30 or so I will sit down I grab a cup of coffee and what I do during that time sometimes I'm reading a book we might be I might be working for book study or I might watch some YouTube channels related to gardening or whatever, but it gives me a little bit of time to just rest. Hopefully I don't spend the whole time napping during that time because sometimes that's necessary. But it gives me the energy to then make dinner, be pleasant in the evening, hopefully, you know, and not tired. And but that's what I've learned for myself, knowing my limitations. with my energy level, but I need that time because on the days when I just feel like I'm rushing through the whole day and going from one thing to the next to the next, it's really hard to maintain the right attitude and the right. Right. Right. I I think everyone maybe has said that you kind of plan in advance that it's not necessarily haphazard, although uh getting with daughter uh sometimes it's not planned down to the down to the minute and the day that you're going to do that. But You do have a plan in mind for margin. And so that's probably that's I think that's walking in wisdom is to is to have a plan and to to try to execute that plan and to to work margin into our lives, whatever our priorities are, to to go ahead and schedule it in. And if it's a date time with your spouse, time with children, etc. , to to have it on the have it on the calendar What I'd like to do is kind of fly up for a second, not as much as I usually do. I'm trying to stay on track this time. But we are, just as a visual picture, I see that this course and these 12 lessons, and then two times a fellowship, it's mainly on the subject of sanctification. And that on the kind of order of salvation is right after justification. God gives us his righteousness after he has forgiven us. And he's redeemed us and regenerated us before that. And we he he before that he gave us the effective call. or the inner call. Before that he gave us a general call. And so we're we're definitely in sanctification. And then maybe you could call a subc category of sanctification would be steward stewardship. So th this book I would generally categorize it as how to be a better steward of every aspect of our life, our mind, our body, our thoughts. and to come up with a plan to to walk in wisdom. And we we ultimately we know that we're going to be accountable uh to the Lord for the the way that we have uh exercised our our stewardship and the planning for it. And we know that it's uh similar to salvation, the the in recall that got gives those whom he has elected from the foundation of the earth that we know that we'll we're accountable to him. And is it in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 that uh talks about the and it's mainly directed at pastors, but it's generally for for each of us. that all of our stewardship and our works and our ministry and our day jobs and our night jobs are going to be tested by fire to to prove what uh was the motivation of our heart And some of it is going to be categorized as wood, hay, and stubble, and then others are are gold. And there's definitely a a reward for for those paying attention to to our stewardship. And the the other one, it was reversed, if I can remember where it's where it's from, and it talk talks about adding to your Your faith, godliness, and probably kindness and love and what which passage is that in? Second Peter? And then does anyone recall the the three benefits that Peter describes that if you're If you pay attention and you're faithful in carrying out those exhortations, what what are the three benefits? Stability. Yes, you will not stumble. And the other one is that you will not fail. And I think the third one is that uh an entrance will be granted to you to the other Right. You you will uh not be unfruitful and you will not stumble. Uh sometimes we stub our toe and there's always forgiveness and There there's always grace and being able to get back up. I guess staying down forever is a sign that okay that that's not a good sign if you if you fall and stay down. So So God gives grace. And then the third one is we enjoy a any a warm and hearty welcome by the Lord and a commendation of well done. And all of that is for God's glory and for our benefit. And so these are things that we know. But that's kind of the 10,000 foot level of why we're taking this class and for sanctification and for better stewardship. Those are things that I I need. My my wife, my Children can tell you, okay, I need a lot of growth in in those areas. Chapter two, a little bit of Going back and refreshing our memory, and I'll skip through this very, very quickly, chapter two, here, there, and gone. Three dangers to avoid. Anyone recall one, at least one of those dangers of that we might be subject to by being overly busy and we're kind of not focused on what we should be. What's what's a d danger. Yeah, yeah, missing out on joy. So it hides the rod. It yeah. That's definitely the opposite of sanctification is uh it's de-sanctification. There's we're letting rot uh faster in our hearts. And the third the third one, anyone I had to write it down to kind of kind of remember. Relving our hearts. Yeah, yeah. So there's all there's as you know, there's a lot of idols out there and the world, the flesh, and the devil. are going to uh eventually i unless we have protection against it they're gonna orient us to to our idols and um against the lord So, and then moving along to chapter three, the the killer peas, do you recall any of what what those were that Kevin DeYoung has spelled out for us? People people pleasing. So what what um what's why would that be a c a killer? Why why is people pleasing not a good thing? Um I think your motivation is what other people think about you. Um and so you're more likely to say yes to more than you can handle. Right. And you're not focusing on what God's priorities are But right, you're um it's kind of with you're without an anchor and without a rudder in your decision making and whatever comes along in terms of wanting to please those around you uh and go along with their plan for your life will look at and potentially get you off track with what God's priorities are Uh for you. Any other P that you can you can think of? Uh Taylor, what what was that? Perf perfectionism. So I think we all know what uh similar to people pleasing, what how perfectionism can Drag us down and be a weight on our feet, shackles on our feet. But what's what's an example? Well actually I think there are two ways of questions. It can either make you feel like you're never going to do it well enough, so why bother trying to do it again? Or you can be like, I have to be person who does this because I mean the only person who can do it correctly. Right. Right. Right. There's another P that's very related to perfectionism. Pride? Pride, yeah. So and it we we may be holding ourselves to a standard that that God, uh our gracious Lord, doesn't hold us to to that high of a standard. And I I'm example of Moses, he I'm not sure why he felt that he was not qualified to to lead and to speak for God. And so maybe there was an embarrassing moment in his past where he messed up in front of some other people, so he was kind of hesitant to to speak for God and God got angry at him for you know, why why are you why why do you have such a high standard? I think that uh he wasn't a very uh eloquent speaker and I don't think it's something that occurred when he was eighty years old. I think throughout most of his life, even though he was schooled in the uh uh in in the ways of the Egyptians, I don't think he was a very good speaker. Because I think he mentions it uh somewhere in Exodus that that all of his life that he's never really been a good speaker That's my that's my very loose pair for his obviously. It was wasn't a very good speaker and he used that as an excuse to try to get out to So it's probably you're you're saying it was probably not a traumatic event that caused him to view view himself in that way, but just kind of looking at the pattern pattern of this life, even after having grown up in a in a royal family. I mean just just imagining it I can think of, you know, when he sees two people fighting, instead of trying to persuade them to not fight, he just, you know, takes the hand and just deals with it Kind of needed some uh man management skills and people soft skills. So again, these are these are things that Uh just on the along the lines of our things that we want to avoid And we're we read scripture, we pray, and it's our hope that we're uh we're going to be transformed. Uh the times of margin during the during the morning or other times of the day that God is going to use his word to transform our heart. And that's going to uh be effective in in our sanctifying our behaviors and making us less frazzled, crazy dizzy people and more thoughtful and having uh doing things for the the right motivation rather than for people pleasing or uh perfectionism or pride. And the a chapter that I didn't cover very well, and Doug, I think, covered it some last week, the terror of total obligation. And I'll just speed through and summarizing it is uh caring about all the the lesson from it or the conclusion. to try to implement from having read that chapter number four, The Terror of Total Obligation, is to be a person who cares about all But realizing that you can't do all and it really takes your church family It takes maybe your uh your home family to be able to add and provide the level of care. It takes other people. It takes the sovereignty of God to to try to meet the the obligations that are around us. And even within our own heart, as far as our own growing insectification Yes, we're cooperating with the with the Lord. We have responsibilities for giving commandments in order to to cooperate in his sanctification plan. But ultimately it's uh God is has the major major part in our own growing in Christlikeness. And it there's a kind of a slogan or a cliche from Mine and Margot's previous church and it uh the the slogan was this this nation in every generation. And reach reach every nation in this generation. So that's kind of a that's a a very large kind of obligation or pursuit is that you are going to reach every nation in this this generation. And maybe with today's technology, maybe you have the power to you you yourself to be a part of that reaching every nation. And the I believe the reality is that We're, as as you know, we have a certain sphere of influence, and God is propelling us, and He's has equipped us and filled us with His Holy Spirit. to be of maximum influence within our particular sphere. And we only have a certain number of hours in the day. We only have a certain amount of energy. I know my energy, Erica, is kind of Till about four o'clock and then so I need to plan pretty carefully what I do before before that. I usually start the day with As I mentioned before, 25-minute exercise routine just out in my neighborhood. It gives me a chance to do some some evangelizing as well along the way. But we're we're limited and we we can't crumble under total obligation, nor should we feel uh Jesus didn't and we sh we shouldn't either And for last week, Mission Creep, I thought that was a very important chapter to try to understand. And Let me go ahead and ask for a couple readers or or if you'll read the the first paragraph under mission creep, if you'll volunteer to do that and to to read out loud or or raise the the volume of your for your voice. Anyone volunteer will? Thank you. Jesus was busy, but never in a way that made him frantic, anxious, irritable, proud, envious, or distracted by lesser things. Summarizing Mark 1, 35 through 39, when all Capernaum waited for his healing touch, he left for a desolate place to pray. And when the disciples told him to get back to work, he left for another town to preach. Jesus knew the difference between urgent and important. He understood that all the good things he could do were not necessarily the things he ought to do. Yeah, that's um speak of not being a a people pleaser and even though people want you to do something, it's like, okay, I have I have a mission. Uh pardon me. Next next paragraph. Okay, Randall. Jesus understood his mission. He was not driven by the needs of others, though he often stopped to help hurting people. He was not driven by the approval of others, though he cared deeply for the lost and the broken. Ultimately, Jesus was driven by the Spirit. He was driven by his God-given mission. He knew his priorities and did not let the many temptations of a busy life deter him from his task. And I'll go ahead and read. More than 10 years ago, the author Kevin DeYoung wrote down on a yellow legal pad three priorities for his life: to faithfully preach the Word of God. to love and lead his family, to be happy and holy in Jesus Christ. So I I challenge you, I kind of challenge myself to to do something that simple and that's something that we can put by our nightstand to before you go to bed and when you wake up, okay Lord, this is what I believe by your word and by your spirit, these should be my priorities. And I want to keep it simple. I know that I'm that I have finitude as was talked about in the last in the previous chapter or maybe this same miss mission pre chapter. So that that's that's something to I don't know if life is that can be distilled down to something that simple, but it's a it's a good Thing to shoot for. And then the the next paragraph, please, of a volunteer. Hill Rob. Without forethought of purpose and a follow-through plan, we will keep pushing aside the priorities that we say are our actual priorities and may end up spending much less of each day and each week and each year with lesser things. Oh, okay, thank you. We have a better chance of staying on purpose if we wake up in the morning reviewing and praying about our core principles and purposes. then evaluate whether our plans for the day and the week ahead are actually fulfilling those those per priorities. And I I realize that's easier said than done and probably most of us, including myself, are not maybe that mechanical or methodical about the the day ahead. And but there there's ways of moving in that direction. And in other realms, whether it's in the academic realm or the work realm or even Hope Bible Church ministry realm. We have our plans. We know what's on the calendar. We kind of know how we need to be preparing for the week ahead, the day ahead. And even to plan some margin and take a vacation, okay, you you generally have a plan. You don't just wake up on your vacation day and start driving. So So it's that's that's how we're wired. Okay, uh d just to finish out that chapter, why set priorities? I can't do it all myself. I must set priorities to serve God and others effectively. And I must allow others to set their own priorities, staying in my lane. So but that would that was an interesting that's three things that that Doug Baldur has gleaned from the the chapter Um, including staying in your own lane. So you you can't really look at other people, nor should we judge what appears to be the priorities of other people in terms of how they run their families And we could kind of point our finger and kind of shake our head saying, no, you're you're spending too much time with this aspect of your life. And I think this possession is requiring too much time and money. This activity of your children is just um interfering with other things. So we we we can't stand in judgment of others. And I know in a part of the purpose of a small group is that we're being we're building relationship and we should be knowledgeable of the challenges And maybe the things that are not going right in each other's lives, we should be getting to that level of knowing each other and trusting each other. And so there there's going to be times when people open up with, okay, I know my priorities are are out of whack and these are some of the symptoms and problems that we're experiencing and the challenges. These are some of the sins. These are some of the ways that I'm that I know I shouldn't be using my time. In something that's not patently sinful, and then other things that, yes, that's that's sinful. I I shouldn't be I should be running from that. But we should be getting to the level of knowing each other to So that someone else, yes, can make a judgment and maybe ask appropriate questions about how we how we spend our time. So So there are times to come up our lane and maybe if we have the the type of relationship with others, a confidential relationship to maybe get in their lane to ask those questions I I asked a a few people if they were interested in talking about their time time budget. And by the way, are there is there anyone who needs notes to follow? Because there's a few up here that aren't being used. Anyone who is brave enough to Kayla you you mentioned that you're you were were okay uh with talking about your time budget And I don't know if you did the version of what you actually do or the kind of where you're headed in terms of how you feel you should prioritize your time. Yes. So does your schedule generally allow for adequate daily and weekly margin joy in maintaining or furthering godly priorities and goals? I said yes. In general I have some downtime every day, although certain one-off commitments might make specific days busy I've learned that I really need to prioritize my time because I cannot really operate on super small margins and I need to adequately prepare and say no to things if it means that I won't be able to uh spend time in the Word or just have some downtime every day. Are your days marked by faithful stewardship of the two greatest commandments and your spiritual and natural gifts. And I said that overall I hope so, but there are areas I could improve. I have been working to be mindful of the amount of screen time I participate in Which often comes when I'm socializing in, uh socializing with other people, but I've been actively considering whether or not I need to reduce this. And in general, one of the changes that I've made since starting the class is really just being very conscious of how am I spending my time and why am I spending it this way. And sometimes that means that I'm changing how I'm spending my time. And sometimes it's just changing my attitude towards it. Is there a reduction or increase of activity needed during the season of your walk with the Lord? During the course of the class, I started to be more mindful of the ways I was spending my time and have been purposefully increasing my activity Some of this has been more time volunteering with church. Some of it has been pursuing relationships with other Christian women. Since starting the class, I've actually started being mentored by one of the women here at church. And some of it has been making sure that I am studying God's word consistently and applying it to my life. Amen. Amen. Those are of course our ideals that each of us should be growing at Whether it's a baby step at a time or leaps and bounds, we we should be cognizant. And Doug pointed out to me yesterday that We our lifetime is maybe, if we're fortunate, four thousand weeks. So you can kind of Like three almost three weeks of this month have gone by already. So four thousand weeks goes by pretty quickly and that's that's like almost eighty years of of life if if God graciously gives us that. So that's a way to be more deliberate and faithful in in terms of what we should be doing. And Amy, do you want to do the same? Okay. Um And how many children do you have in your family? Okay, I have ten children. Nine of them. No, eight of them are living at home. So one is married and one is in Missouri right now. So um that definitely plays a role into this. Let me hold on a second, let me make sure I'm doing this in order here Okay. Okay. Um when I was thinking about how to incorporate things like quiet time with the Lord Something I was convicted about was I was thinking I would always go back to a certain time in my life when I considered myself successful in this So I would think about, oh, when I was a senior in high school, I would set my alarm every morning and get up at 6 30 a. m. and have my devotions and spend time with the Lord. Or when Scott and I were first married and I had three little kids at home in this little house and I didn't have to go anywhere, nothing was tugging at me, and I was like I guess convicted because I was striving to get back to something like that. But that's not where my life is, obviously, right now at all. I mean I have grown children. My world is not in my home. I'm constantly everybody knows I'm like on vacation all the time. But a lot of that is not even by choice. It's I have kids in California who are in college or Virginia or different things like that. And so I was thinking about the Lord takes us through seasons and places in our lives. We go through mountains, we go through valleys and he holds our hand through that, but I can't just go back and pretend that I'm gonna be this high schooler who can get up and at 6 30 in the morning and I'm only responsible for myself. So that was a conviction um for me. Um hold on, sorry. Uh So um I have to think about what my life looks like right now. So God's not asking me to replicate a season of my life that's no longer possible. He's leading me through circumstance new circumstances and situations. And these may change in a month or six months. At least in my life, I've noticed a lot of change. Definitely each school here is a different change for our family. I can make plans and be purposeful, but I need to allow God to interrupt my day and guide me even if it feels out of control for me. God's not asking me for perfectionism. And I need to practice the presence of God and walk in it each day, knowing that He's with me all the time. Walk in His presence, be aware of His presence, and commune with Him Um the second thing that I noticed was that um when when I don't have plans of my own and I only do what others requ require of me, which is like carpooling, meetings, errands, rehearsals, that kind of thing. I mentally feel so busy. I'm sluggish and I'm tired But if I take the initiative to plan out my time and I help a friend organize or I hang out with my grandmother or I serve at church, I actually get energy from those things that are purposeful. So the key for me was to have a purpose Without a purpose, life drags you all day long. You've been busy, but much of the time you have nothing to show for it, and it leaves you stressed and unhappy. The rest you crave is never attainable because you're not truly tired from working hard. You're just sluggish. There's a difference. You don't need rest from poor planning. And oftentimes the rest you give yourself is more poor planning, scrolling on your phone or watching TV, and it does not leave you rested. When you're tired from being efficient, your rest feels like rest Your mind is so happy and content that even your rest is purposeful. And it doesn't take much to rest as much rest to rejuvenate you. Amen. We'll have to send that off to to Kevin DeYoung for his next book. Yeah, what I'm what I'm hearing is that in what Amy shared, and thank you for it, is that you have Certain guide uh guiding principles and you've given thought to and some intentionality to order your day. But there's plenty of rooms. Yes, there will be certain days in which you have things, specific things to get done. But a lot of your time and your looking at your week ahead, it's guiding, it's your core principles that are going to guide you throughout the day So you you take time to to affect your heart and to build your core core principles with the Word of God so that you'll be able to walk in wisdom So that doesn't do justice to what what you said. All right, our subject for this week, and this is kind of a funny term, can accrual kindergarten Chapter six. How many out of curiosity were able to read? Read chapter six? So maybe a third, half half of you. And kindergarchy, kindergar children, archie rule. So it's kind of a reversal of the maybe authority and the responsibility that parents have before God. is that they're may not be looking to the Lord for raising children, but kind of uh maybe thinking about the the quote needs of their child and what the the perfect um upbringing is and the the perfect result of that upbringing and what you're maybe having too much of a a belief that it's your responsibility to for the outcome of your child. And and I I realize this is kind of a touchy subject because I as well as you, though those who are parents Yes, we it it's a frightening obligation that we have and each parent knows how he or she falls falls short of the example that we want to be for our children and the type of either passive example or active example. So but to to really believe that yes it i it is the Lord and He has the the sovereign plan, He has an ordained plan for for our children. What what I'd like to do is going go back to asking you to re uh read and it goes it still over onto the back. But I'd like uh for you to raise your hand and maybe not the same person but spread it around the room and go ahead and read what I thought were some salient paragraphs and quotes from this chapter. And let's go through several of them. I may stop on occasion and we'll have some discussion based on on those. If you have other things that you highlighted or underlined in the chapter that really affected your heart, I'd like to hear those and to hear your comments on them as well. So number one on chapter six, volunteer to read? I can read. Oh okay, Jessica, thank you. Number one, conclusion. I just know that the welcome parents, the more and lots focused on doing a few things really well, and not getting too worked up about everything else I want to spend time with my kids, teach them the Bible, take them to church, laugh with them, cry with them, business with them when they disobey, say sorry when I mess up and pray often. A lot of times look back and think, I'm not sure what my parents were doing or if they knew what they were doing, but I always knew my parents loved me and I knew they loved Jesus So as you know, this author uh doesn't take himself too seriously and he he inserts a lot of just kind of self-deprecating humor in in what he has to say. I I felt like that was the the gist kind of the gist of this chapter, the kind of the punchline or the conclusion. But we'll we'll keep we'll keep reading. Oh okay. Number two, Thelma, thank you. Child wearing is suddenly the main theme of the thing. And we're on the back of the sheet now. Child rearing is hardly the main theme of scripture. God doesn't provide many specific instructions about the parent-child relationship, except that parents should teach their children about God. And we have so many verses and not exasperate them. Filling in the details depends on the family. the culture, the spirit's wisdom, and a whole lot of trial and error. Mm-hmm. Okay, amen. Number number three, anyone? Okay, Walt? Future son-in-law, most moms and dads think they are either the best or the worst parents in the world, and both are wrong. Could it be that we have made parenting too complicated? Isn't the most important thing not who not what we do but who we are as parents They will remember our character before they remember our exact rules regarding television variants. So a as you can kind of glean so far and those that read the chapter Uh wisely, I think Kevin DeYoung, he has a a lot of theological training and that most of us will never have. And he's been a pastor for a number of years. He's written a number of books. And he's trying to add some balance to the whole idea of thinking about the responsibility of parents for the outcome of their their children. And I I think this is very helpful to E even though my own children, but I'll hopefully I will have some grandchildren, but to just to to think about the how easy it might be to overstress and to going back to the total obligation. It's like every second of your time is consumed with maybe a feeling of guilt that you aren't doing enough, going back to the perfectionism comment that was that was made. And maybe maybe get spilling over into pride and some of the other killer peas. But I I think he's he's good to actually add some some balancing perspectives to the to the great responsibility of of parenting. Any any comments on these three paragraphs before we move on or was there another aspect of the book that you Really struck you? Okay, Tina? Well I think that number two did struck me because I don't think I realize that the Bible doesn't put the bottom secret instruction. Yeah, what are the different things that we're supposed to do. And realizing a lot of what we have done is from reading a lot of books. Yeah, yeah, that is that is quite a comment. And sometimes the scripture has looking at the the children of important people and how they turned out, uh whether following in the footsteps of their parents in good ways or or bad. So there's in some ways that's kind of the most ringing statement about parenting is okay, God is sovereign and but but yeah there are a few There's not a lot of scripture on parenting. Any any other comments? There there's even one scripture, I I think it's in Ephesians that where Paul talks directly to the children and children obey your parents and and of course that uh I I believe that's stemming from a quote in the in the first testament And so it's it's not even on parenting, it's it's scripture speaking directly to children. Obey obey your parents. Can I let just one thing I remember from me reading that um chapter that somehow still sticks in my mind was how um Our parenting, how good or bad it is, has not as great of an impact on the outcome of a child except as he was referencing some research that said it appears that our parenting I guess our parenting philosophy does significantly impact the political and religious uh I guess yeah views of of children. I thought that was Oh quite interesting. I will say though that I'm thinking about it, I think what he's saying kind of runs counter to some popular statistical uh outcomes that we hear. So what are you saying has to relate more to uh believers and I think it is, uh not so much people who are not believers. But yeah, having said that I have to say that I found this chapter rather comforting and encouraging partly because I Yeah yeah that comment is uh actually a setup for the the next few things that that are on our sheet here. Yeah, there there was one more, the the political, the religious, and there was a third one that maybe all before the end of class or maybe you can help me remember the the category of influence that generally we have over our children. There's there's one there's one more. As far as shaping their their views. So number I think we're on number four in the volunteers for for that, Joel Harding. One key survey question presented to kids was what one thing would they change about the way their parents work outside of the home was affecting their child. The results were striking. The kids rarely wished for more time with their parents, but much to the parents' surprise, they wished their parents were less tired. Yeah. So so of course th this is this is observational science, uh so it's not it's not coming from scripture. But it does get us to think about, okay, is this is this actually true? Could that could this be true? So that's That's about the most amount of credit that we're we're giving. And I'm not sure that this survey was from a coming from a Christian perspective or not. So maybe maybe you read otherwise And and it is, but okay number five. Chester? Most parents got an A when it came to making their children feel important and being able to attend important events in their lives. The biggest weakness, according to their kids, was anger management. More than 40% of kids gave their moms and dads a C, D, or F on controlling their temper. It was the worst grade on their children's parental report card. Our children, Kaplan argues, are suffering from second-hand stress. And by trying to do so much for them, we are actually making our kids less happy. It would be better for us and for our kids if we planned fewer outings, got involved in fewer activities, took more breaks from the kids, did whatever we could to get more help around the house. And made parental sadity a higher prayerable. Yeah, I'm wondering when I read Get More Help Around the House Did you read that, okay, we're to be asking our kids to be helping more around the house? Did you read at that point? So I read it as Go hire somebody. Or or both could could be true. So Yeah, this one I'm I'm sure you would have fifteen minutes of comments uh perhaps on this. Hey Kurt There's a chance too that you could ask your small group to help you out. So you want to become the priority for the s like a small group? How about them having that priority Yeah, we we haven't asked our small group to help clean our house but but I will say that when we were When we were doing some painting and some other kind of fix up things in our home, our our small group was was there. That was that was a good seventeen years ago. But they were they were there for us. And I know for Pastor Gabe, this was three years ago, there were quite a few people from the church that worked in in their backyard. And got it ready, I think, for an event that that the pals were were hosting. So try that. Put out a whole book an announcement for people to come and clean your house. I'm I'm sure that some some people Might take you up on it. So especially if there's available for housework. And I we one of the the things that I don't want to pass over is that What this is implying or stating, according to surveys or science, is that Passively, our children are picking up uh more more is caught than taught. Is that who we are as a person and our stresses, our good qualities, our I don't know if you guys have have read Jerry Bridges' what is it called Respectable Sins. So I think our children and people around us Our co-workers, those that we go to school with, they're they're picking up definite messages. They may know that we're a believer. And in certain situations, certain words and attitudes are going to come out of our mouth that are against Christ. And it's it really kind of stains our gospel testimony. And we if our heart if we're not uh guarding our heart daily and being intentional about our sanctification. We're going to let things out and our our children are going to know what our priorities are, sometimes our possessions. and our games and our entertainment that your your kids pick up, okay, that's that's my parents' uh priorities. And yes, they may be following Christ, but I I know They have some competing priorities in their life. So looking back, that's is that the message that you intended? And I made a note of some of these respectable sins. This is a good small group study book. Anxiety and frustration. That's kind of a respectable sin in the church. And it's unfortunate. Discontentment, unthankfulness, pride, which we talked about, selfishness, lack of self-control. uh impatience and irritability, anger, judgmentalism, uh envy, jealousy, and related sins, sins of the tongue. So it it's unfortunate And in many ways we can't actually hide that from people who we live with. And perhaps in the work world we can keep certain things under the uh under control and we can hide certain things, but They're just your your heart, the what is a good verse from that, the what you treasure in the heart is um is that's what you're gonna speak and it's gonna come forth in your life So I think paragraphs like these and and studies are are important. But I also think it's it's good to not take them as dictating what's true or not. And so It should be more of a guide to say I can have a conversation and have some self-awareness and maybe even have a discussion with my kids before I then say, oh, I have anger management issues where my stressors are spilling over to my kids because stress comes in your life. I I don't know if you can completely avoid stress. I don't think I can completely avoid anxiety. But the verse should come to my mind, be anxious for nothing But pray. And so when the anxiety comes, my response to anxiety is to pray. My response to anger are the key things that I should be careful of because I can't get rid of those things. on this earth. But I think your key point there at the beginning was these are sanctifiers, these are signals of my dependency on the Lord, my necessity to have conversations with my kids and my wife. around life and then do life together imperfectly but striving to look more and more like Christ So I I see these studies and I can't get dud bulgers out of my head because of SLP. Uh because he hates statistics. But but the reality is hey there are things that kids won't Say in the moment, my none of my sons are going to come to me and say, Dad, I really just wish you were less tired every day at 15 and 10 and 13. But at twenty-eight, they may come back and reflect on it and and that in that case it may be too late. The point is having these at least allows you to think through are there areas in my life where we can talk through as a family And they can be valuable to be aware of as we grow, but not feel like we go back to chapter three and have these killer peas where I'm trying to people please and be perfect and be full of pride that I'm not doing it. Yeah. And of course all of life is a is a teaching moment to to one degree. And God, yes, he he ordains, God himself ordains. different stressors and different doesn't not temptations, but he does ordain trials to come into our lives just to prove hopefully we're gonna respond in faith. and respond on the treasure of scriptures that we've stored and to be able to walk in the Holy Spirit and not in the in the flesh. And it's important for our kids to actually see see that. What did my dad do in this situation? And I think of that at work also whenever there's a stressor. I usually have my phone when I'm talking to clients on I have my phone on speaker, so the two employees I have, they can hear everything. And if there's trouble in the water, if there's a tense moment, they they see I can't I'm choosing not to hide what what they see in here. So it's like, okay, can I can I handle this? Can I put Christ on display in the in this moment? Because in some ways That's what our kids are going to remember the most. What did my dad will do in this situation? What did my mother do when when things got kind of kind of rocky and maybe a little scary? And I'm glad that we're we're not stressing. Yes, go ahead. Um you know this this concept that was brought up um about worrying about our children being fragile. And I like the subtitle of this chapter. It says Stop Freaking Out About Your Children. applies to your grandchildren as well. There's not a lot of grandparents in here. So I'll just say it and remember this for whenever you have grandchildren. And that is You know, that that same mentality of freaking out about your children can be applied to your children's children. And it's probably really important to be in a mindset now of Taking your worries, fears, and anxieties and casting them on the Lord about your children, because it's a good practice for what you're going to need to do when your children have children There's two aspects to that. One is it it's kind of their job and not your job to raise those kids. But there is a shared responsibility that you have to that other generation. Deuteronomy talks about it. And I would just say that it's really important to not have the same worry and fear that you have now about your grandchildren That you had when your kids were little. You can trust God to give grace to raise those children. You can trust God to give grace to your children to raise their children. And, you know, like the last thing says there is to pray hard and uh and work hard And apply a little common sense and don't freak out so much. I I think that that's that's something that I've kind of seen in the situation where we're at right now in our lives of wanting to get my fingers into my grandchildren maybe a little bit more than I should and stepping back and letting my son and his wife take care of Being mom and dad. Your your hands don't have to be immediately on your grandchildren at all times. The maybe kind of winding down and closing is that And please pay attention to the to the assignment for next week, which is very similar to to each week as well The this particular chapter, it's kind of taking, in my opinion, the the thrust of the whole idea of being crazy busy. And it's putting it into an area that we probably don't think about much, which is parenting. And that manifestation of being crazy busy, and then what effect it has on our our parenting. So The deep calls to deep, and someone mentioned, I guess it was Kayla, mentioned screen screen time, so we'll be able to shine the light of Crazy busyness next week on on that. And the the verse that I put in here And it was one that I was probably reading just uh through scripture reading, Psalm 139-16. Your eyes have seen my unformed substance, and in your book were all written the days that were ordained for me when as yet there was not one of them. So just Keeping in mind that again the the Lord is sovereign and even he's the one who Who chooses and elects from the foundation of the earth? He gives the parents responsibility to give a general call to salvation. And to not knowing what God is gonna do with that. He gives us the responsibility of of giving a general call to the spheres of people and spheres of influence that we have. Within that group of people, he's going to give a special call, an effective call to salvation. And that might be our our our children. But he knows in advance every God knows in advance every day of our child. He knows every day of my life and he knows the last day. And he knows our children and grandchildren's last day, as well as a composition of every day of their life. Yes, we do have responsibility. The church has responsibility. Parents have responsibility For guiding and shaping and modeling Christ. But it God's the one who ordains and leads and guides. So that that's gonna that's a de-stressor and at the same time it's a motivator to to live for live for God and have a good responsible stewardship. Even in the area of of parenting. Any any other thoughts either on this chapter or some of the the material that we covered in previous previous chapters? Do you guys feel like there's any help in this book? Is this a worthwhile in endeavor? I'll embarrass Tina, but Tina and I used to go to the same church in San Antonio, and I I didn't know who Tina was, and she was like seven to ten years old. And I I was probably like twenty-five. And it was uh Wayside Chapel in San Antonio. And so I just learned that a couple of weeks ago that Unbeknownst to either of us, we were at the same church. Same pastor, same very good Bible teacher there. Jessica. Um, I was just thinking about uh so that uh having we're treating like a a family culture is something that's been on my mind too is something that wealth and I were were reading together. But that reminds me and it next to this chapter a little bit of a different that I was reading that was talking about uh just being intentional in in the way that you create your family culture. And I think the the other authors point at the beginning of the book was that if you're not like creating your family culture, then the culture around you is going to be creating your family culture for you. Oh yeah. It just sort of reminded me of of this chapter a little bit. of like what what is guiding the way that you uh create your your family culture um and that affects like how crazily busy you end up being. If the culture is saying, well your priorities for your kids should be this, this, and this, would mean that your priorities for your life should be this, this and this Um, it seems like it could be easy to fall into, oh, this is what should be guiding the writers who sent for our family versus uh taking time to step back and think through what our what our primary uh family what culture are we creating for our family and what how should that uh I guess guide us and what we what we get involved in and where we spend our time with the family and what okay. And it and it's kind of dang there's degrees of danger in that in the the generally friends, our kids friends, are gonna probably have more to do with creating a culture if if the parents, we the parents are not And then social media, unfortunately, and the temptation for our kids to start taking on an identity that social media maybe presents as ideal. Uh if if we haven't if we haven't established that as as the parents. Any uh any other thoughts? And and Chester, I I wanted to just give you give you a public praise. It's like I just so thoroughly appreciate how you God has uh gifted you to be able to communicate and to kind of peel the different layers of the onion off. and maybe not be satisfied with just the the simple um platitudes that that we often teach And but you're really trying to cover the the layers of it. So you and Doug uh I need to be following that example. Alright, so the assignment is there. I haven't yet read this book. There is another one by Friesson on the decision making in the will of God. But I I think it was uh Jen Roos who maybe a couple of weeks ago, three weeks ago was asking about, well yes, I I have this schedule, it's it's busy, I want to declutter it Um how how can I be thinking those aren't the words that you use, but how can I be thinking about a better structure and order? and understanding God's God's voice. So uh I I too need to kind of be thinking about well what is What are some good steps, good biblical steps for discerning and making good decisions and having good priorities? and basing my my time, most of my time on those priorities. So this is a this is a good book for that. And then the the one by Friesen that was taught earlier at Hope Bible Church. I think it was Elias who who taught that that course on decision making in the will of God. So these are good wisdom resources for for us to grow in sanctification.