Use the use the class notes, especially for the weeks that you can't be here. But a couple of things I wanted to point out. If you haven't had a chance to look at the class notes, We have the schedule there for the quarter. So you can see the days when Kirk is teaching and you'll want to be here. And you can see the days when I'm teaching and you want to be on vacation. the um you can also then see if you look there we have a couple of special Sundays um July the 6th we are going to have fellowship Sunday In some ways that means I'm not, we're not teaching, right? But it is going to be an opportunity for us to be very interactive in this class and we're going to share a meal together. And so when we've done this in the past, it has the time has banned goes by just like that, and it's been a fantastic opportunity for us to share about what's going on and speak to actual specific things that are going on in our lives. And we're going to end the quarter on the 31st of August with a fellowship planning as well. Uh we're gonna finish that and and that'll be the end of the quarter. We have a special opportunity this quarter. There are fourteen Sundays. So we get an extra Sunday. So on the thirteenth week of this class, um we have an opportunity there. to introduce something that's not in the book and the ideas that we have are this many right now. And you can see there are a bunch of different verses and passages and thoughts. There's an outline for that week. But we're planning to refine that outline as we see how things go so that we can speak that week to the things that are going on in this class and in our lives. Also, there are four appendices at the end. There's a bibliography for the class. There's a couple of other resources there besides the crazy busy class uh book. One of those I think I mentioned last week. Feel free to take a look at those. I think that those are there's good stuff in those books. In Appendix B There are scripture references that I think are apropos to this class. Feel free to read through those things and give yourself something to meditate on. as uh God's word can speak to you with respect to the direction of your life and the choices that you make. Appendix C, you've seen already that's your time budget. You did that this past week when you filled out your time budget And Appendix C just is a overview of the songs we're going to be singing this quarter Just wanted to give everybody a an opportunity to see that. Any questions about the cla the schedule in the class? What we're doing this quarter? So we're in week two today. Um and yeah, there you go. Doug. Yes, I just wanted to appreciate that. I just wanted to emphasize and maybe I learned this through smaller time in which we're assigned to read the a book of a particular Christian author. And there is always maybe the the you have to make a decision between okay what that author is and and the author may have very very good uh doctrinally sound points And but it's the your mind always wants to either elevate the worth of the author as being supreme and highest and the the best sort of counseling And so in this class we're making the aim to to elevate scripture as what really is going to to be the change engagement for the way that we think and the way that we the priorities that we have in our our lives in order instead of our lives to to one degree or another. But to elevate scripture and keep that at the the apex of what we walk away with in each of the You can believe this. Yeah, I I want to amen what you said, Kurt, and go right along with that. Anytime you read a book uh that's not scripture, uh be a good Borean of what it is that you're studying. Um And challenge things like how you're the three choirs at the same time. I mean not really. So uh one of the aspects of this text And this class, um I wanted to make sure that um As we go through each one of these chapters, potentially chapter one is an exception, but as we go through each one of these chapters, um there's tension. I like the word stasis. in in each one of these chapters and each one of the things that the author introduces. And what I mean by that is um i it's kind of in this balance or equilibrium or something like that. Uh there there's tension in what we're going to be thinking about with respect to um the topics that we pursue in this class. This is not a class where we go, you know, thou shalt not steal, and you're like, okay, stealing. I know what stealing is. How hard could it be? This is The topics that we're going to be talking about are topics that we need to attack in prayer and in wisdom in our lives. Margot illustrated this really good when she talked about the the things I can do and the things I should do in in my life. When you know one of the opposites about crazy busy was crazy lazy. And and that's the idea that I'm trying to bring out in what I describe as tension. Because one of the ways to not be busy is to quit And that's going too far any other direction. There's a proper, right, wise place for us to live our lives. And that's what we're trying to do as we think and go through each one of these classes and each one of these lessons So we don't want to, you know, you can think about it as the difference between duty and grace. Well, I have to do my duty, but I live by grace. Or obedience versus um Legalism, right? Uh I'm gonna be obedient, but am I obedient to the point where I'm trying to win God's favor in my obedience? And in this case, am I too busy? Well, I just do less stuff. Might not be the right answer to get rid of my crazy that's in front of my busy Um and I really appreciated the ways that you guys illustrated that when you talked about the opposite of what it means to be crazy busy. That was powerful. Another way of saying this is we in this class are going to be considering how to live our lives with wisdom and rightly and spend our time in a way that honors God and satisfies our souls. That's why we got the verse that we have today. The verse that we've got in this class is Proverbs 3:13 to 14. Blessed is the one who finds wisdom. And the one who gets understanding, for the gain from her is better than from silver and her profit better than gold. It's powerful stuff to live and order our lives with wisdom. And It's you know there's a measure of satisfaction to look at our bank account and go, hey, look, I'm I have my emergency fund set up, I've got, you know, my my debts are paid off, blah, blah, blah But Scripture lets us know that wisdom is more satisfying than that. James 1 5 If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God who gives generously to all without reverse. And it will be given to him. Raise your hand. What does this verse say? By the way, I'm sorry, in America. Yes, I agree. God gives wisdom. What? Is it if any of your lives with the line house of Allah would be judged? Yes. That's what I said. Yes. Absolutely. Yes. There's an assumption that we lack wisdom. There is an assumption that we lack wisdom Well it's conditional. It's not me. It says if you lack wisdom. But you know in scriptures some good teachers tell us that sometimes that if is actually a sense You lack wisdom. Um a humble-minded person, thank you. A humble-minded person would go, God, I need wisdom. Yes. He gives wisdom generously if we ask him. Yes. Yes. So there's no reason that we can't Oh what? Say that again? There is no reason that we can't be wise. Ooh, that's a powerful word right there. Not lying. Well that's a powerful conclusion then I'll say. Yeah, Kurt. One one observation is that the verse doesn't in this instance It doesn't say exactly where that wisdom is going to come from that God will give generously. I am not giving homework this week, because Scripture already gave it to you Spend time this week asking God for wisdom. You come into this class because you want to rightly order your life and you want to make sure that things are better in your life and less crazy and wisely ordered. Scripture is giving you the invitation. The challenge, the direction, God saying, You want it? I got it. One of the attributes of God is wisdom. And God in his attributes is infinite. So if God gave you 50% of his wisdom, he would still be infinitely wise. And that's a weird piece of math, but infinity works like that. Yes. I just want to challenge you, invite you to challenge God to do what he promises. Yes. Can you run me name I'm sorry? Valley. Thanks, Charlie. Is this coming from the Solomon? was the wisest man ever on the earth. God gave him wisdom, knowledge and understanding. And he didn't act the riches but he was the richest man in history. Yeah. I believe so because I read the Bible. Yeah. But in other words, God knew he made Solomon and he was going to be the richest and wisest man. God gave him that right. So I'm saying that he fulfilled all of what are watching for him, but he told Solomon not to look back to kind of marry those other women from another nation. Yeah. And that was itself poor because Solomon had worse and country wine. But if i um in those days what it was supposed to be that or is because Solomon disobeyed God? He yes. I would suggest that we not only ask for wisdom, but we ask for grace to live wisely. Because it's one thing to have wisdom and be a wise guy. Alright. Take God at His Word. That's my challenge to you. Invitation as well. By the way, this is part of the reason why we made a time budget. So that we see, we have a light, we can see what's going on in our lives. We can ask God for wisdom to know how to do that. Every one of the chapters that we're looking at in this book, and Kirk, I'm glad that you brought the topic the point up that you brought up, every one of the chapters in this book has to be tell it to your life. The author is not going to go, here's how you fix your problem. And I can't do that. I can get principles and ideas in this class, and with wisdom those have to be applied to all of our lives. Um and so that's the work. One of the things and I already teased this a little bit when Rachel you picked your verse, the passage that you read to us, which was really good, and I never came back to your second one Is that busyness is a common issue for all of us. I love the illustration where the woman introduced herself and said, Hello, my name is Busy. I thought that was funny. But if you've ever thought I'm the only busy person, one of the things that for me sometimes when I get into that crazy busy mode is I feel like I'm on an island And I feel like that I'm I'm busy alone. And that's a hard place to be. I can be busy and somebody else alongside of me being busy and that solved a lot of my crazy part. There's just something amazing and miraculous in teamwork. In sharing load. Scripture speaks to that too. But if Ecclesiastes 1-3, and Ecclesiastes is powerful in a lot of areas, but this one right here, in our busyness It says what oh I'll yeah go ahead let's turn there Ephesians 1 because this is a little bit of a longer passage I'm sorry I said Ephesians, the other e book, Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes one. You know, the book of Ecclesiastes is a lot of I've looked at the wisdom of the world and its vanity. It's it's It's sad, it's chasing after the wind. And this is one of these passages. It starts off in verse 3. What does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun? And I like this because it speaks to our busyness. It speaks to the effort that we put into our lives doing and doing and doing. He says, a generation goes and a generation comes, but the earth remains forever. The sun rises, the sun goes down, and hastens to the place where it rises. The wind blows. to the south and goes around to the north, and around and around goes the wind, and on its circuits the wind returns. All streams run to the sea, but the sea is not full. To the place where the streams flow, there they flow again All things are full of weariness. A man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. What has been is what will be and what has been done is what will be done and there is nothing new under the sun Is there a thing of which it is said, see, this is new. It has been already in the ages before us. There is no remembrance of former things, nor will there be any remembrance of latter things yet to be among those who come after. And you think, oh, but we have these new inventions and stuff like that. How many of you guys still carry around one of those MP3 players? It it just uh comes and goes, cycles. We need to, this verse, this passage is encouraging us to examine our toil. To examine the things that we're doing and labor for the things that last and have meaning. God gives us rest and enjoyment, but if our life's purpose is rest and enjoyment, we're missing out because that can be chasing after the wind. Look at the tail end of Ecclesiastes in chapter 12. The author in Ecclesiastes finally get to chapter 12 after 11 chapters of vanity Verse 1, he says, Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil days come, and the years draw near when you will say, I have no delight in them. I just want to have this early in this book, in this class. Remember your creator in the days of your youth. And all y'all are in your days of your youth. Um, you're still upright. So remember God. That's so important to our lives. Um and we're gonna get like Chapter eleven, week eleven in this class. Anyway, we'll talk more about that. Um feel free to say wait till the end of the class to answer these questions. But Before leaving the whole topic of w wisdom, even though we haven't left it yet, but and feel free to to ask me these same questions when it's my turn to But um what what would you say a biblical definition of wisdom is? What it looks like, what it what it is And then also if God does promise to to give us wisdom if we In humble recognition, if we ask for it, just as Solomon did. Just in the in the instance of Solomon, it seemed that God supernaturally downloaded it. It wasn't through necessarily mediated to Solomon. It could have it could have come for his parents. But when when we ask for wisdom, uh what are the ways that God may answer that question question. And then also back to what it what is a good basic definition of of of wisdom. What's a good definition of biblical definition of wisdom? Fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord. Why do you say the fear of the Lord? Did you just make that up? Yes. In fact, the thing that's really cool is it's not in Proverbs just once. And it's important for us to pay attention when scripture gets repetitive. Yes. So a start, the fear of the Lord What does it mean to fear the Lord? I'll go ahead further down that trail. What does it mean to fear the Lord? Yes, I am. I think um the fact that that's we're higher than our weight. Um that he's in control um that is purposes for each one of us will be fulfilled no matter what we do. Um and Anybody else has a very good start? What does it mean to fear the Lord? Yes. Um have a A reverence and and commitment um to obeying God's commandments. Yeah, reverence and commitment to obey God's commandments. Yes, that's really good. Anyone else? What does it mean to fear the Lord? Tell me. Um not leaning on our own understanding, but uh recognizing that. Um Yes. And that when you say not leaning on your own understanding, that doesn't mean that you don't apply your own understanding. But if your understanding in any way is in conflict with God's understanding, the thing you will lean on is God's understanding. I think sometimes we can go, oh, that's because that that just shows I don't have wisdom. But God has given us a measure of intellect and a measure of wisdom. What else? Any last thoughts? Yes, Mr. The Fear of the Lord, are you you still answering that question right now? Okay. Keeping God before you every moment. Yes. Oh, I thought you said the word all A-L-L, not A-W-E. And so that's my hearing. Yeah, having an awe of God, which leads to a way that we live. Right, right action. In theory, it didn't work out too well for Solomon in some of the areas of his life. I mean, there were amazingly wise things he did. Bring me a sword, right? We'll cut that baby in two. That was pr that was pretty cool what he did, right? Um and the f yeah. But but it didn't lead to it didn't lead to a life of wisdom when it came to the his wives and concubines and other areas of his life. Yes, Henry. Why to hate evil? So I mean I I obviously the fear of the Lord um is Probably more numerous than just that one sentence. But I think an aspect of that is not sure whether that was a key change or Back to the idea before. Thank you, Henry. Back to the idea before. Definition of wisdom. We started with the fear of the Lord. What's another what's let's more thoughts? Definition of biblical definition of wisdom. Yes. Yes. And then I I I think of wisdom always plays itself out. And it's not simply knowledge, but it begins with having the right understanding of of scripture and the heart of God and promises of God. But it plays itself out as it did In the pages of scripture from Genesis to Revelation on those who acted rightly, fearing God. They used their giftedness, used their knowledge, used everything that God had invested in that person and and made good decisions, and God counted them as a As a faithful steward of what had been given to them. So it's so it's not knowledge only, but it does play itself out. Yes. And w how do we see God living? Oh he looks good. How do we see God acting wisely? Skillful application of He orchestrates events to his will, and that's directed by wisdom. How else do we see God acting wisely? Yes, Marie. I know that um it's talked about through Proverbs how through creation wisdom was within. Yes, so God used wisdom in his work, which is tied in together. That's fantastic. I'm glad you went there. Yes. His motivation has never stopped. Oh a lack of selfishness and wisdom might be related. Okay. How else? Diana. And the gospel. I'm gonna come back to that, yes. Um even his grace. Um those two thoughts might be tied to each other. You know, we deserve uh at points with the children of Israel when he disappointed them. He didn't he didn't he listen to Moses when he when he interceded for each other. So he didn't always give us what he considered. God was wise in applying justice and mercy. And he does that still today. Yeah. And I just want to I'm glad we went there because one of the things I want to remind ourselves as we're examining our lives As we're looking at our budgets of our time, as we think about what it is that we're doing, is that God treats us with grace, let's treat ourselves also with grace. We want to do the good thing. Be merciful on ourselves as we examine these things, as we strive for the better. It takes time to change Don't get discouraged today if you spent a half an hour longer than you should have doing that thing If you got sucked into what it was, come up from it, repent, and move on, that's an aspect for us of wisdom as well. Did you want to add something, Gabe? Um Sure. Uh one thought I was thinking going back to the fearful world. Okay. Uh the way I like to think about the fear of the Lord is it's the heart of man being shaped by the heart of God. Which means That because the heart has three components, the cognitive part, which means our beliefs and our thoughts, are modeled after what God has revealed. Our values and uh desires are modeled after God's values and desires that's the effective part of the heart and then the volitional part of the heart. our commitments or what God has commanded us, uh are shaped by God's will. Um And because God's ultimate value is his glory, which is accomplished through uh among many things, but the goodness by which he does all things. Wisdom could be said to be knowledge uh skill application of knowledge is a good way to put it for the purpose of uh accomplishing uh God's glory And as a subset of that, justice, goodness, beauty, and you can throw in a number of words there. Thank you. Appreciate that. Gems. Um I want to ask if there are prayer requests.