Alright, so in this past week, no. Raise your hand, sorry I'm gonna call you out. Raise your hand if you read chapter 7 of Crazy Busy. Okay. Five years ago that still counts. I didn't give a qualification. Mm-hmm. Okay, cool. Yeah, that was the chapter for this week. Alright. I'm gonna encourage you guys to repent. And get back in and read the book. Um enough said. Alright. Um I've got a different first question. In this class, you know, this is believe it or not, week nine in this class. In this class What rules have Kirk and I given you for your lives? We're talking about crazy busy. Kirk's been letting us know this is about sanctification. Uh this is about you know, ordering our lives in the process of ordering your lives, what are the rules that we have given you in this class Having priorities. Okay, having priorities. That's pretty good answer by the way. And by the way, the reason why you're all going like, oh, is because there haven't been very many absolute rules in this class. And just pull you back to the beginning of this class, one of the things that this author does as he's talking about our crazy busy lives again and again is pointing out the pros and cons of the areas that are in our lives. And so it I was just kind of thinking about this last Sunday while Kirk was teaching There have been very few, if any, maybe setting priorities for your lives, being a good steward, that we would say are absolute, thou shalt, in this class. And even today that's going to be reflected as we talk about technology, as we talk about um I'll You know, I uh I titled this week Unplugged. But even that, even the concept of just unplugging, is an oversimplification of what the author talks about, and I think of what is appropriate for our lives It would be simple for me to say, just turn off your internet, be a Luddite, and everything will be less busy. Yay. But that's an oversimplification. It's too simple for me to just give you an absolute direction for what to do with your digital lives. And I think that that's a good way of describing it. In fact, this week is addressing the crazy busy that comes into our lives because of the digitally connected parts of our lives. So here's another question. When was the last time you went a whole day without without any connection to the internet? I know you got an answer, Brian. I'm going to have you wait for a minute. Any connection at all? And by the way, let's just remember when you make a phone call, it's probably voice over IP. Anybody, when was the last time? You never made a phone call or checked your email? Yes. Maybe month ago. Month ago, did you have a power outage? No. Yeah, what happened? Oh, I went CFA Oh you went camping a month ago. And your phone died. Yes. So you were out in the wilderness and your phone died, you had absolutely no connection. What was that like? I've never I mean that's that's crazy. Um I just did other things. You just did other things. I love that answer. I didn't have my phone. My phone broke and I was out in the wilderness and I just did other things. And I love that answer. Um by the way, that was not scripted. I just want to because that was so perfectly sweet. Thank you. Anybody else gone a day where you just decided, you know what, it's going to be less internet, right? Well for years I have a routine and I turn my phone on say Monday morning maybe five, six o'clock in the morning. It goes off every day like clockwork, 5 p. m. So what what you're saying today on Friday it goes off at five p. m. It does not go back on until Monday morning. So the boundaries with the cell phone may be some exceptions, but most of the time I don't. So it's a routine of mine. So in the evening or the weekends if you want to get in touch with with Brian you gotta you gotta call your wife. Okay, so we have a system. So I'm one of the flock leaders and small readers. We have a They have systems. I figured if I turn it off, how's everybody in the clock room get in touch with me? So Erica's phone stays on 24 hours a day. Alright, 24 hours a day. If she gets a call, oh, it's for you. So she gives it to me, but as far as work and everything, that's why Oh that that's a good boundary. So you've got you know work is calling you and would call you twenty four hours a day. But at five o'clock, work is done, you're off the clock, you turn your phone off, and on the weekends you turn your phone off as well. Yeah, the answering service is Erica. Yeah, Erica was answering service. Well you know, suitable helper. Fantastic. Anyway, uh Gary, did you have something for you? Yeah, we just went to the beach and um I'm not really a much of a cell phone user anyway, but I took my computer, but we we never even I never even logged into the internet while we're down there. So it was just kind of red and Walk you know, just kinda listen to the ocean, sat on the beach. Went to the beach and never connected to the internet. Wow. Wow, wow, wow. And how did you read without Kindle? Yes. I don't even use Kindle. I like books. Yeah, real hard copy paper books. Cool. Yeah, neat. Yeah, uh there's something satisfying about reading a book and turning pages. You're absolutely right. Um anybody else a time when yes So this is a little weird. It's forced three years ago I had heart surgery. Yeah, heart surgery. Oh. Yeah, it's probably good for your heart to not be on the internet. But uh what I did going in was I actually had a uh memorized a short passage of scripture so that If I was laying there and couldn't do anything, I could at least bring back scripture to my mind. So you had heart surgery and in preparation for heart surgery you memorized scripture. Fantastic. That's wise Good preparation. There was a time a year ago, it might have been this past winter, where I realized that my digital media on YouTube was kind of overtaking me a little bit And uh I decided for the month of December I would take a YouTube fast. And I'll never forget the first day. I opened up my phone and my hand just habitually looked for YouTube Um it had gotten to that point in my life. And so I actually moved the icon to a new location on my phone. And um It was interesting to to to see how quickly after that fast I learned the pattern my my habit changed to go to that other location. So um but what I learned from that period of time was I did other things. And I my life was still kind of full and busy. And so there was a lot of things that I was allowing myself to do both for education and entertainment on YouTube that was taking up time that I may not have been planning for and preparing for. And I had allowed it to get a larger footprint in my life than for me was appropriate at that time. So anyway, that's kind of a lead into a class. Last week we talked about demands and expectations associated with our children and kind of as I've already said today we're going to be talking about our connection, our digital connection to the internet. Last week we talked about how we can experience anxiety associated with the expectations of trying to be perfect parents One of the things I added in there is also the expectation when you're in the sandwich generation of trying to be perfect children in the care of your parents. And there's a lot of things when you're a parent, you know, it's sports and college prep and music and social events and church We can get into a position where we feel like we've got to do everything for our children, and again that can just And put us in a position where we can be tend to be crazy busy. One of the things that Kirk brought out was really good is that our children are not deterministic. What I mean by that is You can't guarantee an outcome by doing a certain number of things. You know, making sure that they've Done their homework, making sure that they've participated in all these things is not a guarantee that there'll be a good job in their future, uh, happy family. And a love for God and their Savior. But, you know, when it comes to the demands of our children, and even as we talk about today, Considering our footprint in the digital landscape, we can have a confidence that we've done the right amount That we've spent our time with our children or with our digital media. Well, if we have premeditated and planned out a budget, If we have looked at the spectrum of the 24 hours that I have in my day, you know, the week that I have in front of me, and I've decided how to spend my time prayerfully And then I go forward and do that. I can have peace in my heart knowing that I've decided that we're going to do these events with the children And these events I'm going to have to say no to. Even when this feels like something I must, must do. We have to go do this thing. The answer is Oftentimes we've kind of considered that already and we decided that wasn't something that we have space or bandwidth for, or maybe you decide You know what? This time that is an important thing, and I can make room for it by removing something else from my schedule. Because time is a finite resource. The other thing that that Kirk talked about and last week, and that is that God is ultimately in control of the lives of our children. And that gives us great peace, knowing that God's grace is sufficient for us as parents to raise children to his glory. And we've got to trust him in that. There's a section in that chapter last week that talked about things that we should remember above all. You know, make sure your children know that you love them, make sure they you take them to church. Make sure they do their homework. Take care of them when they're sick. Be faithful. Set an example that they can into imitate. Teach them about God in Deuteronomy chapter 6. Discipline them and don't have fear and anxiety. Guys, we're more than halfway through this quarter. This is week nine And so one of the things that I want us to remember and think about as we consider this class is to not just show up. But consider what God would have you do in your life with respect to your schedule. With respect to your craziness, and consider how you can discipline yourself towards godliness. Because we don't want to just go from class to class marking time. Yes, Kirk. One comment is welcome. And I'm not sure who passed this on to me, but it was that your children Of all your children desired marriage because of the marriage they saw in their parents. And And then conversely, is this it just conjecture that maybe some young men delay adulthood? Um perhaps because of some of the patterns that they may have seen in in their own parents where they don't necessarily want to they may want to stay in a a virtual or maybe playful world to To not pattern their eyes after the things they perhaps dislike to their parents. That that goes down a quite a road that we're not really thinking about. But I was just thinking of anyway things that our children make because of the uh either good example Or maybe sometimes bad bad modeling terms. I would say that there is a measure of truth in what you're saying. But we also Need to be careful about how far we applied that. David was a man after God's own heart, but Solomon was a man who loved many wives. And even though God gave him more wisdom than anybody else in the whole world, he set up temples and he pursued idols. Eli seemed to be a servant of God and his children were wicked, so much so, I mean terribly so And the converse of that is true as well. You look at Saul, who was very self-serving, and he had a son like Jonathan, whose heart was knit to David's because he was passionate for God. So we see a lot of examples in Scripture of people whose parents were doing the right thing and their children didn't, and the converse. Setting a good example is not a guarantee that our children are going to live a certain way. Proverbs says we can We should be putting in effort into our children. Raise up a child and the way you should go. Right? What's the rest of it say? What's apart from it? Not apart from it. Well, I can tell you, scripture says that that's a true ism, but it's not an absolute truth. And to try to try to put and one of the things the reason why I want to come back and talk about that a little bit longer is because Ultimately, the heart of our children is in God's hands. Yeah, Brian. So the verse here in Development 6, talking about teaching the child kids the way they should go and pass At what point do we start teaching our kids? Is it when they're eighteen they're out of the house or is it when they're fifty fifty-two? Uh I would say you stop teaching them when they're not no longer accessible. Um teach them. Sure, absolutely. As an example So you don't want your kids to be getting a divorce if they're married. You want to always have their parents be the example for them to see in their lives. Sure, but the way that we teach them changes as they get older. Alright, so I'm going to turn to Paige to the class from this week. It yeah, it's very tempting to to go and and talk about parenting because there's a lot of things there. But today, the class that we're looking about talks about Technology with respect to our busyness. And it's interesting in this chapter, um The author talks about, you know, as I kind of hinted at the beginning, the author talks about how technology has pros and cons with respect to our busyness. Technology helps us to be more easily connected to people. For instance, what's one method that you use for connecting to people? Go ahead. What? Thanks, Craig, Frank. Yeah. Texting. Texting. Yeah, cool. Thanks for going first. Texting. What else? Facebook? Facebook. Alright, cool. Email. Email, yes? Broader social media. Broader social media, how does that work? Uh just like in in general like all social media Okay, broader. That's social media is like Facebook? Yeah, anything like Snapchat, Instagram, Snap, it's Marco Polo. Marco Polo. Yes, Marco Polo is the best ever. What's that? Is there something else called Marco Polo? There is something called Marco Polo. And that's it's not just a game you played on pool. That's right. Yeah. Henry, you and I are Luddite. All right, so you should you are missing out, Henry. You are missing out. I love being able to very easily share a picture with somebody. Um You know, we were also at the beach this past week and uh there were some sunrises and stuff like that that were just really pretty and uh it was nice to be able to send that. My parents found a cardboard, a shoebox full of DVDs and CD-ROMs And they started going through them from a while back. And there's pictures of people in there from, you know, twenty years ago that in our family, when our kids were little and when some people who are now no longer with us, we're still alive and stuff like that. And it was sweet. That's a benefit of technology. Um, you know, information I would say information access is huge. How many of you guys have switched to having your Bible on your phone? Yeah, me too. To no matter where I am, I've got my Bible with me. And that's a huge advantage. Because before this I didn't always have my paper copy of my Bible with me, it's not convenient. Or you've got a teeny tiny little Bible where some of us can't read the words anymore And with your phone, you can make the words bigger. Um I love being able to find out the news quickly. You know, prior to the internet, if you wanted to find out the news, you had to go get a newspaper or you had to wait until 6 o'clock or 11 o'clock And some people are like, what's he talking about? That's that was when the news cycle hit TV, by the way. That was the only time you could actually learn what was going on. Excuse me, it's really nice to be able to access music like we do nowadays. You know, back in the day I had a a pouch this big with a zipper on it with CDs in it. And before that LPs. LPs and cassettes. Anybody you ever anybody ever use an A-Track? A-Track. A-Track, there you go. Now that's Yeah. They actually used to make cars with eight tracks in 'em. Yeah. Yeah no. And there's a lot of people in the room are going like, what's the eight track? You I'm sure you could Google it. Um Internet, Google it? Yes. How many how many of you people you need to get something done and the first thing you do is you go to YouTube. Henry, yeah, just me and Henry. Oh now there's some more people that are reluctantly agreeing to it. Yes. Yeah, same here. Um One of the things I love about this chapter in the book, the author says, is he was concerned when he wrote this book. That too quickly this chapter would be out of date. And there's truth in that. For people who have read the book, What something can you think about something that the author glazed over that now is true that wasn't back in what did he write this book, 2013 or something like that? AI, yes? Yeah, he had no idea that AI was going to do what it does. And now it's here. Let's talk about that just a little bit. What do you guys think about AI? It's frequently wrong. It's frequently wrong. Okay. Um that's it it can be a good tool. It can be a good tool. Yes. Chat GPT can be helpful. It can be very helpful, but it can be name one way that it's helpful. Uh when you are writing and you're checking your grammar and you're checking your your the way your your writing is laid out. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. In fact, on your texting When you get that auto-complete, that's actually a little piece of AI that's going on and stuff like that. Yeah, cool. So there's pros and cons. It can be wrong, right? Because I mean just just in case we have people in a room that don't understand how it works, AI is a really big, really fast database And what that means, oh you're squinting at me. Yeah. And it's got some other doodads in it. But but at a high level, isn't it just A really smart uh smart. No, it's not smart. There's a really well engineered program that can search a lot of information really fast and draw inferences and pull back to you things that make sense based on the question or the input that you've given it. Okay, we'll we'll go with that and we could go into a a deeper level than that. But What happens in that is is if it draws a wrong inference, your answer could be wrong. Yeah, or I mean it's the input you put is is biased or if it's seen more exposure to incorrect information than to correct information. Or it's also pro sorry, uh hold on but ChatGP is programmed to give you the to to be a guest man So if you're asking a question, it's probably not gonna tell you no, even if you're wrong about like why my father shouldn't use it To prove argument. Yeah, do not use Chat GPT to prove an argument because you'll be out on thin ice at that point. You're left out to hey. Also, I would say this. It's Fed With the information that people have gathered. And along with that, and let's just talk about doctrine, along with that includes the philosophies of the world. And so the lies of the devil are going to be wrapped up in the answers that you can get from ChatGPT. There can also be Let's just remember, Chachipiti is not restricted to the lies of this world. It also searches commentaries And so it can be helpful if you're trying, it can be helpful, if you're trying to remember that thing Or if you're trying to put an argument together, but you do have to be careful about it and apply your own wisdom technology, it's also disruptive. Some people are concerned about their jobs because of ChatGPT and other AIs. It's not good enough to just say ChatGPT. S we also need to be very careful about copyright and ownership rules as well. So there's a bunch of pros and cons that come along with it, but one of the things that I want to then talk about from a crazy busy perspective is If we're applying caution, it can save our time. It can save us time. Which is a good thing, right? At work, let's just say. I'm trying to learn some new technology or something like that. I just asked a question that says, hey, Gemini. What's this thing? And it'll come back with a couple of paragraphs about what this thing is. And some references. It'd be wise for me to go follow those references and do a little bit of my own research, but it starts me going. Anyway, yes. Sure. Yeah. Hey ChatGPT. I've got ruta vegas and Brussels sprouts. What should I make for dinner? Yeah, yes? This kind of related class and I did it before I started this class. Um but I did a schedule. One person at a time. It was just for I started this class, but I wanted to make sure that one day and my week better. And so I uh I wrote down like a to-do list and then I put it into Chat GPT and I said I have, you know, I want to spend this amount of time doing these things How do I go about this the most efficient way? And it gave me like three different options. And so then I took that condition and I'm able to make kind of a weekly plan. So that's a way that you can use it to apply to this class. Yeah. There you go. Help you it help as a digital assistant. Cool. Yeah. Um I would just uh press on, unless somebody else has a burning thing they want to say about AI. But to press on, something else the author didn't anticipate And doesn't talk about in h this chapter is COVID. And the world that we live in now, after COVID, I mean, we went through a period of time when everybody was afraid to be in everybody else's presence, and so we only Talk to people or interact with people digitally. And I know there's exceptions. Some of you guys were like, no, I'm going to interact with people, I don't care. But um There was a big change that happened from that, and all of a sudden we have a situation where people are a lot more comfortable, I'll say with using things like Zoom and stuff, digital meetings and whatnot. Which, you know, prior to COVID, at least even for me at work, people would be like, nah, I got a meeting. I don't care if I've got a Half an hour, an hour to get to my meeting, but I'm going to go to that meeting in person and then come home from that meeting in person. And now we just set up a skate chat And so benefits, but I will tell you from a negative situation, I don't care who you are, well no, I can't say it like that. I'm sorry For me, I get more work done in-person meetings than I do remote meetings. So again, there are pros and cons that have come about and been introduced because of technology. And because of the it's too simple to say the internet, but I might use that just as a shorthand, if you guys are okay with that. Yeah, Henry. Hey Doug. I'm going to be a little slow at trying to explain what I'm trying to say. Well bear with me. Okay. Um I have friends with whom I uh I interact with regularly who have this idea of God speaking. Well things like that spoke to me or you know, God's things to me. And go ahead and speak up the next Yeah we have to so what Henry's saying is he's got done yet. So I will speak up a little time. So that I was saying I have these friends who have this I will say the general notion, I won't say that they're you know stuff on it, that God speaks to you Okay. And um generally they would imply that God speaks to you in the quietness of your soul. So to speak, so when you're quiet and you'll be before God, then God will speak to you. And I think a lot of times when we read in the Bible, we hear We read how God spoke to people and the Bible doesn't take the time to explain how God did it. In some cases, you know, God spoke to Moses, for instance. Did he speak to him audibly? Did he speak through some crap or something? So the the the exact explanation for how God spoke to him is somewhat up there for your interpretation. So so so I have these friends who tend to feel that way. Now this book really made me think about my own experience where um And I think that it's probably because of all the digital things that I in my life were my attention span is very short I you know. Uh I start I start thinking about one thing and before you know it, something pops up and my attention is not there. So I find that I don't I am not, I don't have that quietness of soul because there's all of this stuff going on and I began to ask myself, wait a minute, these friends of mine are saying all these things And a lot of times I can't really identify with what they're saying because I don't have those same experiences where, you know, God speaks to me like that. And most of the time I have I have um Rationalized it away by saying that, you know, um God speaks to me through my understanding and remembrance of his word as the Holy Spirit brings it to my recollection. But it did make me really think that, wait a minute, to what extent is it right to want to just be so quiet Okay, to to let your soul and I'm using this not because I know exactly what it means. I'm saying these things it can mean something different to everyone, listening to me. But to have that quietness of soul where you're able to say God is saying this to me at this time, whether specifically or generally. That's what this chapter, as I read through it, made me really think about that that this because of all this stimuli, all the all the things that are going on, all the top ups. I mean I've I've been sitting here now for And I'm not looking at my phone. I just perfectly did not want to look at my phone. But my wife is coming to me, cops this anyway. I don't think that's if anyone can sort of a death on what I'm saying. So if I can summarize, you have friends that say that they experience A leading from God, an interaction with God, when they're taking time to be quiet with the Lord. And the di your digital experience Typically interrupts you from those times with the Lord and makes it very difficult for you to understand What they're talking about when they say, God speaks to me in this quiet moment. And I I think that that was that is a very important point from this chapter. And in fact, that's an important point that goes back to chapter two of this book. where the author says, our busyness can make it difficult to see the areas in our lives where we need to essentially grow in sanctification. And we can miss out on the dangers to our souls and what God's trying to say to us when we're really, really busy. Diane, put her hand up I uh struggled with everything digital because my brain was a little bit dull in that area. And when my last child moved out of the house, um I kept challenging myself to try to get more educated in that area. And so now I have a little bit of proficiency in using tools to help me schedule and blah blah. But I've also stepped back and thought, you know, all those years of raising three sons and doing everything, I had a pencil and a piece of loose loop that was usually ripped out of the thing. And I always had my Bible time and I had no phone to interrupt me. And I don't think that in my I mean, I'm just sharing 'cause you shared. I don't think in my fifty-seven years on Earth That it God God wants me to be in his word and he and he wants no distractions. Just like if I'm talking to you or Selma, you don't want me distracted you want something going off, you would feel insulted, you would know I wasn't giving you your full attention. I wasn't giving me your you my full attention. And God is no different. In fact it's even more so. And so I think turning off your phone and, you know, it's the whole T keeper speaking of God is righteousness and all these things will be added unto you You can't always do that. Sometimes you're on calls, sometimes, you know, you've got emergency situations, it's whatever. Um, young kids that Just trying to do that, even if it's only like five minutes and then ten minutes and then fifteen minutes. Um and then uh yeah, um just one more thing And I and I know this is very personal and I'm not trying to speak for anybody else, but when God is speaking to me, you know It's always in his word. I never get any kind of guidance about my life outside of his word I might be reading about um Saul and David and you know put it down and be thoughtful about it for a moment. And then God would say, you know, Diane I really I I really think that you need to pray for this person. And I really you know, but it was it's The whole seeking first God and putting everything aside and that's it. Sorry, and it's only my personal testimony, I don't know if it's beneficial So what you're saying is it's been extremely beneficial to you to turn everything off and set it aside so that you can have that time with the Lord. And that's part of the reason why we led this class today with the sown sweet hour of prayer. But yes. Yeah, Carrie. Although this this theme I agree with what's what's been discussed and the other element is that I fear that especially with the more that's given to us with this technology, AI, media that's working bombarded with. And also we don't stop and think and meditate. And I think we're you know, you just like anything you're I I think we're losing part of that part. In some ways I'm sure uh uh chat and GTP and all this stuff can need you to meditate on something that you hadn't thought of before. And I certainly like you said, I'm a YouTuber, right? It's it's a lot of times it tells me how You know, if I'm looking at something, I don't have the instruction for it. It's on you typically it's on YouTube, so I don't think he's got that. But I actually think that Like re like Zion was saying, reading the Bible, thinking on it, meditating on it, takes time. Yeah, and uh you know that brings us back to uh there's two things I want to say. One is thank you. I appreciate you guys being transparent with your lives All of you. And I I think that it's important to remember that God has for us, God will meet us where he needs to meet us. That's going to happen You know, there are times in in Scripture where God just kind of walked up and had a conversation. There's other times when when God was just like two by four to the forehead. You know, and if God needs to do that in your life, He will do that in your life. And that looks like a lot of different things in different people's lives. There are times when God says, no, you're going to have heart surgery today, so that you'll take time and memorize this word ahead of your heart surgery. By the way, that was an earlier example that happened in the class. Heart surgery is in the past. Don't worry about that. Um the there's And and that that's important to hold on to. The other thing I want to say is the verses to today get to this whole idea, especially Ecclesiastes 12, 12. My son, beware of anything beyond these of making many books, there is no end, and much study is a weariness of the flesh. And the reason why I've got that verse up there is that the internet, in case you haven't noticed, is big. It's really big. It was big back in the day when Yahoo was the main search engine. And it hasn't slowed down. Um some of you guys are like, what's Yahoo? So um and I enjoyed that. Uh but the point here is There is no end of study, is what the author of Ecclesiastes says. And it's weariness. There's an appropriateness to say, okay, it's enough. I don't have to continue looking for the next YouTube video. And that's something I need to preach to myself. By the way, in case you didn't know, You can go into your profile on YouTube, and this is true for a lot of these things, and it'll tell you how many hours this past week you spent on YouTube And if you're a YouTuber like me, that might be a good experiment to go and take a look at. It will be telling. It will be honest. And for well, I will say that if you're the kind of guy like me that turns on YouTube in the background to be music and you're not really watching it, that's not necessarily fair. But If you're tap and scroll, tap and scroll, tap and scroll, kind of user of YouTube or any of these other platforms, they will tell you, you just gotta ask Chat GPT, they'll tell you how to do it Well the iPhone tells you it's a few years. And an iPhone which yeah, oh anywhere. Alright. Cool. Yeah. iPhone will let you know. If you're like, oh, I only spent a few minutes a day, check that out. And it'll tell you that you actually spent this past week 14 hours or something like that on YouTube. And you'll be shocked. Because that 14 hours, just think about what you could do. And let's remind ourselves in what we've seen as we look at our time budget When we take out all the things I got to do, the part of my day that I have left for discretionary things is not very big. And if your YouTube says you went on it for 14 hours, that's what you've been doing with your discretionary time. And you should ask yourself, is this how I want to spend my days? Because, as Ecclesiastes says, it is weariness of the flesh. The first five minutes might be refreshing, but YouTube is really good at saying. Want a little more? I got a little more for you. That was good, right? How about this one? Yeah. First one was free. This one has an ad, but it's a short ad. You can click past it. Don't worry. Yes. Yes. So uh um I think it was And I think I've been kind of going through once, twice, because there's some aspects in that book that I've been kind of a little difficult for me to understand. And I I feel like I kind of glossed over that verse right there. Sometimes I'll go through a chapter that's a little complicated. And I'll go online and look up commentaries and there's a lot of commentaries. I'm trying to find okay I need to find a commentary that's also coming from a trust for resource, but there's a lot of them. I think something that maybe I need to work on is first doing some research and finding. Like first before going into quiet time is finding sources that they're I know or that are trustworthy and then I can you know maybe what I like first focus on studying the chapter and then you know Maybe it's good to have commentaries to kind of assist, but um I'm so glad that you uh had that verse up there. Yeah, I'm so glad you brought that up. And I will tell you um I've read the Bible a bunch of times. I've studied it a bunch of times. I've taught parts of it. And I can't tell you the number of times when I come to a passage or a book of the Bible and go, oh, I've studied that before. And really in-depth studied that before. This should be easy. And God at that point takes me on a journey to help me understand the riches and the depth and the glory of God's Word. And I repent, I take it for granted so many times. And to my shame, I'm just like, God, why do I continue to underestimate the riches and depth of your word? But I will say this. It's accessible by itself. There may be some hard passages, but the most important commentary first is to pray and ask God's Spirit to show you what's going on And you can trust that commentary. And Scripture comments on Scripture. And so that's your second best commentary on Scripture. And There are people, you know, here at church that you can trust, not all of them. What I mean by that is we all Thanks. We all make mistakes. We can make honest mistakes too. And so we gotta be careful about Yeah. You know, and even with good commentaries all right. Woo. Um, you can leave that in. The fact is is even with good commentaries they say things you can't trust because they're people And even the best men at are men at best. Um and so, you know I remember a a good Bible teacher who said that he filled his library up with all kinds of commentaries, even commentaries for people who we wouldn't agree with as church people because they were really good at taking apart the Greek or the Hebrew. Their conclusions might be wrong, but their their scholar s uh their research Yeah, the what the really gets down to the truth about the raw the raw truth nuggets, but where they go after that is wrong. And even in that, God's going to give you grace and wisdom. Anyway, I said that to you, but I really said that to the class. It's important for us to Remember the riches of God's Word. And the number of times when I've read something and the Holy Spirit is drawing my attention to something. and missing other things, and then the next thing I go, the Holy Spirit draw my attention to something else because of what's going on in my life or a conversation that I just had is sweet and to his glory. Whew! Let's get a little bit of um, let's bring this together because we don't have all day today. Um and I want to manage the time well that we have left. So we talked a little bit about benefits. We talked a little bit. We had some ideas, and I just want to make sure that I bring this kind of together because I want to speak to the dangers of technology with respect to our busyness And we've already talked a little bit about this. And I want to just remind us that these things are not absolutes. There's benefits and there's dangers. And so what that means, and just this is that truism across the top, what that means is God's put toys in our hands in all this technology, and we need to be good stewards of it. We need to own it and be grown-ups about when we say yes and when we say no. Um technology can consume our time. I spend all my day at work, but that's what they're paying me to do. Right? I Spend, you know, but then I come home and I'm on Hope Book, I'm on email, I'm on digital commentaries, right? My computer has my Bible on it. I'm taking my notes on my computer And and on and on it goes. I am I'm connected to that a lot. I also do watch YouTube. Not only that, I stream videos. You know, I've got more than one streaming service that's connected to my house that I'm paying for. And and stuff like that. So there's a lot of things that can consume my time I do not have a Facebook app or connected. I don't have Marco Polo or Twitter or any of those other social medias for a couple of reasons. But one is people have told me how much time it consumes I don't have time for it. Um the number of access points That we have in our lives. The last time I taught this class was eight years ago. I didn't have a doorbell connected to the internet then I may have had a flip phone. I think I had one email address then. And now it's just ballooned. And it requires wisdom to know when and how to manage all of that and to keep it appropriate. Because in all that ballooning of stuff, I still have 24 hours today. Doug, can I ask a question? Yes, I don't do you think that the challenges with managing all of these digital access points is really different from when people started um having access to you know a lot of information about like in books, I mean actual books in the news paper. I'm asking that because I'm thinking of the fact that I think scripture seems to allude to the fact that there really isn't anything new. Maybe the manifestation of it is new with each generation, but really different isn't it. So what do you think? That the struggles that we have with making sure that we put all these things in the rightful places Different than people who lived uh what's a good question. Um anybody want to answer that question for Henry? What is is the struggle we have today with technology the same as back in the day when the printing press was involved and invented? I'm going to use an extreme example, right? Or when the Yeah, go ahead Well I think the underlying struggle is the same. The way it manifests is different. What do you mean by the way it manifests is different? I think it's I think The rate of information coming in is much faster. Okay. And so But underneath it all, it's like, okay, we're still just getting distracted with things that we shouldn't be getting distracted with, whether it's like I'm gonna talk to my friend. Uh you know, while I'm I don't know I don't know anything about agriculture, right? But like or I'm on my phone. Either way those are still like a bit distracted. Or I'm going to care too much about about things and take up too much onto myself, whether or not that's, you know I have neighbors coming over and talking to me or someone's shooting me a text of like, you should care about this thing and it's like, I don't know. I I just feel like underneath it all, the struggles are always Yeah, that that's a pretty cool idea. Um people don't change and there's nothing new under the sun But the volume of what we have access to has gone up tremendously. You know, back in if I can just stretch this back to the little bit of n history knowledge that I have Back when Benjamin Franklin was around, people struggled to build libraries. But they did. And nowadays, we've got multiple libraries just in our county. And we go down to the library, and we don't even have to go to the library anymore because I've got tons of stuff, boom, available on my phone or on my computer at a snap. Um so the volume is much different. But the end that I like what you said because you know it's in the um I may get this wrong. Uh I believe it's in uh One of the epistles that Paul wrote was talking to women who said, I don't want them to be busybodies, but I want them to be focused on their work. And your example of stopping what I'm doing to go talk to somebody would have been an example back in the day of being potentially busybodies Whereas now that's made available through, you know, all these different apps and stuff like that. Yeah. I want to echo that. I think this the the principle is the same. There's a couple of verses that came to mind. One was Paul in Athens said where they spent their whole day doing nothing but uh telling or hearing something new. Yeah. Does that sound like social media or whatever. Yeah. Um There's uh another scripture that talks about always learning but never able to come to understanding of the truths of taking in information but understanding. And I guess I I looked at this and I said, well technology is simply a tool. It's a tool like a car. You can misuse a car by being driving recklessly and kill people. Or you can spend all your time driving the car and not whatever And to me, this chapter took me back to as followers of Jesus, what are our priorities? We're using every tool, whether it's the car or the house or the internet or whatever, to meet the priorities. So the tool should be employed to achieve the priorities that the Lord has given to us. Well said. Well said. Yes. I do agree that over time we can still be distracted by different things. Back in the day, it could have been something else. We were just choosing those things over time of price for our priorities. But with social media and phones, it just it feels sneakier. It's like we're not at pain like, oh wow, I just wasted this time scrolling so easily when I should have been doing XY. It almost feels like the Satan is using it to take our steal our time that feels so easier. Yes, there's a really good book in a bibliography. Um it's uh about multitasking. By Dave Crenshaw, The Myth of Multitasking, How Doing It All Gets Nothing Done. If you want to add that to your Kindle and read it when you get a spare moment. Yeah, that was kind of tongue-in-cheek. Um are you sure you don't want to buy a hard copy? Yeah, maybe you want to buy a hard copy so you can read it at the beach. Um Jessica, quickly. Um I think along with what Tenta was saying. Well she was saying I really like the word that you said about how technology feels sneaky. Yeah, along with technology. Right, along with it being sneaky I think there are certain ways where social media is actually designed to hold your attention. Yes. And like you like you have to go back to it and you have to see what what's new or how many people liked your thing or s Satan's always been that way. Yeah. Yeah. And so um I'm I'm thinking about like me before before I smart quoted after. And before, like I was one of those kids who was who got out of bed and was like sneaking by s thinking up to what I like to read. Yes. Your paper copy. Yeah. And so there was that where I was like choosing to do something oversleeping. But it didn't have necessarily that same like compulsory like itch like, oh I gotta I gotta check, I gotta get up, I gotta see, gotta connect other people. Yeah. Um it's easy when I was and that's important to hold on to. Um people have studied and are very carefully engineering games and media to hold our attention You know, uh whether it you know, all all of it. All of it is designed to, wouldn't you like a little bit more? You know, oh, you're j you're pretty close to your next achievement. and stuff like that. If I just sit here for five more minutes, maybe I can. And that's that's a trap. Be careful about that. It can make it easy to lose track of time, but it also can make it easy to get addicted to it Um it also can make it easy for us to be lazy and hold on one second. Um And I would say this as well, and it's implied, I think, in what you said and has been said, it's easier for us to get lied to. And this is really important to hold on to, in that uh beware of what you take for face granted on the internet. Yes? I was just gonna say in why think of how sneaky technology can be a good question to ask ourselves when we're on technology is Am I using this as a tool or as a toy? And if I'm using it as a toy, is now the moment for that. That's a really good way to put that, yes. Is now the right uh is this is this now entertainment? And did I budget entertainment now? So that can even be just consuming the news too. can turn into entertainment. And another way of thinking about that is this the best thing for me right now. Because yeah. Jessica. Quick side note I was told I think by That you can actually set time limits on your social media so that it goes, Oh, your twenty minutes is up, time to get off. Oh, I don't want that. If you do if you do like this is my time to relax, take a phrase and check check my things, so check the message friends, you can do that, and then it tells you, oh, your time is when it's done, so that you do have a a break, a rec to read, have fun Or whatever. And then oh, time limit is up, timeline, get back to your priorities. Yeah, and having rest is important. And for us it may be that our rest is I just want to watch the synapse the synopsis of that thing. Or at the ten best of those things. Or something like that. I just want to watch that thing and then be done with it. Uh and it takes discipline. And sometimes it's really hard discipline to go, you know what, that other thing is too much. And I'm going to stop now. Um yes. I was just this is just a note. This is just my personal shame, but I have found one of the things I've been struggling with is rest frequently. I struggle with insomnia. And I've just noticed for myself how much more restful it is when I'm not reading on a device, but reading on an actual like book and just getting away from technology. I find for myself that when I've devoted this time for rest and I'm not on technology, my rest is so much more efficient So being away from technology helps you to rest more. Jessica and I would say, nope, I've stayed up until two in the morning reading a book before. But yes. Yes, I I I agree. And I would say from my experience in that is if I go to bed and I don't start watching the first YouTube video That I can usually fall asleep right away. But if I watch the first one, I'll watch three more after that. And a lot of time has gone by Um we've already talked about the last thing. Hey, so this is a lot of stuff. What are we going to do with ourselves based on all this information? We talked about how, you know, the internet is You know, has a lot of pros to it. We can be in touch with people. I know some people who multi who are actually like cleaning the house and having a conversation with somebody on their phone at the same time And it actually helps them get stuff done more. Because this task doesn't require my brain very much, and I can sit here and do this thing while I'm having a conversation. There's good things that come from it. I wouldn't be able to have a conversation with so-and-so if it weren't for. I wouldn't know this thing if I couldn't. But at the same time, I don't need to know everything I don't have to see all those videos. I don't have to play the game and get that last thing. I don't have to follow All those people on FaceChat and Marco Snap or whatever it's called. Right? I would say potentially one thing to consider, and we mentioned this at the beginning, maybe it's time to take a short digital test. Just disconnect. You heard some examples at the beginning of the class about what that might look at like. I would also strongly recommend that you create a plan. Make a schedule. And if your schedule says 20 minutes at this time of day It's gonna be my I'm gonna go crazy if I don't, or I'm exhausted time, and this is just gonna put my brain out of that gear To be ready to go into that gear, then maybe that's the right thing to do. But that's you setting your boundaries, deciding what's right for you, and implementing that. And and knowing when to say, no, stop, it's enough. Um no, I don't have time for that. Brian Yeah, so um I was listening to Jess that she brought up the sneakiness, right? And so I was thinking 1 Peter 5. 8, you know, our adversary the devil is raised in us So there's some sneakiness that he wants to pounce. He doesn't want us to be focused on who we're supposed to be focused on. At the same time, God is sovereign over everything that's called order, even sovereign over that sneakiness. He's allowing some of that sneakiness to happen. Why? Because he's testing us He wants to see if we're taking all this wisdom that we've been getting from God's Word and actually going to apply it at that time that God wants I mean Satan wants to mess up what you're doing So he's giving it an opportunity to look at that sneakiness and say, oh, I'm not supposed to be focused on that. I need to turn it off because I've been ordered for four and a half hours Or turn it off, get get away from it and focus on something that's glorifying God. Even if these things are maybe glorifying either focus on that thing too much. Let's get to the point that it's not really beneficial. Yeah, I would say too. Thanks. It's that's a really good way to put it, Brian. If it's not beneficial Take ownership of it. And you decide. You know, um it can we already talked about this. If you can't moderate This would be important to evaluate yourself. If you can't moderate, if it's too hard for you to say no once you start. Potentially, what you should do is quit altogether. Take the op off your phone. You know, back in the day, I started playing Minecraft. And I had to just turn it off and delete it from my phone because I couldn't stop building my virtual world. And it was just like, wow, this has been a lot of time. And I just had to delete it. And so, you know, if YouTube gets to be too much trouble and it owns me, I should probably delete that. Um, you know, 1 Corinthians 6 talks about everything is lawful for me, but not everything is profitable. And I'm not going to be mastered by anything. And that's really important for us to take to heart and evaluate. Is your fill in the blank media Just using that as a generic term, right? Owning you, or are you owning it? Because if it's owning you, you need to take measures. That's really important. Um the uh the quote There's a quote here from it that I have in the notes from Tim Chester from a book called The Busy Christian's Guide to Busyness. He says, I used to think my busyness problem was temporary. I was just busy at that moment, but it wouldn't last. Somewhere over the rainbow, my life would slow down. This month was busy, but next month looked better, and my diary for the month after that was almost empty. But of course, a couple months down my the line my diary had filled like like every other month Things don't change of their own accord. Working a bit harder to get ahead doesn't work either. There are Other pressures going on that will fill time as soon as we create it, like dry sand falling back into a hole while we frantically dig faster. The fact is, if you want to tackle your busyness, you will need to make deliberate choices That's a pretty good book, by the way. So the homework is to read chapter eight First of all, the homework is to read chapter 8. I recommend it because chapter 8 is talking about rest. It talks about Sabbath and taking a break. And for many of us, that's really important to evaluate when and how we rest. And some of you guys are going to be taking a di a break from your digital devices this week and social media or something like that if that's appropriate. And so you're going to have lots of extra time. I want to also recommend, if you hadn't had a chance, look at the class notes. In the appendix B, in the class notes, and they're on Hope Book, if you hadn't had a chance to look, there are a whole pile of scripture references That deal with busyness. Glance through that. If there's something there that as you're looking through it, you're like, oh, this is for me. Take that and meditate on it this week. Consider how that might apply to your life. So that's really two things, right? The one thing about digital fast, that's elective on you. But the other two, read chapter 8 and look at Appendix B in the notes. Take a look at those two things. Evaluate uh them for your life and be ready. I'm so looking forward to and there this book has a lot of really good things for us to consider, but this next chapter about rest I think is unique to the to the book Um so I'm looking forward to teaching that. And um let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, I'm