All right, I think we're recording. Um how real quick, how was your week this past week? Who said busy? Oh yeah. Alright, so we got some busy people in the back of the room. Uh I just want to amen that. You know, um every now and then I feel like God hits you with the irony stick. Yeah, that happened to me this past week. You know what the topic is for today? Resting. Wow. This was an anti-week for me. You know, sometimes pastors talk about don't preach on patience or trials because God's going to show you what it means. This past week was God showing me what it meant to not rest. It felt like it was a very busy week for me. And so I can relate and amen. I took some time off last week, so I decided I would make those hours up at work this week to start things off on a good note and just to keep things rolling. And then we signed up to watch our grandkids this p this past weekend, which has its own advantages and enjoys and busyness. And there were some other things too that were tossed in there that uh obligations. Obligations that we had signed up for that we had said yes to that we couldn't change. And so there was a series of things that brought us to a very busy week this week. And it was probably about Thursday where it was a crazy busy week for us. You know what comes after crazy busy? So you you're busy, then you're crazy busy. You know what comes after crazy busy? Crying busy It was a week. Um so it's good today to start off singing it as well to remember that God establishes peace in our hearts, that there are weeks that we have in our lives that can be crazy busy and even bring us to the point or bring us all the way into crying busy. Um but God still restores peace to our soul. This verse that we're looking at today to focus our minds on what it is that we're talking about is Psalm 3 verse 5. I remember the first time when I saw this verse. I was working through memorizing Psalms, and I got to this verse, and I was memorizing this verse, and I'm like, wow There's powerful truth in I lay down and slept. I woke again, for the Lord sustains me. And some of the other translations say, I will lay down and sleep in peace, for you alone, Lord, make me dwell in safety. And those concepts tied together in in this week remind me that I can set aside the cares the worries, the things that make me busy, even make me crazy busy, and rest, knowing that God's going to care for me and take care of me Even in this verse, I picture David is surrounded by armies, but even in that situation David knows I can take a break, I can lay down, I can sleep. It doesn't matter that Saul is chasing me. It doesn't matter that Absalom is about to come after me because God makes me dwell in safety. And when you're in a moment and you have deadlines and you have sports events and you have small group and you have obligations with dinner and you have Parents to take care of and you have grandchildren to take care of and children that need this and that and maybe you have homework that's due and things that you didn't get to today. And it's important to remember, you can lay down and sleep in peace. And let's just say for grins and giggles that you get to the time Where it comes time to lay down and sleep in peace, and you close your eyes and they spring right back open because your heart rate can't slow down. If you know what I'm trying to describe. It's very important at that time to challenge God in the truth of this verse, to respectfully come before him and say, God, you said that I can lay down and sleep in peace. I'm not feeling peace right now. I have a burden that I need to trust you with so that I can set it aside and rest. And sometimes I have seen God, when I wake up the next day, take care of my concern. We needed to have our backyard taken care of this past week. I had my lawnmower, my gas-powered lawnmower, fail um and not start It's the one that I usually use because I don't mind if it gets all dirty and nasty in the backyard and chop through sticks and things like that. Um I couldn't get it started, so that meant that our grass had gotten kind of deep And we're contemplating hiring a contractor to come out there and I got some sticker shock and I'm like, I'll get that lawnmower started Did I have time to go out there and fuss with the carburetor on my lawnmower? No. And Diane graciously brought it up at small group, and I had two guys from small group say, we'll come over tomorrow. And I was taken care of And there's aspects in that story to remember and hold on to is that we get to a place where we think, I gotta fix this thing, and if I just stayed up for another hour, or if I just Pull the all-nighter. I'll get this stuff taken care of, and I'll be good. I'll dig out from underneath this hole I find myself in, and it'll be all right tomorrow. Yes, let's go But sometimes in the midst of that, God wants to show you that He's provided for you a way out. Sometimes God wants to demonstrate His goodness In allowing somebody else to love you and for you to set aside the thought that I've got to solve this problem in my own strength, in my own way, and I'll just get to it Just pull a little harder. And God might be saying to you, actually know right now, my child, who I love, I need you to take a break. I need you to rest, and I need you to remember who I am, I'm God, and you're not. And that's kind of what today's lesson is about. It's about taking time to rest. Um and The question that I have for us is, and this is not rhetorical, um, what do you do to rest? What do you do to rest? Take a nap. Take a nap. Yeah, yeah, fantastic. Just take a nap. How long's your nap be? Yeah, too long. Got work to do, I gotta get back to it. I can't take any more than what, twenty minutes. Now I gotta get back to it. Sure. Maybe five minutes. Yeah. I got you. I know both that I know the feeling of I took too long a rest afterwards. Yes. Yeah, yeah. So you got you got two things you're taking care of. You've got to have somebody to play ping pong with because it's no fun to hit it off the wall, you know, and and it puts you in a position where you get to enjoy them, you get to enjoy little activity. And you diffuse a little bit from the pressure. And sometimes I watch YouTube videos to just diffuse from the pressure. Yeah. And and that can be restful. But I can take too long a rest doing YouTube So ping pong you got nice boundary, you say, you know, yeah. I learned that pickleball is a lot like ping pong. This this summer I played pickleball for the first time. I was just like, this isn't like tennis, this is like ping pong. Yeah. That doesn't need to be in the recording. My comment on pickleball. What else? What do you guys do to rest? Yes. So journaling removes your stress. It puts it out in front of you a little bit. Yeah. Anyone else journal and find that relaxing? Okay. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And um yeah, you're not the only people I know um somebody very close to me that loves the journal. And um There is a aspect of behind it's kind of like for me it feels like it's right back here. It's like hanging on my shoulders almost That little bit of anxiety. And I can picture that that putting it out somewhere just helps to see it. It's not that big scary anymore. It's just that thing that you wrote down on paper. Yeah. That's really cool. Anyone else? Yeah, Brian. Go to the beach to rest. Yeah. Yeah. And for me, going on the beach doesn't mean that I put one foot in the water. No, I can I can stand back in the house, look at the beach, and I'm like, cool, I went to the beach, and that's Russell. Reading Yeah. The human interest side of of the newspaper. Okay, cool, yeah. So um I can tell you uh that I also find rest in reading God's Word. But I will say this as well. When I first sit down to God's Word, it is not restful. My flesh fights against me when I first sit down in time of prayer or in the Bible and it's like, nah, that's not going to be restful. You don't even need to do that. Go watch some more YouTube videos and that'll be good for you. What is that inside of my spirit that I have to fight against every single day? But after I've been there for a minute, I'm like, oh yeah, this is good food. This is really good for what my spirit needed But it takes a fight to get there. It feels like somehow there's still a two year old inside of me that you know uh All right. But I really, when it gets down to to being restful, those are the kinds of things for me too. Thanks for sharing those things. There, you know, last week we talked about spending time on our devices and streaming. Did anybody take time away from that or think about that, be mindful about this this past week. So you were embarrassed at how much YouTube you've been watching. Yeah, there you go. Yeah, so you haven't watched YouTube since You found a way. That's hysterical. I love that story. Thank you. Yes. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Uh you gotta be careful though with that. So watching it while you do something else, at least for me, I gotta be careful, not you. Um Because you ever get to that point where, you know, you you finish up and you still have a little brownie left but the ice cream's all gone? You gotta get more ice cream. Yeah. If it comes if it comes at the end and you're like, my chore's done and you're still well or you're Video is done but you still got ch you gotta add some more in and anyway, I'm just speaking I don't know maybe from personal experience And so yes, I'm glad you're able to do that. I do the same thing too. In fact, for me, if I just raw looked at my YouTube usage, it wouldn't be fair because a lot of times I have YouTube on playing music in the background while I'm doing something else. You know, and stuff like that. And it would just count those minutes. Like I'm sitting there watching it, even though it's just music in the background. That's not fair. Anyone else? Thoughts? Wow. You got you uh brought back a whole hour this past weekend. Yes. You know what's weird? No, I'm I'm gonna get back to the class. Not gonna tell dog stories. Um, because I could do that a lot. And What'd you guys think about this chapter? This past week uh we did chapter eight. What'd you guys think about this chapter? Is it the one on rest? Yes. Yeah, that was a big shirt shift. Sorry. Not an easy transition. Chapter eight. What you guys think? And there you go. And this sh yeah, and this chapter says there's an appropriateness, but you're right. And there's something there that yeah, you don't need to feel bad about needing to take a nap. Yeah, there's a lot went in what you said that's worthwhile unpacking and the a and it danced around a lot of the things that the author was kind of putting and I like the way you coalesced that. Um Basically you said that and and if I understood you correctly there was two things you said. One is resting is an act of faith because of a number of reasons And also resting is something that God's designed us for because we're part of his creation. And yeah, that was powerful, those two thoughts together. And's anybody ever and this past week, did anybody have their windows open because of the temperature drop? Wasn't that nice? Did you ever notice the nighttime sounds different than the day? And the reason behind that, besides the fact that You know, people are m some people are resting. Um, but the reason behind that is because God's made creations so that the animals rest as well. I don't know if you've ever noticed this or not, but when it starts to when the sun starts to go down, you'll see a lot of birds going across the sky because they're going home. They're going back so they can rest If you go and you pay attention, there's nighttime animals and they're the ones that are making nighttime sound like it sounds like. There's daytime animals, and if you have an opportunity to be somewhere quiet where you can listen to it It sounds different because the daytime animals are awake. And just like those bits and pieces of creation have times of sleep And times of wakefulness, God's designed us for that as well. And He's put it in us. And there is an aspect of when I think I can burn a candle at both ends. There's an aspect there of thinking too highly of myself. And not remembering that I am dust and God is not. And when I start to think I can do, I can do, I can do, that starts to be a little bit like I'm trying to pretend too much like God Now I may have assigned when I said that that logical thread, maybe more than really responsibility than I should probably put on you, you know, each one of us individually. But underneath of that, if we think I can Because I can just stop sleeping today on forgetting that God's designed me for that rest. And one of the things the author said that I highlighted was, for some reason, God has designed it so that potentially a third of my life is unconscious. That sure seems wasteful But no, I mean that's what God set things up for. If we do that eight hours of sleep every night, boom, there goes a third of your life. And God seems good with that Not only does he seem good with that, he also said, Oh, and by the way, every seventh day, go ahead and take it off. And if you follow the history of the Sabbath in the Jewish nation It wasn't just once a week. There were festivals that happened a couple of times a year that were also called Sabbath. There was a Sabbath that happened on the seventh year Well you just sat back and you hoped to and waited and by faith you trusted that God was going to bring enough food on the sixth year so you didn't have to work the whole year. You just took the seventh year off and let the land lie fallow And let other people eat whatever happens then, right? And then on top of that, God said, oh yeah, and in the 50th year, bring your slaves They're going back to the, you know, just go for them. Let them go. You're a Jibilee. So God set up and knew and designed in creation In the law that he gave to Israel, rest and rest and rest. And there is an interesting little discussion that he has then. in the beginning of this chapter about Sabbath and how it applies to the church today. Anybody had any thoughts about that part of this book? So there yeah. So some people think the church, Christianity today, is still under a Sabbath restriction And so we need to take one day off. But now they also believe that has moved to Sunday because of Christ's resurrection. We need to take one day off and not work. And that's that's a restriction that applies to the church. Some people think that um Some people still do think that that restriction falls on Saturday. Um and some people think the Sabbath was fulfilled in Christ, and so uh we're in that rest now Um and some people think there's just freedom here in the midst of that. Um and that we can we're free to do whatever we want to. That part of the law was satisfied, it was a uh law that was for Israel and Christ said, no, it's it's made for man, not no. And and the things that were said, make it so that the Sabbath no longer applies. It's been fulfilled in Christ. um Christ fulfilled all the law. So there's viewpoints, Christians that you know we respect would share have some of these different viewpoints. And uh and that's what the author was bringing out. And after he kind of brought that out, he said, well, regardless of your viewpoint, there seems to be a pattern and instruction for us as believers, and God put in his word for rest. So I was just wondering if there were thoughts. If if there weren't, we can press on. Yeah. That's an interesting question and and you brought up the concept of Me time, here's a question for us as a class. What would be the difference between Sabbath and me time? Yes. Okay, you think me time is myself and Sabbath is community. Anybody else? Any other thoughts? So, okay, any other thoughts about the difference between me time and sabbath? Let's just test that real quick. What did God say the Israelites were to do on the Sabbath day? So keep it holy. What else? How do you why do you say mentally and physically? Now can I push you a little bit? Okay. Because the I think the difference between what you were saying and kind of what I was asking was And you're talking about how I rest, but the question was more about how did God command Israel to rest during the Sabbath And there's a difference there. And I agree with everything you said, but is there some added things that you want to put into that about what God said Israel was to do during their time of rest? So there is a aspect of setting it apart from holiness. There's also an aspect of resting. I'm not you're not to work. In fact, not even to light a fire And the model that you see while they're wandering in the wilderness, right, is God sets up manna. And how many days did they go out and get manna? Six days. And on the sixth day they would get twice as much And the seventh day you stay home. And there's an act of faith there that's wrapped up in that because the Israelites Knew, well they should have known. Right? They should have known that God's going to take care of them. He told them, first of all. And second of all, then for 40 years They saw that week after week after week reinforced. I don't have to work on the Sabbath. God's going to take care of me. That's a powerful lesson. And I think that lesson applies even for us in our rest. And I think it's really apropos to what we're talking about today. You don't need to work seven days out of the week. I think that it's safe to say God's going to provide for you so that you can rest. I want to be careful about being legalistic about how you celebrate your seventh day of the week. I do think there's liberty in there. I'm I'm tossing around in my head the idea of rest on the seventh day of the week in the sense of I can come to church from the first hour, from the second hour, okay I have fellowship with the saints, I have committed the Sabbath, but then at two o'clock it's time to go back to work. And so what is the what is the spirit of what we're supposed to take away in that if that makes sense because it it in reality we have a five-day work week But if you're at my house, Saturday just means you're working in the house. It's my day to cut the grass, it's my day to do and what I I guess I'm just wrestling with How do I keep it holy in the truest sense of what God is asking for? I don't know if I have that answer. I'm just kind of It's a really good question. You know what Jesus said in Mark chapter 2 He said the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. That's an important thing to hold on to. And I'm uh just one last thought And I'm going to just come right to you. A lot of us grew up in traditions around the Sabbath. And we need to think about What is God requiring and what am I carrying in from traditions in the past? I remember old friends of ours. I mentioned to them that after church I was going to help go home and cut the grass. And they went, You're cutting the grass on a Sabbath? And yeah, I love cutting the grass. That's really relaxing for me. I get so much joy and satisfaction out of cutting the grass. And um, you know, I asked in the beginning, how do you rest? Me, weeding the garden is really restful. For some of y'all, that's like drudgery. You wouldn't want to be out there in the bugs in the hot and stuff like that That's awful. You do it because you have to do it. And that's really important too in this lesson. We need to be careful about judging other people's rest. We talked about that a couple of weeks ago when we were talking about obligations and stuff like that. I'm sorry, did I Steal away anything that you wanted to say? Yeah, and you know, there are people who um and and I experienced this this past week. I had to finish I had to go do a certification that was required for work And I had to do that on my own time. And so that stole some of my not working time, right? There are people who are business owners and it's hard for them to get away from work. And let's just be honest, um there are moms who uh who are at home and oftentimes for them Sunday doesn't look any different than Saturday or Wednesday. And There's an aspect thereof um aren't uh we need to make sure that we're giving opportunity for those people who are caring for others, whether it be your children or like this grandchildren thing, or let's say you're you know you're watching your you've got to take care of your parents, which from time to time happens. There's We need to consider where our rest is coming from in the midst of that. That's really important. I'm going to change direction just a little bit. Is it um is work bad or is leisure bad? Yes. No. Yeah, well what should you do? I mean should you be working more or should be having leisure more? I love leisure. The retired people in the room are speaking up right now. Alright, there you go. Work God instituted work before sin came into the world And also rest or legislate if you want to call it that before sin came into the world. So neither one is bad in and of itself. There you go. And I would add on top of that, you know, there's a right amount there's a right amount of rest and there's a right amount of work. And we need to be be very careful as we think about this And consider it. Because we want to be good stewards of the time that we have. You know, Ephesians 8, I'm sorry, Ephesians 2, verses 8 to 10, talks about how grace is a gift from God that's free And then it says, it goes on to say, that God has saved us for the purpose of good works that he prepared for us before the foundation of the world. And so God has prepared for every one of us work to do. He saved you so you could get to work. He took Adam and Eve and He made them and put them in the garden to work. And you know, if you go to Proverbs chapter 6, it says, go to the ant, oh sluggard, consider her ways and be wise. Get to work. It doesn't have to have somebody over top of it, right, saying get to work, because it just goes and works. Yeah, go ahead. I was just gonna say I don't think it we struggle with shouldn't work. I think we struggle with is what is our work. We tend to do all the work and attribute it to ourselves whether that's one of the Ps we talked about earlier chapters, or um we're just trying to walk worthy But it's the balance of knowing what's our lane, what is our work, what has God called us to today. Wow. Yeah, that's a really good observation. Yeah. So what's my work today and how do I stay focused on that? In fact, you know, there's a aspect of that in a today kind of perspective But there's also a longer-term vision about how that is true for my life as well. Because let's just say long-term vision, I've got a big project that I'm working on That probably means I've got to be eating at that all ahead of time so that when that comes actually due, I'm prepared for it to be done. And I'm not trying to cram it into the last period of time to get that thing done. And you're right, there's a lot of planning and thinking that needs to go into that about what it is that I have in front of me. And I wish I could just say, oh, easy, A, B, and C. Because it's going to be different for every one of us in what God has prepared for us to do. And that's really important for us to be prayerful and mindful about what God has for us. What's the gifting that God has for me? What's the thing that God wants me to work on and be focused on that and not the other thing? Remember that we talked about the week where we talked about obligation And in that chapter, the author was talking about how we can be in positions where we are doing these things because we feel like we have to And I think the author in that chapter, and I may be laying some things on top of what he said, may have been saying, well, is it really Is that really the thing that you need to do, or is that really outside your lane? Are you absorbing onto yourself and your schedule things that people are putting on your schedule for you? Or things that aren't really necessary for you to do, because those things will eat into your time. And I saw that this past week for me. Yeah. I don't know that I answered your question, but I think it was a really good observation Any other thoughts from the room? Yeah. And you know there's a story in the Bible, the factual historical story in the Bible, about how the Israelites were starving inside the siege of their city and the next day their bread was being sold for pen. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. And you know, God's big. Who are we who are we the night before when we're starving? Like are we still blessing God? Are we still loving God? Are we still like knowing that He's gonna provide? And then we we wake up the next morning like being like, I knew you would. There you go. Facts. Facts. Uh okay. This is really good class. Um but I just want to make sure that I I got a lot of stuff here and I want to make sure that I treat what I need to treat. Do to do to do. I mentioned that. We're good with that. Oh. You know what? There's times in our lives though. I'll just say this. Let's be honest. There are times in our lives where There's a newborn in the house and you're up all the time. There's times in our lives, let's just say um you're a medical professional And you're pulling long swings, right? Or you you got the weekend with your grandkids. Or let's just say, you know There are times when we don't get to rest, and God's going to provide for that as well. And those things are outside our control. And we've got to depend on God for strength in those situations too. If I gotta work, you know, I gotta pull eights and you know, eight on and eight off and stuff like that. I've done that before, but I can't do that for very long before I start seeing weird things. Um But I know people who do that and God strengthens them to do that. And um I just wanted to mention, you know, that's not the norm, but there's times when God calls us to that. And just to understand that that's for a period of time. God really has designed us for rest and I do want to recognize that caffeine is not the solution. It's not. It can be helpful for a small period of time too. Um God really has designed us for a pattern of rest. And I I like to compare this to our budget. Right. God has in his wisdom given us all an income. And it's important for us to live inside the boundaries that God has given us. Because those Boundary lines that God has given for us are in pleasant places. And one of those boundary lines that God has given us is 24 hours in a day. And in the midst of that, God has said, and you need to rest. And so what does that mean for us? And now I'm getting back to the question, what does that mean for us? when we have 24 hours in a day and we have 36 hours of to-do, it could mean that we got to depend on community. It could mean I gotta say no to some of those things that are on my to-do. Because just like if my if my income is ten dollars and I'm spending twenty dollars a month, there's a problem there. Right? To use simple math, right? And if my day is 24 hours, but I'm trying to do 48 hours worth of things, I'm not reconciling my budget. And we've got to do something there. Something's got to happen. Because there's no hour nobody's getting extra hours. Go. And can we just not can can can I give you permission to not compare yourself to other people's strengths? Because just because somebody else, or even the Puritans, could go with not much sleep, doesn't mean that that's God's requirement for your life. That's okay. Yeah, find your rest, find your strength, and operate in that. That's really important. There are days when Things are firing, they're clicking, and I'm like I'm seeing things happen and I'm like, yes, I woke up with empty hands today and God filled me up and I'm I just knocked out three things. Yes, let's go. That probably means I can take on three more things. And that might have been more than I should have done. Anyway, um there is a rightness in what we can do. And I like to Me personally, I like to create lists and make sure that I've thought about what's on those lists and also recognize that each one of those things on the list is not the same size thing. Because I can get three things done as long as those three things might be the same size small thing. But the reality is I can only get part of one big thing done. And so we need to recognize that too, because there are some times when our lists are overly optimistic. Let's just say it like that. What I mean by that is um you know my list could be get the dishes done and vacuum the room and you know that's my list But it could be too that my list is build a deck. Oh, build a deck and re-roof the house. How hard could it be, right? Just go buy some shingles, it'll be done. And uh But the reality is that's a thing I should have broken down into a lot smaller task. And we do that to ourselves sometimes. Today I'm gonna write a book It's just you know a couple chapters. Words. They just come out, right? Yeah, Brian. So uh Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Chester wants to add but take back a little on that, God gave Paul the strength to be Paul Yeah. In the sense of the gifts that you have, I can do all things through Christ. Yeah, it's a people for it to be me. And so to your point of not comparing Uh there's a preacher he used to be the pastor of the Claim Bible Church and I would listen to him before he got there and he had like five degrees. Yeah. David Plan had like six degrees. He was my age And I was listening to him preaching like that's just not fair. I I I I I think as Shelby said it's it's it's meant to be part of the body You be you in your piece in the body, so that the body is not meant to be five different chesters. Yeah. It's meant to be one chester with everyone else equipped to be themselves. Again, so that guy would get the glory out of the effort that you bring to the table that you can put to him that he could put you to bring. Do you ever along those lines, do you ever s notice what Paul says about Timothy? He says, Timothy's coming to you and I want you to take care of him. He doesn't have to say that for anybody else, but he says, I want you to take care of him because he knows who Timothy is. And that little statement there, I think, implies a lot about even with respect to Paul and Timothy on their gifting and who they are. Nobody had to say, Paul's coming to you, make sure you take care of Paul. Right? Yeah, Paul's coming to you. You best be ready. Right. Uh and and Paul basically said that to the Corinthians. I'm I'm coming and y'all better get ready, because here it is Um but when it comes to Timothy, he's like, yeah, uh please take care of Timothy. Um which Is it is both a tender thing and a recognition that we're all different in who we are and what we're doing. Um it's gone. Any other thoughts on that? Okay, cool Okay, well, that seems like Just itself uh just very wisely uh gives boundaries to responsibility in looking at one day and to not be anxious about tomorrow, but to really wisely use your intellect to think through well what is what is reasonable for today And don't be anxious about it. Don't think about tomorrow if there's still 12 hours of that 36 hours. But but just to to focus and compartmentalize on being faithful for one day at a time Yeah, that's a really good thing. Thank you for that, Kurt. Um tomorrow will take care of itself. And there's also, you know, in the midst of everything that we're doing and ordering our lives and ordering things, in in the In that realm, there's an appropriateness in saying this is tomorrow's job, not today's job. And maybe in the journaling that we do to help settle our hearts down, that means that I'm just going to write down and remind myself that that's tomorrow, and I don't need to worry about that now. I can set that aside. Um I I got to mention this And I don't know that I need to say this too much for this class. Too much rest is not good either. Too much rest is not good. I mean we already kind of said this. And I think that we kind of know this already in this room. Just be be be aware of that. For me, what that looks like And I've kind of implied this last week and this week too. And that is, if I start streaming something or I start playing a game or something like that, it turns into more. And for me that's that turns into too much rest Um and I know for some people that need a nap, they set an alarm and help themselves to know when it's time to to finish up resting. Anybody familiar with the Pomodoro technique? Okay, it's a fancy name. Okay, cool. One other person. Basically what it is, and I'm gonna I'm gonna give a real quick description. What it is is it's setting up periods of intense work for yourself with periods of intense rest in between. So you work hard for thirty minutes with a timer And at the end of that 30 minutes you set a five minute timer and you give yourself five minutes to go, oh I just dreaded for 30 minutes, right? At the end of that five minutes, you reset the timer for five minutes and you're off to the races again. And it is a way of getting work accomplished and focusing. That's even a way of trying to work through your day. You've got to predicate that with having a good list at the start of your day So that you can work and you don't have to ask yourself, what do I do in my next thirty minutes? Stuff like that. So anyway, somebody put their hand up. Yes, so you're not allowed to have a little sleep. You gotta have less than that. What are you doing sleeping? Poverty is knocking at your door. No, uh Yeah And the author talked about that a little bit too in a chapter. I thought that was uh that's really good. But there is a reminder there in the sense of Too much rest is tr is trouble waiting to happen. Um there's a right time to take vacation. There's a right time and a right way to recharge our batteries And we started the class off by asking the question. One of the things I hope you guys recognized is the way I rest is different than the way you rest. Some of us need to go to the beach to really unwind and rest. Some of us, you know, you need that. And and that's good. And I I will just be honest, I can't take a nap. I wake up ugly after a nap. And and my head is I can't see straight. I'm just like stupid and weird after a nap. But uh sorry. I said I wasn't gonna tell dog stories and there it is. Um but that's the reality and the picture there that I want us to hold on to is that we all rest at the And in the midst of our dizziness, um we need to be mindful of the sense that our bodies need refreshing. Anybody go to the gym and work out And then you've got that little rest time and before you can work out again. Sometimes it's about 30 seconds, maybe sixty seconds. Yes. Thank you. Where you you know you lift, lift, lift, you gotta have thirty or sixty seconds. Then you get back to it. You lift lift lift again, right You need that break to refresh yourself so you can get back into it again. Sometimes our rest, and the point I'm trying to make is sometimes our rest is quick and short to be able to get ourselves right back into it Sometimes it's all night. I just gotta go down for the night. I'll be back up tomorrow morning. Um just mind be mindful of that. Uh too much we A we need rest. B too much rest We don't need that. And the final thing is uh your rest for you is going to be rest for you. Just watch that. Um you know Jesus w when do we see an example of Jesus resting In the boat. I will bet you I will bet you also that you saw Jesus resting on the Sabbath, because he obeyed the law. Where in scripture do we see Jesus resting on the Sabbath? Scripture didn't have to say it. Jesus did rest. Even though you know people like to trot out the examples of look, he slept, he spent all night in prayer. He was up early. He was doing these things. There's times for us to get up early. There are times for us to spend a long period of time in prayer. But the implication is in Scripture we need to rest. There's a book I'll wrap it up with this. Uh it's a book by Christopher Ash called Seven Z uh called Zeal Without Burnout. Seven Keys to a Lifelong Ministry of Sustainable Sacrifice. Um it's it's a pretty good book. He goes to say, you know, a living sacrifice, Romans 12, is a strange expression. It means a sacrifice that goes on and on Being offered so long as life lasts. When I'm off work because of exhaustion, my body has little to offer I may feel pain, but the sacrifice is barely alive. How much better to keep plotting on in Christian service if we can? And the point he makes is our Christian life is a marathon. It's not a sprint. It's not. There may be times when we're getting close to the finish line, we've got to run hard. That's a bad example. There may be times in our lives where we've got to run hard. Um vote You know, if you run hard, you gotta take time to get your breath again. Um homework this week, read chapter nine. Uh Kurt's gonna be teaching next week, and so I also want us to examine our patterns of life and plan for rest. This chapter opened with the author being told by his close friend, you need to take a break. So look for look at your lives. And ask yourself, do I need to plan for more rest? That'd be important. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for today. Thank you that we got the opportunity to examine this topic. Thank you, Heavenly Father, too, that it's on people's minds. How much do we rest? How much do we play? How much do we work? What's the right lane for me to be in? And what's the right way for me to celebrate and worship you, even as Sabbath, dear Lord? I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would continue to guide and direct our steps. Give us strength, Heavenly Father, for today. Help us, God, to remember who you are and who we are. And God, I pray that you would help us to walk humbly before you. Knowing God, our need for you. I pray, God, that you would uh superintend the minutes that we have between now and service and help our minds to be rightly prepared to worship and praise you and so on. Amen.