So if you get confused by some of the terminology or why is it called the critical race theory or or or anything, there really is a reason. But critical race theorists said it's not just the legal realm that we have to deal with, it's all facets of society that we have to deal with. Their focus was not merely reform, here's a big difference, but a complete radical change from the current system that they believed was unfixable. Derek Bell was an American lawyer in the nineteen seventies and became the first African American tenured law professor at Harvard. After an Asian woman was denied tenure, he returned to Harvard to teach in 1986 and later led a five-day sit-in in his office to protest the school's failure to grant tenure to two professors whose work involved critical race theory. They escaped from all the trouble in Germany. And these students were indoctrinated into this and they grew up and became leaders and then taught to people in the next generation, the next generation. And it is up to the storytellers to tell their stories and how they've experienced racism. There are also a methodology of sorts that challenges discrimination and works towards social justice by, quote, talking back to rationalists and uh social scientific research that supports An adequate contemporary theory of racism must explain both the progressive efforts that have been accepted and the tenacity with which the conditions associated with racism remain in place. It'd be impossible because they can only think in one way. This is also a core basis for how Derek Bell and his colleagues began their work. Yeah, looks good, bud. We're going to do a whole lesson, whole couple lessons on just justice. And so ultimately the counseling is is nebulous and it's things like let's make you a better person or let's help you with this issue or that issue. And so it inherently allows them to pretty much do whatever they want under the guise of social justice. it's a I think it's a good question. and the protection of individual rights, primarily to life, liberty, and property, originally against the state and later against both the state and private economic actors, including um including businesses. in a state of activism, however, the idea carries that social justice is paramount and ongoing. But it is our duty to be vigilant of one another in a loving way with grace to pull one another up from these pitfalls and to demonstrate the truth. Amen. As I said in the previous class, critical theory really is the framework, I call it like a skeleton, and all these other theories are the meat upon that skeleton If you haven't been able to take the previous classes, just if you get lost or confused, no problem. in which they define those terms. Everything in culture is categorized or is grouped into categories of oppressed, people of color, and oppressors, whites. in order to maintain their place in hierarchy. Saw deficiencies. The people who actually study this stuff actually find a lot of deficiencies within the civil rights movement. in instituting a new system. We're given marks of approval, credited, and published in scientific journals. doing that intentionally, but I'm becoming a critical race theorist and so I have to do that for you things or I just want to do it. And says, what is the issue with point G? And that their definitions of this stuff and the way that they would go about this would be the exact same as you would find Hope Bible members operate a school system for an example. And they're teaching that from the school system. The point is that eventually, like you saw in colleges, which is what I was trying to say, where you can literally major and get a PhD in whiteness studies, for example. or sexual assault cases or something like that. Then what happens is that other people who come into that field of study then use that as a precedent for their studies and it propagates and propagates and propagates. And I mean by that is critical theorists and critical race theorists. Right. How do you actually operationalize that and what are the consequences for reallocation of those resources to different people? that things are operated always have consequences. uh Hispanic uh people may be put in a quote unquote an inferior teacher. a a a little um not caveat, but it's not that within these legal biases. Within CRT, race is central and paramount, especially in identifying who is an oppressor and who is oppressed. From scholars within the critical race theory field, quote, all whites are racist in the systemic use of the term because we benefit from systemic privilege or systemic white privilege. and is used as a means of voicing lived experiences of people of color as a counter to perceived usage of data that may suggest to the contrary of the experience of racism. um and experienced racism is paramount to anything that might be contrary to that. ought to abandon the ideal of equality as it is impossible to attain in the United States. and the contradictions of affirmative action. Such problems then are the targets of my questions this afternoon. To bourgeoisy a sufficient number of minorities in order to transform those people into active, visible legitimizers of the underlying and basically unchanged social structure. or something like that. He was criticizing affirmative action and criticizing the movement of of Martin Luther King because ultimately they see that it falls short of the goal that they were trying to instill with first critical legal studies and now critical race theory. in in this in this instance, white people are are the ones on on the proverbial chopping block. Social justice systems have a really hard time if a person of color makes a statement contrary to social justice. Critical race theory scholarship is often referred to as a political and intellectual movement. You cannot ultimately be a proponent of CRT if you are not presently engaging in a form of activism and seeking societal transformation in your daily existence. Who have zero interest in their own benefit, social justice will remain ongoing. Critical theorists argue that oppression was in culture through hegemonic pillars of that culture, which remember hegemon uh hegemony is is the domination of one culture against another culture. Remember, critical theory was based on the position that Marxism and Karl Marx fell short of identifying the root issue and likewise identifying the core solution. specific to the to the um to the framework. And then we can start spoon feeding the gospel. Lord, but ultimately to have a better conversation and to get our foot in the door to talk about the gospel, because they need to be saved too And I pray that our testimony would be radically different from that. that you've allowed me to, Lord. We'll see you after service. So even the term itself is an is an inherent issue because it it's it's trying to say that there is a certain type of justice and there's only one type of justice and it's and it's God's justice. of discrimination rights when it comes to not just race, but when it comes to everything else, religion, um, sexual orientation, ability and disability, things like that. and resources from oppressors to their victim in the pursuit of equality of outcome. as measured by the distribution of wealth, opportunities for personal activity, and social privileges. Not that we need them on the same playing field, but we need them on the same level of social standing. Yeah, that's the purpose. And made that exact point in this like everybody hit their head on their forehead, of course. and pushing it through so that once that cart's in, all the rest of the train comes in and you can't unhinge it. Um white supremacy is a completely different ideology and is just as as evil and wicked um as as many of these other systems. Hopefully, Lord willing, once I pass that, I'll be able to start doing my own classes. I don't mean the universal body of Christ. You know what you know what what what what really fixes that issue, I believe, is gospel driven. And that's that's primarily one of the main points that I'm also trying to make in this class is that whether it comes to white supremacy or it comes to social justice and we're still propagating the work of it today. the civil rights movement um ultimately originated from the church. And I'm I'm gonna make a statement and it's it's with love. You know, we may have a lull in in the the per uh advancement of civil rights and so now they're they're taking up the mantle in a sense. in in the scope of the class is that the leaders and the founders of this movement ultimately were at odds with the civil rights movement in general. You see the difference? In terms of joining together in hands and saying things like that, of course they would never disparage Martin Luther King to any degree. And so again, like Brian Wilson brought up, you get statements like don't just reform the police, completely dismantle the police. Lord, and we can only be sanctified by your truth, as Christ prayed in John 17, 17, sanctify them in the truth. So we're doing part one today. Say what's on your mind and we'll talk about it. I would imagine there's probably more questions out there. Any confusions out there that you need some clarification on before we move on? Critical race theory is born out of a movement within the legal realm and eventually has made its way to all facets of society and every institution. Even if there were good work toward uh in light of these activists or according to their framework, even if good work was done, it's still not enough. 1980, Bell was appointed Dean of the University of Oregon School of Law. The point is is that the movement has found its is its roots within these institutions, especially academics. Students are deprived of equitable educational opportunities. We affirm in our actions that each student can, will, and shall learn. And I I'm just not saying what's wrong with it. It's not that they're they're trying to say, well, this is the work of critical race theorists. for people who who have issues to not be able to learn at school, for an example. About constantly talking about what is equitable. people who are just trying to make sure kids have opportunities to succeed. individual school studying would have this kind of particular, you know, this well defined ideology. I'll give you a ridiculous one, for instance. Scientists got together who have credentials and PhDs, but their stamp of approval on this relationship between icebergs and sexual assault cases, and they published that. Eventually, people start to gravitate towards that one because they want to also have peer-reviewed journals. And instead of using Jews and Germans in their language, they use black people and white people, for instance, or people of color, and they published that within a scientific journal and they got high marks of approval and pushed through. When they say oppression, for instance, and we'll talk about the state here in a second, when people say oppression, what are they defining as oppression? that this is just this unbiblical standpoint to base truth upon and to base our our lives upon in the direction of really any country. What's really important is the actual application of that statement and how it's going to be operationalized and the consequences of that. And I would agree, again, there there could be a million different applications of how somebody would, in your terminology, operationalize that. we we were in that. I do really agree with your statement. These issues exist. The second assumption is that we agree upon the application of of how we address those issues in the first place. I might make a statement and based on my skin color it might be construed in the wrong way as a racist statement, for an example. I could try to give a defense or something like that, but by policy, they are well within their right to fire me for a reason of perceived racist comments that I may have made. I give you one easier example to kind of demonstrate. You might make the statement of homosexuality is a sin. of it is is that if you criticize one portion of it, you're criticizing all of it. Something needs to be done about it. Just because of the color of my skin shouldn't determine which class I'm in or it shouldn't determine whether I do or do not get promoted. And and the group that's tasked to do something about it, they don't always have their uh roots in critical race theory. I just really sure there are times when it's legit there's a legitimate cause and there's a legitimate group addressing a legitimate issue. And I think that when you're trying to assume somebody's motive, that's when we get into that critical race theory as as the community is telling a certain group of people why they're doing what they're doing. What happens when this comes into the church and what that looks like with theology, with doctrine, with orthodoxy, with Christian practice, things like that. It and it and I don't I don't I don't can't explain why it's the case, but it is. It doesn't mean I agree or disagree. I can demonstrate how it is pervasive, but the point that I'm making is that there are consequences to these. And to determine biblically, ultimately, what is the truth of the matter. What are the foundations of critical race theory? Again, not good enough. by their experiences of navigating the structures of power that marginalize them. is that if if data suggests otherwise, then we then then the the lived experience must be talked about even louder in order to combat that data because again If there's any sort of critique against the system itself, the job of the system is to combat that to some degree. Racism has been discussed as just another form of oppression. and problems relating to the perpetuation and maintenance of the class structure generally. What may not be understood is that proponents of CRT argue that any action to end racism is disguised by oppressors to satiate the woes of the oppressed, which brings us to another tenet of critical race theory. This tenants of CRT explains that white people are often the main benefactors of any change within society. in this case white-led or white-driven, that it's only for the benefit of white people ultimately. Such a theory would offer a context for understanding the affirmative action issue. Alan Freeman would go on to say, quote, from this perspective, the goal of civil rights law is to offer a credible measure of tangible progress without in any way disturbing class structure generally. When it comes to interest convergence, as this tenant posits, the point that they're making is that no matter what an oppressor does, it's always for the benefit of the oppressor. And you'll always have that sense of of suspicion no matter what's going on. This emphasizes the point that uh Mr. that as you were saying our discernment increases, uh we begin to recognize when uh those who espouse critical racism Because what they're doing is is is they're supporting the the the white people and the oppressors and they're just they're essentially living in a Stockholm syndrome existence. And that they couldn't possibly have a difference of opinion on this, or or categorically, fundamentally different way of thinking about this issue Whenever you go out into society, it's presently supposed to be on your mind and heart to make sure that you're advancing the kingdom, right? Critical race theory is not focused solely on racism within the legal system. So critical theor race theory is never just concerned with just one area of focus. as a as another example. You know, we want to change the hearts of people. But still even with that issue. I know that. We need to be amongst each other. And we don't always see things as clearly or as deeply as we should, but by your truth, Lord, we can be sanctified by your spirit to see things a bit more clear. to live in such a way that pleases and honors you even in difficult topics like this. Good. What nice haircut by the way. So yeah, now you can see me. Yeah. social justice and the intricacies and and things of that nature. The issue is because the model and the end state doesn't necessarily exist, that they're pretty much making it up as they go and saying, okay, well that's an issue, and that's an issue, and that's an issue, we need to fix that, we need to fix that, we need to fix Are there any ideal models that a social justice warrior will point to and say, we want to be just like that? Christ Himself. these ideologies within the context of their churches to oppress people. and sinful stuff. Then it's the importance of the gospel, then it's um what I'm calling either the social justice gospel or manifestations in the church, but what the theology and the ideology looks like when it when it touches Christian doctrine and how that affects the way that churches operated, things like that. Well how would that would that be a social uh justice movement? Uh hi Hi Danny, this is Shari McWayne. They would go as far as to say is that the civil rights movement was actually a deterrent deterrence from social justice and the way that they perceived it. that one is here. It was a move by for the sake of of of civil rights rather than for the sake of the advancement of the gospel. Is it was that really out of the gospel or was that really it was a needful thing, yes, but was it out of the gospel? And even now, I don't want to say just back then, you know, you know, African Americans are a very religious uh race of people and church was our Was the civil rights movement really was it more of a social justice movement as opposed to something and did it fit within this uh critical race theory here? Um it would be it would they would be hard pressed probably to say things like, well, we're not a we're not associated with the civil rights movement and we have nothing to do with the civil rights movement. They're propo proposing that because of what um because of the civil rights movements and and the work that went on there, we're picking up the mantelpiece where and all of that, right? And with the advancement of things like affirmative action, they gave a whole talk on that. to fit the the outcome that we want. um enforcement organization is a radical idea. We're taking one out and putting one in. As a link in the chat that Miss Naomi posted called Critical Race Theory. It is in our lives, Lord. Um these are only I say only this is eighteen pages long um but at least it's like nine pages front and back so it's not crazy but I will for sure encourage you if you have any questions to just go ahead and ask them. This is week six. Because the majority of what we're going to be discussing is a little bit of a retread. Usually their terminology is interchangeable with one another. All of those are focused on a specific subset, but they all derive from critical theory. So all the foundations we talked about, all the specificities that we talked about, coupled with the foundation of postmodernism as well, all of that goes into this conversation about critical race theory. It is an intellectual movement, an ideological framework, a worldview in which to examine current power structures and dynamics in society and to root out means of racism within them. Those that are oppressed and those are the oppressors. So this really began as an outgrowth of what is known as critical legal studies in the 1980s. It essentially accused the legal system of social bias and that the laws were created for the benefit of those who created them in the first place. States that the law supports a power dynamic in which favors the historically privileged and disadvantages the historically underprivileged. A lot of the movements have that fundamental issue. But critical theory said it's not just economics, it's all of culture that have the issues. People who hold to critical race theory and are actual scholars and real activists and know the framework, not just the people you might find on the streets or organizers. But complete reconstruction in a sense. Tear down all the buildings per se, not physically, but institutionally, systemically, tear down all the foundations, tear down all these buildings, and completely institute a a new system, not reform This is the same way with critical race theory that really found its maturation within the realm of education. Now major in these studies. This is also why you see many schools setting up equity councils and hiring staff to determine if policies, procedures, and practices at a school or organization are inherently racist or biased against people of color. Well for right now what we're talking about is just the progression of of what's going on. denying that students aren't allowed to learn if they don't have the capability and to some degree to learn. you know, combat us or anything like that. Um we're specifically saying when we say they are doing these things and Minji had um a point. consciously thinking about critical race theory when they're when they're teaching. But the overwhelming evidence demonstrates that as time has gone on, the answer is actually not right now, but they're moving towards that. where the medical or where the scientific community is is testing the results of their study are then putting their stamp of approval on it and saying this is scientifically accurate. fake studies about about these grievance studies and and dog parks and things like that. What they did was they published fake study after fake study after fake study after fake study. Yes, when you read statements from the National School Boards Association, you go, well, what's wrong with that? I don't like it when you oppress me. When you peel back the layers and you peel back the layers, you start to find cracks in the system and cracks in what they're saying. We live in the context of America, so I'm speaking to that context. Hi, um in reviewing that statement um specifically from the National School Board Association, I think Let's just call it within a corporation that tries to address diversity and inclusion issues I might make a statement that um and I mean white by skin color half Hispanic, but that's beside the point. addressed, right? that that that I literally sit across the hall from at work, they could come in and say, you're out of here because of that statement. immediately. It's not just the one issue that they focused on. So you have you have the the the the vehicle initially of of racism for instance. Again, it's the system, it it either stands as a whole or falls as a whole. I I can't make the one position of homosexuality as being a sin and at the same time say I'm against racism, for instance, and and still with be within the same group of people. um ideologies and they're thinking what I'm when I'm talking about racism and systemic racism, I'm talking about issues like related to the promotion issue that kind of go in place, including your performance. is helpful that it's not all rooted in critical race theory. Um, I'm gonna have to disag that's what I mean. line and and schedule to to work through these notes. 40 people um both on and offline right now and I'm sure everybody has an opinion. We do have 30 minutes left. at at least for the con for the ability of of people to in in the church to to discuss these things in a way that honors Christ, then we have to make sure keeping that in mind. Quite frankly. that supports racialized and marginalization notions about people of color. which survives and grows stronger through resistance to oppression, even if that oppression is never under overcome. to pretend to be ending racism in this country. Within this tenet, interest convergence, CRT posits that in every and all cases in which the oppressive whites attempts to deal with the issues of racism, it will always be for the benefit of themselves rather than people of color The more specific version of what would be in the interest of the ruling classes would be to use a cumbersome but accurate phrase, to bourgeois is For instance, if a white person is working within the Diversity and Inclusion office, they're doing it for the benefit of themselves. They're doing it because it ultimately makes them maybe feel better or it makes them um you know get get people off their back or it makes them be perceived as less racist. And so that's why you you hear terms like an ally, whether or not somebody is an ally to the movement of social justice, they're really talking about white people and whether or not um they are for social justice to that effect. simply because they're they're white. Ultimately, there's a longer discussion on this, even the more and more you do, it doesn't matter. And so whether it's that or whether it's the opposite of someone does an action that is perceived to be racist, uh that is often person, a black man or woman, uh it may be true that it's a race-based choice, but often that's that's the rest of the judgment assumption be be cannibalized in a sense. Everything we do is gospel-centered and gospel-driven, biblically driven, things like that. ideological and decursive frames. in policy or or whatever the case is, or in or in just cultural movements, I think of also celebrities for an example. I've listened to her talk before. Evangelicalism, I'm not going to say Hope Bible, of course, but it in evangelicalism as a whole, I think there are people that are under the influence of demonic pressure to move this through the church. those that are within the policymakers and the leaders. That requires that CRT branch out from the legal realm into education, policy, culture, music, religion, etc. But if you think you're you're in your identity as Christ is immune to this, it's not. I believe that the church is one of the most powerful influences upon culture. in a louder way, that eventually this will be talked about as the thing within the church. And so you'll start to see comments of like, how are we dealing with racism in the church? But as time has gone on, this has quietly become the main issue of the church. Not policy. for for the right reasons is is to give them the gospel. You just you just allow issues to happen. I feel in a way isolated from them sometimes and I live in their house. One of my concerns is, this is just personally speaking, one of my concerns is that is as we follow these policies and procedures, that the more that the church is dispersed Would you be careful to to to to look out for those that that haven't been reached out to? If you don't think you should come to church because of safety, I appreciate the concern. It's the life of the church. Thank you for your truth, Lord, in your word. And I think that's so paramount, Lord, as we discuss this or that, or how would we deal with this you this issue and how we deal with that issue? I really think that you would have the ultimate say in these things and I and I hope that we can have a burden of concern upon our minds and hearts about how we address whatever the issue is, if it's the way that you would address these issues, Lord. I thank you for the questions and all the discussions, Father. Ultimately, Lord, and that we can have these discussions with family and friends in a way that is peculiar, Lord. We need your grace, Father, and we were wretches lost, and if not for your grace, we would be the worst of humans. Okay. But there is going to be a two-week course also on just the issue of social justice. Because ultimately justice defined in the Bible is just justice. Um let me let me grab this definition for you real quick. other issues on top of that, right? Not in this class because the issue that we're talking about is specifically with um critical theory in in in that framework. Because you can get into the same mindset with the same ideology within the church as well, and that also has implications, you know. as an example. that the issue is is that even if you change the system, you haven't addressed the heart, and so the system is just gonna look different Or it's going to act different. Um I I appreciate the point that you're making. I'm sorry. Proponents and and the founders of of CRT have a lot of disagreements with with the civil rights movement, specifically with affirmative action. um then. And it came out of that. Fundamentally, they're completely different movements. as some would say. However, that is one of the consequences of of the things that we're talking about. You know, to to say that we need to re completely dismantle the entire police force in America and reinstitute a whole new Okay. For instance, if you looked at your your prior notes, you have to, I gave a list of 13 different studies, different kinds of fields of study within critical theory that all have a specific focus They don't think that reform is the ultimate fix, which is one of their main problems with the civil rights movement because they saw it only as reformation rather than then completely changing the system itself. um other uh degrees that I can't bring to mind right now. And because CRT is a is a framework that finds its roots ultimately in critical theory and the things that we've discussed in this last class, you're going to find issues within the framework itself. These systems are inherently unbiblical. But just because they say nice things like that, we're about equitable educational opportunities. And it and it wins a wars. They did a three-hour talk with one of the guys from Founders Ministry, some of the material that we've pulled from today for these classes. Uh to to facilitate these conversations. The denial of racism is is not a defensible position either. blacks don't get promoted. We're not saying, first of all, one, that it doesn't exist, and then two, if it does exist, something needs to be done about it. um teaching on the foundations of this worldview, how it relates to critical theory, and ultimately how we get into the conversation of the situation because of the way that the situ because of the way the company is organized or whatever. Something should be addressed there. Every person that is looking to to root out racism in in issues like that, again, are critical race theorists by trade. But I think that these are the questions that we have some of the questions we have to think about and the applications we have to think about because there are implications to what we're discussing. Part of what I really hoped in this class was the ability for Christians to discern. are judging motives of those that they have no ability to know whether or not those motives are actually accepted. That's the word I'm thinking of here. Um I'll give you one example, Robin D'Angelo with a huge name. And it's going to happen time and time and time and time again until Christ returns. To love them and and to to ask questions and to call them, to see them in person, do it safely, sure. I'm gonna s I'm gonna save that not that. So and I and I want to be clear about that because the term social justice is not compatible with biblical justice. Hey hey Dan I got another quick question. social justice um um with with interspersed between these classes racism prejudice and oppression um and then it's after this class then it's justice social justice Um the civil rights movement and Martin Luther King and what he did. Uh pastors were mostly our leaders during those times. You know, uh I I don't think though that I d I don't believe that, you know, the civil rights was um you know, uh born out of the black church, if you will. It it it hindered the real work of of social justice or civil rights is probably how they would define it then. And what we need to do is because what here's the main difference. There will be a class, it's just how the schedule worked out, so I apologize for that. and so on and so forth. Okay, all right. So by and large, in any critical theory you run into or any kind of queer studies or something like that, if you hear those terms Anything from critical Latino theory or Latina theory, from queer studies. Just keep in mind, if you can, what we talked about these last couple classes, because they play a huge role into our discussion here. Everything is within the lens of those dynamics. This is what they believe. find their roots within critical race theory and its primary ten tenants. The reason his time at school is important is because critical race theory really finds its footing within the context of education. Excuse me. Requiring that discriminatory practices, prejudice, and beliefs be identified and eradicated The the I didn't hear her question. In that realm of academia, as it's given credibility, and as I'm pointing out here, it's being published in studies where people are doing peer-reviewed scholastic articles. That is a massive achievement because there's by and large in the scientific community and the academic community, by and large They only usually people only get like one peer-reviewed study in their lifetime after decades of study, and they were able to push through fake studies. that the scientific community when it comes to this issue just has no idea what they're talking about. who who dem who call this what's called grievance studies. And as this class goes on, we'll demonstrate that. And opportunities, how do you actually operationalize ethical education? From every person that that deals with resource allocation in any institution, they're all individual people. that their their existence is rooted in this theory, so it's we should consider it null and void. What are you defining as racist? problems and seeks to solve them is underserved by critical race theory. Blacks or Latinos don't get the same kind of education because they're put in a class that's taught by the inferior teacher Not always on purpose, but these things happen. seeping into every element of society and there's there's issues with that. um system, right? So that was this. Okay, uh good. I have a question. People don't get put into classes for certain reasons. And yeah I yeah, there's a slippery slope related to those kind of things. I'll make a couple points here. And so they even criticize Al Alan Freeman, for an example, or Derek Bell, you read it, they criticize the civil rights movement, they criticize affirmative action. I just really mean that people that are leaders of of the critical race theorist movement specifically, if that also helps. So what best way to push any ideology than to make the church follow after that? No matter how much a critical race theory as a framework gets done in America, sorry to say, racism will still exist. As always, I like to leave the class a little bit open for discussion. a bit deeper to understand the issues, to see what your response ultimately would be, excuse me, to these issues. Despite us hating your son, despite us um living in such a way that that that did not honor you, we were called your enemies, and now you call us friends by the redemption of Jesus Christ. But we need to be amongst each other's presence. And I just thank you for this opportunity. Okay. Um but I know what the what the what people mean when they say social justice. Things are said and things are assumed, but under the guise of social justice, other things are being propagated. lines up with this critical race theory, where it actually fell within this. Even though it stems from the church. Right. theologically speaking, was not orthodox. I I understand what you're finding this. part of the gospel of the black church, but y you know, historically remember, uh churches was our meeting places. were able to meet. uh elected officials politicians were mostly pastors. about these various um ideologies, that we would be a discerning body of Christ, that we would not all let uh allow the sways of the world to I didn't come up with these terms. And likewise criticized critical legal studies as not recognizing the centrality of race within law. is listening to these ideologies. The the title is a little profane, so I'm not gonna I'm not gonna completely say, but it was it was in relation to to icebergs and their relationship to All that to say is that I understand that when when when you want to try to give the best intentions for people, and I and I grant that, we want to try to give the best intentions to people So there is you know we you've uh we've already established racism exists. Um a white person has never said a racist thing. has been proven to exist. With civility and and love. So I I appreciate what what I assume was going to happen is has happened. to uh deal with the problem of racism, they're just doing it for selfish motives. Truth and doctrine. Because oppression of white people will always persist unless they are torn from their positions of power or thus have proven themselves to be one hundred percent unbiased allies. How are we dealing with um you know um uninclusive eldership candidacy or something like that? And we start talking about, well, what can the church do for social justice? Please be amongst your your peers. Anything about the material. Yeah I don't know if he's preaching today. I have it on my phone. In the realm of counseling, uh Pastor Gabe talked about this this issue before. Um and so you you may you may in in a what's the word, um the the church as a whole. Churches as a whole within within the the the movements were wholesale Yeah, it's it's it's a it's a longer conversation and believe me if if we had invited a critical race theorist to to try to give their their point of view Well we know that the world is cunning and they do what they can to deceive us and we can fall into those pitfalls, Lord. Whatever is of no value, let it be lost to the wayside, Lord, and only let that which honors you remain all for your glory in Jesus' name. With that being said, from all the classes that we have had, this is week five, week six. Okay, here we go. However, critical race theory, CRT saw a deficiency within CLS. So they saw this deficiency. The foundations of critical theory. And so it's it's really it's really found, it's it's footing and ultimately it's justification among the populace because of American education. So that's that's what we're discussing here. uh these statements or or something study packets about how um their whiteness is an issue and and and cops are an issue and things like that. All that to say is that now statements like that aren't necessarily terrible and we're not in in total disagreement, though we might be in practical disagreement, but that's that's a little bit different. If that's not the case, then correct me, please, but I don't know if it's all rooted. uh continue to think critically about these things and ask these questions. And there's a reason because other critical studies and theories have been born out of critical race theory in which those studies have said CRT is deficient. Number two, centrality of narrative and storytelling as a method of analysis. In a sense, the social justice movement is like that. They're the ones that ultimately have an idea of what they're doing. I know exactly what they're doing. And um I'm I'm working to to build that lesson. Their solution was to invade all forms of society and to overturn it with the oppressed cultural narrative. Critical race theorists are convinced that everything oppressive in America is by nature oppressive due to its intrinsic link with whiteness. And when you start saying things like that, even if your intentions are good, when you start saying things like that, you're you're buying in. But even though I I recognize that, I recognize that not a single lady or family that goes to an abortion clinic will be saved ultimately from eternal damnation if we're able to convince them to come out of the clinic Okay, um are there any comments or questions for those that are left? Uh no. Oh, right right now I'm just um I was just felt like saying a good comment about the prayer. So it's it's you know, here are the the the oppressors of American society, white people, and here are people of color. Will there be will you talk about white supremac groups, what they believe so that we're able to guard our hearts from these these people and their group uh beliefs as well You know, the church is guilty of these things. next week and then we'll pick back up on critical race theory of the week following and then from there we'll do the justice classes, the social justice classes, the gospel class Um anybody in the audience got any questions? Thus, critical race theory began as a study within the context of law, as the creators of all law professors or practitioners at the time. There is recently a report that came out in the news that teachers were sending students these letters or these There's a longer story to this, but there are three secular uh professors with an academia. Um I'm disagreeing with the point that um uh around the statement that um My goal is to hope to equip you to be able to do that. Remember, founders of Critical Race Theory Point B were impatient with the progress of society following the civil rights movement. Through the Holy Spirit. I would say that it's individuals who have used their power and influence to propagate that the same way that we're talking about this issue. You know, Martin Luther King is obviously a very important figure when it comes to civil rights and social justice. was identifying issues that they saw within the realm of law here in America. There's some more quotes from I think Alan D. But everything that that um is is everything that they're saying is founded upon these ideologies that find their roots in these things is I think I've already demonstrated in the last couple classes at least. Yes, Pastor Gabe. Uh last one. So the they that I'm talking about are those that perpetuate this and know exactly what they're perpetuating. But I do know, given statements that are that have been made with organizers before and leaders And I I believe that there are those who know exactly what they're doing. The importance of interdisciplinary I butchered that. Um I can I can show that. But when you start replacing that with primacy, we talked about last class, and start replacing the gospel with that and saying the social justice movement now takes priority, we must be about social justice. I really liked when you said the church was designed to be together. Okay, because it was my understanding that it it it you know uh it it came out of um Thank you so much. Any thoughts that have come to mind from any of the classes, the principles class that Pastor Gabe did, or the Biblical Authority class, or now the critical theory class? I don't want to necessarily use this term, but the rank and file who are in the schools teaching the students and things like that are always intentionally grasping that within um CRT, all white people are oppressors and all people of color are oppressed. It's it's it's a it's a har it's a hard um One of my biggest concerns is that eventually you'll start to see more and more, and what I mean by eventually, it's already happening, but in a bigger way, in a more, I guess to put it And and I and I appreciate that and I think that that's worth the clarity as well. Primarily, just as I'm getting my terms and definitions loaded up, primarily what I'm talking about is uh is the movement of social justice, not the issue of justice. What that looked like social justice. Be because that's the concern that I actually had was that you know um I knew that they would that was the meeting places of of uh of our folks and that during that time. I'm not opposed to talking about other things. The idea of being able to provide education for students inherently isn't wrong. If your intentions are right, there's no problem with trying to deal with issues that really exist, including issues of racism. And that might look differently from what we expect, but I hope that through the the discernment and the power of the Holy Spirit that we can really understand what it means to Of power dynamics and structures, it's attempting to essentially level the attainment of social standing and status and the inherent privileges that might come from that. Okay. A class or at least a few lessons in another type of class that I'd like to be able to do. Ah geez. You know, place that we go and gather. Pull us away from truth to pull us away from from Jesus Himself. So they may be able to function in society or or or something related to that. The um teachers, the movements, organizers And those within a categorically leadership or teaching position that are ultimately perpetuating this, whether it be in law, Just a comment on church as well. And we ought to repudiate those things, but um I want I want to ensure that the conversation isn't Critical race theory is a subset of critical theory. Okay. From the study of law into education, CRT found its legitimacy within the realm of academics, specifically the publishing of studies in regard to CRT and its relationship into every facet of society. It for some reason is scrolling down on its own. That one of my primary concerns is that as we continue to have these conversations, I mean in general, as a church as a whole, I don't mean in this class. Alright. And and that is is one of the issues. So when I when I say the church, I want to be careful. Churches were a part of the movement. One is about reform, fix what's in place now, and one is saying we need a whole new system. And it might be uh it it it's having trouble with the they, right? And we wouldn't stand by those studies, but the point that I'm trying to demonstrate here is Yeah. it it starts to to have an effect on the minds of people and changes their outlook and things like that. And so what they did was they took it a step further, kind of like the conversation that we had about Marxism and critical theory in general. If you can't, I would I would ask you to hesitate to to make a comment, but I think what's said in love and grace would be of ultimate value. Part of my goal is to make sure that we're a discerning body. It's deficience, and it's a dressle of Latinos, of um Asian, of Native American, and so they bore out the rest of these theories It's as factual relevance and empirical as any other form of data inherently cannot be biased to wrong. But it's it's hard to really say they as in like this person specifically or that person, but I mean those that are leaders and proponents of the ideology, those that are within the academic realm or the scientific realm. It is starting to replace the gospel in importance. But I'm telling you right now, if you believe in the power of the gospel, you will want nothing to do with that. Do I want to save the child? To really answer your question, no. I just want to make sure that's what we're not saying. I don't mean hope Bible church is deficient necessarily. Okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna ask you to mute yourself for a moment just in case there's any more questions from the rest of the class. Okay. So people in class don't have notes right now. Do you s are you saying that no, that did not happen or? Um and I'm you can listen to the uh the social justice forum that we did. That's not even a question. Does it help in a way? Deconstructing traditional systems and structures deemed to be oppressive and they're redistributing power That's that is very purposeful. So the issue of biblical counseling is a lot more focused. And and nobody within, you know, organizations like Black Lives Matter would say what Martin Luther King did was not a good thing or something like that. And and it's it's completely it it's it's destroying uh a a population, the treatment of of Israel, for instance. I'm sorry. The best way I can put it is like this. And I mean people that know exactly what social justice is and and those that know exactly why it conflicts with with biblical um Five, six. Obviously not as long as as the previous class. Um if that's the case, uh so be it. But I I think the point that you're raising is is valid because they do have consequences the way that I appreciate bringing that up. It's a good question, Brian. Yeah. Um because I I know you you asked you made that point about how the church used that in the past. These issues do need to be addressed in some way. Yeah. Typical member organizers or part of the organization may not know exactly what's going on, but they have some idea at least. But are there any comments or questions about the class? I did please. Dr. And we don't just we can't just throw up our arms and say, oh, that's just the way that the world works. And I thank for thank you for each person here and their hearts and their minds, Lord. And then after we're after you're finished with these people, can I please speak to Paige Gowell? I understand the concern. Um let me unpack that a little bit here. Right. So that's neither here or there, just so next week you're not confused on what's going on with that. And we'll talk about that right here. The reason is uh uh as Derek Bell and others began to t teach CRT, students would listen and adopt this worldview. You can study or you can major in whiteness studies, for instance. Educational equity is the intentional allocation of resources, instruction, and opportunities according to need. Yeah. I had a point. How are we dealing with the church's response to the social justice movement? The church was designed to be together in person, not online. Yeah, do you have a question about the class real quick, Wyatt? Thank you. Critique of liberalism. Liberalism defined here is a political and economic doctrine that emphasizes individual autonomy, equality of opportunity. And I'm very passionate about that issue. Probably want all of us wanting to be back in the church. The train car analogy is is honestly perfect. And and I and I I I figure that that might might have been the attention. CRT cannot exist without the conversation and preservation of race as a legitimate identifier within society. Now, perhaps that's true, but that's often a judgment that's made just like how we see in the news, whenever a white officer kills a black They're there links, but it's it's a illusionary I can't say the word right now, I'm sorry. And so even if they do something that that might be beneficial to the cause of social justice, ultimately it's not enough. Okay? Dear Heavenly Father, we just thank you for this day. Whether or not again that they can actually define critical race theory is not the is not the point And you can pull up the news article, I can look it up later and send it to everybody. Okay, what am I doing that's oppressing you? She knows exactly what she's doing. We have seven minutes. And so uh and had a lot of pastors who led congregations and um you know back then Critical race theory is the direct result of critical theory. James White is a Christian apologist. I'm I'm sure you want to move on, but I'm a little confused. Number one, race still matters. Again, these are both founders of critical race theory said this, quote, the theme for today's panel grew out of my dissatisfaction with the way people on the left have dealt with the question of racism. Does does outlawing abortion mean that people will stop killing kids? I mean people within the church have used these ideologies to be um oppressive The social justice movement today wouldn't probably make that claim. Founders such as Alan D. That you can't just reform the systems that are already in place, that you have to completely rip out the foundations that we have now. It just means that I I think allowing, I'll call it tension. But of course, um after this class, after the next three classes and three weeks Now again, people can talk about the practicalities and differences of of why that would be a good idea or a bad idea. And so that that is the modus modus operandi of this movement. I just pray that we would be honoring to you and all that is said, whatever is of value, Lord, let it remain in the hearts and minds of everyone here. And it's not because of a policy, it's because of the way it's implemented and because of who's making the decisions on who does and doesn't get promoted. Um But hey, but Danny, but out of everything I think that was just said, uh I I think Pastor Gates point I have to disagree with that point that there are cases where race is the primary reason that some of these things happen. There are implications to critical race theory. So I want to be careful here because I can't look at everyone or like see a Twitter feed for example and go, that person knows exactly what they're talking about. Thanks. But we're going to do uh part one, part one, just wherever we get to today, and then we're going to take a break from these set of notes and So last class we talked about how critical theory sets up this framework in which it divides societies into two portions. And then the the follow-up was, you know, are they really doing this intentionally? They they come out very passive in a lot of ways. I'll pray. Everybody who has agendas have latched onto this and you get the one train car, you get the whole train running through. Defund the police or whatever the system the they might be. Please be amongst your brothers and sisters in Christ. People get isolated. Oh yeah. What the social justice and critical race theorists today is saying is that we can't reform it now. The whole point we were making. Okay, um before you answer Minji um Dory said that we're we're questioning of of who is it that And when I say that this is a legitimately peer-reviewed scholastic article, I'm being serious that And the question makes sense, but um yeah. Ms. Hello, Tammy Dyler. Well, proponents today would say that um it's it's one of their foundations. Whereas y it was it was where, you know, uh people gathered and it was um I, you know, I wouldn't necessarily know if there's a better way to call these theories anything else. And Dory, thank you for your question, by the way. Absolutely I do. Or they're going to make a new system to allow them to do what they're and it may not even be a system. Hey sorry. These notes for not as long as as just critical theory in general because it's a little more specific to one specific system with critical race theory. Many in the CLS movement want to overturn the hierarchical structures of modern society and they focus on law as a tool in achieving this goal And so they say that you have to take out what's currently existent and completely instill a totally new system. Yeah, okay. Yeah, sure. Like critical theories tenant of eradicating all instances of oppression in human society is the primary duty of humanity, CRT is exercised and applied in all forms of activism in regards to social justice. Yeah. Thank you. The same organization that would be for the defense of people of color, for instance, or something like that, would be the same people that would be firing you for speaking biblical truth. I just want to make sure that that's what I mean I I understand that critical race theory is kind of That's fine. You've lost your power. Thank you for your Holy Spirit that helps us to to see things clearly I got it Friday right after work. Go ahead. If if a person of color makes a statement that's contrary to to the social justice movement, you've probably seen the the Twitter arguments and threads, you've seen the discussions on social media before. Linda Moody has a question here. And I and I promise you, um it it's it's just a much better way to live. Okay. I understand this class and it uh ensure, you know, give us the right information so we can earning Even though if they use the same language, their outcome and their end state is different. I'm not saying it's always the case, but to deny that that's never the case, which is what I implied from the statement. Okay? But you you you you helped me. I would be careful to say that it's not the church that's guilty of these things as the body of Christ. Um I I agree with you on that. Martin Luther King, though he did a lot of stuff um for the advancement of civil rights within America, Martin Luther King um I feel I'm shaking. Can you just I don't know what I'm saying? Can you say it out loud? Their definition of equity is not the biblical definition of equity, which again, throughout the course of this class, we'll discuss in more detail. We're not going to talk about white supremacy at a whole class. They went to Sweden and they came over to America. Slogans such as, quote, end racism, sexism, and the oppression of minorities, end quote, are offered without an effort to penetrate the issues relating to the interdependence of these problems. Um what they don't know is that the framework is at odds and and often criticized We've done five or six weeks of of course material. Like its foundation of critical theory, I'm going to call it CRT for now. What are you defining as a racist policy? The same office that would be dealing with the racism issue, for instance, would be the same office that would be firing me for saying that homosexuality is a sin. Hartwright, keep reading the person if you can, uh he made earlier about the the whole slivery slope of judging motive. It's like a hive mind mentality. And so when I use they, especially when it comes to this, I mean those within the scholarship field of critical race theory. Lord, thank you for every person here. Lord, I am woefully inadequate, woefully unworthy to do this, but I I still thank you. I don't mean the church. But I'd I would be interested in in having that conversation as well, Mike, definitely. Um however I'd I'd at least allow or like us to to be as close to a uh on topic as possible. These are the power dynamics in which all these theories and foundations rest upon. People are denied promotions on the basis of race. Oh yeah, definitely. Mike for uh clarifying for that. And there might be pros, there might be cons. I'll move on. It's it's to move the goalpost more and more and more and more. When you give legitimacy to insanity like that That's not not at all what I'm saying. Um we'll agree to disagree on that one. Yeah, it it it helps deter it in a way. Hi I I uh I'll give you a definition. I'd like to open up the floor for the next couple minutes unless somebody unless nobody says anything. As I understand Brian's statement, I think it's appropriate to say pretty directly that not everyone who identifies Once they prove that whiteness indeed has established the cultural hegemony and is being oppressed uh is being oppressive, the wor real work can start. I'll pray. So by audience I mean physical audience. Freeman and Derek Bell grew frustrated with perceived little change from the civil rights movement. Yeah, okay. Yeah, and and and I think I made that point a couple weeks ago. If I as a Christian in the workplace said things like homosexuality is a sin, I am out of there. That's yeah, that's fine. Within the ensuing talk, he would go on to criticize how each prevailing view of racism of his day ultimately missed the core of how critical race theory viewed racism Society can always be a little more just, a little more equal, a little more inclusive, and so the commitment to social justice is ongoing as well. But try as best as you can to stay relevant to the class and to and to the discussion. I might fail in that goal, and that's just that's that's gonna have to be okay, because I know the Lord will use what he intends to use from this class for his purposes. That's real helpful. And Pastor Gay will be be taking the helm on that. Yeah, Danny is Brian Wilson. To say that racism doesn't exist would be categorically wrong. And as long as we're agreeing on that, then I I I think I'm okay. So um these are the dialogues that we're we're looking for here. Again, like critical theory, the point that's being made here is that part of the tenant here Within the scope, end quote, within the scope of CRT, proponents argue that affirmative action ultimately led to the benefit of white people rather than people of color. It's like when when So how do you how do you know you're there if you don't even know what you're aiming at? I I I I'm into a uh I'm I'm agreeing with uh uh Danny as far as civil rights being And there's there's a long talk. No, I was just saying that it was just a slippery slope when it comes to uh identifying why a African American or person of color may not get a promotion or why And part of that requires a lot of critical thinking and examining the issue and asking questions that have been asked and examining from every angle, from every perspective. Quote, rather than continue to place their faith in reforms of the legal system, CRT's founders began their scholarly work as a form of activism. But I want to see people saved eternally as well. Whatever issue is identified, whatever progress is made, it's just never enough. Yes. But I mean, it's it exists. I think the world and the world forces and demonic influences know that, of course. I felt isolated. And I want to be careful in my response here because I don't necessarily want to push back on everything that you're saying. Oh sorry, I'm sorry that was really loud. I thank you for the civility of the class. I have a question about um how the civil rights movement in the sixties Oh yes, I yeah, I d yeah, I do know that. I don't think anybody would deny that. If you're not about social justice always and trying to perpetuate social justice, then you're failing the movement in and of itself. She wrote the book, White Fragility. That even if we disagree with the world about these things, that with love and grace we can address them Let's be balanced in this and let's make sure that we're not just talking about social justice because there's also the issue of white supremacy and I think it's a legitimate issue to talk about. It is no different from critical race theory. This right here, this point for not recognizing the centrality of race and law is one of the foundations of critical race theory, that everything is perceived in this dynamic of race. We recognize that based on factors including, but not limited to disability, race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status, What are the foundations of of critical race theory? One of the primary tenets of CRT is that race still matters. Derek Bell is often touted as the face of CRT You can become a PhD in these things. And they probably are not realizing the danger and false behind a critical race theory. However, even that statement in itself isn't completely true because there are teachers that do do that. So I I appreciate that. Sorry for that. And so as time goes on, I I believe and I and I think um this is what I'm seeing in in in my examination. I pray that it would be useful to your kingdom, that it would be useful to advance the gospel. Um but you're coming after church, right? I have a question then. So you find a lot of pastors who led civil rights groups. What the civil rights movement was about was about reform. That that is a complete against absolutely change. The second tenet of CRT is similar to the tenet of critical theory called lived experience. Counterstories rely on the power of people's voices. Um you're asking, is the civil rights movement linked with the current cultural movement of social justice? Yes ma'am. Freeman that I go over later on in the class that demonstrates that a little more clearly. And it's been proven. Um and it's and it um but it's gonna be the last class. Great. It'd be a a longer conversation. It's Biot Loven. What biblical justice is defined as. That's where a lot of these quotes came from. So we can kind of take our time with this one, move a little bit slower, have a little more discussion. I don't know why, but like I'm I feel cold or excited. And in one of the one of the leaders of the biblical counseling movement talked to a bunch of secular psychiatrists and counselors Oh, of course. I d I don't want to misquote you there. I'm not saying that a person of color doesn't get promoted and it's because they're black or because they're Latino. Um And then we'll watch the Lord work. Can I exhort you to that? If there's anybody that needs to leave to come to church or something like that, I highly recommend please come to church. That's real helpful. Okay. Anything like that? We wouldn't necessarily say anything is wrong with that, but there's assumption upon assumption that's underlaid with here. Is there racism in in your church specifically, in your local body? I'm trying to do something with that issue. We need a a perfect model in a sense for which we're supposed to attain to We thank you for this time to come and and learn. Uh let's go ahead with the notes here, okay? The definition is hegemonic power that's dominating a culture. I can't get to everybody's opinion and I might not comment on everyone's opinion. CRT contends that this method of storytelling is as factual oopsies is I'm sorry, my computer is messing up. If you don't think the way that we think, then you're out of the system Who are they being used? Pastor Gabe is grabbing the notes. The biblical definition is tyranny and slavery and a reaping of goods. Yeah. Because there is there is a a point. Oh Thursday after work because I was off on day They've hitched their wagon onto the issue of racism, as legitimate as it may be. I don't mean the body of Christ. Hi, can I make a quick comment? Um You said you said that you're gonna have to agree to disagree. Is essentially the method in which the narrative of lived Problems of interdependence, once considered, may well affect one's strategic choices or remedial programs or efforts of struggle. I appreciate and love the fact that we have technology. We can't use what we have today. They're those who fundamentally know exactly what they're doing, and they've taught people. And then we're almost halfway done. It is concerned with all of society. And your movement will have no lasting effect, ever. Nothing. There's no identifier or qualifier to that. So um yeah, I Educational equity. Whether you think it's pervasive as it is or it isn't is beside the point. As such, many CRT theorists position themselves in opposition to the dominant Related to something that you might understand a little bit better. So I say with love. That was a really good thing. Okay. Yeah. You can major in critical race theory. Like who's the they think that like PPAs are probably well intentioned But you will not find the position defensible according to biblical standards. I I think that's the these are the questions that we're we're looking for here. And so when those things happen I suggest, contrary to some of the traditional Marxist views of racism, that at least since the nineteen fifties it has been in the interest of America's ruling class That's one definition. Clarifying that for me. But I could say something and and by way of the Diversity and Inclusion Office. I live with my wife and we live in the basement of Pastor League and Mrs. You know. They're talking about issues of civility, they're talking about issues of racism, but with that they're also talking about issues of of homosexuality. Um, okay, I I'll put it like this That's what I wanted to get to. But the next class will be the racism and prejudice and oppression class. But it's it's a slow change that over time ultimately finds its roots in these systems But also, you know, with your response you're talking about individuals and their These are all judgment um calls based off of assuming someone's motive Yeah. Um, I will Thanks. In the realm of counseling, secular counselors don't have a model in which people should attain to. The civil rights movement? And that's what I'm contending here is that that that was not a a gospel driven movement. We're trying to undermine truth and we don't want you to um There are diversity issues. There are consequences to the statements that were given, there are consequences the questions that were asked, there are consequences the answers that were given. That's the biggest point that I would like to make, is the discerning ability of Christians, I believe, needs to be strengthened. As a matter of fact Thank you for that clarification. Critical legal studies focus on the legal realm. Even if they would say, well, some work was done, ultimately it was of no benefit. And then when you look at the the phrase intentional allocation of resources, In and in the in the insidious the insidiousness But I'm I'm this is kind of why I wanted I wanted to slow roll through at least this section. That's what that's the point you were just making. CRT seeks to demonstrate that the same prejudice, racism, and oppression exist in all forms of society and its institutions Of course not. Yeah, go ahead, please. Um not not yet, but um when you're pretty I'd be a little curious to hear more about that because I I don't agree. There was one where they were relating um goodness. I can give you part of the resources that we'll give you, I'll give you the link to this. There's nothing you can do about it. Um because I can understand the the discrepancy and and the issue there. Um I I I believe What does that really mean? The importance of the importance of interdisciplinary means. Is it the responsibility of the church to go protest, for instance? I thank you, Lord, for for the spirit of calmness. I have a definition. I understood that that was a difference between biblical justice and social justice. And then they found themselves that they were within the scope and realm of academia here in America. In some cases, they even took almost a word-for-word verbatim from Hitler's Mein Kampf. Yeah, they have precedences that they learn maybe from school, for on-the-job training. Hey Brian. Um Instead, people of color should seek to confront their victimizers and recognize that the fight itself is a manifestation of our humanity And I believe that there are those even within That's okay because we got about halfway done. Yeah, no, that's a good point. Okay, because I'm hearing the word and each time I'm hearing I'm not exactly sure what is meant They often quote him, they they look up to him in a lot of ways. We are to remain in Him So keep in mind the things that we talked about these last couple classes. As previously discussed, critical theory sets up the framework and skeleton. There are other names, and I'm not just trying to name drop here. You know, is that these these movements have ultimate consequences. It's just going into more specifics. Um her question was was she she reads point G, for instance. Well I again it's not about whether or not they can define critical race theory Again, the assumption is that we agree upon that definition in the first place. And the and the organizers. Okay. What I'm demonstrating here is that the language that's used in that statement finds its direct roots in critical race theory. It's again, it's not that we don't want to afford the opportunities Of course I I can't guess, but And so if that's the situation What I'm saying is that we need to be discerning the body of Christ so that when you're faced with this stuff, you can know what to look for. I apologize. And so what what what they're saying is whatever action has been taken that's been oppressor-led or oppressor-driven or something like that No longer is the conversation about what can we do to get the gospel out, it's how we can deal with the issues of social justice. No, I uh thank you, Wai. We have time. So what else can we publish? Okay. The leaders She knows exactly what she's doing. Church and Christianity is on the side of oppressors in the minds of social justicians. Yeah. Obviously, Martin Luther King held the title of Reverend and was a pastor of a church Hello. He resigned in protest five years later We do have foundations to talk about. Any person of color that does not affirm the social justice movement will likewise Alright, commitment to social justice. I can't I I I would imagine there's a lot of people, maybe even online right now, who who have felt like no one's given them a call May you sanctify them and sanctify us all together in your word. Let me give you another one. So we can't just say they're all rooted in critical race theory, so it's not something that should be He's a pastor, but he he talks a lot about this. A clear-cut means of understanding this Hey, why how you doing, bud? Just their specific um focus is just a bit different. But we can discuss the practicalities and the usefulness of the methodologies. And and I also get your point about, you know, the idea is to totally bring down the whole But with the time remaining, here we go. We would say the same thing about about abortion, for an example. You know, and and please if if But in some instances it's we need to raise above to make up for the for the time that was lost. One of the main issues is that Ms. And so I I just want to make sure that It may subsequently help a few things, but ultimately it falls short of the goal here. But even then that that allyship is questioned in in a lot of cases. Can I exhort you to maybe consider that Right. They gave a whole talk essentially that Yeah, Mike, thanks. It was a movement that began in the 1970s and was a critique on the legal system. In nineteen ninety-two, Derek Bell would leave Harvard over the lack of representation among the staff at the school, particularly women of color. What we're talking about is that it finds its framework in the roots of these of these statements like this Um but there are I don't think it's really tension because we're brothers in Christ and sisters in Christ, and we can we can discuss these things with love and grace. People online, I I understand we want to be safe. There were segregated churches and there shouldn't have been segregated churches. However, proponents of what would be called CRT This is Rashida Arthur. I might make a statement. In his book, Racial Realism, Derek Bell even argues: quote, that people of color Yeah, and with that being said, it's it's not even um Christians, non-Christians, can't tell from message. That's why I want to do a whole lesson on it. Sorry, you had a you had a hand up. Thank you for saving us. So social justice is saying And hence you found a lot of our first We've had some pretty good discussions. But the point was that even when you say, I don't think they're intentionally doing these things, probably for the majority they're not. It's ridiculous, but they put they pushed it through. So just again In addition to counterstories being a theoretical contribution of CRT. As stated before in the talk produced by Alan Freeman, he went on to say, quote, Hint, hint, wink, wink, but I'm trying to do something with that issue. And I have a lot, a whole host of a lot of issues, of cultural issues I'd like to talk about. Yeah they did. The rest of the classes are justice. Would that be considered a social justice uh movement, even though it stemmed from the church? All right. Sarah Irvine yesterday brought up critical disability theory. Um, but in terms of where they're receiving through the hierarchies, you know where they're receiving for which they're receiving I'm in critical race theory. For CRT and careful parallels to critical theory, it is their job to identify whiteness in all of American society. I don't I don't again, even but even if you you handled the issues of segregation, you haven't handled the issues of the heart. The civil rights movement, yeah. Again, we have this week and next week, and these are a shorter set of notes. They had a long conversation. Right? Um I mean that evil people have used Again, um we we talked about last week And you would have to look at it at a case-by-case basis. And I know that what just happened was a was a long dialogue and there's And my computer's losing it again. And these are the notes that we'll be going through over the next couple weeks. And and what I'm positing is is yes, they are doing this intentionally. Wow, this is moving along quite nice. I believe the gospel is the most powerful influence. Yeah, appreciate that, man. Uh either either now or at some point, can you define We have to throw it all out, everything, and institute a new system. And so I Sorry. And hear me when I say this lovingly. Okay So it's yeah, so it's again in terms of And the and the church has used it. And then eventually it changes the way that they act. And that's where the divergence comes from. And so it's all about a whole new thing. But everybody else? To better understand the way in which this practically works, we must look at the origins of critical race theory It's being taught in school now. So she's she's asking like what is what is inherently wrong with the statement? Alright. Part of objectivity defines that there is a there is a an actual answer to the questions that are asked. Alan Freeman in a talk titled Race Class And um Yeah. One is about a reform, and the other is about a completely new system being in place They're still examining current prowler structures, but the difference here is the specifics. CRT establishes its worldview in terms of power dynamics and privilege. You can you can major in um We're assuming that they're holding to a worldview that we would inherently agree with I think we all do eventually. And then after that class, we're going to talk about So it's not just the racism issue, it's Yeah. It was that, you know We need a whole new force in place. And this class is really built on the assumption that you've already gone through the previous classes All these ideologies were stirring within this realm of academics, they were being taught to students If you think the church is immune to that, you're you're you're wrong. Primo primarily. When it comes to biblical counseling, guess who they have their model as? Yeah, so somebody go Thanks for the backup there. Again, these are the commonalities of progression within these systems. And it's not always related to critical race theory. Nothing. But I I appreciate it, Wyatt. Of course you'll find people that have MLK shirts on or something like that and and celebrating the the the day and We need to reform the system in America today. They don't care about the issues. So we have to make some of these blanket statements, unfortunately, there's nothing else we can do about it And specifically within CRT, especially black people. You'll never do enough. That's what I typically mean when I say they. Don't get me wrong. Hopefully if I get my laundry done. If I've taken a breath or you find a a place or something like that, you can interrupt me. The same with critical theory, as we talked about, the German philosophers. Um if I didn't I apologize that I meant to make that point. No And they'll they'll call them things like like we heard in in prior classes, they'll call them things like an uncle Tom, for an example. You know, does it help in a way? Uh So Um That's very that's very uh encouraging. A concept of fair and just relations between the individual and society It's usually just individuals doing bad stuff. Oh absolutely. And you'll find that kind of language in a lot of these conversations. So does that mean that any group Now, I'm not saying that Remember, this movement was born out of critical legal studies and critiqued it for not recognizing the centrality of race. So, you know, again, like you were saying, any white person who sees There is a there is a bloody history of of of members of the church in the past. Okay, thanks, Danny. Eventually, you have a whole generation now that Now there's a whole other thing They're not actually doing it to end racism. I know that. And so I'll give you an example. But what we're talking about here is that they find this language from CRT in general. Uh we're gonna move on. Because you know, inherently the gospel is what changes the hearts of people. Thank you for loving us. For example, when you look at the term equitable education Um And was that I mean, how we should be looking at that from I don't know which one. So this is the foundation. As a white man And and more than likely would would try to link them two together to say we did this with Martin Luther King in the past. But They call these guys the three horsemen or the four horsemen. I guess I don't wanna I don't think that's what we're saying, but I just want to be clear because Please chill out. Okay. Voice results from the shared experience of the structures of systems of power. To be an American in the hegemonic sense is to be white and oppressive. Not in the way that this movement is currently organized. Okay. Great. I do know that, yes. We could never reform it. And I'm not going to try to breeze through these, but um I I do want to make sure we're we're we're on Okay. I appreciate that. Thy word is truth. CLS finds that the wealthy and the powerful use the law as an instrument for oppression. Yes. Right. But what's behind on a train, what's in all the other cars behind that? The world argues and they yell and they fight against each other. Does that make sense? So again No one can usually, naturally, always be I love technology. So But remember, churches were the places that we w only places we could Whenever you hear the phrase diversity, equity, and inclusion, you have found somewhere where critical race theory is reached. We are always to be within the mind of Christ, for an example. They really are. We talked about that. Okay. It can be a lot of personal freedom in that, but I think ultimately that you would have an answer Yeah, bring it on Jeff. It's it's not a link that's directly tied as we stated in the class and the notes Quote, as such, COS or critical legal studies Again, you can you can Sure. But I don't make sure that's the case I I appreciate what's been said in in um It will not happen. Because it Much of the core components of the social justice movement She's made those statements before. For Karl Marx, it was about destroying capitalism in favor of socialism, i. Social justice. Would that be considered a social justice movement These weren't real, they were purposely fake. Well, I I think I I would agree with Pastor Gabe in and add on Oh, that's a good question. Thank you for sending your son to die for us. No. They would never say that. And you know, we didn't we'll probably more than likely of course not finish the notes today. And so But you saved us, despite us being enemies, Lord. And I want to be careful when I say the church. Yeah, appreciate it, brother. Um But I don't know that the bay isn't is necessarily Yeah, and and I appreciate that. This tenet of CRT is typically called storytelling or counter-storytelling I'm going through the teachers track right now in in Mm-hmm. You'll find, very fascinating, you'll find that It's a perfect system in a sense. Out of 20 articles that they published, they got, I think, seven approved and four published. That's not what I'm saying. They may be Christian in name, they might be non-Christian. And I think the only way that a that a a family would turn from an abortion clinic in the first place Thanks for the reminds me of, right Yeah. Now And the purpose of the class is not primarily to discuss that. And we talked about that a little bit last class. However, I love video games. They're just trying to address a problem that There's inherent issues that come along with that. Thanks. Yeah, it does. What they demonstrated was Now some churches are have already had that conversation. Yeah. It is up to the people to put on the meat. With what part do you disagree with? That whole talk that I took this quote from So when when we say statements like it originated out of the church, that's making an assumption that What we knew is a completely new system. In other words, if a study appears that says this country, for example, isn't racist, as the people say it is, Okay, I'm excited. And again, I want to say this with love and grace. Right? We'll see you guys next week. Marxism focused only on economics. And that's just not true. Yeah, I'm sorry. She's probably one of the biggest proponents. And again, I'm trying to do a whole class on that. And we'll discuss uh that here in the origin section, but That's their definition of oppression. I really appreciate that. No. And it's Thanks for the the dialogue guys. That should have never taken place within the church We talked about that in the biblical authority class. And one of the statements he makes is like a train. And it's not Hold on one second, let me turn my camera on. Um that would be that would have to be either So We need a public servant force, for an example, as Anyway. People will still be prejudiced. Can I exhort you to spend time with your brothers and sisters in Christ? Okay. Now I'm not trying to bring Americanism into this is not my intention here. All that to say I love technology. In Jesus' name. But It would be like As a matter of fact, part of the legit l the legitimacy issue is that they're I mean So critical legal studies You know? And I have some direct quotes from them here So it would be really difficult unless Hey, Danny. What I'm getting at here in in They may not. I love the conversations in this class. What I'm saying is that Ms. Um But I figured that would be necessary. So Minji was saying essentially it's not that the No. Anything else, guys? Yeah. Dory brought up the point as well earlier in the class. And this is one of the bigger issues of all this. Um try to make it and uh he'll be here, alright? I was just trying to home in on, you know, kind of Even when they're trying to fix a perceived issue, There's a whole recording on that. That just won't exist It can't be wrong. Alright? Right. So we can move a little bit a little slower today. I'm not Thank you for that. Amen. Nice haircut by the way. If you have any questions about what we've talked about. I'm not saying that. Not on their foundations, no. Leak. Yes. Really appreciate your attentioness. Uh I I I hope one of the things Commitment to social justice. I talk technology all day. This is from the National School Boards Association quote. I've I'm a little unclear about that. I don't I don't mean to cut these things off, but But Because what we have can't be fixed. You have to think through these things People of color are unified, not essentialized. Our mission is always to be gospel-centered. And that, Lord, is the greatest of all. Nope. So That's a really good comment That's not a problem. Can I make a comment please? It's going to start to fall apart. But there are cases when that is Again, that's according to the framework. We had had to meet It's a very fine line. Here we go. That's the definition of what critical race theory is. Some churches are already doing that. Don't exist. We talked about that. Is as factual Does that make sense? Love you. Or Interest convergence. Thank you for reminding me. Bye. Quote And we'll e. So just , economics. That's