But what happens is that now you're locked into this position and then you start to reject or accept things that are going on based on that five-second judgment call of whatever the situation was. This isn't me saying that everybody that goes to these rallies thinks this way. As you've gone through these classes and notes, you should be able to look at the world and see the similarities of what we've been talking about and how that's practically applied today. They didn't drive Teslas around, they drove wagons and buggies with with you know horses. It's incredibly naive to think that way. I'm glad you think that's crazy. A co-founder of Black Lives Matter stated that, quote, the first thing I think is that we actually do have an ideological framework. What we're talking about here is not necessarily repeating names as a as a for the sake of echo chamberiness, if that's even a term. The resource list isn't done yet. However, and remember Elias' class last week. We just had a whole class on that. And a poor man in dirty clothes also comes in and you pay special attention to the one who is wearing the bright clothes and you say, You sit here in a good place. He may have been the greatest of all time. We are for societal reform, but we know that any reform is only lasting when it is through the changed hearts of people by the only gospel that can save and change a person. The point cannot be missed, and even more so, God is first concerned about their spiritual state. Now we know the medical bill in America is astronomical, so you're looking at hundreds of thousands of dollars the same way that you would do that at the hospital in And I know you really want to give a response right then and there. But you'll eventually get quicker at it. and their policies, months dedicated to black history, LGBTQ, and other race histories or institute international holidays, it still isn't enough. It how is that different uh when from when um you know there are uh laws enacted in the name of a uh a person that was victim to a certain situation like Megan's law or You can find videos of this stuff. In Acts 10, 34 through 35, and this is the last thing I'll say, I must certainly understand now that God is not one to show partiality, but in every nation I'm really thankful for just the willingness to wrestle with these issues together. It clears up so much and I think it really sets people up for success to go through the rest of these of these lessons. You're looking at cute photos of babies. And to be able to consciously work through those issues in a very methodical way, in a way that's that's leading, it's being led down by facts and evidence. And of course, that's not critical thinking, that's just adopting somebody else's viewpoints for the sake of not having to put in the effort and work that it takes to actually work through these issues. at a casino and why it keeps them in that seat. is you'd probably stay away from social media for a while and just really learn how to think through these issues. Uh admittedly, I know that that everybody wants to have a hot take, you know. just designed to make you want to to stay on Facebook or Instagram so that you buy things, so that you watch ad advertisements. Um what Elias taught, you've had weeks to think about what what Pastor Dave and myself have gone through. They're there because not because they actually care about the issues, but because they just care about not looking racist or something like that. How you work, how you communicate, the friends that you have, the time that you spend, the book that you read, the movies you watch, and things like that. If you want to talk about the gospel, even in that instance, we can do that later. It's society as a whole, it's culture as a whole. What we need to do is not worry about the one thing, society or or economics, as as Marxism put, but we need to worry about culture as a whole. You can go deeper and deeper into this. And how people who adhere to this system, how they think, how they act, the reasons why we see certain things in the culture today. It doesn't really exist anymore. that the human heart is inherently changed because we've evolved. of thought and politics and and legislation and whatever because we know more today that we couldn't possibly fall into the same errors as as yesterday because they were less evolved, they're they're more primitive, you know You may have had uh a better um understanding of of the Bible growing up. is a total reconstitution of this nation as in its institutions. that all Black Lives Matter protests are actively engaging in critical race theory by their volitional will. And specifically the language they use in in BLM agenda, information, ideology, and things like that, they they take from this, uh again, I think it's the Yoruba. this Yoruba tribal religion. So they call down their ancestors that have died. There is a reason for everything that you see. And I think demonically driven. And they're doing this very purposefully. You see, critical thinking. or that I think I'm necessarily totally right or I've thought through these issues enough to even speak on them. I never brought this up. But they they they did a I mean a ton of research for that episode. the the BLM movements in in conversation like this. I thought it was East. to pose. in whiteness does not exist. What really is racism? I'm not super happy with section three. This is what I really wanted to say in section three. to that person. In Genesis 11, Elias talked about this last week. What fascination this is. Not by physical characteristics, but the first real big division of all the nations of the world was first and foremost by language. The point that I'm making is that what he was saying was that because you're white, you couldn't possibly be a minority. Likewise, if an English person went over to China, even though China knows a bunch of English, it's to pretend China does not know English at all. They're sin. was the fact that God separated them in a sense, uh Eve, your desire will be for your husband, but Adam, well, well what? You are two sinners who are redeemed by grace, who still wear the flesh, and have to deal with the issues of sin. You have Saint Gabe over here and St. The prime verses here are Paul's declarations in in Galatians 3, Colossians 3, there's no distinction, neither Greek or Jew, you know, barbarian and Scythian slave and free, but all but Christ is in all, or is all and in all. And a Christian cannot gauge in that mentality. They're very, very calculated actions. are some of the nicest and loving people that has ever existed on the face of the earth. What proponents of critical race theory don't grasp is the power of the gospel. You should not follow the crowd in doing evil, nor should you testify in dispute so as to join together with the crowd in order to pervert justice. The idea carried here should be evidence. Of course not. for the standards of of the religious leaders of the day, for the Jewish people who hated the Samaritans. Right? You know what you know how long he paid for that man to be in that that that inn? Quite frankly, most of us wouldn't be in a position to do something like that. How do I get saved essentially? The innkeeper, the Samaritan, gives the innkeeper enough money to pay for the tab of a of the guy to stay there like several months. And he was demonstrating you can't love like this. And we're also told not to show favoritism to the poor nor to the great. These thoughts of impartiality, equity, because we're going to talk about that. I know it's tough. because it was so terrible. And to do that requires careful study and attention. And your spouse might be asking you questions, your kids might be onto your case about these things that they really want to know. I don't know if I don't think that's a real thing, but whatever. And I pray you would protect our minds, protect our hearts, and protect our spirits, and protect our bodies, Lord, by your careful hands. And this congregation specifically, Lord, protect Hope Bible. And let us be humble as we approach these topics, that we would learn to honor you in all aspects. I'd really like to hear some feedback, not right now, unless you really, really want to, but I'd really like to hear some feedback, just just any comments you may have on the class, the format, the things talked about. It's been a really humbling experience. Check in with people you haven't talked to in a while. Why that's really important is because part of what I really wanted to instill into this class was an ability to critically think through these issues together. that comes out, every single opinion piece, every news agency, news anchor's opinion. Statuses and they adopt that opinion wholesale on their own and didn't even think about what it is that that's actually happening And then you start to turn to people that you trust, wise counselors, advisors, spiritual leaders, whatever within the church, you know, or or Or you have uh your your dad or your mom, you know, has really thought through these things, or your best friend, I don't know, somebody you can trust to be able to bounce this stuff off together and be able to reason through these things together And again, it's not to say that social media is evil or wrong. It goes over and I use the term big tech just because everybody knows what I'm talking about. like people that that worked on the original Twitter and YouTube and Google algorithms and Facebook and all of that are on that documentary essentially to tell you to stop going on social media, you know, um, because it's it's just really It's not good. It's just my recommendation. Yeah. Method of analysis, essentially, you know, your lived experiences always being paramount over potential evidence against whatever it is that you're you're talking about all of society, everything must be under the purview of the social justice movement. make sure that they are applying their same methodology to every aspect of society, whatever that may be. uh have come to understand it is that you can you can take your your identity and whiteness and it's essentially an object by which society is able to protect as if it was your own property. So they have a whole host of ideas, books and textbooks and research material on this idea of whiteness. But more than likely almost on a daily basis, you kind of hear this discussion, especially now, especially as the nation continues to get more tense and continues to get more tense. And one of the key things that the book talks about is the movements of this nation in general really, really look like we're headed towards 150 years ago because we're more civilized today. You're you're you're assuming that because these things happened in the past and because there are less understanding of of morality today and our understanding of But the point is that I'm really thankful that the church is kind of confused on why the world is the way that it is in the sense of like how could they think this way? Think that way and I'm glad that you you see that because it tells me that the Holy Spirit has informed your mind of the truth of his word and that informs the ways you evaluate things. Oh, where can we find so much common ground and where can we meet our fellow man in this? is the underlying intention of the organization's leaders to propagate their agenda and ideology through these instances. with people of color and their oppression in mind. of company policies, training and education being widespread, councils and boards specifically designed to examine organizations and schools, for instance However, organizational leaders know exactly what they are doing by their own testimony. To be able to inform and make wise these leaders of these societies to be able to go and do something with that information. Perhaps one of the more dangerous underlying issues, however, may be indeed the foundation of critical race theory being rooted in Marxism. That the ultimate end of these epics is revolution. Um I guess the um the the violence that that happened against them, is that kind of what you're saying? Poignant. That's not what I'm advocating here. to talk about critical theory and social justice and all that. Yes, if if you just kind of keep repeating things in a vacuum, in an echo chamber, you're going to hear the same thing back over and over again, whether it's true or not. Well I I do agree with Mike Moody's point in general, in principle, just repeating things over and over again creates an echo chamber. Because their stuff is so good. To that through the Hope Book Group. To be white is inherently to be in sin and to be sinful. It's still hard to determine that because hard intentions are really hard to verify, for instance, in the court of law. But again, I said in the majority of the cases, I didn't say all cases, I said in the majority of the cases, how is one to determine whether something is inherently and definitionally racist? But that's okay, we already had that question answered, right, with the really good class. I don't like the way that it came out, okay? That becomes is sinful. based on that prejudgment. But here we have the real Bible even electronically. Have you not made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil motives? You are committing sin and are convicted by the law as violators. Here's a really good example. And so they're going back and forth and going back and forth. Alright, so is he really the greatest of all time? She came from a different nation. They would be a minority in that instance. Was it Lord it over her? Thank God, you know? I think so. Of all relationships you're ever supposed to be have, you're supposed to be the closest with your spouse. And then sin came in the picture. We are all human beings made in God's image, but some are in the family of Adam and others in Christ. Even though this distinction still exists, you are clearly and specifically split between the two. Scientifically speaking, race does not exist in the same way that the world, the secular world, is trying to push. These instances of Paul calling this incessance upon calling each other your black brothers in Christ or your white sisters in Christ, I must say, is unbiblical and holds you to bound and holds you bound to these ties that are no longer yours in Christ. Wait for our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform the body of our lowly condition into conformity with his glorious body, by the exertion of the power that He is even subject to all that He is even to subject all things to Himself. That is not to say that societal reform is completely useless or unhelpful, nor is it to say that social reform does not help people to some degree. You made them comfortable for a hundred years. And some of those people still end up in hell, despite the fact that they've had a really, really tough life. And I know that we we uh as ones who want to exhibit a Christ's likeness and a love for people, a love for this world as we call them to repentance, we want to exhibit that love They're the ones that push for really good and biblically sound societal reform. And God will not have that. Facts are secondary. Before God's court of justice, all are equal, and all will be dealt with impartiality, both the small and the great But what does he do? The one who fears him and does what is right and acceptable to him. how wise Pastor Gay. that we listen to your word, how beneficial it is for us to follow after you, though we may lose everything in this world, we will gain everything in heaven. I am really concerned, and I know I said this last thing. Right? And you assessed the religious leaders of the day, and you assessed your nation, Israel Lord, and your people, and you found them wanting, and you came back to restore our minds and our hearts, you came to save us, to eliminate the w the work of the devil. And we don't get anything else and we only get you, Lord. us as a congregation would be rightly informed of the truth of your word so that we can stand against all these these falsities. You are watching over Hope Bible Church with a careful eye, that you love your church, so much so that you gave your son for your church. For we love you and we are so grateful for you, Lord, and so excited for another Sunday to worship Jesus. I haven't heard one negative comment yet, and I'm just really thankful for you guys. You know, but by and large, I think the language that we use as a as a church should be so fundamentally different, not just because of that class, but On their platform as long as possible so that they generate rat uh rad ad revenue. I'm saying that it's designed to make you not think. And it's being able to come to reasons, conclusions on whatever it is the event is taking place. On a psychological level, they've built that system to do that. Track your screen time on your phone, iPhone does it, Android does it, and it'll literally tell you how many times you've picked up your phone in a day, and it'll tell you how often Pick it up, what apps you use the most and things like that. And then watch yourself pick up your phone 20 to 30 times a day looking for the social media app. 20 seconds or so for anybody that has anything that they want to ask for something. And then and then really start to think through these foundations and whatnot. A critique of of liberalism, how even critical race theorists don't necessarily adhere to everything that's going on, even the social justice movement, that they at times have missed the points of what critical race theorists are trying to propagate. that the movements that were going on in the nation just didn't satisfy what they felt was a requirement to be able to pursue justification. a desire to help everybody out. about your life must be committed to social justice in the same vein, in the same way as Christians are to be committed to Christ. And in the same way that we understand that, just apply that to this framework, social justicians say that your life must be committed to social justice. that their complaint was when it came to Marxism that it was just economically focused. things that they they they want to um uh inject this ideology into. Even if society societal laws are no longer contingent upon a person's skin color whenever they're talking about what kind of laws that they might enact. And and and it might be kind of hard to to really wrap your mind around this one. this idea of whiteness. People think that in our modern age and time, especially in this country, wouldn't ever see something like this again. that we're headed for another civil war. You know, there's like the moderates, right? Which are great. The world's perspective is so skewed. We're not. As you continue to go throughout our conversation and you go throughout life and all this, I'm just trying to help you understand that excuse me, fundamentally just um uh error-filled thought. uh intellectual fidelity and and biblical wisdom for the sake of finding common ground with your fellow man, don't play on their on their field. I'm going off a really long tangent here, I'm sorry. Critical theory's ultimate end state is never explicitly stated, however, the effects of such a framework are easily seen. We are super versed on sort of ideological theories. These same leaders also call their movement a spiritual one. Our folks up feel so incredibly spirit-driven for me. essentially the spiritual aspect of social justice. are talking about this concept of civil war and getting everybody wound up to to adopt this idea that a civil war could happen in our in our modern age. I'm not saying that because that exists, that that's going to happen. It's a really good question. terms, but the leaders are, and perhaps more people than we might realize, uh are actually engaging in a religious ritual. um of this movement and why I'm specifically saying that. My not speaking on that is not because I don't think that that's an issue. Again, I'm not making a comment on these things. What we're talking about is the fact that leaders of of BLM, as an example, are utilizing religious language because their adherence their adherence to that religion. They are really, really, really wise dudes. of BLM. Critical race theory is fraught with assumption that must first be true in order for the theory to hold. of sin, regardless of potential rebuttals as, quote, whiteness is a term to characterize a specific form of racism, end quote, denies the central point the Bible has defined sin for us Point one, here we go. You can make that determination if a person comes out and says, I did that racially motivated. Right? what I what I wrote in here because I don't I don't fully agree with I d not that I don't agree, but I tried to to write something that I didn't intend to come out the way that it I think it comes out. You can still read it. And our glorious Lord Jesus Christ with an attitude of personal favoritism. If, however, you are fulfilling the royal law, according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. Wow. I mean the point that Elias is making that a minority might actually just be somebody who speaks a different language is so radically different. Sin is the primary division between people. Racism, the point is that you are one race in the division of two subcategories, sinner and saint. The point is there's an article, you can read the article, you can read through these things one of them. As if it's is as if it's biological distinctions between people who are white, between people who are black, Asian, Native American, Hispanic, whatever. Okay. Yet all their souls were lost. Okay? Christians historically are ones that build the hospitals, they build the schools, they take care of societal problems and needs. Because if you really want real reconciliation in a nation, you'll give them the gospel. Nor shall you show favor to a poor person in his disputes. But here the Bible stresses the balance and even goes as so far as to say about the poor, nor shall you show favor to the poor person in his dispute. Social justice perverts this and states that simply on the basis of the minority status of people of color, then their case must be heard in a different light every time. This story is meant to be so incredibly lavish that anyone who reads it goes, I can't do that. Jesus was addressing religious hypocrites who, due to the religious standard, would have passed over the dying man as evidence in the parable, but it does not follow that the man's wounds were secondary The point of the parable was for Jesus to demonstrate to the man who asked the question that he wasn't good enough to get internal life. The religious, the the the Jewish, all of these, right? Think about that. And to take care of his every need. But the biggest point, and the point of the parable, was to show that this is something you can't do, and if you want to be saved, then you have to give your life to Christ. Extend this man. We need to be people that think. But specifically kind of get your mind ready for this talk on justice. Right? I promise you, as you learn to think critically and think biblically about these issues, you will inevitably become more wise as God's word promises. Father, you came to to destroy all these things, these lofty ideas. We are to be thinking people. But even more than all that we can say, Jesus, you yourself are the author and perfecter of our faith, and you've demonstrated in your life on this world how wise it is to be obedient to the Father, how good it is. So, Father, I just ask that you would bless this class, give clarity to the things that we're talking about. And the reason I recommend that is social media is designed for controversy. You know, um they they shove something controversial in your face in your face so that you go, oh, I'm so angry at this, so you stay on longer as as identified by by skin color and and physical characteristics. Again, take a break from social media, but you can see it on social media when people have these conversations, YouTube videos, things like that, interviews and whatnot were With priorities, especially. go forward with um um our movement. even a physical civil war. It's it it's so hard to wrap your mind around just how bad it really is. Despite the fact that many news agencies currently, social media accounts, whatever, influencers, doesn't matter who. I wanted to word this section here, number three, all of number three. It's a human race. I reject this. Romans 5. that you have given yourself for us. And we are sanctified by your spirit through the reading and application of your word and Him illuminating our minds, the truth of it. social justice and inequalities and things like that. I think the class really showed the way that Christians are supposed to interact with one another, how we're supposed to view these topics and issues, and really what some of the underlying issues that come into play when we're discussing Uh I I was actually talking to Roger about this uh a couple days ago, just just in general. Um of MLK Day, we have a presidential inauguration that's going to be um a really, really uh And part of critical thinking is being able to read as best as you can unbiased resources on particular issues, whatever that is. Um in my my fear is that what happens is people see an event go on, they go on social media, they read one of their friends' long three-paragraph You know, but not af not before you do your own personal evaluation of things. of of class notes or anything like that. Where proponents of social justice are very critical of a white person's actions as an example because they feel as if they're doing it for their own benefit rather than they're actually trying to help the issues I I don't know if that made a whole lot of sense. So those are the the seven core tenants. that allow you as a white person if if you are to be able to function in society at at the level of oppressor that you are. And they're able to major in it. You know, I I did I did a class on on eschatology with Pastor Mora, and we called uh it was it was over the book. And more and more you see the extremist views being adopted wholesale by the entire nation. You're taking the human heart with you. Because I I thought like this, you know, I I was an enemy of God This isn't this isn't just uh uh you know um something nice that she's saying. You know, I'm sure she's a nice lady. Okay? If God has not ordained for this country to fall into another civil war, it's not going to happen. Yeah, and and just to to to piggyback off that, um that that that distinction that he's making is really Almost anything, right? with um neo-Nazism and and whatnot in America. in their movements and and and framework and language and the things that they do at these rallies. Your boy messed up. Critical race theory conflicts with biblical truth. Uh orps uh hobbits. Right? He said something, a a lady was talking to him, and he didn't like the the the tone of of of of what she was saying Now, again, not commenting on Muhammad Ali's character though. Saint. I love you, but I want you to understand something. Pastor Gabe's going to give. Okay? Jesus, Lord, thank you so much for who you are. Thank you for another morning to come and worship you as a body. It's not worldly rhetoric that we are to follow. Really, really great feedback from you guys. Looking at the landscape of the turmoil of the nation, I'm not going to make necessar comments about the events necessarily, just a recommendation for me. I would recommend you not that you have to delete your Facebook, I would recommend that you stay away from social media for a while, personally speaking. of just stuff is the best way to put it in in our nation. You know maybe maybe during a touchdown at a Ravens game we're everything's fine. Which the leaders of Black Lives Matter have have testified, under oath or anything, but have testified that they are followers of this East African religion Ver you know, so many other uh laws and and and and things that was enacted. that when Black Lives Matter have rallies and you know in the context of the protests and gatherings The fact remains that the Bible does not label racism in any of its verses. But you have dishonored the poor man. Me and Bassie, I'm even though I'm shorter than Bassi, I'm not a Hobbit. As hard as it is to accept and you make people's lives easier, does it matter ultimately if they're suffering in hell for an eternity? Okay, um I'm gonna pray, and then we'll get started here together. To obey, and of course to love. Would you give us open hearts and minds to receive instruction, Lord? I'd really like to receive some feedback. He's got a really, really sharp mind. Um I uh a few weeks ago, like a month ago or something like that, I deleted my Facebook. The reason I would recommend you stay away from social media for a little bit is not because I think social media is evil or anything like that. It's not built to help you think biblically. Before we get started with the rest of the notes, that wasn't actually on the notes. Alright, so we I think finished up the foundation section of the critical theory notes. Or justification. Point A, like with all ideologies that talk about transforming the world, there is an ultimate end state to the work of critical race theory. what Black Lives Matter is doing, what what she talks about in this quote, is uh basically engaging in a religious ritual on a regular basis where it's it's almost like an incantation The the country is being taken away from us. Thank you, everybody by the way. We are all humans. is not existent and shouldn't exist even in the scientific world. The gospel is what will reconcile you to one another. And I and I mean that in as as nicely as I can put it. The one man's case seems right until the other has given his side of the story, right? God, I pray that you would instill in our hearts and minds careful, protective thoughts as we go through this country's history. And uh um I I have I have one more uh recommendation. It's trying to find in every aspect of society where is the infection of whiteness pervasive, where is it oppressive, and how can we justify and rectify that? Where our nation is so split politically that the divide between conservative and liberal If you give up biblical thought and biblical wisdom and foundations and you go try to talk to the world, it's not going to work. Um I I can't remember exactly how to say it. If you say to the poor man, come sit in the honorable seat because you're trying to show partiality to the poor man, that's just as partial as doing it for the rich man. Even if there are distinctions that we talked about last class, nationality, ethnicity, language, things like that, um tribe. That would have been radically that would that would have radically blown their minds. This class has been very helpful to myself just studying these topics and these issues. And social media is going to do everything in its power to make sure that you stay on their platform so that they can make money off of you and they don't care whether or not you're actually thinking about the issues That's really dangerous. I would recommend a documentary that goes over this. Yeah, Jessica War is giving her little testimony on that. We talked about to them how how race still matters. The reason why this one is really important is because critical race theorists believe that all aspects and facets of society have been infected essentially by There's like graphs and studies that that firms have done where it shows that the moderate section of political ideologies is is evaporating. Just throwing that out there, but neither here or there. Are you saying that like because we have laws of victims that we are um that essentially what they're doing is the same as just acknowledging as a mantra, as a religious ritual. But skin color really is never an identifier for a specific group of people. We're going to talk about equity next class. You know it's weird that Bitcoin is worth like forty thousand dollars. This brings us to Romans 5. Oil was this this really expensive stuff, and he's covering him with all this oil and dressing his wounds lovingly, and he personally picks them up and carries them all the way to an inn. Drill Pastor Gabe with everything, okay? Everything should should be either you agreed with it or you had some difficulties and now you're wrestling through some of that stuff, which is fine. niche or your political stances, religious stances, anything like that. Number five is their commitment to social justice, as we discussed that social justice and the movement of civil rights and all of that is paramount to everything else. then you're still taking the human heart with you. But despite the fact that somebody somebody has a question or something. That is what we are talking about here. You you you look at the wor the the the practical aspects of of dressing the wounds in favor of the fact that Jesus was trying to explain to the people, you need to be saved because if you want to get into heaven you have to love like this. Right? And and I think the the the the the rapid you know injection shot of of your social media fix That's my recommendation. Interest convergence, which is essentially anytime an oppressor helps out those that are oppressed in this system, it's always for the benefit of the oppressor. To be clear, in an instance of protests that spring out of the death of a person of color by the hands of the police are not necessarily to be frowned upon because people are, by their national right, able to protest some matters Uh in in the last class, not Eliza's class, then the last lesson that we'll do when when I talk about And so when there's a crowd gathered and they say say their name and you know they re they rehearse the names uh to them uh you know again not everybody is probably thinking in these Again, I'm not trying to say that everyone in these movements actively thinks about these tribal rituals as a part of their daily existence. It's just that this class is not designed to talk about that specifically. Not that it matters, but that's like literally my my job is what I do is to think through stuff. Alright. Both types of prejudice were wrong. Both are sinful. I mean that's the biggest divide division of people. You love your spouse if you're married, right? I know that there's some controversies with the church. Let's go let's go down to point five real quick. Anything like that because I think it's really important for us to kind of get that, especially now that we're at the the midpoint, we're coming on the last lessons and I'd like to do another class like this in the future. 15. But the same Paul would write in Philippians 3. the foundations of of critical race theory, what their pillars are as in ideology, what they attest to and adhere to when it comes to this framework and to the system. One of the founders, Alan Dean Freeman, you know, had a big issue with affirmative action as an example. Iran uh it was like the shadow of Iran, talking about Iran, um biblical prophecy, Israel, and America in in the Bible. What I originally wanted to do, just caveating here, is I want to just throw out the podcast on here and just listen to it and then talk about it Now to point three's thing, the Bible does talk about what? You have different races. And so I but they but historically Christians did not give up the gospel in this incessance upon wanting to push, let's just fix the issues now with a band-aid, because quite frankly, it's just a band-aid. But it is not followed that the man's uh but it is not followed because the man's wounds were dressed, that the gospel takes a back seat Expend him. Just that you just have to understand that. And then I bring in Titus 1 here. As God was demonstrating that he was going to save Gentiles, Peter, after hearing the testimony of Cornelius said, Acts Radical events. I don't really know I I still haven't found a better way of of being able to explain that. They will recite the names of uh you know these folks who have been tragically killed And on the basis of what took place in their life and the tragedy that we want to prevent others from experiencing Open up your Bibles or turn on your Bibles and click the screen that says James. Very powerful stuff. That that's an example of different races, okay? You may be earthly citizens of America in one sense. And they could probably tell you how terrible it is to be in a country that is so unstable. Um whiteness is a property, so it's a really it's a really weird um idea, but the point is is that um On point B of number seven, I say whiteness then is an object that can be protected. This isn't I'm not I'm not just speaking about ideas that people have thrown thrown out here. Sasana's correct me. Evidence may be contrary, but ultimately cannot be used because they have a different shade of skin color. This is this is this is weird. When it came to that subject, personally speaking, I I think probably at this point should have been the first or second class we did because it just clears up so much. I believe, yeah, we we talked about the importance of interdisciplinary means. You want that question answered and you weren't here last week? In both types of prejudices, whether it's against the poor or even for the poor, or it's against the rich or for the rich, both types of prejudices are sin. There's a lot of pride in that. But the gracious gift is not like the offense, for it is by the offense of the one that many died. The point cannot be missed, and even more so, God is first concerned about their spiritual status. He has spent his life, mostly most of his life, studying the scriptures. But other countries go through civil wars and coups and all these things all the time. You know what I mean? Okay? Hope Bible Church and in this class's section, Critical Theory or Worldviews and Critical Theories, that class is on there. That's not what I'm advocating for. I'm not accusing anyone, of course, of of being addicted. Just want that one to sit in your mind for a little bit. Here's one resource. I'll still answer questions regarding it. I'm not trying to pump him up here, really. It's really how how extreme are you in your political views? Your power, which isn't actually your power, but your wisdom and your power are contained within biblical understanding and biblical wisdom. Sin of whiteness versus original sin, excuse me. James 2 tells us not to show any partiality, gives the example of putting a rich man in the best seat during a worship service and putting the poor beggar in an unhonorable seat With what time we have left remaining, point C, commitment to social justice versus commitment to the gospel. Now, if she spoke a different language, for example, that would make her a minority and she would have disadvantages to that because she doesn't speak the primary language of the nation He dresses, not only just dresses his wounds, he covers him and covers him and covers him in oil, a soothing balm to his wounds. So great. Um social justice. I I don't care if we if we go out to Mars tomorrow with Elon Musk and he's gonna take us all to be saved on Mars with his new plan, whatever I if you notice I have some ellipses in this quote, there's a much longer quote from her in in these articles and I have the article listed that goes over a little bit more. What I'm advocating again, and very specifically, is that these leaders know what they're doing. Okay, here we go. Additionally, charges laid on people for perceived acts of racism are ultimately unverifiable in the majority of cases. Well this section here was built on the fact that the Elias' class is supposed to come after this class, and you're supposed to answer that question And you'll be able to take a little bit of a quicker approach. I don't know, whatever it is that you do. I that's my recommendation because there's going to be a lot of tumultuous stuff that's going to happen in the next these next few months and you really, really, really need to learn how to think through these issues. It'd essentially be like you find a dying man on the street and you take him to the hospital and he doesn't have insurance and you go, I'll pay his medical bill. It was a kick in the pants for me. I mean you can even you can even major in a degree on whiteness studies. Okay. Just I I wrote something I I didn't I wanted to use different words. Yeah, Lord It Over Her. Now, when it comes to national division, the first thing God did to divide the nations was language. Saints not only for for for people, you know. Joel and St. If you look at the parable as a whole, you have a lot of people that go over the dying man. I love those TVs. I mean keep repeating. Lord of the Rings is a great example of what different races look like. In the Tower of Babel, what did God do to separate the nations? And they're experiencing the issues of of of marriage. Expend me, but expend him next week as well. And so with the idea of inter interest convergence, it's it's specifying that every time you see a white person at a BLM rally as an example Because the human heart is the same from all the way from Adam and Eve until today. Just Thinking podcast. Thanks Mike for for bringing that up. Um what time is it? Human race. And Jesus says, love like this. We are to be reasoned people. If you want to do as a spectrum, there's like the moderate section here where you're kind of kind of in between on on issue to issue. I don't just think I can show through through biblical testimony that it's demonically driven. I think before I answer it I'd have to give it a little thought. I reject this. I don't think anything's gonna happen, but it that this is this is like the start of of a new chapter in America. You can go to school for it. And so this isn't everything that is contained within the framework. I you probably in the past week have heard that term and that and that thing thrown around on every news agency and every news article that talks about the situation Now, to be to be to be honest, we're already in an ideological civil war We are not a different race. There was a video I saw, I think it was like Muhammad Ali, greatest of all time. You know what? Jesus is the greatest of all time. In matters of civil dispute, even if the poor person, even if the person is poor, we are not to show impartiality to the case, as if they are innocent just because of their social standing. The Bible does care tell us to care for the widow and the poor, James 1. It's not to say that we aren't to help our fellow man, of course not. There's really a lot there. Where I get um this the spiritual aspect from specifically is the episode titled The Church. Is it not the rich who oppress you and personally drag you into court? I think social media is fine for for aspects like that. Yeah, and and there is there is still a lot to say, and and believe me, I have just as many concerns um with with critical race theory that I have Because I state some things that I don't think I necessarily meant to state after rereading it, so I apologize for that It's still real. God says, come let us reason together in Isaiah. Alright, I'm not trying to be a self-help guru here, okay? This is why you see that even after major steps have been made in favor of critical race theory's view in terms of equity and inclusive reform I don't know. Thank you for the correction. And she said, I'm a minority too. In Paul's discourse of the act of sin. And part of that religion is to have priestesses and priests be able to call down ancestral spirits from the from the afterworld. Here's what I really wanted to say. He's the second greatest foster of all time. Wow, so even language is divisive. Roger and St. And uh that's not that's not thinking biblically or or critically. Pastor Pastor Gabe is going to email the link to that podcast so you can listen to it So I made a comment. Here we go. It's going to be on justice. It's really supposed to keep you there trying to pull and pull and pull until you get something rewarding and satisfying. It's a redistribution and a reconstitution of what they feel is are these unequal power dynamics and being able to level the playing field by enacting a new system. It's so it's so rooted and just wrong. And it's not just arbitrary. Ready? I I think God will honor that. We have better technology. God hates partiality so much. Does it sometimes look like you don't love each other? Point seven, race is biologically non-existent. The emphasis of the Bible is spreading of the gospel. True justice is not accomplished without the gospel. I want to be very clear here. You see the difference on that? Isn't that fascinating to talk about the Tower of Babel in this conversation? And the response of that was to the question, you know, uh Remember, think think think you you have to think in the world's perspective of of how these events play out. Race still exists as as human. And I I I would imagine you you you understood where he was coming from, just the stuff that he was talking about. If if I want to challenge you, if I could challenge you, just delete the social media stuff all of it off your phone for just a week. It's a little hard to explain. There are a lot of sub-tenants and subcategories to these things in every aspect. It's okay though. Let's apply it a little bit here. Race is a legitimate biblical category that already stands in contrast with what I wrote. If you believe that you're going to find reconciliation between anybody in this nation through other means outside of the gospel, you are categorically wrong. Okay? I'm not actually sorry, but here we go. You know, I'm not trying to to attack her character necessarily, but I'm saying that there is What she is saying is not the language of Christians Is racism only a one a one-way street against whites, against people of color? Not even in salvation does God show partiality. It does not require, and it should not require, for you to give to give a quick response. My recommendation is don't until you're ready to actually give a response. So if you go to Mars for the new Earth, or you go explore the cosmos and in 10,000 years, assuming Christ doesn't come back then, I think you will. So it's not like you can say that because we have TVs that are super 8K high def Quote: Part of our calling as people who do this work for black lives is to lift people up, both in their living but also in their death. Both demonstrated partiality. Lastly, the Bible only characterizes people by race in one way, with two subcategories. I am really concerned, really concerned with the stuff that's going on in this nation. Thank you that on your time on earth, Lord, that you gave so many careful examinations of the culture. Um so I just I'm I'm just stressing these things because I'll recommend it a million times over again. That's fine. If Jesus and Muhammad Ali got into a fight, I guarantee you Jesus would win. Last class was such a powerful class. We are in the midst of a cultural revolution. Right? We were once together. Bassi and St. Leviticus 1915. It's just it's inherently designed not to care about whatever it is that you you think are We're talking about the system itself. Uplifting the names of victims goes beyond creating hashtags. They do it by name, and they and they do this ritual and they bring the spirit down and through the medium of the priest or the priestess, they now inform the tribe of what the spirit has to say to us. Part of the reason why you have these like footnotes is so you see that quote and you go, oh I'm gonna read it for myself and then you come to a conclusion on yours from yourself. Mm-hmm. The title is The Church of BLM. All aspects of American society are also bathed in the sin of whiteness, since all institutions are built upon white people's racism and oppression against people of color I've said it a million times throughout these lessons, and I can't stress it enough. I mean it's test to how wise he is. Do some study yourself. Our faith is not a blind faith. It might be for you. And again, I want you, as we're even recapping, I want you to apply what Elias talked about last week. This is a very cursory look at all this. I get a little concerned just at how much of the of worldly thought that we adopt and we start to see like And I think that we really tried to build what we really tried to build is a movement that could be utilized by many, many black folk. So my my not speaking on the dangers of of white supremacy thought is not um 20-21, for our citizenship is in heaven, from which we also eagerly We shouldn't be doing this, right? It is far more than we would ever deserve. You can, of course, find resources through somebody's shared posts or something like that. Where where this language is coming from, it comes from a religion specifically. There's a recording, sermon audio. That was a really poor joke. We are one human race. For example, we are for justice, but justice is defined by the Bible The good Samaritan saw the bleeding and dying man and helped him. You can you can get a job as a professor or a counselor or something for it. We want to assist in food shortages or something like that. We're pretty much at the midpoints, a little over the midpoints of this class. Thank you for that, Jessica. I was listening to a RC scroll message on justification screen You know, with all the with all the bells and whistles, because we have this technology That's that's helpful. Now we can easily understand a rich man paying off a judge with a bribe to get his way, and rightfully call that injustice. Don't just give up You can just cross section three out. Hobbits. We are to love your word and really to love you and Christ and the Spirit That's true. Great. What do you mean the Samaritan would have picked him up? Thank you for your wisdom. We have to deal with the issues today. And so it has to be culture, it has to be religion, it has to be institutions, it has to be law It starts with a Y. If you're talking about the Yoruba tribe, then it's West African. Not wholesale, but I know what I'm saying is really confusing and you're and you're trying to listen to a class on a really confusing subject. There's a division and relationship that's divided between people and God because of sin and people with themselves. Who knows when? Anything that you have to say, whether positive or negative, I'm really thankful that But before we get started with notes, are there any comments and questions about the last class you've kind of had a week to think about? Of course I do. It doesn't even exist. Pastor Gabe is going to talk about that next week in class in justice. It's no secret that like the scrolling feature on your phone is designed to mimic what people feel when they pull a slot machine. I've heard it time and time again. Yep. We're gonna be just fine. Ready? Basti and Jesse are experiencing this right now. He gave him a certain amount of money that the text indicates essentially that the the stay of that man he essentially gives And the response of us should go, I can't do that. And then after that it'll be social justice and the gospel, and then the spiritual aspect of the social justice movement. Any hints of whiteness appearing with any ins institution or organization must be ground flat and recreated from the ground up I don't like the fact that I did that, so I'm not really going to address I'm not saying you have marital issues, that's not what I'm saying. Okay, at the bottom of the page. You may ask, and this is I really want to get to this section at the very least before we go. It just takes time. Protect our leaders. I think that's all fine. And uh it's not built to help you think critically, and especially Whoever keeps the whole law yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all. Jesse in class. An event happens within five seconds you already have a judgment call on that. I'm not sure. You know, voter fraud. Hey, we're still doing oh boy, we're still doing okay. Race is on a legitimate biblical category. Paul claims his Roman citizenship at times when it was advantageous for him to do so, did he not? And in in in a direct contrast to the culture of the day But to him, it didn't matter. It is your word that we are to listen to, to submit to. It's on Netflix if you still have Netflix. It it's a really scary thought. You could have been saved since you were little, I'm not sure. Unless God has allowed and ordained for that to happen, it's not going to happen. Go ahead. So you know whereas we might as you noted create Allah in the memory of someone He was a prideful man. Jesus would annihilate Muhammad Ali. The point is that genetically speaking, race What is biblical justice? Stretch your mind muscles and think positively. So how could we possibly fall into the same traffic? It's just that this class is not designed to talk about white supremacy as an ideology frame ideological framework. Tribes, nations, peoples, tongues. Hobbits we found the nerd. I come from England. Romans 5. But they still push it. 100%. If you want to know how addicted you are to social media, you can You may all be super disciplined. It's like a two-hour-long episode talking about the spiritual aspects of of Ask him a lot of questions. The Bible speaks of nothing in regard to the sin of whiteness, specifically. Okay? Absolutely. Not great, but I understand. We are coming on the heels of MLK. How how is how is the the thing with Black Lives Matter different than than that I have my own opinions on this stuff, but it doesn't necessarily mean that my opinions should be your opinions. Listen, my beloved brothers and sisters, did God not choose the poor of this world to be rich in faith, the heirs of the kingdom which he promised to those who love him? Adam and Eve walked freely with God and with each other. Everything that you see is very well calculated Here we go. Why? Jesus knew that and went immediately to, it was the Samaritan who picked him up. I I I know that we've we've used the Good Samaritan parable for for for so much when it comes to helping your fellow man. Alright? I think it's incredibly important. I was incredibly thankful for Elias for that class. Like uh Here we go. And even as close as you are, even as much as you love each other, you're best friends, what happens? You have to really sit and think and consider it. Ready to get started? CRT basis on moral wrong is predicated on whiteness inherently being oppressive, specifically to and only to people of color. Oh, I have so much time here. And the reason I think that's really important is we are going through a seismic shift They're Euroba, Rumi, something like that. Really quick, this is Willie. Okay. He divided them by language, not by skin color. Everybody's a saint that's a Christian. Peter, when he met the man Cornelius, at as as God was demonstrating, excuse me here. We shouldn't be doing this. It's a very it's a very tumultuous time. You gotta you gotta stretch those those mind muscles Specifically, Pastor Dave is going to crush it. Okay? 12. When I deleted my Facebook, this is exactly what happened to me. But really what needs to happen when it comes to social justice is we have to have a whole cultural approach to the way that we we um Just Thinking Podcast. Who knows if it would even be the same exact class? You certainly don't have time to sift through 50 to 100 to 150 to 250 friends' opinions on the matter However, to Mike Moody's point Goodness gracious. We're gonna get through this. I'm just gonna be up front. If you want to read my mistake, that's absolutely fine on you. Orps versus humans, those are different races. You can say that. This is a whole lot of stuff. Thank you for your care and your love for us. It is a careful reasoned faith that has so much to back it up. And and it's kind I'm kind of thankful for that to be quite frank. Additionally, CRT terms may be familiar, but the way in which they define these terms stand in contrast to the Bible. Because they they emulate their Savior. I'm not saying that social media is bad. And then once you've taken time yourself to think through these issues, But it's like this it's like this this thing that you can talk about, you can discuss, you can protect through laws. Any everybody should. One of the first big divisions that we see in the Bible. Why? It causes division in your marriage. The consequence of that gospel is that Christians will take care of each other and also those of the whole world as they are able. If someone says we must change society, then we can worry about giving them the gospel next and makes this gospel secondary to social justice. And we cannot understand true justice if we ignore what the Bible says. Protect our elders. And essentially the the way that I It is literally almost resurrecting the spirit so they can work through us to get the work that we need to get done. It's as simple as that. We are all stamped with the same image of God. 27, to stand up for justice and to rebuke the oppressor, Isaiah 117. Are these thoughts of partiality. Articles and interviews of BLM members, for example, have clearly stated their agendas. You have the race of humans, you have the race of dwarves, you have the race of elves. Bassi is taller and bigger. Therefore, just as through the one man sin entered the world and death through sin, and so death spread to all mankind because all sin They should come to class. Yeah Paul even says that we are to take every thought captive, Lord. I can't emphasize enough how grateful I was for Elias to do that class You're able to stay on top of things that are going on. While there are measures of truth to critical race theory, there are many more conflicts with biblical truths. And he goes, you're not a minority, you're white. Throughout history, you see that time and time again Christians step up constantly, constantly. The Samaritans are evil and they're cruel and we hate them. Leave me out. Your friends, your coworkers, well, how could you think this way? We are truly a privileged people. You may not even have a social media. We're not like the savages of the past. Yeah, yeah. That is where I get uh some of this stuff from. Did you see that? He was a prideful man. Because they're sin. If you don't believe that, I'm going to urge you right now to stop thinking that way. Alright, that's it. Or they think that the ultimate outcome of the Black Lives Matter movement will benefit white people as an example. Part of the reason why I don't don't want to talk about some of this stuff is because I'm not ready to really have come to a conclusion on a lot of these. For if a man comes into your assembly with a gold ring and is dressed in bright clothes, He was a really great boxer. We have to solve the issues today, enact legislation today, whatever, and then we can start worrying about and talking about the gospel. Essentially, white people will have the privilege whether explicitly codified in law or not. Here's what I here's here's point four, and I'm fine with point four. I can't, you know, he saves and redeems our mind. Are there any comments or questions that are kind of burning in your mind right now? You keep keep doing that until people begin to believe that or whatever your And you know that for a fact. Much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of one man, Jesus Christ, overflow to the many But we live in this world, so we are. It was it was a bit on my mind, just Do a little study yourself. That's not the point I'm making. So this last class, okay, first I I have a couple comments. The next step after that is a physical one. Human race. They're still pushing it Would you prevent me from speaking falsehood? Great! But it is to say that Christians are to be very presently aware that their life must reflect in keeping with obedience to Jesus and his word. And of course, if you again if you think that the church is immune to that, it's not. com net. That's a very sad reality. We are also likewise not to favor those of wider shades of skin simply because of their social standing as well You read about it, but you never sit and experience some some of them immigrated for from countries that were like that. I'm really thankful for your patience. Because where the church goes, so does the culture. I'm not sure, but It is literally almost resurrecting a spirit so they can work through us to get the work that we need to get done. But Pastor Gabe is gonna is gonna mulligan this one for me. Exodus 23 through one is a heavy example. It's the leaders that know exactly what they're doing. Great. Then they have blaspheme the good name by which you have been called. Okay? That's the point. You can be a professor of whiteness studies End state. So I sometimes I I take a little longer than others Okay? How in the world does that relate? You're two sinners still. Paul's discourse on the act of sin in Adam and the act of righteousness in Christ. Do some study yourself. It's designed to shove news articles in your face and conversations so that you continue to stay on social media. And it takes time And it's literally like like the the moderate However, to the point, Mike I really wanted to rewrite this section. We talked about that last class, right? Me and Joel do not have different ears. You cannot change that. I wasn't, so I needed to do it. This comes with the critical rate or the critical theorist framework where essentially So it's never just one thing. And not just wrong, but like just There undoubtedly are many who have never even heard of the term. Yeah, go ahead, Willie. I'll give you a really good resource. What the Bible does speak against is prejudice. That's all right. We learned last week what When you have a sinner on one side, Jesus separates the goats from the lambs, you have the sinner on one side, and you have the sheep on the other side, you You may ask, so if I see a hurting person in the street, do I have to give them the gospel before I help them off the ground? That parable was primarily concerned about salvation. The centrality of narrative and storytelling as a Honestly. You have to scroll there. I'm excited. For critical race theorists, race still matters. I'm not even sure we talked about it last class. White supremacy is not cool. It's not, I just made it up, but echo chamberiness. That's why they work really hard to prosecute certain aspects and have to bring up different charges of different things like that, right? They're married newly. Bible calls you all saints. Christians historically are the nicest people in the world. And you should be able, as you Alright. They're experiencing the fact that in marriage there is conflict with one another. But don't misunderstand the point of that passage. In Jesus' name. If something's confusing, Father, would you help us to wrestle with it and to understand it? And to be honest, part of the reason why that exists is because of social media. Um er the from from the very roots of of what they believe, from from origin point to to now. Critical race theory's work will never be done as long as racism exists. God's sovereignty plays so much into these things that we have to understand. Daryl Harrison and Virgil Walker. That is what I am ethnically the largest concentration of Yoruba people are in Nigeria. Okay? If a person that spoke English went to China, would they be at a disadvantage because they didn't speak the primary language there? But Christians historically And I can attest to Protect our our teachers. It can sound nice in in a sense. Yeah. What I originally wanted to do, which would never get approved, but what I originally wanted to do That's a clear-cut answer, right? Let's actually go to James 2. Okay, I'm not a Hobbit. Whoa! And I'm just thankful to God first and foremost for all this. But neither here or there, I don't think you can walk away from that class speaking the same language, to be quite frank. Social media is designed to keep you engaged. You, quite frankly, do not have the time to be able to process every single article. Are there any other comments or questions that that people might have over the last few weeks? I'm going to take one more sip of water. Race is a social category created by humans, but the human but the Bible does not recognize race on the basis of skin color. Okay? Do you not think that that division would be extended to all your other relationships? Okay. If so, then is there really a remedy, at all a remedy for such sin? In other words, you treat someone worse or better. He said, I'm the greatest of all time. Any movement that does not have point three of Christ and his gospel at the center is destined to eventually fall I think it might be other places. Prejudice is sinful when we cast judgment prior to gaining knowledge for the purpose of using that to show inequitability But it is this targeted focus of critical race theory that we must come what must come first to social reform Also think about the things we talked about here throughout this week, of course. This is part of critical thinking. The Bible, Psalms speaks about that. Slowly think through that. Thank you, Lord, that You may not even deal with that. So we'll you know there's a lot here. Critical race theorists' commitment to social justice and cultural reform is not compatible with commitment to spreading the gospel. And I think e even even more than just thinking critically, what I'm really advocating for is you to think biblically Okay, let's pray, Lord. It's like it's like an electronic currency, but it's like forty grand per Bitcoin God hates partiality so much. You know? But they will still suffer in eternity. Drill him with everything. It goes over like the history of social media and people who have designed social media. They ultimately, as we talked about in the first lesson, critical race theories ultimately found I'm going to take a sip of water. These are just the core foundations of how the system operates. It's just not It is not fair to state It is a legitimate biblical category in the sense of which we defined it last class, right? I'm very concerned about these things. Just think But you you you can see it That we wouldn't see what happened 150 years ago We're doing okay. I didn't say all cases, okay, I said majority of cases. Still not on the basis of skin color. Um Okay. And so again, we we continuously come to this conflict of ideas here. You know. One of the first things you learn in in in in marriage counseling That's it. And that's not to be expected. Social media is designed to ensure that your particular Um So that would that could be Chapter 2 says this, my brothers and sisters, do not hold your faith. Genesis 1:26 through 28. That's not the theological point here To him, he was willing to lavish this love upon this person Think critically through these through these topics. But Um I ran It's very evolutionary in general too As previously discussed. Myself and Alicia in particular are trained organizers. This isn't the language of Christians But if you show partiality, Now we know that Cain killed his brother for an example. And and at first they're going to be really slow at it. Yeah, and uh it says I've been off social media for two weeks now and what a breath of fresh air. I don't care how much people talk about it. Didn't that radically change the way you think about these things? I went, I mean every 15 minutes it felt like I was picking up my phone, scrolling through where's Facebook, where's Facebook We're more civilized today. It's all the same. You ready? 100% Amen. I think inherently if you're connecting with friends or checking on family. It's why like every time you scroll through like the video feed of of Facebook And they've proven that genetically. We went through Here we go You have saints, right? That you would be ever watchful over us. Click it and listen to it. Wow. I'm thankful for the civility that we've showed. But I I was steeped in this as as much as anybody else. Whiteness is not an act You say to the poor man, You stand over there or sit by my footstool Those are the divisions. That's not really critical thinking. But anyway. And so critical race theorists I stand accountable to that. Let's go to James 2 real quick. I forgot. No we're not. The next class. It's called The Social Dilemma. But it's the Samaritan who picked up the dying man, not the religious leader We have received Well I'm glad that you don't I'd just be very frank about that. Go ahead, Pastor Gabe. And I promise you, this is my promise to you. Protect the small group leaders and their thinking, Lord. And then you have the extremists on both sides, the alt-left and alt-right. Alright? You can Um We ready? You know, other like other countries go through stuff like this all the time. Don't give a quick response. Um if anyone has another thought or question they wanted to You shall not give a false report. It comes from an East African religion. Remember, Marxism states Should God allow and have ordained one to exist. You might be old school and actually have a Bible, a physical Bible. What would it profit the world if peace on earth was gained Do the study yourself. I know you all are too. Would you help me to be courageous and to be wise, Lord? Specifically, prejudice is a sin when it is unjustified. No issues. God, for your glory, may we do all these things in Jesus' name. Let's pray. Okay. And so if you see something happen that's crazy, you go, that's kind of crazy. Race is to mean all of mankind. You're still divided on things. This is the number one Christian podcast in America. There could be evidence that suggests that it was racially motivated Go ahead, Pastor Gabe. All right Oh boy. Great? We are not to be robbed, as Colossians says, as a spoil of war. But what I would recommend You're all saints. You can read the rest of these things. Alright? What was the curse laid on upon Adam and Eve? I can't stress that enough. And everything that you do, there has to be a tinge of that in your actions. How are we supposed to lead the tribe today? This isn't just something she's coming up with You know people have like this is the reality of life. Okay, I I okay, I understand what you're saying now. I don't know if you can really go anywhere without seeing it, to be quite frank. Great. And then we're done. Um you can just go ahead and speak. Everything must take back seats. Patrice Calures I'll send out a link. You can cross out section three They were divided. We're living in history right now. Okay. The need to lift Don't play by their rules in a sense Alright? That's the whole point of this section here It goes over what big tech is. The person you're supposed to be the closest with Do not join your hand with a wicked person to be a malicious witness. Because you can't do this. Come to class, come with questions, right? Does the Bible even speak on racism Prejudice. You love your spouse if you're married, don't you? We did a whole 13-week course on this. It's one of the primary In the context of America, the end goal But even in the majority of cases So I Why? Okay, okay. We are trained Marxists You know what a different race would mean? But realistically, it's a really scary thought that I never doubted God's existence, but I didn't care. I'm still waiting for stuff to happen, to be quite honest. I apologize. I think there are of course a lot of points in there about that. Protect their hearts and their minds, Father. Because of sin. You're not even close. They got away from that because I I'm sorry if I misspoke on that. Absolutely It's just guised by Now again So the answer is People have a very, very hard life. America is really unique in that aspect. Um Now Amen. I'll give Everything