Dear Lord, just want to thank you for this class. I want to thank you for everybody that has come and that is still showing up, those that are driving to church and those that are still logging in. I pray if there's any computer issues or any issues on the road, Father, that you would help people get here, get them prepped, and get our minds and hearts open to receive instruction. I know that this will be a very academically heavy class for the most part, Lord, at least for this week. So I pray that we keep at the forefront of our minds and hearts what we are talking about here, and that's to be pure in doctrine, to be undisturbed by the the world's winds of doctrine that may try to carry us away from the truth. And I also pray that we would remain unified in heart, in mind, and body, that we are called to be of one mind and of one spirit as the body of Christ. That we are to be unified by your Holy Spirit, and that He is the one that connects us together. And I ask that we would honor you and the things that we say that what would be talked about and discussed would be useful, would be beneficial to your kingdom, that it would equip us and ready us to be able to engage the culture. as well as our own friends and family and our own spheres of influence. I ask that you would use this mightily, let your spirit be upon This class and all that is said, whatever is not of benefit to you, Lord, I pray that it is quickly forgotten, and what remains is the truth of your word. that which strengthens and encourages and is able to combat the falsity of of um what we face And I just ask for your glory to be displayed and that we would be willing and ready to engage in this and not be afraid to talk about these issues, Lord. For your glory again, in Jesus' name. Amen. Okie dokie. Uh so Pastor Gabe is getting more notes, so if you're waiting on notes, they're coming. It's okay. Alright. So you may be asking yourself things like what in the world is a critical theory? What is postmodernism? What is modernism even? And um you may be wondering like in a in a church that's so heavily um driven by the by the by the Bible dynamically through doctrine What are we going to spend two weeks on talking about this worldly philosophy? We're not only talking about just this philosophy, by the way. There's so many subjects we could go into, but if you if you just kind of peek at the end of your notes here. uh we we essentially go over um a comparing and contrasting of of the bible and and these ideologies. So if it gets too academically heavy And you're like, where's the scripture? We're getting to that part. Okay. I just want to set up the framework here so that you're able to identify the language that's used. the terminology that's used, I'm going to eventually print out literally a list of terms and definitions of of a lot of these words because they're there's a lot and they have clear definitions that um They're words you probably know, they're words that you may not know, but they're redefined in such a way that fits this framework. And that's that's kind of that's kind of the motive of critical theorists and postmodernists, is to take Words and terms and definitions and to redefine them and to restructure them so that they fit their framework And you'll once once you start to see these things and once you start to go through these things, you will not be able to unsee it. It will be very difficult. You'll watch a TV show. You'll listen to a speech, you'll go through to a to a parent-teacher conference or something like that, and you'll hear the same language and terminologies. You should have already heard of things like equity and diversity and inclusion. They're the big three. You'll see that in in conversations with social justicians. um equity boards on on uh school administrations, organizations and events. Yeah, I I work for the government and we have a literal office that's dedicated to It's called the Equity and Inclusion Office or something like that. Their whole mission is to make sure that there's no racist rhetoric in in any of our policies or anything like that. So you'll hear that language a lot, and you should have already seen that language through just observing the movements of culture. I'll try my best to keep the chat up as well so I'm not missing anything. Okay, so they uh they put out Yes, Ms. Linda Moody says if we can put the numbers on pages, uh I I could do that, but I can't right now, so sorry. Okay. We're going to continue. Alright. If you have a question or anything, please unmute yourself if you're online. I don't mind dialogue, anything like that. I'm not trying to make that restrictive. I may ask people to read, whether in class or online, if you're comfortable with that, please let me know and we'll go through it. Okay, so let's let's start. Uh point one, introduction, letter A. The cultural climate of today has adopted a worldview in which many foundational aspects of our lives are thrown into question. Primarily Truth has been thrust into the forefront and called into question as to its legitimacy, relevance, usefulness, and transcendence. Let's skip down to point D real quick. The attacks upon the truth of God's word indeed has an origin, and we find that origin in the garden. We live in a world that's it's called like a post-truth world. We live in a world that is trying to redefine what reality is, is trying to redefine what truth is. and call into question these these foundations that allow society to be able to run, that allow us to understand the world according to God's word Anytime you make any absolute statements or any statement of truth or a claim or anything like that, what is immediately the follow-up? Well, what are your sources? You know, um what what kind of expert are you at this subject or that matter of truth? Um you know, I don't agree with your definition or um I don't really agree with that that certain speaker or events or doctrine or something like that. You don't really find a whole lot of agreements on what truth is. Instead there's a lot of conversation about Just generally speaking, what is truth? Well, Christians should have an answer. What's the answer? The Sunday school answer. It's Jesus. Jesus said, what? I am the way, the life. The truth. No one can come to the Father except through me. So when we have an answer and somebody says, What is truth? like Pontius Pilate asks, Well what is truth? Jesus already answered that. I am truth. And not just a truth or one of the truths or a truth that you can find out on your own or anything like that, but an objective truth. I am the truth. That's a definitive article. That's who Jesus is. He is the truth. And that's and that's a lot of what we we have to face is that you're having um um or you're you're looking at a culture which is shifting and it has really already shifted away from what is truth or what truth is to asking the question, what is truth even? You find that in in college-age students, a lot of the professors grilled them on this. You don't know what truth is, you don't know what truth is, you don't know what truth is. And so you watch evangelistic videos like Todd Friedel of Wretched Radio go to the colleges and they simply ask questions, you know, is the color orange orange and someone says, well it it may be orange to you, but it's not orange to me. And you're like Can we not have some common agreement on something? Does two plus two always equal four? Well, according to our reality, it might be, you know, always four, but you know, my truth might say you you'll you'll hear terms like that, like my truth You know, my truth is 2 plus 2 equals 5 or something like that. And that's equally as valid. And there's there's no there's no uh way for you to combat that because the answer is always You know, it's my truth. It may not be true for you, but it's true for me. And it's very hard to wrestle with that because nobody wants to recognize truth, and that's that's a that's an issue. And because that's an issue, it's pulling out the foundations of truth, and now you have this very wobbly foundation, really a foundation that doesn't exist, and it's replaced by something now. And in critical theory and postmodernism might say things like, well, we can't know truth for certain, but they're absolutely and certainly making those claims as if what they just said was true. And it's and it's insanity I I use that word a lot when talking about this stuff. It's literal insanity. They claim that there is no truth, but they're making a claim, a truth claim in the first place to even make that Does that make sense? No, it really doesn't, but logic it's it's it's it's insane. It really is. Um where did stuff like this begin? Did it did it come from uh American educational institutions? Did it come from a um uh uh a country uh that imported in into America. Um I mean in the context of our country. Yeah, we're gonna talk a little bit about that But I mean, where did the questioning of truth really begin? We talked about it a little bit in the biblical authority class, and now we're talking about it here again. It began in the garden. So now we come to Genesis 3. 1. Here we go. Now the serpent was more cunning than any animal of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Has God really said, You shall not eat from any tree of the garden? Eve, who at this point had not been named yet, was alone as far as we know in this event. Some people have argued well well Adam might have been just right next to her this whole time or he might have been just a few feet away or on the other side of the garden, all kinds of of differing spectrums about where Adam was. But that's not really the point here. The point here is Adam, who had originally received the command from God, would have informed his wife, as evident in her response, about the boundary in which Excuse me, all fruit was good to eat, including the fruit of life, yet not to eat from the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. There are pre three primary aspects of the deception of the serpent. The questioning of God Himself and His command to eat Adam and consequently Eve, the woman, as well. The initial attack in which we find the serpent using is calling into question whether or not God has really spoken, quote, has God really said. Undoubtedly, every error, every false doctrine, every false ideology in philosophy ultimately questions the legitimacy of God in his word. And so Satan in his craftiness twists what God has said, and he even twists the commands. The original command is in Genesis 2, 16 through 17, and it says, the Lord God commanded the man saying, From any tree of the garden you may freely eat, but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For on that day that you eat from it you will certainly die. Well, as we know, the mercy of God kept them alive. Did they spiritually die? Yes. But what did God do? He killed the animal and he clothed the nakedness of Adam and Eve. And in his mercy, though they spiritually died, he physically kept them alive. Notice the positive command of the numbers of trees. From any tree ye may freely eat, God had opened the whole garden to them. There was nothing that was restricted from them. They were in full relationship with God. They walked with God, they talked with God, and everything in the garden was acceptable except for the one tree. That's the negative command of the single tree, but from the tree, singular, you shall not eat. The serpent, Satan, uses this method of questioning God and twisting the scripture. He plants the notion in Eve's mind on whether God had actually made the command, and he subtly twists the command into something different. God gave them permission to eat all but one. Satan twisted it and said, has God really said you shall not eat from any of the tree of the garden? We talked about that last class a little bit, just a reiteration here. Eve gave a proper response and seemingly catches the twist in Genesis 3. 2 when she said, The woman said to the serpent, from the tree, or from the fruit of the trees. of the garden we may eat, but from the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, you shall not eat from it or touch it, or you will die. Now that's not The original command, there is that added caveat not to touch it. That could have been people debate, that could have been at Adam adding onto the command to make sure that we wouldn't even be in that situation. If we're not allowed to touch it, then how can we eat it if we can't even touch it? And so there's there's differing opinions on on that specifically, but still the point is that she got it right in what we're talking about here. Okay. Um And so Satan makes a declarative statement. He says in Genesis 3:4, the serpent said to the woman, You certainly will not die. I mean he questions it again and again and again and again constantly. There is there is much that can be noted here, just the assumption that knowing the difference between Knowing good and evil alone would make you into a deity on the same level as God, however, to the point Satan is sowing seeds of doubt. Even at this moment in her life would never face anything of this sort, and quite frankly, would have no reason to question God Yet Satan here uses the three-pronged method that ultimately leads even to concluding that it is good to eat as she faces the first temptation of her existence. Foundationally, her response demonstrates that she was tempted by the lust of the flesh. She saw that the fruit was good to eat, the lust of the eyes, it was the delight to the eyes, and the pride of life. And it was desirable to make one wise. That's all of 1 John right there. The things in the world are the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the fruitful or the prideful uh the The the pride of life, excuse me. Those are all of the temptations in 1 John. And Eve experienced all that, and she gave into all that. In reality, this would end up causing the flesh to be corrupted, the eyes to be darkened, and her and her husband to be foolish, and ultimately bring sin into the world. So foundationally, as we see these things in the garden, we have to apply that same mentality here. Where do these false ideologies come from? They ultimately, and hear me, all false ideologies, all false philosophies, all false religions, all false gospels, all things that do not pertain to the truth are ultimately from where? The devil himself, because he is a liar. That is that is a radical statement, not really, but that is a heavy statement to understand that all false things in this world ultimately come from the devil himself or the spirit of the world or the spirit of the Antichrist or the Spirit of Satan himself. And he influences things like that, or his demons themselves influence things like that. What does the Bible say? It's not that we f wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the spiritual principalities of the world, right? The evil forces of darkness. These are the things that we wrestle against. It might be difficult to try to grasp that, but the the fact of the matter is that when we're looking at anything that is false, especially ideologies, especially a new false religion, which I personally Not just personally, but I hold that all this stuff is really a false religion. And we'll talk about that. But it's but it's all false. It's demonically inspired, and it's designed to draw you away. That's the ultimate goal of all this, is to draw you away from God's truth. It may not seem like that, but that's part of the deception. Did did Satan get some things right in this claim? Well, yeah, he claimed, one, he said he knew God existed in the first place. He knew there was a garden, he knew that there is a tree who knew God gave them a command. Those things are are are right in a sense, but what did he do? He twisted that. Every good you you've heard it before, we've we've said it before, and we'll say it again. Every good lie has a measure of truth within it. And that's part of the pull. It's the hook. It's to get you to not see what lies beneath, the deception that lies beneath in the core of all that. Foundationally, all philosophies of the world are predicated upon lies of the enemy. Satan uses the wisdom of the world to even deceive believers into questioning the authority of God in his word. We know that Satan, this is letter um A of point three, Critical Theory Origins. We know that Satan is the prince of this world, 1 John 5. 19, and darkens the minds of men, Matthew 24, 24. And so on, and uses empty philosophies to distort the truth of God. Colossians 2. 8. Satan by nature is a liar, and everything he says is a lie. John 8. 44. So two other stirrings of false religions and ideologies, for they are ultimately of the same spirit of this world. Their desire is to pull you away from the truth of God Now, letter B, you can read the rest of that. Letter B. Critical theory stands antithetical to biblical truth and ultimately calls into question the legitimacy of ultimate truth. For example, a branch of critical theory, which we'll talk about called critical race theory. contends that objectivity is a myth. Who knows what objectivity is? I don't mean to be, you know, pandering or not pandering, but So we're patronizing. I don't mean to call into question your your wisdom, but just to get conversation rolling here. What is what does objectivity mean? What does it mean to be objective? Anybody from online? Come on, Bassie, bring it on. Uh you must see. Back face as opposed to Okay. Bassi says objectivity is fact based. Is he right or wrong? He's right. Objectivity also means it's outside of you. It transcends you. It's not true because you believe it to be true. It's true because it's true. It's the quality of the thing that's that's claimed. The truth doesn't change dependent upon our feelings, depending upon our attacks upon that truth. The truth remains true no matter what. It's objective. It's outside of us. Thank you, Bassi. You're a brave man. Um well and this is a quote from a research paper on on critical race theory. I I list all the sources here then with the links so you can you can read this for yourself. It says, while most critical race theory research relies on empirical examples of material and social disparity Objective measures have difficulty demonstrating the cause. Critical race theory scholars respond to these critiques by arguing that objectivity is a myth, one that is historically deployed to justify inequality and defect racial criticism. Essentially what it's saying here is that any time somebody makes a claim against institutions of racism or something like that The point is that they will say, critical race theorists and scholars will say things like, well, objectivity is a myth. Your claim isn't ultimately true because you're just using that to oppress us. That's the defeat there. Anything you say that stands in contrast to what their material might say or the research might suggest or anything like that, ultimately, they can call it into question by simply just saying What you're saying isn't true because you've used truth in the past to oppress us, and so we can't hold to that any longer That's a difficult thing to combat because anything you bring up at that point stands and con stands with that statement. If you try to bring up anything objective, they might say, nope, can't use it because it's been used historically to oppress um those of of of color, minorities, and things of that nature. Hey Dave. Yeah, bring it on, Jeff. So can't we turn that around a little bit and say, well, you're oppressing me by not giving my voice any value? You can, but the problem is that they won't accept an answer like that. First off let me just be frank here. If I said that as as a white person, for example, which by the way I'm not actually white. I'm I'm half Hispanic. I don't know if you knew that, but now you do, okay? I'm half Hispanic. My mom is one hundred percent Nicaraguan. Her parents were born in Nicaragua. They immigrated over to America and they worked in factories for like 30 years, got their nationality and all that. And then my mom was eventually born, and so I am 50% Nicaraguan. Interesting, right? But I also am not really tan, I'm a little pasty. So such is life, right? That's okay. But if I said something like that, you're using that to oppress me, what's the answer? You're not oppressed. You can't be oppressed. Why? Because you're a white man. So I can't say that. And if somebody of color said that, you know what they call that? They call that an uh an ally of of of of oppression They are you're an ally to to the oppressors. If if anyone agrees with that, if anyone says what you have said, Jeff, then you're an ally to the oppressors, no matter what Doesn't matter what skin color you are, doesn't matter who you are, doesn't matter what qualifications you have, doesn't matter what you say, if it goes against that then now you're an ally of an oppressor and we we'll talk about that. Does somebody have a comment? Yeah, they also they also call you a sellout or Uncle Tom. Yeah, yeah, I've I've heard statements like that. Um Daryl uh Harrison and Virgil Walker of the Just Thinking podcast, which I highly recommend. I'll keep recommending every class. As I said, the only people that have ever called them things like Uncle Tom have always come from liberal, progressive, um black brothers of theirs. The only ones. That'd be a statement to make. Anyway. Hey Danny. This is Melinda. Yes, ma'am. I have to uh I do apologize, but I'm not as familiar as some of you guys on the con of what critical race theory is ma'am. And I know it says that we will address it next, but since we're talking about it, can you can you give a quick and dirty uh explanation as to what that really means? Yes, ma'am. So critical theory in general is this is this framework that splits the groups of uh splits people into groups and dynamics of oppressor and oppressed. All right. That's what critical theory as a whole is. It redefines everything in the world in its worldview as being in groups of those that are oppressors. And those that are being oppressed. That's generally speaking what that means. In critical race theory, that looks like specifically White people, the oppressors, oppressing people of color, those that are oppressed. And everything is is defined in those terms of of racial dynamics, of group dynamics, and power dynamics. That's essentially at its core what critical race theory is. Does that make sense, Miss Ms. Moody? That's a good foundation. Thanks so much. Now I'm I'll be able to process along the way. Yes, ma'am. Thank you for the question Okay, so here here is I essentially just said it, here's what it says. So what is critical race theory? Critical theory views Or what is critical theory? It views reality through the lens of power, dividing people into oppressed groups and oppressor groups along various axes like race, class, gender, sexual orientation Excuse me, physical ability and age. Critical theory finds its philosophical roots in Marxism, though that's not the only school of thought. and other expounded schools that deviate in various forms from original Marxist thought. Alright, so this is where we start to get really academically heavy. If you really, really want to know more about this stuff, the resources are there. I'm not going to go through every single one of these portions, but I will go through what I think is good for the class so that we stay on time. If I'm moving too quickly, let me know Marxism, currently known today as classical Marxism, was birthed from a German philosopher known as Karl Marx in the 1800s Karl Marx was, quote, a German philosopher, political economist, historian, political theorist, sociologist, communist, and revolutionary, whose ideas are regarded as the foundations of modern communism The first point gives a little bit of his backgrounds. I'm not going to go into that. I'm going to go a little bit into point two. So go to point two. Marx would pen a book called Das Kapital. which was a critique on capitalism as well as another book titled The Communist Manifesto. You may have even studied this in class before, from which we read quotes such as, Communism abolishes eternal truths It abolishes all religion and all morality instead of constituting them on a new basis. And quote, abolish the family. The bourgeois family will vanish as a matter of course when its complement vanishes and both will vanish with the vanishing of capital. The bourgeois claptrap about the family and education, about the hollowed correlation of of parent and child becomes all the more disgusting, the more by the action of modern industry all family ties among the po proletarians are torn asunder and their children transformed into simple articles of commerce and instruments of labor. That that those terms um uh bourgeois Um proletariat, it's it's essentially his it's is the it was their parlance of the day of saying oppressed and oppressor. At its foundation, Marxism separated distinctions of time into three epics. That's not important, but the important part here is that again, these titles, bourgeois and proletariat, are the haves and the have-nots And again, that's dividing these things into power dynamics here, those of that are oppressors and those that are oppressed. Okay? But the other the other main point of of Marxism as a system was that it it viewed reality and it viewed the the the ethics of time to ultimately culminate in the revolution from those that do not have against those that do have. That's ultimately the the goal of that philosophy. And if saw life see that in in history, went back in history and saw the feudal area and saw and saw uh the the rise of the industrial age in in I think and whatnot. I think I got that wrong, but it it looked throughout history and saw Those that don't have ultimately and always rise up and commit acts of revolution to overthrow those in power because of their oppression and things like that. Well, there is more that could be said regarding Karl Marx and Marxism is not purely Marxism that gave rise to critical theory, postmodernism, critical race theory, and subsequently social justice and the social justice gospel. Critical theory is, quote, often traced to the Frankfurt School, which was founded in Germany during the 1920s by a group of Marxist philosophers and sociologists dissatisfied with the slow progression of communism. One key factor is that those within social justice, those within critical race theory, and critical theory are never satisfied with the results. It's never good enough and they always have to push the envelope. It's not good enough where we stand today. It's not good enough the progress we've made today. We have to push for more. Push for more. And even though communism was on the rise, these German philosophers were dissatisfied with communism. They say, you're not taking it far enough. What they said about Marxism was Karl Marx, you got it wrong. It's not just an economic factor that's that's being an issue. It's all of culture. Everything is the issue. And so they they felt that communism wasn't far enough. We have to go even further, not just economics, but politics, but religion, but institutions, but justice, all these things. were now called in the question about whether or not they were for those of the dominant culture or those against those of the of the of the subdominant culture. Marx died in 1888, but his ideas did not die. Quote, if you're going to understand cultural Marxism, critical theory, then you must know Antonia Gramsci, an Italian Marxist in a group of individuals known as the Frankfurt School. Why didn't classical Marxism take root everywhere? Because the situation is deeper than economics, according to Gramsci. Culture must be addressed. That comes from the book by what standard from the founders of ministry with such people as Tom Askell, Bodie Baccom, Dr. James Boyce. And others who talk about these issues at length, and some of that some of this material comes from that book. I recommend that book. Another philosopher is a man named Hubert Marcuse, who expanded upon the work of Karl Marx and extended the original Marcus Marxist contention with the context of economics as being the primary driver of the have and the have nots. Marcuse claimed that not only was economics to blame, but the primary drivers of this division of classes was caused by both culture and um um consumerism. Critical theory, quote, especially the emotional and sexually liberating work of Marcuse provided the philosophical voice of the New Left. Concerned with the politics of um phys um psycholog psychological and cultural revolution, the New Left preached a Marcusian sermon of political emancipation. So how did Critical theory landed America well. These philosophers in Frankfurt left Germany due to World War One, and in nineteen thirty-three they went to Switzerland. And in 1935, they came to New York where they became affiliated with the Columbia University. If you trace these stuff back to the origins of America. Critical theory and all these things primarily took place and spread in education, in universities and in colleges. That's where it first started, and that's where it first found its footing. So if you ever wonder why colleges are on the forefront of all this all this political change and cultural change, this is the reason why. or one of the reasons why is because the the way college is set up is it is it encourages these new ideas to to kind of breathe and to be birthed and to blossom and and to see almost in an experimental way how students will react to that And and that's just that's just um remains to be seen here. However, Marxism and the New Left are not the only sources, though foundationally primary. from which critical theory derives its worldview from. When it what within it contains the philosophies of post-structuralism, cultural studies and colonialism, intersectional scholarship and more Those are big words and terms, and quite frankly, I don't have all of those nailed down myself. So that isn't to say that you need to know what those necessarily mean. What are the foundations of critical theory? And you'll see this throughout the lessons. You'll start to see these foundations and everything we talk about. And and you should be able to see them quite quite clearly with the language that's used. And so I I hope this is helpful to you because it will be helpful to identify a lot of this stuff. From a brief survey over this history of the formation of critical theory. we can begin to see the placements and shifts of how it has come to be known today. So what are the foundations of critical theory? Two things to ask. One, are there any questions that if I know I'm moving a little fast right now, are there any questions or need for clarification on anything? before I continue. Any comments or thoughts that anybody has as well, notes, materials, things I've said? Hey Danny. Yeah, bring it on, Mr. Moody. Uh you what is the new left and that was another movement um from from Mark Hughes. It was it was his it was his party in a sense. It was His group. It's just it's just a term. I wouldn't associate the new left with with uh conversations of the left here in America. That's not that's not what it's saying. Um I don't have more information than than that right now. I'm sorry, old left? I don't know. Okay. I don't know if it would be called the old left. It might just be called the left, you know. Okay, thanks. There's there's an England, but there's a New England, but we don't necessarily have a an old England. But there is an old York I think that exists. What's better, Old York or New York? Bassi? New. New? New York's better, huh? All right. Hey Danny. Yes. What uh what at the end of the day, what's the objective of critical race theory? We're gonna get to that I don't want okay, I'll I'll give you spoilers now, but we'll get to it in a little bit more depth. The ultimate goal of of critical theory is to upend the foundations that they find to be oppressive in nature. So anything that a critical theorist says is oppressive. to those that are being oppressed. They want to completely dismantle that and not just reform it. It's not about reform. It's about rebuilding and restructuring. Everything is all new. To make it better, to make it less oppressive, we have to make it new, and the ones that have to build it are those that hold to these ideologies. That's ultimately the goal. It's like it's almost like it's almost so what yeah, so what it wants is that I will say this. All philosophies, all worldviews have instances of of um of a framework of religion. And part of that is the eschatological portions of these worldviews. Every worldview ultimately has an end state to it. And the end state is always the same. To make the world better, and to make the world new, and to make the world ultimately, in this instance, inclusive of all, equal to all. Things like that. They ultimately want the world to be different. Now, if you ask specifically what does that look like I'm going to tell you what the honest answer is. They don't know. They don't know exactly what that looks like one, because they're not believers and they don't have a a structure to even think about that. They don't honor Christ. They don't honor his church. They don't honor his mission. So what do they have to do? They have to make what they can make as the next best thing, but it's not ultimately going to be profitable or fruitful or worthy of praise and honor the same way that God's end state is But if you yeah, go ahead. How do you be how do you get rid of oppression without becoming the ultimate oppressor? Uh you tell me that, Jeff. You brought it up. If you ask me a question, I might ask you to answer it. Go ahead, Jeff. Uh Carsten has a has a response. Man, we're getting a lot of interaction today. Great. Karsten, bring it on. This is something that that's been going through my mind with this class because um I think sometimes when we get with these issues uh we can sometimes forget I Some of these things do actually happen. White people do oppress blacks. Mm-hmm. That does happen. Uh-huh. And especially, you know, and and just kind of get to the other side, 'cause sometimes we can look and say Oh well they um this is how they are boom boom boom boom boom. Sure. Some of them are coming from the place where this is what they've seen in their life. Sure. Yeah. For myself alone, having a a person, uh a child tell me, My dad will not allow you into your house because you're black. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. It don't it doesn't like just go away. Sure, yeah. I I just sometimes feel like we kinda overlook the fact that these things do happen and sometimes some of the people we may know Christians are not are wrestling with these things 'cause they've experienced them in their life. And they're not necessarily supporting Black Lives Matter what they have seen even now. Yeah. 'Cause it hasn't gone away. It's still here. Um, and so you know, I just kinda wanna kind of make that point there. Keep those things in mind, um because they they are there. Now I I'm I'm I don't I'm not Hispanic or uh white or anything. I don't know your experiences, but I do know coming from where I come from as a Christian And I'm black, I've experienced those things. Yeah. So we'll we'll talk about that more at length, but I I hope that we remember Since you brought it up, Carson, Pastor Gabe, when he did his first lesson, it's some very clear principles and points, things to also think about. Hear what we're saying and hear what don't hear what we're not saying. Us bringing up these issues in the way that I'm bringing up is not to minimize anyone's instances of actual racism that they've experienced. That's not the goal. I'm not saying that you're crazy and that you didn't experience that Okay. Um I've I've talked with um brothers in Christ who have dealt with instances of racism and it affects them. Um and that's not to minimize that. And I and I hope that it doesn't feel like we're trying to minimize it. But I want to make sure that we're balanced here in in the approach that we're taking. It's not to say that because I disagree or ultimately really the Bible disagrees with critical theory and social justice and all that. that the Bible doesn't or that the Bible ex i is ignoring people's pain and and and hurt. Of course not. God looks at every situation to the fullest measure with full details. and takes special care, know this, he takes special care and attention to his church, to his bride. He knows Whether I know that or not is beside the point. God knows. I mean, think about how tender God is for a second. He keeps literally However literal this is, but I like to think it's literal. He keeps your tears in a bottle. He counts even your tears. He knows your pain. He knows the the the number of hairs on your head. Things like that. He loves you Of course he does. And and us as a church, his bride ought to be also that same measure loving of each other. Carson, I'm I'm not taking away from that. I hope that that the the language that I'm using here is is not instigating that kind of thought. I readily recognize that the these instances go on. Ms. Dory, go ahead. Thank you so much for taking time to prepare just the note that are all you can see. Do you have a list of good lessons that you're gonna teach? That might be helpful to know we're getting into the field might be Yes ma'am. So we're gonna do critical theory and then critical race theory and then a lesson on racism, oppression, and prejudice. the whole lesson on it. And then we're going to go over um the importance of the gospel. We're going to go over um Huh? Justice. Justice as well. So after critical race theory is a whole class on justice and then it's um okay, so it's critical theory, I'm sorry. It's critical theory. In two weeks, I'm teaching the first class on critical race theory. Another class is going to be taught, racism, prejudice, and oppression. After that, we're going to finish up critical race theory. And then it's a class all on justice, and then it's the importance of the gospel, and then it's what what social justice theology looks like in the church is the last class. We're gonna talk about about all of this stuff, right? And um Yeah, okay. I I I've seen racism too and and again, um uh I've had to step in and or even actually walk away from some conversations that were going down that path. So I I totally know it exists and Even my daughter experiences it if you could you know. Yeah. Yeah. So Danny, before you can I jump in with one thing? Yes. Last I'm I'm serious the last thing. I've been trying to jump in. So I think one thing we need to remember too, all of these theories actually identify something correctly. And what they identify is that there's something wrong with the world And so they are recognizing, I mean they not understanding this, but that we live in a fallen, sinful world and all trying to find a way to rectify that issue. And they do it in incorrect ways. So when we're thinking of approaching people with this That's our common thread, right? We both understand that we live in a fallen world and and how to deal with that is is what where we differ. Yeah. Um I in in of course I I recognize that there is reality to to the to the issues that people are addressing. All kinds of abuses, all kinds of prejudices, all kinds of issues that go on. I I think With the biblical authority class, you have to keep in mind that either these systems stand as a whole or they fall as a whole. I I'm gonna be frank here. I I don't dismiss again the fact that these things exist. I will not, I will not, and I'm I'm telling you right now, do not hold to social justice and to critical theory and critical race theory it it will twist and distort your thinking. And we we have to understand something. The Bible defines things very clearly. I said in the biblical authority class, even as close as it might seem to be right what the world says, you have to understand that the Bible has a voice to say as well. And that ultimately is louder than whatever we might say. If it does not agree with Scripture, that's the caveat. It has to agree with Scripture. If it doesn't agree with Scripture, then it's wrong. It's as simple as that. And I know that that again, as I reiterated in that class, it might be difficult, but if we were talking about issues, again, of social love and we started categorizing things that were socially acceptable in all culture of what the world defines as love. Would you ever hold to what the world defines as love? Are there instances of love in the world? Yeah, absolutely. What did what did Jesus say? You being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father? Jesus recognized that even the world had an instance of they understood what what the difference between good and and evil was They understood some instances of what it was to be a good parent and a bad parent. I'm not dismissing that. What I am saying, though, is that the more you allow the world to inform what is important what is your thought processes, how you how you define reality and terms and all these things, it must be held accountable to what the Bible actually says. And if it doesn't it's not congruent with what Scripture says, then you have to dismiss it. I'm talking in generalities here. We're going to get into more specifics. But I now have, oh Lord. This needs to be two quarters. I'm not making that declaration. I'm just personally saying that. I'm not saying it's gonna be two quarters. We're almost out of time already. Alright. Okay. Yeah, Critical Theory Foundations. From a brief survey over the history of the found formation of critical theory, we begin to see the placements and shifts of how it has come to be known today. What are the foundations of critical theory? Here you go. Number one, society is divided between those who are oppressed and those who are oppressors. This is how they will look at the world. This is the issue of power dynamics. There are those that are oppressed and those that are the oppressors. Everything is in relation to that. Everything. This is the primary foundation. There are others. This is first and foremost. Everything everything is defined in terms of power dynamics. Whatever institution, whatever organization, educational Excuse me, philosophical, societal, whatever it is, you as a person, you as a person, no matter what, you are defined between oppressed and oppressors, and that's the only definitions you'll be given. That's it. Okay? Everything is in reference to that. It is paramount that society be understood in terms of power dynamics. These power dynamics shape the way in which any culture will operate. by the leading and domination of a particular group of oppressors through cultural hegemony, which hegemony is the cult the control of the ideology of society. They will establish their culture and group as the primary of each society. So essentially oppressors will always oppress. Number two, individual identity is inseparable from group identity. This is all While individuals retain specific qualities and characteristics about them, it cannot be separated from the groups in which they may find themselves contained within, often called intersectionality. This group identity is divided into two categories, again, groups of oppressed and groups of oppressors. Any one person finds their group identity rooted in general characteristics and specific life experiences into various groups. For example, a black woman generally has intersected with two oppressed groups, being black and being a woman. A white man has intersected with two oppressor groups, being a man and being white Well individually we possess these general characteristics, nonetheless, they are still grouped into these categories and distinctions. You may, however, find yourself in both categories. For example, a Christian white woman is two groups of oppressor Christian and white and one group of oppressed women. If you don't think the world defines Christian as oppressor, just get that through your head. If you're a Christian, you're a oppressor. Okay? Not to say you should agree with that, but that's the the point I'm making is that that's that's true. They believe that to be white and to be Christian, for an example, is to be oppressor. So uh a Christian white woman is now two parts oppressor and one part oppressed. Though she's technically a part of an oppressed group, she still loses points for also being white and also being a Christian. Number three, to eradicate all instances of oppression is the primary duty of humans. Let me just ask you, Christians, what is the primary of humans? What is the primary duty we have? To worship God, right? And enjoy Him forever. To keep His commandments. As believers, Christ specifically told us to do what? Right, deny ourselves, pick up the cross, and follow after me. What else did he say to do? Make disciples. Exactly. To make disciples, to baptize in the name of the Father and the Son of the Holy Spirit. It is not to eradicate all instances of oppression. Our primary duty is to see people saved, is to glorify God. That is our primary duty. It doesn't mean hear what I'm saying and don't hear what I'm not saying. It doesn't mean that these issues aren't important. It just means that there is a primary duty of the church, which is to preach the gospel. Which is to see people reconciled to their father. Now, in a sense, does that liberate us from sin, the oppressiveness of sin? Absolutely it does. But again, just because I'm using the word oppression does not mean that a critical theorist agrees with my definition of oppression. They have their own definition of oppression, which we'll talk about Okay? In order to accomplish this, both the oppressed and the oppressors must come to the realization and understanding of oppression And the oppressed must then rally together while also gaining the quote allies from the oppressor in order to rid that culture of cultural hegemony. Again, it's hegemony is the dominant culture Um or or a certain culture being dominant within the context of of of an area Number four, lived experiences give oppressed groups privileged access to truth and is more important than objective evidence and understanding oppression. This comes from their research. Quote oppressed groups do have a distinctive set of experiences and are better positioned and better equipped for a particular kind of epistemic subversion, which is ep Epistemology is the is the study of knowledge or how do we get knowledge. As Mills put it, quote, hegemic or dominant group characteristics characteristically have experiences that foster illusory perceptions about society's functions, whereas subordinate groups characteristically have experiences that at least potentially give rise to more adequate conceptualizations. Essentially what he's saying is those that are oppressed will have access to the truth to be able to show those that are oppressors what is actually going on in the world. And they have a better perception of the world that that is different and distinct from those of the oppressed or o of those of the oppressors. Lived experiences can also be called storytelling or counter-storytelling and is the use of narrative to illuminate and explore experiences of oppression and it is a framework that legitimizes the subordinate experience of marginalized groups These are personal, composite stories and narratives of those who have lived oppression. Since according to critical theory Those of the oppressor group fundamentally cannot understand those of the oppressed and their oppression. It is incumbent upon the oppressed to educate the oppressor. So If I make a statement that seems to conflict with the narrative of the oppressed, it is up to them to then tell me that I'm wrong and and to inform me exactly what is actually going on and what I'm missing, what what is being hidden, what I'm availing my eyes to, in a sense. Which I I I'm not sure if this is exactly in the notes, but that that is part and parcel with that terminology, get woke. What does get woke mean? It means to have a liberated conscience. It's a technical term. It's a liberated conscious, meaning you become fundamentally aware of the of the power dynamics that have been established in society. You become fundamentally aware of the oppression that you may not have been. aware of now. But to get woke is now to have a liberated consciousness. In essence What does it mean to be a Christian is to have an illuminated mind, right? The Holy Spirit reveals these things to you. Do you see the correlations of how this can be construed as almost a religion? To get woke, to have a liberated consciousness, to be now understanding of reality in the way that it actually is, is part and parcel of what Christians experience in a sense when the Holy Spirit illuminates their minds to the truth You now see things differently, don't you? And so those that it that have gotten woke as a technical term now have a different understanding of the world and now they can't unsee it in a way. Yes, Missouri. Sure. I think that Karsten just shared an experience that allowed us to understand things differently. I think that stories and shar Yeah. Again, I'm in this class, in in the context of this class, I am talking about the framework. Whether whether it's Whether I'm making the statement as if you can never share, I'm not saying that you can never share those experiences. That's not what I'm saying. Again, principles. Hear what I'm saying and don't hear what I'm not saying. Karsten sharing his instance that he has experienced racism does not me discounting that. It does not me minimizing that Right? I'm not saying because of what I've just said that it's not taking away from the experiences of Karsten. I'm saying that no matter what kind of of of conversation you have, it is the anecdotal experience of those in the oppressed groups that is ultimately paramount to explain to us what's going on according to critical theory. Does it make sense? Thank you. Okay. Hey Danny, sorry, this is Brian Wilson. One question on number four. Yeah. You there's two you you say there's something about truth And then there's objective evidence. What's the difference what's the difference between those two? Or is there a difference? Between truth and objective evidence? Evidence is like facts. So Evidence doesn't necessarily um give you an answer, it's just data in in in some instances. So you may have statistics that suggest one thing and statistics that suggest another thing. Does that mean that you have now come to a conclusion? No. Just means that we now have evidence of something. Whatever whatever that evidence is, right? You present evidence in the court. What do you do with that evidence? You weigh the evidence, right? And then ultimately you eventually come to a conclusion. But the point is that just because there's evidence doesn't mean that you have come to a conclusion now. The idea is, and we'll talk about this in the class on justice, the idea is to weigh things in a balanced approach. Whatever may occur, whatever you may see, whatever situation may happen, you have to be balanced In your approach on things. You have to look at both sides. That is important to understand both sides and to weigh the evidence and to weigh the situation. But you have to do it from an impartial lens. That's the important bits. Whatever you may hear, it has to be weighed accordingly with an with a lens of impartiality Because that ultimately is what justice enacts, is a righteous verdict based on impartial weighing of the evidence. If somebody wants to correct me on that, um I'm I'm How does that relate to truth though? Then I guess I'm I'm i because you're making the distinction here between truth and objective evidence. And I get I get that evidence sort of leads us to we have to think of it objectively, but You can see some evidence and I can see some evidence and we come away with two totally different r results. Who which one's right? Which one's true? Right. Uh you could relate that in in in an easier sense with the discussion between evolution and creation. Is there seemingly evidence for evolution? Yeah. Does that mean it's true? No. Um we put it like this, your worldview will dictate that typically. Not just typically mostly. If your worldview suggests one thing, it will inform the way you examine the evidence. So if you're an atheist, you'll have a much easier time accepting evidence of evolution than you would otherwise. If you're a Christian, you'll have a much easier time accepting evidence of creation than you would otherwise. Your worldview informs that. But but ultimately, yeah, truth truth is objective, but there is a difference in a sense between objective fact and objective Now, there are other aspects of truth, and we're talking about truth in a very full philosophical way, not in a I'm doing a study and according to my evidence kind of truth right now. Okay. No, it no it it does. And I'm trying to relate it to what you're saying here in number four. That is the things that I experience that informs what I believe to be truth. Let's just take the the example Carson gave. He had an example where he was a he was oppressed because someone didn't want him to come to his house because he was black. He may come away with that with the truth in his mind that all white people don't want him to be in their house. Right? Like but that's not truth. That's an experience. And So there's other evidence that has to come into it which maybe he doesn't have. And so that extra evidence helps to inform the truth. I get it. Okay, cool. Next. Oppressor groups hide their oppression under the guise of objectivity. As we'll see later in this in these lessons, proponents of critical theory I got eight minutes for honors of critical theory. And all subsequent forms of it have a built-in mechanism for dismissing anything that they deem originates from an oppressor. That is, there is always a secret motive of the oppressor to perpetuate oppression in all they do I'll give you an example, and this is in the notes. An example of this is within critical race theory, as it is specifically expounded upon a term called interest convergence. Interest convergence essentially states that anytime the white oppressors do anything, quote, beneficial for the community, it is always ultimately for the benefit of the white community. No matter what is done, there is always a level of suspicion. Combine these facets together, and what you get is a worldview and ideology that seeks to transform every aspect of society into the right and to in order to right the primary wrong of oppression in within any society it finds itself with. The main contrast of critical theory Marxism is a matter of what the underlying root is to each view Marxism states it's a matter of unfair economics, but critical theory views the underlying root as all of culture and society. This has expanded into institutions of America which we will discuss in depth into a later class. I know I say that a lot, but It's true. There's so many notes, and I'm um I want to make sure that um you understand that just because I haven't said it now doesn't mean that I'm not going to say it in the future. Or talk about it at least. Critical theory, while defined in this lesson as best as possible, is ambiguous by nature. It is a worldview that is designed to be taken, manipulated, and offered in a new form like critical race theory or queer theory This is purposeful. For example, you can take the statement insert oppressor group operates in the realm of insert insert institution in order to oppress those of us in the insert oppress group community. So to use the previously mentioned examples, that statement would read, white oppressors operate in the realm of the judicial system in order to oppress those of us in the black community. And likewise, heterosexual oppressors operate in the realm of marriage in order to oppress those of us in that homosexual community. It's a framework. It's the skeleton, and we are to add the meat to it, in a sense. And everybody has a different a different play in that. If if you notice down in in in point five, I give you forms of crit critical theory. and have to find each of those forms. There's about 13 primary with a bunch of subgroups in that. But every time you read any of those groups, you will find that same language. Those of the oppressor group, whatever they are in that in that study, uses something to oppress those in the oppressed group in every single instance. You will find that type of language. And I try to make sure I'm defining those things correctly here. And did so you can you can read more into that. Here, uh point B back up uh towards where we were, it says, what is the ultimate end of critical theory? So somebody asked that question, right? Proponents of critical theory do not know what the end state looks like. The simple statements of writing oppression do not provide an ultimate end, or at least a means to that end. Since we live in a fallen world filled with sin, ultimately we cannot see the end of oppression in various forms on this side of heaven. However, that doesn't mean That doesn't matter for proponents of critical theory. This too is purposeful as if there is no end and goal in mind, they can always be perpetual, ongoing with the work never done. The end state can always change from leader to leader, organization to organization, community to community, and not one will have the exact answer that everyone else is to rally around. For example, critical race theory's co-founder Derek Bell understood this. In an interview, Derek Bell stated, quote, if you were to ask me for what a blueprint for this movement would be, I couldn't provide one because it doesn't exist, end quote. It does not follow, however, that there is no logical conclusion to these ideologies. Ultimately, anything that is counter to the Bible and the truth of God's Word seeks to lead people astray from the gospel. Jesus Christ and salvation. While there are merits of truth to these ideologies that seek to expose the sinful nature of men, albeit in a flawed and secular approach, in regards to w wrongful oppression, the core of this worldview does not align with Scripture as we will learn in later lessons. We see the consequences of a greater divide between people groups, as evidenced by the core belief that no one can escape being shoved into groups rather than treated as individuals. The extreme pace of the social justice movement, and ultimately the formation of the social justice gospel. This worldview brings about the purpose of redefining the reality of the world in terms that match its framework and thrust upon us new truth for us to accept or reject. There is no middle ground, similar to how there can be no lukewarmness to the gospel. You're either for it or against it. And that holds true. Anytime you find an ally to the social justice movement who says something that deviates a little bit from that, what happens? Mob mentality, and they get they get wrecked. They get absolutely wrecked. I I read an article, this one, this one blew me away. President Obama made a statement, and progressives gave President Obama a really hard time for the statement that he made He said something like, don't use terms like defund the police because you're going to alienate the people you want to reach, or something like that. He didn't even say he disagreed with the idea of defunding the police. He just said, don't use the term because you're going to upset people. And and progressives and and and um um those within Congress, Ilman Omar and things like that, I mean they they went after him. And I was I was stunned. I mean this is President Obama, right? He's he's a look, I I may I I he seems like a cool dude. I don't know him personally, you know, but But I was I was stunned to see that even he can't escape that. Wow! Really? Wow, that is that is that is that really that one blew my mind a little bit. If you're not for it, you're against it. There's no middle ground. You're either all in for social justice or you're not. You have to make a decision. What did I say in the biblical authority class? You're going to be faced with a decision to make. You're either for social justice in this worldview, or you're for the biblical worldview. There is no in between. It's either or. You may not like that, but that's the way it is. You cannot take them and try to merge them together and create a new thing. That's what happens. And what happens is you have what's called now a social justice gospel where everything is redefined. To be saved is to participate in activism. To be liberated is to be whoa, to be taken away from from this sinful world of oppression and things like that. You redefine everything. And you formulate a whole new gospel that has a whole new core component. What happens when you add to the gospel in terms of salvation? What does that become? It becomes a false gospel. Can false gospel save? No, they can't. We have to be very careful about what we're holding to and what we believe and what we we gravitate towards. Everything in this world wants you to believe a lie. Everything. Okay, I'm being this is how I talk. Somebody corrected me this this one time. They said, Danny, you're you're a person that says emphatic statements more than anyone I've ever met in my life. My wife has told me the same exact thing. She says sometimes it might come off as abrasive because you can just say things so matter-of fact. I'm not Hear what I'm saying, don't hear what I'm not saying. I'm not I'm I'm I'm making these statements to at least hopefully drive a little bit of energy into the class as well. But I think you understand what I'm getting at. You can read through the forms of critical theory. Wow, we did it. We got through part one. Pastor Gabe had a comment. Go ahead, Pastor Gabe. Can people online hear me? Can you guys hear Pastor Gabe? Can you hear me when I'm talking? Uh so I can come up a little closer. I think one of the things that makes this whole subject difficult to wrap your mind around is that um when we hear words like oppressed and oppressed If we have a biblical worldview, we understand there's there's sin and wickedness involved in a in a oppression As an oppressor, and God has a heart to those who are oppressed. That's so clearly laid out in scripture. And so The the goal of reducing or eliminating oppression is a biblical goal. And so when we hear the world talking about that, we can see we can say a hearty amen, you know. Making, you know, of course we'll talk about this with regard to justice later on, but um who wouldn't want to reduce or eliminate oppression as much as possible. But what one of the things that Daniel said that can't be stated enough is when the when the worldview of critical theory and all it forms uses those terms, they're not defined the same way that Scripture would define them. God in His Word gives us clear a clear flat path, a clear blueprint to use that. that guy's term of how do you deal with oppression? What does it look like to reduce or eliminate oppression? What does it look like to treat people as those who are made in the image of God. What does it look like to love? What should society look like if we are all treating each other a properly properly. Scripture gives us a clear blueprint for that. And the reason that uh the critical race worldview uh cannot is because they don't define oppression the same way. It's just not the same term. It includes what we would identify But it goes far beyond that. And so just the fact that there is, like in our country, a a a majority of light-skinned people and a minority of dark-skinned people. Of course, there's a whole spectrum there. Just that fact that there's a disparity is oppression. Oppression is a necessary result of majority-minority. And uh and so regardless of what anybody's actions actually are, uh the world would that's what Danny was saying that as a as a lighter skinned individual, he's an oppressor. He may never have actually committed an act of oppression. But by virtue of his skin color, he is an oppressor. And so when we understand that they just operate off of a different definition of these concepts, uh uh we will be able to better see the disparity between what they're saying and what scripture is saying. So that's why when when we do hear of actual story and and we do recount to one another the actual struggles that we face. As believers, we can uh grieve together, we can acknowledge the reality of Suffering. We can even work toward reducing and changing those aspects of the sorrows of life. But that's that's just a different um A different way of thinking entirely than what the critical race theory worldview proposes. So you just remember that in these notes we've been talking about worldviews, not Not specifically what is actually being done by people uh in terms of compression and whatnot. No. So anyway, I just wanted to make that a comment. Great. Okay, I'm going to I for for those that are getting ready for church and whatnot, please go do that. I don't want to keep you. Please go get ready, come to church if you're coming to church. I'm going to at this point dismiss anybody that needs to go for whatever reason. Please, we're already over time. But if anyone that is remaining right now has a question Please ask the question. If you have to leave, please leave. If you don't. If there's any comments and questions before I pray, I want to open up the floor for a few moments and get to those if I can. Somebody has a comment? Yes, Ms. Don. Um so this is a this is more of a comment. Um I really appreciate what you said, what you explained about the different groupings of oppression and how like the white female has you know, two against her, one for however that worked out. I can't remember exact wording. Um But I think it just affirmed um and also the bit about the oppressed needing to educate the oppressor. Um I thought that was really great too because when all of this started Come into the forefront over the last year it seems like it's kind of exploded. I actually spoke with The guy who was my best friend from first through sixth grade, he happened to be black. So it was a a black boy and a white girl, best friends, and we did everything together in the deep south. So that was pretty unusual. Um I went to a school, it was a private Christian school, so therefore expensive. And it was the only black kid in my class. And he and I talked recently because I feel like there are a lot of people who feel oppressed or have experiences where they've you know, face racism head on. But they don't really talk about it with who would be considered the oppressor Sure. Um because even though I I grew up in the deep south, I never heard stories from the black friends that I did have about things that they experienced. So when all of this and and then people at church, even now as adults, I don't really hear those stories that they encountered, not to say they don't exist. But it's just shocking to me to start suddenly be hearing all of these stories of people who have to practice racism. So I I do think it's important for those who experience the oppression and the racism to talk about it with their friends because their friends may not know firsthand what's that what that's like or that their friends are experiencing it But when I talked to CJ, it was fascinating to learn that even though he and I had such a great friendship and he was so well accepted within our class Because he was the daughter the son of two doctors going to a private Christian school, even though he was black His black friends rejected him. Sure. Make fun of him. And he experienced racism from the black community because he was a rich black kid who spent all his time with white kids. Yeah. He wasn't he was explaining to me like he he wasn't He didn't have the same cultural traits, I guess you could say, of his black community because he spent all his time the raped white kids basically. Yeah. So that was really disheartening to learn. Um because I never saw that in him and he never talked about it. So I do think it's important for those who experience the racism to talk about it, um, not necessarily in a soapbox soapbox type manner, but just to make sure that Those of us who may not have experienced that because we're in the oppressor group and not the oppressed know what's really happening Yeah. Um I I would say um one thanks thanks for for sharing. Two um I think anybody in church should be able to have a friend a brother, sister in Christ to be able to share your your struggles with. God calls us to do that, definitely. So, yeah. I've I've had those conversations, but let's you know, there um there's uh There are so many different trials that people go through. I think we all need to to share in the burdens of of one another and into and to talk. Yeah, absolutely. You know, you love your brother, you love your sister, you know, talk with them. Don't don't be shy to to share these things with people. Um we we are the community of of believers that God has before the foundations of the world. um chosen to save and we are to love each other and to hold each other accountable, yes, but also to carry each other's burdens. Um so By all means. Uh yeah, definitely have those conversations. Um anything else, Don, I I this isn't a A criticism. I'm about to say something. Does anybody else have another commoner question but in shorter form? Yeah, and then this will be the I think the last comment. People are starting to get restless. Go ahead. Okay, um hearing what Don said, uh it does seem like uh as of late a lot of this uh tension between races have um exploded and um especially um I'm talking to a lot of my uh black friends. Yeah I was raised in uh Catholic school, Christian mixed school. Um and I always um when I was mistreated or treated in a w a way that I never liked I never associated with racism. I always associated with if a white person treated me wrong it was just a person that treated me wrong. Sure. Black person treated me wrong, it was just a black person that treated me wrong. I was always raised to see the person as the person and not color. And it seems as if um it's being pushed now that If your a black friend treats me wrong, it's just he's just treating me wrong. If a white person treats me wrong, I have to hold them to another standard, which is racism and existence Yeah. If you think about it, not wonder why he treated me a certain way or she treated me a certain way, just apply it as racism and I think that's what's destroying the conversation or destroying the critical thinking about what's wrong. Yeah, absolutely. One one thing I will note quickly here. Thank you for bringing that up. In the class on critical race theory, we're going to talk about what really race is. And specifically, we're also going to talk about what the Bible defines as race. I think that will be in a very important conversation. I'll give you a little tidbit. There are two different definitions. When the world defines race as a legitimate category, the Bible defines else differently. And we'll we'll talk about that. But yeah, I I really appreciate what you've what you've said. I've appreciated, honestly, this whole class. Wow. What an interaction. That's great. I'm really encouraged by that. I was really hoping for more interaction. So thank you. I'll I'll I'll I didn't pray, did I? No, I didn't. I'm so sorry. I'll pray real quick. Lord, just thank you for this class. Thank you for the intentiveness of everyone. Thank you for all their passion. um a desire to to discuss these things. So I just thank you for the opportunity, Father. I am woefully inadequate, Lord. Um, but I just pray that you would equip this class and and every other teacher and student to think rightly on this. And we do that by submitting to your word. We do that by listening to your spirits and being transformed to the likeness of your son. That is the goal of our lives, to be like Christ, that we would honor and glorify Him in all that we do, Lord. No matter how difficult it may be, no matter what obstacles or trials we may face, our goal here is to honor and glorify you ultimately. Father, you are the God of justice, and you will right every wrong at the end, Lord. You will hold to account to those that will be accountable for their sin. But that also included us, Father. Let us not forget Lord, that we were your enemies, that we hated you, and you lovingly sent your son to die for us, O God. May we never forget that we are very privileged to be called sons and daughters. We do not deserve this. We, by your grace are in your family, Lord. And we just at the utmost love you and thank you and reverence you for what you have done for us in Christ. In Jesus' name. Amen.