But uh let me let me open a word of prayer and then if any of you have any questions, we can uh talk about those things and and uh then we'll start when Danny comes. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning. Thank you for your grace that enables us to continue to live day by day, to learn and to grow, to become more like your Son. Lord, help us to be renewed in our minds today. to not be conformed to this world, but to be transformed. And help us to think in a way that honors you, in a way that's consistent with your word, that we might bring glory to you in Christ's name. Amen. Oh there he is. Well while he's getting set up. Any any particular uh questions? Well a couple years ago uh flopped, he went through um a book called Counterculture by David Platt. Okay. And um it talks about social injustice, but the goal of the book was in every situation in our Decided how do you present the gospel in those situations? Do you try to change the situation or do you try to present the gospel So at any point in the class we talk about how to because like God give God wants every believer to simply present the gospel. Right. So are you gonna touch upon that? Yeah, I don't know. I mean not I I haven't thought of it specifically in that way. So for those of you who are online, um Brian was talking about how in uh in their small group they went through a book. What what was it called? Countercultural Counter-Cultural by uh David Platt and in it he looked at the various uh forms of injustice in the world. with a focus on how do you present the gospel in those situations. And so he was asking, are we going to do that in this class? I'll be doing the lessons on social justice. and biblical justice. And so that certainly gives me some thought of of how we can touch on that aspect of things But uh I hadn't necessarily I had not necessarily planned to to do that specifically. Um but I can I can because we've that's weeks ahead of time so I can prepare for that Last week we ended the notes on critical theory, but there are more notes. Okay? So it's the same, it's the same outline. We ne I never put page numbers on this, so that's my fault. I it's it's twelfth page, um twelfth front page. The section is titled Postmodernism. I'll give everybody a minute to get to that point. Postmodernism. There's no page numbers, it's my fault. But it's it's the middle of the outline. The section is on postmodernism. So we spent, as everybody's getting there, we spent a good deal talking about critical theories and its foundations. Some of the issues with it, though, we'll go more into that in more detail at the end of this class, or at the end of this lesson specifically. As a recap, the core foundations are laid out in section four, society dividing between essentially power dynamics, so critical theory as a framework ensures that everybody is identified in a very specific way. Generally speaking, they're identified in terms of, as I said, power dynamics, so it's those that are oppressed versus those that are oppressors. Even though everybody has an individual identity, everybody is grouped together to some extent. So your physical characteristics or your experiences. your backgrounds, everything is always in some sort of category and group, and you'll always be lumped into that. Critical theory believes that our our main goal in life is to end oppression and everything. um that everybody must be equal in all terms and in all instances um and that any form of oppression is inherently um evil um which we would agree with but It is their main goal in this framework, in their activism, and all of that, to make sure that there is no such thing as oppression in the world. They like to use what's called lived experiences. It's not that these anecdotal stories aren't true, but that it's because of lived experiences, those that are oppressed have some sort of access to a privilege. truth that those who are oppressors could not possibly understand, and that it's uh incumbent upon those that are oppressed to be able to show their oppression to those who are oppressors. And then anybody who is an oppressor will always hide their oppression under the guise of objectivity, which critical theory ultimately states that objectivity is a myth that's been used historically to oppress those um in the oppressed groups throughout history. We didn't really go over the forms of critical theory, but we kind of outlined what is critical theory. And it's this this notion that in framework and worldview that everybody is grouped together. You cannot escape from your group identity. You must live your life in such a way that expresses itself within that, and it must align with critical theorists' preconceptions of how do we rid oppression, what is oppression, what is good, what is wrong, and things of that nature. Yes? But when we use the language of oppression, you know, one of the things I said last week is the the definitions are different. And so, you know, we when you stated um that That those who hold to critical race theory, critical theory in general, are seeking to rid the world of oppression because oppression is evil. We have to understand that their definition of oppression Is unequal outcomes. And so, for example, uh if we seek to promote a biblical view of marriage, we are oppressing homosexuals because we are preventing them from having the equal outcome of an So again, oppression is unequal outcome, and ridding the world of oppression means that everybody has equal outcome. So we're not talking about the personal actual biblical wickedness and evil of sinning against someone, you know, demeaning them, rejecting their humanity. whatnot. We're just talking about uh in terms of critical race theory, oppression is uh when there are unequal outcomes and that is the Evil according to critical theory. Thank you, Pastor Gabe, for clarifying that. Yeah, that is important because That's that's a lot of the confusion when we have conversations like this, um, whether or not you're having conversations with family members or coworkers. I've had them before where it's difficult to be able to wrap our heads around what each other are saying because we're using totally different categories of definitions that are difficult to be able to justify according to each other's position. What I mean by that is that a critical theorist will say you know, um what oppression is given the definition of what what Pastor Gabe has said. And we would we would reject that and say that's not the biblical definition of oppression. But but to them that is what oppression is. And so any category that I use that would be founded and grounded within the Bible and what oppression is, they would reject that as well. And so it's, it's, you're, you're, we're missing each other in that. whoever the we is, but we're the the conversations are are being missed because we're talking about oppression and they're talking about oppression, but they're two different things and we're trying to have the same conversation but they're not they're not lining up and There's confusion and then there could be anger, a lot of emotions thrown into that. Different categories means there's different examples of evidences for and against in whatever the case is. And so it it's a lot of flip-flop in in our minds that we have to keep in mind when I'm talking about this worldview and these worldviews specifically. I'm I I'm identifying their definition of oppression. when we're talking about their worldview, when we talk about biblical things, and I'm using the biblical definition of oppression when we're talking about that. And and I know that might be difficult to go back and forth and back and forth. It's difficult for me to do it too. But we have to keep those things in mind so that we're not lost on the conversation. Okay, great. Postmodernism. I'm assuming we're all there on that section. Postmodernism is also a framework in a worldview, but that it links up with critical theory in understanding exactly the movements of the culture in our day-to-day. Postmodernism didn't get born out of a vacuum. It's not even really a um a sub-genre um or a subcategory of critical theory. I would label it its own thing, that they do have a lot of linkages together, which we'll talk about. Postmodernism isn't necessarily complicated, but it is purposeful, and that'll make sense the more we talk about it. So I'll go ahead with the notes. Postmodernism point A. There is a way in which ideologies such as these thrive in our culture. The upheaval of truth today has become a breeding ground incesspool for various forms of falsehood. An ideology that rejects the notion of objectivity has no firm foundation in biblical truth. Yet we see how pervasive these falcities are. How did the upheaval of truth occur? What has allowed our culture and nation to adopt this notion? Postmodernism is the means by which truth is no longer true Postmodernism is a worldview or philosophy that questions the importance of power relationships, personalization, and discourse and the construction of truth in worldviews. At its core, postmodernism really is a questioning and a skepticism of all truth claims. It it doesn't allow for somebody to make an absolute claim on anything. And it questions even your foundations for that in the first place. Postmodernism will not let you get away with making any sort of of claim, especially when it goes against what they believe. I'm going to use they generally, I'm not specifically talking about anybody. You can be a postmodernist and not a critical theorist, for an example, but that's not the main point here. There is a long and tangible history back to the notes and how it has come about today. However, in short, we'll survey some key points in which we see the origins. I am not going to go through all this section You're gonna get you might get really confused with all the isms I bring up here. Um I'm just gonna point out a few. Um it it really began in the 1700s with a German philosopher named Immanuel Kant. He was he was really the one that that first popular li popularized in in the modern age, I mean modern according to 1700s, but in the modern age Of what it was to really question things. I'll give you part of a quote here that's in the middle of that section. It says, We cannot know things in themselves, and that objects of knowledge must first conform to our faculties of representation. Ideas such as God, freedom, immorality, the world, the first beginning and final end, have only a regulative function for knowledge, since they cannot find fulfilling instances among objects of experience. In other words, this was the first real questioning of objectivity in relation to facts First, these facts must conform to us, and secondly, how we are experiencing reality. The similarities between this and critical theory must be apparent already Close to this time, empiricism was on the rise within the world. Empiricism was grounded on sensory experience. You may have heard that statement, you know, I need uh empirical evidence for what you're saying, something that's verifiable, something I can test, something I can put in a beaker. something I can measure with a ruler, something I can use some kind of sensor to be able to explain what's going on with this certain phenomenon. So Kant was saying things like facts must conform to our reality first and empiricism was saying that we must be able to test those those those facts and theories based on something that's that's grounded, something that's verifiable. So so things like supernaturalism, whatever the case is, supernatural beings wouldn't really have a footing or grounding in empiricism because what can you test? when it comes to things of spirit, for an example. And that goes closely to here. If you go to Point four, it says from empiricism we are led to Darwin Darwin's evolutionary thought, in which these ideas were given a framework and an approach to naturalism. So naturalism is, quote, a theory that relates scientific method to philosophy by affirming that all beings and events in the universe are natural. Consequently, all knowledge of the universe falls within the pale of scientific investigation. This idea disavows anything supernatural unless in the event that evidence via the scientific method can be provided. So if you ever had a conversation with an atheist before And you say things like, well, God created the earth in six days, and they say, well, the science doesn't support that. And if I could show them how the science supports that then the the the the the conversation and the tone of the conversation will shift. It's no longer about, well we're not talking about God created the earth in s in six days. We're talking about how the processes came about to be able to facilitate that. And so it removes God from the equation, essentially saying that we don't need God for any of these processes to happen. We don't need God to be able to test the idea that all things are natural or material in essence. The point being is that the supernatural just fundamentally cannot exist. It's a different worldview, it's a different way of thinking. God couldn't possibly exist, even though an atheist would say God is unprovable rather than disproven, which is a way of them getting around the argument in the first place. The point is that all things are held within the natural realm. The spiritual is disconnected from the natural. They don't exist. And so all things are held in this natural realm. Therefore, they have to be testable. Therefore, empiricism, but now to naturalism. From naturalism, we arrive at existentialism, which is a form of philosophical inquiry that explores the nature of existence. So people started questioning who they are, what they are, what their purpose is, things like that And then we come to modernism and you can read the majority of that paragraph. But it's it's really modernism is really just just talking about the extent from when Immanuel Kant in the 1700s first started having these conversations all the way up into the 19th and 20th century, and most scholars will just align all those trains of thought within this framework called modernism. So there was a questioning of truth already beginning. There is a questioning of existence. There is a questioning of the supernatural. And so we had to be able to talk about our lives and reality apart from the supernatural and be able to come to conclusions on that And so in this modernist age, people were very confused about things. And this is where the industrial um growth began to happen. People had this new idea of a utopian vision of human life and society and belief in progress or moving forward And so people are starting to question things. And point seven says to question truth, to ground fact and reality in our own senses and experience. And to reject the notion that transcendent means anything to the subject was the groundwork to postmodernism. Essentially, what was happening here is that things in life were being questioned to such a high degree that people started not knowing what was going on anymore. I'll give you an example. The consequences of that are seen today, aren't they? Who knows in this world when when you talk about the current culture and the movement of culture today You see the trajectory of how much confusion happens in today's world. We don't know who we are. Right? We've removed us being God's creation from the equation, and so we don't know who we are. We are stamped with God's image, but the world doesn't say that. So we don't know who we are, we don't know our first primary existence being that in God. And God creating us in in in Adam and Eve. So we don't know our origins, so we came up with something to explain our origins. And because of that, a lot of the grounding and foundations for for our existence as creation are completely stripped away. And so we're no longer stamped with God's image lovingly made by his own hands. We are just formed out of processes that don't care about us. And I know that sounds emotional, but but it it it removes the emotion from it actually. The the process is what we as humans have have come about through. And so evolution brought this all together. Evolution just over time with the magic wand of time and and process eventually this got to the point where human beings happened to exist. And then from that we we had a questioning of of our sexuality. And so we have the sexual revolution, we had a questioning of our morals and ethics, and so we're going through a cultural revolution, and everything has been uh is essentially that that our foundations of as Christians have been essentially pulled out from underneath us. We are no longer given the footing that we once had. And so people are questioning all the things that the Bible teaches about origins, about morality, about right and wrong, about justice. And so now you have this postmodern thought where if I as a Christian go to a college campus, for instance, and start questioning the things the professors might be teaching because they don't comport with the biblical reality of existence I will be I will be essentially getting the response back of being of being called um a a fundamentalist or something like that. Or Where is your basis for evidence is what somebody might say. What is your basis for evidence for God? Well I can give you that, but you're going to reject it in the first place. Evidence doesn't matter as long as it only evidence only matters as long as it comports with what a person's worldview is. And so a person might reject the evidence contrary to what might be suggested by the evidence. And things of that nature. But postmodernism really is a skepticism. So if I make a claim immediately that's held accountable to whatever claim it is But more than that, more than just trying to reach the truth, it's this deconstruction of truth in the first place. And so I can't make any claim in and of itself if it has the quality of truth to it, because ultimately postmodernism says that there can't be you can't know that truth to be true in the first place This is a little more explained in postmodern foundations on your notes here. So the section on postmodern foundations, point A. Postmodernism at its core is the skepticism of things that are considered truth. Notice that the word truth is used rather than true. Postmodernism is not concerned so much with denying factual statements such as the outcome of math equations. or evidence presented in a scientific study. Rather, this philosophy is skeptical of any claims that something transcendent merits objective truth. Essentially, what we've talked about is that the object of truth, the quality of truth, does not change dependent upon a person's view of that truth. What postmodernism, what Immanuel Kant was talking about back in the 1700s was that these fact claims and these truth claims must comport with our own personal sensory experience of what we view as reality. Essentially stating that you Create your own truth. And that's where you get comments like, I'm just expressing my truth. It's a formation of reality based on that person's subjective experience. And so whatever that person says is truth. And it might not be your truth, but it's their truth, and for you to question that truth goes against the postmodern thought. Does that make a little more sense there? In other words, postmodernism aims to dismantle the grounding of truth, or to no longer grant it a foothold or foundation. It's about as much of an oxymoron as saying the statement it is absolutely true, that there is no absolute truth. The statement in itself assumes absolute truth in order to deny its own existence. And how silly is that? How silly is it to say that there can't be absolute truth? Were you saying that absolutely? Is that a truth statement? Well then you just made a truth claim. And so even in the postmodern thought, they question themselves. You see how confusing that can be? And so now you have a culture that says, I don't know who I am, I don't know where I came from, I don't know what I'm supposed to be doing in life, I don't know what my purpose is And even if I try to make that claim, I'm questioning that claim in the first place. It's incredibly confusing. But again, it's not so much that it's ambiguous and it doesn't make sense. There is a purpose behind all these things. And there are core foundations, kind of like how we talked about in critical theory. There are core foundations to postmodernism. The rhetoric of this philosophy is purposeful. It's not a mistake or slip of the tongue, but rather a design that allows for anything to be true. The philosophy stands on its own absolute foundations in order to tear them down. In a way, it's a nation divided, a kingdom at war with itself. I'm gonna strategically, sorry, I have to grab my water bottle. I am thirsty. Josiah was my secret Santa this year, and he spent like two months creating a gift for me. It was very sweet, except it was challenges, and I had to complete the challenges in order to get to my gift. You don't want to know what one of those challenges were? It was eating the world's spiciest chip and then sitting on it for five minutes while it burned in my mouth. I cannot tell you. I like I like spicy food and I've had really spicy stuff, but there is a moment of panic that second. Oh he he immediat I mean I that poor boy he immediately was like I'm so sorry I'm so sorry I'm so sorry and I'm like dude it's uh like I ate the chip, it's fine. You know, I didn't have to eat the chip but I ate it That thing was it was it was coated in this um um black muck of of of um Carolina Reaper I mean it's it's it's a dark deathly thing. All right. And it's it's just it's very you smell it and it's so it smells so peppery and you know that it's gonna be bad. And it has pepper extract on it You know why things get hot? It's because the oils are having a chemical reaction with your saliva in your mouth and all your skin and whatnot. And that's why like things like milk and stuff like that, they break up the oils, and that's why it helps. That's neither here or there. I was just stalling for time as I sip my my drink. Alright, foundations. Relativism. The view that truth and falsity, right and wrong, standards of reasoning and procedures of justification are products of differing authorities is confined to the context giving them rise. In other words, whatever is true and false is only such in its given context I'll give you an example. One example would be morality. Morality would only find its footing in such contexts, but would not be universal to every age society or person. What is moral today may not be moral tomorrow. For example, abortion was viewed in this country as a moral wrong. Yet with time and proper justification was given its foundation for the context of today. It may be, and I and you may have conversations with somebody who supports abortion. I've had these conversations before. It may be that in a hundred or a thousand years it will be wrong again. But for now it is a moral right and not only a moral right, but a codified right in law to every person. Well, every person that can give birth, which is is a female, but that's a conversation for another day. The point is is that it even even if it's even if we identify it as a wrong today It's only relatively wrong according to the context of where we live. One glaring issue is that no one in society would be able to condone or condemn another We would denounce the horrors of the Holocaust in Germany or the terrors of slavery in America, but according to their context, to their morality, it was a right and good. to those people, was it not? According to relativism, what justification will we have to condemn them as an example? Now of course you would have that conversation with somebody. I've had many of those conversations. Don't you deny the Holocaust? Don't you hate what happened in the Holocaust? Don't you hate the terrors that happened in American slavery 400 years ago? Don't you hate all the pain and all the suffering that occurred there? Well, yes. Okay, was it wrong when they did it? Well, yeah, of course it was wrong when they did it. According to what standard, though, was it wrong? And so that conversation starts to lose its footing because I'm trying to appeal to an ultimate moral authority, being God in His Word, to be able to condemn those actions, and they're trying to do it based on relatively it was wrong to us. But if you would go into those societies, it may not necessarily be wrong, or else they wouldn't commit those acts in the first place. They thought they were in the moral right. The Nazis believed that they were cleansing the world of of a of a disease essentially Hitler said of of the Jews, they may act like people, they may smell like people, they may look like people, but they're not. They're subspecies of human beings. It's evolutionary thought in the first place. They're subspecies. And so he thought he was ridding the world of disease. He thought he was doing the world a favor. What condemnation would relativism in postmodernists have with Hitler, for an example? Well, they should. In 99% of the conversations you will have, a person will outright say, yeah, absolutely it was evil. for them to do that. That's why those those horrors and and atrocities are very easy to have a conversation about. It's because it's it's at least a grounding of where we can start to have sort sort of a common re um a common notion of what right and wrong is. Because remember, everybody has an understanding of right and wrong inherently within them, right? God gives everybody a conscience. And so you can appeal to that You can appeal to that in these in the context of these horrors and atrocities, but that's an apologetic lesson for another day. I'm sorry, get off track a little bit. So that's relativism. Everything is relative. The truth is relative to the person, to the context, to the history, but it doesn't necessarily mean it's true always. We would reject that because we have truth claims in the Bible, of course, that are true no matter what, right? So subjectivism. Subjectivism is a theory that perception or consciousness in reality Is, or excuse me, subjectivism is a theory that perception or consciousness is reality and that there is no underlying true reality that exists independent of perception. It does not claim that, quote, all is illusion or that there is no such thing as a reality, merely that nature of reality is dependent upon the conscience of the individual. Again, it's really similar to relativism It seeks to give truth credence only as far as it goes for the subject. Excuse me, you may have heard the phrases, it's true to me or my truth. This concept gives the subject ultimate control over their own reality. It's crafting your own God out of wood and bowing down to it. We have examples of that in Isaiah 44, 13 through 20. It's a masterclass verse that destroys this philosophy. The man cuts down his own wood, and from it stokes a fire, cooks his food, and crafts an idol, from which from which bows down to it and says, Deliver me, O my God. Verses 18 through 20 are particularly striking. They say this: quote, They do not know, nor do they understand, for he has smeared over their eyes so that they cannot see, and their hearts so that they cannot comprehend. No one recalls, nor is there knowledge or understanding to say, quote, I have burned half of it in the fire, and also have baked bread over its coals. I roast meat and eat it. Then I make the rest of it into an abomination, I fall down before a block of wood. He feeds on ashes, a deceived heart has turned him aside, and he cannot deliver himself, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand? What what what is what is this verse really talking about? It's that God in in in in judgment has not allowed them to understand the fact that what they're doing is just absolutely insane. It doesn't make any sense It's it's it's so ridiculous that a person can literally from the same block of wood craft things to be able to cook from. things to be able to have usefulness of of appliance or something like that and then from the same thing bow down from that and worship it. And God is saying that's ridiculous, but the point here is saying that they don't even realize it's it's what they're doing. When when a person says, I'm crafting my own reality, I'm making my own truth, and things like that, they don't realize that they're they're forming something that that ultimately one cannot save themselves. Or save them. But two, it's so ridiculous of a notion for them to even do these things in the first place. But they don't understand that. And that's why we have to tell them first and foremost about the gospel. Because what happens then? The Holy Spirit comes into them and does what? He illuminates their minds with the truth and they can understand those things. Now, relatively speaking, I I know relativism, relatively speaking, a pun there, but relatively speaking A person may have some grasp of some things, little pieces here and there that might ultimately align towards something that's that's um uh true in the first place, right? But the point is that ultimately a person cannot grasp the mistake that they're making here. It doesn't mean that they're not accountable to that. It just simply means that God has smeared over their eyes and hearts in in judgment as the verse says. But the point is that the ultimate weapon that we have to combat against that isn't our rhetoric. It isn't me handing them notes that I've made out of this class and say, hey, read these notes and you'll understand everything. That's not the point here. One, we're equipping you to be able to have these conversations so that you can discern from right and wrong ultimately so that we can have true unity uh on the subject as well, but also so that we can have conversations with our coworkers and friends and whatnot about these subjects. But ultimately it should drive you to get to the point where you say Nothing I'm saying is ultimately working. What's going to work here? And I'll tell you straight up, the first thing you should have been focusing on is making sure you can direct the conversation towards the gospel because that's the ultimate goal. A person's heart and mind is darkened over the truth. They don't understand the truth, and for them to understand the truth, ultimately they have to have the Holy Spirit. They have to be saved, regenerate, have a new heart, a new mind, be a new creation in Christ. to have new desires and the like. Point E, no point of reference for words. Postmodernism contends that words have no meaning. So how do they use words in the first place? This doesn't make any sense. Right? In attempting to unravel the state of truth that dominates this world, it unhinges that which it must rely upon, inherent meaning. And so the conversation becomes, okay, so if if words don't ultimately have meaning, meaning that the person who is saying the words will define the words themselves. I might say a statement. like the conversation we had earlier today about oppression. They may say oppression. Is there an inherent meaning to oppression? Who assigns that meaning? I might say oppression. Is there an inherent meaning to what I'm saying? The truth is yes. to both, but the point is one is wrong and one is right. We we again go back to what the Bible says, what something is But in postmodernist thought, the point is that you can define your own words. And your words may not make any sense, but as long as you're defining them, they make sense to you, it's good enough It's it's really do you have a comment? I was gonna say that preferred pronouns would be an example of that. Yeah, so pastor Pastor Gabe's example is preferred pronouns The truth is you're a biological male. Your gender is a male. I don't care what you say, that's what you are. And it's not to hurt you, it's not to harm you. It's actually to tell you the truth because we love you. And they may not take it that way. To them it's violence. To them it's harm. To them it's hurt. You're not comporting with with my own truth and reality and my body dysfunctions and and my brain's not connecting with what my body looks like. And I understand that gender dysphoria. I I I get that conversation and we can have those conversations. But the point is, is that ultimately me calling you a male is not to harm you. Me calling you a male is the truth because I love you, I'm going to tell you that truth It's not my truth, it's God's truth. He assigned you that. And you have to you have to you have to accept that and work through that. Even if it m may actually be difficult for a person to do that. That still does not mean that we say, well, we just give up and say, okay, we'll just do whatever you want then. That wouldn't be loving. Gender pronouns are a perfect example. They may say I'm a female. I might say I'm a female. It might be obvious to you that I I'm not a female, but even if it's not totally obvious to me, the point is that you ought to tell me that thing. To tell me that, to inform me and instruct me of that of that reality. But In postmodernist thought, the point is that it doesn't matter. That conversation is null and void. I define my own words. So if I gave you a really, really um I I do it here in point two, postmodernism asserts that words hold no value in and of themselves and is subject only to that which a person seeks uh to intend to mean. My uttering this very sentence holds as much meaning to the postmodernist as my saying, quote, frogs over an orange equals TV when polar bear is eaten, no and five. It's It's a ridiculous statement, isn't it? Does it make any sense? But the point is, is I might have a particular meaning and definition behind that sentence, and it may it means just as much as my saying actual English, for an example. As long as I convey the meaning which is satisfactory to myself, the sentence holds value. What must be understood is that the postmodernism is seeking to find any instance of truth and pulling it into question It judges the reality around us in a courtroom and finds it guilty of asserting itself where it cannot, according to the postmodernist. However, if words hold no meaning, then what difference does it make that a make that a postmodernism seeks to assert its lack of meaning? If that sounds confusing and insane, it's because it is. This is what happens when you remove the grounding of God's word, of God's truth. from from human beings. We're designed to live in a way that comports with God's reality, with the way that God has uh uh established this world. And even if we're fallen, the point is is God constantly calls us back to live in the way that that pleases and honors and glorifies him because ultimately we are created for that purpose in the first place. We are creatures of worship as an example. And so when we remove God from the equation We can no longer worship him. What do we do instead? We worship other things. We worship sports, or we worship entertainments, or we worship pleasure, or you know, the conversation goes on in ecclesiastics, work, pleasure, wisdom, all of that, right? And ultimately it means nothing when you remove it from God. And that was the conclusion of Ecclesiastes, that you must fear God and keep his commandments, and everything else will make sense at that point. No point of reference means that words inherently are unstable and only given stability as long as the sentence lasts. A person's intention holds only as far as it goes and can only find footing in that one instance Another may come along and call foul and say the statement just made doesn't mean what the author intended it to mean. You ever had that conversation in English class? You're talking about a book and you're like, what did the author mean by that the drapes were blue? Well, he's he trying to convey sadness Was he trying to to show the melancholy of the world because blue is sad? Or were the drapes just blue? If an author and they they call they call this this reference, it's this It's an actual term. It's called the death of an author. So like if a if a person decides that's no longer what it means, even if the author comes and says, actually when I wrote that, that's what it means. No, no, no, but what I draw from the meaning is this, and they call that the death of the author. Now the reader has has ultimate control over even what the author intended it to mean. Why even read the book? Just write your own book. We begin to question everything. We convey things by words as we recognize that they do hold value and have inherent meaning, but in this worldview that cannot be true. Not even not even the statement in and itself. Yet it must rely upon this logic to even make sense in the first place. Now we're gonna get into logic. This one is not is actually not really confusing. The laws of logic are not actually really confusing. You use them every single day when you when you talk. Why are we talking about the laws of logic? Because they matter. And they matter in this context of postmodernism. We're going to go really quickly over laws of logic. There's a whole section on this. Okay? And we're going to use a verse that's going to explain the laws of logic in one version. It's astounding and fascinating. Are you ready Laws of logic are laws that govern meaning. You may not know them, but you use them every day and every time you speak or think. They are necessary preconditions in order for things to make sense. There are primarily three laws of logic. There are actually other subgenres and categories, but there are primarily three laws of logic. Okay? They are the law of identity. Alright? A subject is what the subject is. Does that make sense? In simple terms, A equals A. Okay? Easy enough. I am who I am because I am who I am. That's the law of identity. I am Danny, and that's it. That's who I am. I am Danny. Okay? That's the law of identity in a nutshell. Eddie's in class. You are Eddie. That's it. Okay? No confusion there. The law of non-contradiction: a subject is not another subject. In other words, Um A is not non-A. If I say I am Bill, then that means I cannot be Steve Alright? Okay, so Eddie's right there. You can't see him, but I can see him. This is my reality. Eddie's right here. You can't see him, but I can see him. Alright? If I say I'm Danny, that means that I am not Eddie. Okay? Very simple. And the third one is law of excluded middle. It's it's something um something's either the subject or it's not the subject. And it can't be everything in between, is the point. So if I say I am Danny, either I am Danny or I am Eddie, but I cannot be everyone else in between. Does that make sense? So if we're identifying things, And I say I am Danny, but I'm not Eddie, then my statement is true in that I'm either one or the other, but I cannot be everything in between Does that sound a little confusing? It might be, but let me give you a verse that should at least in part show you what this looks like in practical terms, especially in biblical terms. Jesus said in John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Wow, what a statement. Exclusive, counterculture, but true. If we apply the laws of logic to the statements of Jesus, it's applied in this way. I am The law of identity, the way, the truth, and the life, the law of non-contradiction. Right? No one can come to the Father but by me. The law of excluded middle. Does that make sense? Jesus is identifying who he is He's identifying exclusively the negative way what he is, and then he's saying that he cannot be anything else, and the way to salvation cannot be anything else It's logical. Jesus is making a statement. I am who I am, Jesus is saying, and I am the way, the truth, and the life. I can't be anything else, is what he's saying. I cannot be only a way or not the way. He's making a declarative claim here. I am the way, the truth, and the life. And then he's saying, no one can come to the Father except through me. Meaning no one else can claim this. And so either his statement is logical and true or it's not Jesus is who he says he is. He cannot be anything other than what he says, and there is no way Jesus can both be the way, the truth, and the life, and not be the way, the truth, and the life. Now here is the word where the postmodernism would come and say and say, well all past flee to the same light, they would say. Jesus is true for you, but not for me. You see now where that statement and those and those and those claims come into play here. Or my Jesus would not would never actually mean that he is the only way. This is, and you've heard these things before, this is the way that the culture thinks, and it primarily comes from this thought of postmodernism. It's a questioning of things. It's not wanting to be so exclusive as to offend in a practical sense. And so I'm not going to tell you that you're wrong, but I am going to tell you that I'm right. Postmodernism asserts to deny that these laws of logic exist. In their worldview, Jesus can both be the only savior and Lord, and he cannot be the only savior and lord, and everyone else can be savior and lord, no matter who That's what the postmodernists believed. At least if they're consistent. Okay. I don't see any chats. Great. Time is it? Got a little time. Does anybody have any questions, comments, concerns before I keep moving on here? I know I just covered a ton and you know might be a little confusing, but if you got anything for me. Sean. Sean Moran, please go ahead. Um yeah, so I was just, you know, obviously wanting to comment on You know, obviously what you said earlier about um Hitler and just if you know, his um reasoning or justification for um obviously um his endeavor to slaughter uh millions of Jews. Um obviously a lot of that, you know, was tied to, you know, evolution and Darwinism, you know what I mean? And we just see how the twisting of scripture and the twisting of well, either the rejection of scripture or the twisting of scripture leads to these um you know, what like it leads to these horrific acts, right? And to say things, like say for example, um during times of slavery, they used oftentimes a misquoting or a quote from scripture of of Ham being cursed. Um even though it wasn't Ham, it was, you know, obviously Canaan. but using that as justification for enslaving um Africans and teaching them that they were obviously not even you know, that they were not even human or that they were first. And so that justifies the evil acts. And so we just see, you know, again, it's once you have rejected God's word, you know, um, unfortunately you see that that the base mind and you see that that person is no longer able to really reason properly because they have rejected truth. And so It it's just um it it really just continues to always go back to God's word. You know, when people reject it or where people twist it, this these are the manifestations of it. We see the wicked laps and the depraved heart. You know. So Yeah, absolutely, and appreciate that Sean. Um I got no clarifying comments, thank you. Anything else There's a comment. Thanks for bringing that up, Sarah. Uh comment. Danny will be listening I just want to say that there is a disability critical theory. Oh, interesting. Wow. So Sarah says, I just want to say that there is a disability critical theory. I have always felt that there is something not right when I worked and volunteered with people in agencies with a disability focus. Interesting. That's fascinating. I don't have much personal study on disability critical theory, but I'm not surprised by that. As a matter of fact, though, critical theorists do say, you know, we want to be exclusive or inclusive of all things, including ability, for example. Now I will say that I'm glad that there are there are places that are employing people with certain disabilities so that they can work. They can provide for themselves and things like that. But I'd be I'd be curious to hear your thoughts on that, Miss Sarah, sometime soon, whenever we can get together. But thank you for bringing that up. That's interesting. I've I've literally haven't personally heard of that. Okay. Um also please interrupt me at any point in time. So don't don't feel like you have to raise your hands or anything. I'm just I'm just a dude. You know, so um okay. The denial of the grand narrative. Let's keep going. In short, postmodernism is focused on the individual story. It rejects the notion that there is a grand narrative in life that is authored and dictated by the grand narrator. For the postmodernists, we only find value, meaning, and worth in and of ourselves. It only goes as far as we say it goes. To some, that means we're worthless. To others, that means we are worthy To some we are but a worm, and to others we are our own gods. Postmodernist asserts that there is no grand meaning, no narrative, and there is no overarching story. So those are the fundamentals or the foundations of the postmodernism. It's kind of silly the things that are said in uh in postmodernist thought. It's kind of hard to wrap your head around because it's pretty confusing But it's meant to be confusing. If we combine all these foundations, we arrive at one bleak conclusion. From beginning to end, postmodernist asserts There is no truth, there is no meaning, there is no value, there is no grand reason or narrative, and that if we are able, we find these things in ourselves, but even then they are ultimately worthless and really arbitrary. It is no secret that today people have questioned their origins, creation, the reason for existing, which is God's glory, their worth, which is being stamped with the image of God. Their ultimate ends, whether they end up in heaven or hell, by Christ, and their only way for life to have purpose, which is Christ Himself. It is no wonder why this world, as it has gravitated towards this philosophy has denied gospel truths, has submerged the Bible, and has rejected God. Postmodernism sought to break the chains of objective truth in order to find true happiness. But once they rejected all such things, they became bound to this unstable madness and insanity, where some people aren't sure that they even exist. And if you think that's crazy, it's not crazy. The thought is crazy, but the idea that people don't know if they exist or not is not crazy I'm not saying that's not that is not just, particular to our generation, as if no one has ever questioned these things before I find a lot of these philosophies, if you look through history of cyclical nature, they just have a different word, maybe a different emphasis, a different terminology, but ultimately they all come back to the same stuff. There's nothing new under the sun, as Ecclesiastes says. But it's called a solicism. It's a big word. You don't really need to know what is solicism. It essentially says that you can't prove you exist outside of being a brain in a vat. that's receiving electrical impulses and stimuli that constructs the world in front of you. Does that sound nuts to you? Well it's kinda like the matrix. You're plugged in to the matrix right now. We're in a simulation. Elon Musk thinks we might be in a simulation He's a brilliant guy, super rich, not really smart when it comes to that, you know, but he can build a a rocket that can land itself, so that's cool, you know. Regardless, um this is this continues to be what occurs and this continues to be true. the more you give in to the world's way of thinking. The theory of evolution, the sexual revolution, the gender identity reconstruction, the religious amalgamation, which by the way Uh America didn't s hasn't stopped being religious and spiritual in nature. Just give you that point up front Just because atheism in young people is on the rise does not mean that those self-proclaimed atheists are not actually spiritual in nature. Large majority of them are. It's just this weird Eastern mysticism, spiritual spiritualism that's coming in and infecting the way that young people think, especially around my age and generation. And what they do is then they hook that up with their cultural Christianity and create a new religion in and of itself. And it's very strange. You find the the repercussions of that in in churches like Bethel Church, for example. that believe a lot of really strange and weird doctrine about about some really weird stuff. And we can have a longer conversation about that. But the point is is that This religious amalgamation is really, I find, very particularly troubling. It's one of my major concerns. Why is that the case? I'm not really sure. I just gravitate towards it more. Maybe it's because it's my generation that uh that's really submersed in this, but I I really feel a particular care about that issue. I'm not going to make a make it a bigger deal than it needs to be, but Also, scientific uh triumph has led them astray, and they have no idea who they are, where they are, why they exist, and what they are to do. Is it no wonder that we have become more anxious, more depressed, more suicidal, more angry, and more confused than any age before? I mean there are there are literal studies that say that we are just a generation in a nation, in a world really, that's just constantly growing in this stuff. And I mean growing in in in anxiety and and and depression. I mean it's it's it's the joke of the age. I don't know if you know, it's like you have kids of teenagers and whatnot. Every kid is depressed, and it's a joke to them I don't know if you knew that, but everybody's like, oh I'm so sad. Oh I just want to kill myself. They just say things like that with like giving no train of thought. I said things like that when I was a teenager. You may have said things like that when you're a teenager. I'm not sure. That's how we talked though But it's so ingrained into into young generational culture that everybody is just I'm just so anxious and I can't even get out of bed. And it's a it's a meme. My mom used to call it memes. She's to crack me up. But it's a meme though. You know? I remember she said she's a I I saw this meme online one day and I was like, What did you just say? But it's meme, mom. If you're listening, she's not. Yeah, go ahead, Jose. Hey, yeah, so when I was growing up the the deal was teen angst, that's what we called it. And so that was the driving force. And what what I personally kinda concluded was that We as a society are very much um pack mentality. So if one person starts with the teen eggs Mm-hmm. And they're like the cool person. It seems like the other people kind of gravitate towards that as well. Mm-hmm. And uh they they wanna you know they wanna play that out Mm-hmm. And uh that's what I noticed growing up um in that era. And there's other thing I wanted to say is that, you know, you mentioned that uh Um well anyways, I want to add to what you were mentioning, you know, with the scient the scientific triumph is that pop culture is also a big factor. I mean we see it in the movies. Mm-hmm. And and a lot of people, that's their reality. I mean I I hear people talking about almost as if, you know, like Star Wars and those type of things are are are real to them. And they have a hard time differentiating between what's you know, what's uh make-believe and what's reality. And and that's impacting the way uh you know the way people uh you know, believe things are happening, the way they play out in their mind and with and the way they uh respond to that. Yeah. I just wanted to share that. Yeah, it'd be it'd be a sad reality if you actually thought sorrows were true considering the new trilogy is just absolute garbage. That is a sad place to live. I if you if you like the new stuff, yeah If you like the new stuff, guys, I don't know what to tell you. I can't help you, but Um I don't I'm not a huge Star Wars nut, but even I know that that movie was awful. But um yeah, I I I think pop culture has a lot to do with it. It's just it's just the movement of the culture. I mean all these things that we have talked about are all encased within culture today. It's not just so germane only to America, but I find it's a particular concern because that's where we live today. We're Americans. In case you forgot, we're still Americans. And so, you know, our citizenship earthly is America, but our our citizenship is in heaven. I'm I'm not Differenti I'm not denying that. That's not the point. But the point that I'm making is that I I examine the culture and I examine these movements and and all these things just amount to this one thing of of culture and it's just this it's really hideous beast honestly. It's just um I really feel for young kids growing up that like don't have parents that can like inform them of this stuff and that they just they sit and they bake in this for eighteen, twenty, twenty-five years and they're let loose into the world. and then they don't have any concept of of grounding because somebody didn't tell 'em, you know? And and that's what they believe. And so you you have kids that are, you know, six, seven years old and their parents are thinking of giving them, you know, gender surgery, gender pills at six and seven. I mean it's it's in that I I remember I was following the story of a of a guy who was desperate for their courts to give him custody over a seven year old boy because his mom wanted to turn him into a girl because that's what the little boy said he wanted to do. And the dad fought, fought, and fought and fought to get custody, at least so the courts would not allow the mother to do that. And it why is this even a debate? Why is this even a question I know that in in terms of like law, there's all kinds of stuff that they have to figure out. I'm not, I know, but but even even to have that con Even to have that kind of conversation with a spouse would be astronomically difficult. If Dave ever came up to me and said, I want to turn Ronan into a little girl, I w I don't know how it would handle that. That would be a a long day. You know? It would be really difficult. But I I forget I I don't know if what what the conclusion of that was. What was it? He lost? Yeah, that's Ah, I didn't know that. Ah, that's terrible. What is sad is that older people who should know better capitulate to these changes and the young people under the justification to re remain in a relationship or stay relevant. Yep. No, I Sean, I completely agree with that. It's parents who just want for the sake of having a relationship with their kids, they say, oh whatever, honey. All right, we'll just go along with the ride. Completely agree, Sean. Okay, so with these last remaining moments, we're gonna talk about oh Boy. Um I'm going to try to get through the big points on um what the Bible says about these things specifically. Like all subjects, the Bible is rich in wisdom concerning philosophies that come from the world. You've heard it said that all good lies have a measure of truth to them. While there are aspects to each system that might be somewhat useful, as a whole they fall woefully short of the biblical standard. Postmodernism can be useful to influence a sort of skepticism when it comes to hearing truth claims. We are not merely blindly We are not to merely blindly follow all sort of information that is presented to us as if it were actually true, especially when it comes to claims or information about the Bible or God. However, God in his word offers a much clearer advice than plain skepticism. 1 John 1 4, beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God. You see the intentionality there? There's a purpose behind the skepticism in the first place. It's not really the skepticism, it's trying to be discerning. Because many false prophets have gone out into the world. Acts 17, 11. Now these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so. And I'm sure they did that with joy. as well. There's also a caveat to the way a person is supposed to obtain wisdom. It isn't merely we just listen to things that sound smart. We are to give heed to things that are actually wise. Proverbs 1. 5. A wise man will hear and will increase learning. And a man of understanding shall attain to wise counsels. Not just counsels. You see how it's qualified? Wise counsels. Skepticism about worldly wisdom is wise, and even worldly wisdom can sound wise, however, we are not to listen. Isaiah 8:20, to the law and to the testimony. If they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them. Okay, we ought not to get excited about worldly wisdom. Rather, we are to dwell on the law of God, Psalm 1, 2 through 3. But the his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. Paul commanded us not to listen to empty philosophies that capture us like spoils of war. We talked about Colossians 2. 8 in the Biblical Authority class. Do not be taken captive through philosophy and empty deception, right? In critical theory, we are told that humans are divided amongst two groups, the oppressed and the oppressors, that all institutions and systems are ultimately created by the oppressors in order to oppress and to gain power from themselves. The Bible speaks about oppressors and the oppressed. Yes, Israel suffered greatly at the hands of the Egyptians, and God took careful notice, right? Exodus 3, 7 through 10. And the Lord said, I have certainly seen the oppression of my people who are in Egypt. And I have heard their outcry because of their taskmasters, for I am aware of their sufferings. So I have come down to the ret to rescue them from the power of the Egyptians. And he says later on, furthermore I have seen the oppression with which the Egyptians are oppressing them, and now come, and I will send you that's Moses to Pharaoh, so that you may bring my people the sons of Israel out of Egypt. God is the one who keeps tears in our bottle. Psalm fifty six through eight, you have taken account of my miseries, put my tears in your bottle, are they not in your book? If I I just keep coming back to that verse is very sweet. But the point is God actually cares about these issues. He does care about oppression, of course. But the difference between oppression in the culture and the oppression that the Israelites suffered today that we're talking about in our context is vastly different. It is. So is it then true that this is the way in which we must view the world and each other? Critical theory certainly has the merit of itself, that it identifies this concept, just in general, the concept of oppressed an oppressor and calls it evil. The Bible agrees. We would agree. Oppression is evil. Don't be an oppressor. One of the qualifications of an elder actually is not to lord over their flock. First Peter five through three. God seems concerned about people who are treated unjustly and seeks to hold those accountable but use their power to mistreat those who do not deserve mistreatment. But again we must ask, in the way that critical theory theory defines the world, are we to listen? The Bible describes two categories of people. Okay? Here's something radical. The Bible describes two categories of people. Is it oppressed and oppressor? Mm-mm. The saved and the unsaved. This is the primary lens by which God views people. You are identified either in Christ or identified in your sins. Colossians 1:3, for he rescued us from the domain of darkness to transfer us to the domain of his beloved Son. Colossians 3-6. For it is because of these things that the wrath of God will come upon the sons of disobedience. He's identifying them by something. John 8 44, you are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father. 1 Peter 2. 9, but you are, in relation to believers, You are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. We are identified specifically by certain things here. It is true there are many oppressors identified within Scripture. It oftentimes Um God even used them um as a punishment towards Israel for their idolatry and harlotry. Judges ten uh six through eight. Then the sons of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord, and they served the Baals and the um ash Tro Troth, Astaroth. I'm sorry. The gods of Aram, the gods of Sidion, and so on and so forth. So they abandoned the Lord and did not serve him. And the anger of the Lord burned against Israel, and he sold them to the hands of the Philistines and to the hand of the sons of Ammon, and they afflicted and oppressed the sons of Israel that year, for eighteen years they oppressed all the sons of Israel who were beyond the Jordan Some got sometimes God even set up terrible and oppressive leaders against his people for the nation of Israel itself as a punishment. Isaiah 3, 4 through 5 says, And I will make mere boys or leaders. and mischievous children will rule over them, and the people will be oppressed, each one by another, and each one by his neighbor. The youth will assault the elder, and the contemptible person will assault the one honored Of course, this isn't to suggest it isn't sinful nor wrong for oppressors to be oppressive. Isaiah 117 again says learn to do good Seek justice, correct oppression, bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause. If oppression were good, then we wouldn't need to correct it. An underlying issue is that the biblical categories of people are not split between oppressor and oppressed It is between sinner and saint, and there is nothing that separates them separates them except Jesus Christ Himself. Additionally, critical theory states that all institutions have dominance of a culture. That have dominance of a culture are inherently designed to oppress those of a social minority, yet God Himself established these institutions and uses them to enact justice. Romans 13:1. Let everyone be subject to the governing authorities But there is no authority except that which God has established. The authorities exist that exist have been established by God. What isn't addressed, however, is that these systems that are established by oppressors inherently cannot oppress unless It is governed by a person. What do I mean? No system, organization, institution, or government has ever existed without somebody establishing it and running it. This is this is this is a huge point. And I don't mean to be silly about this. This is a huge point. It isn't that systems of oppression are evil, it is that evil people are running systems. Is do you see the difference in terminology there? Because what's talked about is that we must rid the world of these systems of oppression We must rid the world of these evil systems that are harming people. What isn't talked about is the personal imperative individual accountability that must be held to st specific people that indeed run the systems in the first place. These systems would not exist if evil people did not exist. I cannot stress that enough because the conversations that we have are not about that. The conversations you hear in the media are not about that. It's always oppressive systems, oppressive systems, evil systems. uh racist institutions, whatever the terminology is used, it's never addressing the core points of that none of this stuff would exist in the first place if people didn't exist in the first place And why is that important? Because it's not correcting oppression in the systems. This is our primary duty. It is to give the gospel to people to be saved. What is the consequence of saved people? Things start to get better I if that's mind-blowing to you, it shouldn't be. Because you were evil. I was evil. We did bad stuff. I don't know if you knew that, but I'll tell you. You did bad stuff. You sinned. And God said, you deserve damnation. And you said, Lord save me. And he said, Okay, I'm going to save you. That's the loving intention of God. But what happened then? You got better. You became more Christ-like You said, I want to love the things of righteousness. I want to do the things that God has called me to do. And then what happens? When you live in a society like the church where people love each other, are looking out for each other, are doing it for God's glory, it it I can't think of the word. Is diametrically the good word? I don't know. But it it just definitionally, I guess, looks different. The world looks at the church and goes, what are they doing that's so different here? Why do those people love each other so much? Why are they treating each other so well? It's not because we wanted to in the first place, it's because God changed our hearts and desires to do it. And so I cannot believe that the conversation and and I might get pushed back. I'm I'm okay with that. I cannot believe that the conversation for the life of me is so in tuned with We have to correct the systems. We will give the gospel later. And I promise you, I try to not get upset when I hear that, but part of me has a hard time with that statement. It may not be exactly what's said, but the intention behind it is what's said, and that's what upsets me. Is I cannot believe that the I the thought process is we have to fix society first and then we'll give people the gospel later. And that's usually what happens when Christians try to take social justice and merge it together. Because they see activism as a way of actually progressively changing things physically in this world. And then we can worry about their their spiritual souls and states later. For it were it not for the grace of God, I would be the worst person in the world. And the recognition of that needs to be understood. If it were not for the grace of God, we would be even worse than we are now. But by His grace, we aren't. And so it cannot be a conversation necessarily about we have to fix the systems and worry about the gospel. It cannot even be that this that they're equal in and of themselves that we fix the systems. while giving them the gospel. The primacy of our call is the gospel. Everything else is subsequent to that. Everything else must be submitted to that. If it's not then the way that in which we enact these things are ultimately going to fail. They will not last. They cannot last Creation itself groans for the recreation of the earth to be done away with with sin of Uh Romans eight twenty two, for we know that the whole creation groans and suffers the pangs of childbirth together until now. Additionally Critical theory forces us to identify in our experiences of pain and trauma as well as our physical characteristics. By the way, critical theory is is is just I don't know a better word to say it. It's just segregating everybody. You are your group. You are your group. You are your group. We'll talk about these verses later, but the verses where Paul says there is no Greek, nor barbarian, or Scythian, or male, female, all are one together in Christ. Where's the categories and where is the group identity in that? There is one identity that we have, and it's Christ. And if you forget that, then you're going to start seeping into this and going, well, maybe I am just a black person, maybe I am just a white person, maybe I am just a survivor of this trauma. That's all I am, and that's not the case. You're not just that. You are primarily sons and daughters of Christ, and there should be majesty in that. The Bible to identify tells us to identify ourselves in Christ, period. If you are in Christ, you are no longer anything of once of what you once were. You are Jesus redeemed. Sinners are identified by their sin that isn't ignoring ethnicity, nor physical characteristics, nor ignoring pain or trouble of a life. It is those categories in which the Bible exhaustively demonstrates that God has defined for us. Those who are in Christ are identified by Christ. Those who are outside of Christ are identified by their sin. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, this person is a new creation. The old things passed away. Behold, new things have come. And I'm just going to read these two quotes and then we're actually done with the notes. Praise God. A little over time. I'm sorry, if you have to leave, please leave. Neil Shenvi says this, and I I I pulled a lot of my material from Neil. Neil has great resources, and we put together a resource list for you guys. Neil will probably be at one of the top ones. Neil has done a lot of really good work. He's a doctor in biochemistry, but has a particular interest in these apologetics and has a lot, a lot of resources and has read a lot. Anyway. He says from his book, which you can get for free online called Engaging Critical Theory and the Social Justice Movement, has two great passages for us to consider on this topic. Quote, Of course, one significant caveat is that contemporary critical theorists define oppression differently than the Bible. In the Bible, oppression is not associated with hegemonic narratives, which is the culture or the dominance of power in culture But with physical violence, cruelty, enslavement, and theft. Consequently, Christians should be very careful not to assume that what critical theorists called oppression is actually oppression from a biblical perspective. We also note that the Christians concerned to liberate those who are truly oppressed and secure justice for the vulnerable are a fruit of the gospel, but listen, but not the gospel itself. However, the significant difference between a critical theorist approach and the Christians is the inherent asymmetry positive between oppressed groups and oppressor groups. We have, as we have already indicated to the contemporary critical theorists, it is privilege and power which blind oppressors groups to reality. In contrast Christians identify sin, not privilege, as the cause of our blindness. Sin is present both in members of dominant groups and in members of subordinate groups But both the power and privilege of the oppressor and the bitterness and anger of the oppressed can lead them to misinterpret scripture in empirical evidence. Consequently All people are fallible. No group should insist that their quote lived experience exempts them from testing their beliefs against the Bible and objective reality. And that in short is a is a biblical critique of these systems and whatnot. I'm over time. Mike Moody says, but there is a time when the church did not practice we are all one race. We were all treated equally. We're all treated equally. Yeah, it's absolutely true. There was a time for that. Um Does anybody have any comments or questions? Um additional Hey Danny. Yes, Brandon. Brandon, I just wanted to make a comment. It you because you talked about this earlier, you talked about you know postmodernism and and uh you know there's a real lack of uh belief in objective truth And then you mentioned Star Wars, and I just wanted to say I have observed, and it's really interesting, that the culture of people who are Star Wars fans, like like like crazy Star Wars fans They demonstrate a desire, a strong, strong desire to know what is the objective truth of the Star Wars universe. And they actually use the word canon Uh and they and they referred to things as either canonical or not canonical. And I just think that's so interesting because I didn't even know what that word meant growing up uh growing up in in in different churches that didn't refer to it uh refer to scripture that way and I just think uh you know it's another example of where uh lost people are demonstrating in that they're they have an innate desire that God put inside of each one of us to know objective truth and that there there is such a thing as objective truth and and things are either true or they're not true as a part of the narrative and it's just this fictitious universe. And yet they're obsessed with knowing what is and is not a part of that universe. An interesting point. I'm gonna pray real quick so that people can feel like they can leave. You could have left. You didn't need me to wait for this, but I'm gonna pray real quick. I'm going to stay online for a little bit and then we'll close it up. Lord, just thank you for today. Just thank you for your word. Thank you for the clarity of your word. God, I pray that you impress upon our hearts to learn from it, to love it. And ultimately what that means is we are to learn from you and to love you, Lord. And I pray that you would grow us, that you would sanctify us by your word. And that we would go out and be able to engage to the culture which rejects your word, but that we are to have a love for them as well and to pull them from the fire of God. Ultimately, no matter what we say in the context of this conversation Lord, we want to see people redeemed. We want to see the gospel go out and people to be saved from the fires of hell. We all deserve it, and yet by your mercy and grace you have sent your son to die for us. that we would live. And he rose again from the third day, Lord, announcing his victory over death, and so that we can know that we will live forever with you if we are in Christ. And so I just thank you for that Reality, I thank you for that truth, Lord, that you impress upon our hearts that we are to live in such a way that pleases and honors you. In Jesus' name. Amen.