Besides, I don't know about you, but for me, being a dad comes with a multitude of blessings, too many really to mention. It's really like a journey, isn't it? Being a dad. You start out, you really don't know what you're getting into, and then you learn along the way. It's long. It's hard sometimes. I mean it's really hard. And yet it's so filled with blessing. You learn so much about yourself And from the moment uh you remember hearing your wife saying, I'm pregnant, honey, I'm pregnant. All the way through, you see him graduating from high school and going on and beyond that. It's just an amazing thing where God Takes us through to teach us, teach us about himself and his heart as well. There's so many important lessons, so many important memories that lie in that period of time as the children are growing up. Some of them are joyful. Some of them bring a smile to your face. Some of them are painful. Some are better forgotten. Some you could never forget But God's grace is always there for you. Amen? It's there for you, strengthening you, teaching you, showing you the way Every event that you face, every problem, every stage of life, God's grace is right there with you. His presence never leaves you. And that is the confidence that God gives a Christian dad. You know, God has made a father to be many things for his children. A provider. The dad is a provider. If uh he's doing his job right, he's a sense of security in the home. He's a rulemaker, and he is the discipliner as well He provides accountability to get things done, to be the way you're supposed to be. He also provides encouragement when you need that encouragement. He's a person to play with, a person to learn how to work hard next to, a person to talk to and share with. I was out with uh several of the dads at Hershey Park uh on Friday. It was a great time. Rob got us free tickets, so we a bunch of us went and uh thank you Rob And uh we had a great time. It was so neat to see around every band. There's another dad with with his kids, you know, just out there enjoying playtime and uh just enjoying kids and that was a real blessing to see Dads need to spend time with their kids, enjoying them, knowing what they're about. You know, there's another duty of dads that maybe Doesn't get talked about enough, and we're going to emphasize this morning, and that is the duty, the responsibility, the privilege, however you look at it, to be a teacher of God's word to your children. The teacher. We read already in the responsive reading the Shema of Israel. Hear, O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might. These words which I am commanding you today Shall be on your heart, and you shall teach them diligently to your sons, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house. When you walk by the way, when you lie down, when you rise up, anywhere you go, and all day long, in other words, the word of God on your heart because you love the Lord your God, and you're sharing that with your children. Many of you dads know by heart Ephesians 6. 4, right? Fathers do not provoke your children to anger. We can do that in a number of ways. But instead bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. The Proverbs show a wise dad and mom in action teaching children. Proverbs 1:8 as a sample. Here, my son, your father's instruction, do not forsake your mother's teaching. Indeed, they are a graceful wreath to your head And ornaments about your neck. That's what Dad's teaching is supposed to be. Teaching is really important. It's a heavy and a serious calling. Few dads I think seem to realize how important their role in the home as teacher is. Certainly our educational system here in America did not teach dads to get ready in their homes once they grew up to teach God's word. They didn't understand how important that was and they missed that. So how to teach them and how to do it well is something that, well, we just had to pick up somewhere else, didn't we? Sometimes by watching a godly example, sometimes in church, sometimes reading the Word of God. Just trying to figure out how do we do that, how do we do it effectively. I think the lack of know-how about teaching often leads dads to fear in doing it. They don't really want to get involved because they're not sure they're going to do a good job at it. They're afraid of messing it up Maybe it's frustration. They tried and it just seemed to fall flat. It didn't work well in the home, and so they'd rather someone else teach the kids. Many of dads know that they uh should be doing it, but they don't see the fruit that they'd like to see. They just tried, it didn't seem to work. What thoughts are going through your head, fathers, as you think about yourself as a teacher of your own children? Picture their faces. What do you think of when you hear a message like this? Go home and be a teacher, Dad Maybe the first thing you think is I'm no good at teaching. You know, I don't know how to I don't know how to put together lessons like that. I'm not a teacher. My wife is so much patient than I am. Let's just let her do it Um I'll give it a try when my children grow older. I'll understand them better then. Give it a few years. Or you might think, hey, I put them in a Christian school. What else do you want me to do? Maybe you just shy away from the task thinking, the kids don't really understand me all that well. I try to talk, but we don't connect. When would I have the time to do it anyway? My life's so busy. Look, I tried devotions a few times, but they were uninterested. Hey Pastor, you don't know my kids. I couldn't get them to sit still and listen if I tried. Forget the teaching Well, Dad, here's still the truth. You can teach them, and you must. I want you to open your Bibles to 2 Timothy. 2 Timothy, chapter 3. Verse sixteen. A familiar verse with an unfamiliar message that I'd like to bring to you. Usually we would actually Wax eloquent about the inspiration and inerrancy of scripture here. I'll mention a few words about that, but the main topic I want to deal with, which the verse does also teach is how to teach God's Word, giving you main components of teaching God's Word. 2 Timothy 3. 16. Let me read from verses 14 and 17 to give us more of the context, but we're going to focus on verse 16 today. Verse 14, you, however, Paul's writing to Timothy, continue in the things you have learned and become convinced of, knowing from whom you have learned them, and that from childhood you have known the sacred writings Which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training and righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. An important passage in God's Word about God's Word and its value. Let's start by drawing our view out a little more broadly and wide and Give you some brief and basic information about the letter of 2 Timothy. 2 Timothy, of course, was written by the Apostle Paul. The first word in verse 1 of chapter 1 states that It was written by Paul in his second Roman imprisonment, sometime around AD sixty-five. It would be Paul's last imprisonment because he was soon to be executed. Beheaded, he was a Roman citizen. And so this is Paul's very last piece of writing to the church. And it's written to Timothy. We learn that from the second verse of chapter 1. Timothy was one of Paul's closest traveling companions, one he invested a lot of teaching into, like his own spiritual son. The purpose of this letter then was to give Timothy and really all pastors, all elders who would be charged with leading God's flock, a challenge, and then a very sober and final charge, starting in chapter four, verse one The letter, in fact, could be called Paul's final charge to pastors to teach the word and guard it and to fulfill their ministry. Paul, in a sense, was handing off the torch of teaching to Timothy and said, you need to continue to do this with much strength. So Timothy, you're going to need to be equipped. You're going to need to be prepared. You have an enormous and sobering task. It's something that you can't fail at. You do it in the presence of God. It's important. And so Paul would point Timothy to the scriptures and say, use them. In chapter one, just as a survey, he tells Timothy, guard the treasure of New Testament doctrine that has been handed over to you. Guard it, protect it, don't let anyone pervert it. In chapter 2, he talks about being strong in God's grace and the things that Paul had invested in him, that he would also invest in other faithful men who would go on and invest it and pass it on to other men, and so that the torch would be passed further. The chapter three talks a little bit about the end times. They're going to be wicked times and evil and people aren't going to be easy to ri reach and easy to teach. It's going to be tough You think you have tough kids in a spiritual sense, Timothy had tough kids in the church. They were going to be lovers of self and boastful and proud So he had to really rely on God's Word, and that's we read about it, chapter 3, verses 14 through 17. And then chapter 4 that serious charge. I charge you, Timothy, in the presence of God and Christ Jesus and his holy angels, that you preach the word of God in season and out of season. And tells them to do it with great patience. Fulfill your ministry, Timothy. You're a man of God. Be in the Word. This is your calling. Use the Word of God. Now that message to Timothy as a pastor, by way of application, is great for us dads as well, for fathers in the home, to learn how to use the Word of God well there. I want to close the lens in a little bit now, and I want to focus on just the context of chapter three of 2 Timothy. Paul has just finished showing the usefulness of Scripture in Timothy's own life. Reminds them, you know, if you have any doubts about this, look back in your own history and see what God did in your life through the scriptures. One of the young men testified how they were led to salvation, the the testimony of their dad using scripture today. happened to Timothy, although with Timothy it wasn't his dad, it was his mom and his grandmom who were listed also. Their names were listed also in in the beginning. But Paul had had a tremendous influence in his life as well, and had become like a spiritual father to him. And so all of that is laid out in verses 14 And verse 15. Look at verse 15. It states two important truths there. He says, From childhood you have known the sacred writings, which are able to give you the wisdom that leads to salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. Timothy knew the scriptures. Both Old Testament scriptures when he was a child, and then later, of course, as the New Testament scriptures were being written, he knew those as well. But from childhood he was taught the Old Testament scriptures. Interestingly, the word for childhood there, breathos, indicates very early childhood. The scriptures were taught to him very early, and it gave him the wisdom that led him to salvation, to faith in the promises of God. So, in other words, as we look at this as fathers, this concerns an important work, the salvation of the souls of your children. What could be more important to you in terms of ministry, fathers? So use the scriptures would be the message to us. Teach them, read them, rely on them, show what they mean. The salvation of your children is in the balance. Now let's narrow the focus even more and gaze just at verse 16, our text for today. It starts out, all scripture is inspired by God. What a famous and important statement of Scripture. The term scripture here, grafei, it is used in the New Testament only to mean scripture. It meant writings, but it meant the holy writings. The inspired writings. Here it is used without an article in Greek, and so it has a qualitative sense. It means anything that is scripture has the quality of inspiration. It is inspired. You might say anything that's water is wet. I haven't met any water that's not wet. I don't know. I'm not a physicist, but I'm assuming that's always true. All water is wet, and so all scripture is what? It's inspired. It's what it is. It's part of its very characteristic. It denotes something that's inseparable in quality and characteristic from what Scripture is. All Scripture, or every Scripture, it really doesn't matter, is inspired. Now this shows the breadth of the inspiration. It is not some of the Scripture that God chose to inspire. It's not the red letter portions of your Bible, right? It is not simply the New Testament in disregard of the Old Testament. It's not the parts that we like in disregard of the parts that convict us and make us feel bad. All of it that is inspired. The collective of Scripture and every corner of it, every nook and cranny, is all inspired. This is what makes Scripture so unique and so useful to the man of God. It is a book unlike any other. It is inspired by God. All other books are inspired by men. Or ladies, not by God. This is a unique book. Now the term inspired comes from a Latin word, and it really may be a bad translation for today. has the idea of putting something into something. It's not the Bible's not injected with God's word, where you might find it in some parts of it. It is itself God's word. The term inspired in Greek is important. The anusfas, God breathed or from the breath of God, breathed out by God Almighty. You know when you speak you can uh feel your breath, right? You talk, you feel your breath, particularly when you're preaching. You get a lot of hot air up here. And you can really feel your breath. The mind formulates what you want to say, and the tongue and the mouth get it ready, but with the breath that is spoken. So scripture is the breath of God. That's what it is. I wish I could hear God talk. You do in Scripture. It's His breath. The words in the Bible come out of the very mouth of God. And that's why we call it God's Word. It's not a cliche, it's what it is. The process of inspiration is is uh we're given a glimpse into that in 2 Peter 1 21, where Where Peter, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, says, For no prophecy was ever made by an act of human will, but men moved by the Holy Spirit spoke from God. Spirit and breath are interchangeable words. So all of Scripture and every part of it, even down to the words and letters and the dots and the dashes, is inspired. That's why theologians call it the verbal plenary inspiration of the Bible. It is not just some of the lofty thoughts of Scripture that come down from God. So people say, I believe the Bible is inspired. It has some great thoughts in it. No, that's not what it means It's not that when we uh we we take God's word and interpret it to be what we want it to be, that then it becomes inspired because it moves us and gives us good emotions. No, that's not what it means It is not that it's just some lofty religious thought that happened to be ahead of some of the other nations in the evolutionary development of man on earth. No, that's not it either. It is literally from the mouth of the eternal, all-knowing God. It's what it is. Now listen, any other view of the Bible is a view of an unbeliever. If they say they believe the Bible and they don't have that view of the inspiration of the Bible They are an unbeliever because they doubt the very words of God. And to be a believer, you have to believe. I think that that should go without saying. Fathers, to use God's word rightly, you must be a believer. Be a believer. It's God's Word. God's Word. If it's God's Word, it's eternal. It'll never run out. It'll always be there. What does Jesus say in Matthew 24, 35? Heaven and earth will pass away. But my words will what? Not pass away. Never pass away. Because it's God's word, it speaks with omnipotence authority. It's infallible, can never make a mistake. We call that inerrancy. John 10, 35, Jesus said, the scripture cannot be. be broken. It's powerful, Jeremiah 23, 29, God speaking. Is not my word like fire, declares the Lord, and like a hammer which shatters a rock. Many a stubborn person who's rejected Christianity, wanted nothing whatsoever to do with God, disbelieved in the resurrection, found themselves on their knees confessing Jesus Christ as Lord because of the word of God. It'll shatter any proud heart. It is efficacious. Fancy word means it gets the job done. Psalm 1199, how can a young man keep his way pure? I don't know how to get over the sinful habit you might be thinking. The answer by keeping it according to your word. It is sufficient. We read in 2 Timothy 3. 17 already. The man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. It is understandable and clear. Psalm 119-105, your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. The way some people talk about the Bible, you'd think it's a covering and it it leaves us all mystified. It is active and working. In Acts 19. 20 it says the word of the Lord was growing mightily and prevailing, like it has a life of its own. It was just marching through the world. It is life-giving. Jesus said in John 8. 51, Truly, truly I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. That's an amazing statement. You listen to the Bible, you believe it, even if your body dies, God will raise it from the dead. That's how important it is. Why would anyone reject it? It's a death wish to reject the words of life. And, and this was the part I was getting to, it is profitable. It's useful. 2 Timothy 3:16. Scripture can be used. It is to be used, it's to be greatly appreciated Not just because of its inspiration, but because it is profitable to be used. The word profitable, O Thelamath Means useful. It means that it yields a practical benefit. A lot of people come to the Bible, it's an old book. I don't know what it has to do with me today. They're totally wrong. They have no understanding at all about human nature, how God works. This thing speaks today. It is alive and it is speaking to us today. It works. It helps fathers, it helps families, it helps you in your workplace, it helps you with your anger problems. It helps. It works. It's useful We would say it's practical. That's what it means. It actually works. You know, when churches turn away from preaching all of the Bible because they think it's really not working for people today, they're really just expressing their disbelief in the Bible again. They don't believe it. They don't believe what it says. It says it's practical, it's useful, it will work for you. And they turn away from that. And they don't Believe that. What is it profitable for? Well, Psalm 19:7 chimes in with this. The law of the Lord is perfect restoring the soul. That's pretty good. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. What's the source of joy? The precepts of the Lord. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. Finally, your eyes open up and you see and you understand. Well here in Second Timothy we're told that scripture is profitable also for something else. What is it? For teaching, for reproof, correction. and training in righteousness, four things. And that's what I want us to focus on today, the process of teaching from the scriptures Four things. We might even consider them four steps to effectively communicate God's word, not just to a church, but to your children. Teaching. I'm gonna call the second word convicting, correcting and training in righteousness. Teaching, convicting, correcting and training in righteousness. Now I want to give credit where it's due because the initial idea for this message and the outline I'm following today come from two very special books, and they're the ones that are on sale and you can buy them today J. Addams, Dr. J. Adams, How to Help People Change, a marvelous book. Very simple to read, very useful, and it comes from an exposition of this passage. And then someone who took his work and made it specifically for how to teach children, I think his name is Lou Priolo or Priolo, Teach them Diligently is the name of the book. Teach them diligently. So those are the two books that have helped me out today. Along with scripture. First, let's look at teaching. It's the first step. Some see here in looking at these four That it's just the list that Paul threw together. There's four things that it's useful for, and they don't give it any more thought than that. But often Paul, when he would make a list in scripture, he was careful in choosing what he was putting into it and sometimes also the order in which it came. Some places are obvious as in the list of spiritual gifts he gives in 1 Corinthians chapter 12. He's obviously listed them In the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians five he lists love first, and that's not a coincidence, it's important. In this passage you can see that there is an order in his mind because he begins first with Evangelism that happened in Timothy's life in verse fifteen and then moves into edification and growth in verses sixteen and seventeen And also in this list we see teaching comes before the reproof correction and training in righteousness. And so teaching is foundational to the other parts, the other steps that come there. I think as we analyze these four words and think about them, you'll see there's a logical order. to them. That'll become clearer to you. Let's start with teaching. Why teaching first? And what is teaching? Well the word teaching here in Greek, didaskalia, it means doctrinal instruction. It doesn't mean just standing in front of your kids or a congregation and talking. So there's the teacher he's up there talking is teaching. No, you have to be teaching something, and the something you have to be teaching to be a teacher is doctrine If someone's not teaching Christian truth from Scripture, he's not really teaching. That's what the Dascalia means. It's used that way in the pastoral epistles just A couple of examples here. 1 Timothy 4. 13. Paul says, until I come, give attention to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation and teaching. In first Timothy five seventeen it says the elders who rule well are to be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who work hard at preaching and there it is, same word teaching. Second Timothy four fifteen, Paul warns about a false teacher. He says, Be on guard against him yourself, for he vigorously opposed our teaching. Paul stood up, he started shouting, and he couldn't get a word out. That means he opposed the content, that is the doctrine, the teaching that was there. So one must teach, yes, there's a process of teaching, but what he teaches, the content is important as well. They go hand in hand Teaching is not giving your kids your advice about life. That's not teaching. Teaching is not just telling them stories so they enjoy listening to dad late at night You have to take truth and impress truth upon them, doctrinal truth, truth about Jesus, truth about God, truth about Scripture and man and sin and the Holy Spirit and salvation. That kind of truth. The end times. Talk to them about it. Impress it upon them. It has to have biblical content. A pastor must become entrenched in scripture to teach it well. Fathers, you also need to learn scripture well to teach it to your children. Don't run away from doctrine as so many are doing today, fearing it, thinking it's a problem. Rather, realize doctrine is a gift to you to teach to your children. Embrace doctrine and then live it out If you glance back at chapter 2, verse 15 a minute, you'll see what Paul feels about handling the Word of God. Chapter 2, verse 15. Be diligent to present yourself approved to God, he writes, as a workman who does not need to be ashamed, accurately handling the word of truth. You talk about the Bible around the table with your children. Are you accurately handling the Bible? Or just giving what you think it means and not caring about learning it well and in the context. So many people are flippant about their Bible study today And the result is seen in how the next generation handles or treats the Word of God, their attitude toward it. Do you teach your children from the Bible at home? Does your advice to them when they ask come from Scripture? Are you focused on the life and teachings of Jesus Christ so they will know Christ and know him well? You might ask a question, Father, what happens if you decide not to teach the scriptures diligently to your children? Well, in Ephesians 4. 14, speaking of the result to churches, if they're taught well, Paul writes, As a result, we are no longer to be children tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, by the craftiness and deceitful scheming. But growing up. So they become mature when they're taught well. Well, if they're taught well and they become mature, what happens if they're not taught well? They become what? Or they remain what? Immature. And what happens to children who remain immature? They're easily deceived. And they're not blessed by God. Your teaching role, then, is a loving, equipping role for your children to bless them all throughout life. Withdraw that, and they're left to the prey of evil men Ultimately, you're trying to develop your children so that they depend on God and His Word and no longer depend upon you. In time you will fade out of the picture. We dads will be gone. And your children still need to stand firm in the faith and live life with joy and happiness and with purpose In Hosea 4 6 it says, My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. The priests weren't teaching the Word of God. And people in Hosea's time were destroyed for lack of knowledge. Literally, their nation was destroyed We don't want our children destroyed because they didn't get the Word of God in their heart. Divine knowledge is so important. Teaching is a serious calling. It's something we ought to think about constantly. I could talk on and on about this, but I'm going to give you a few tips to write down for teaching your children. Just jot them down if you want. First, kids have to be brought to salvation first This doesn't mean that you try to have them pray the sinner's prayer every single time you sit down at the dinner table, every devotion. It means that you patiently teach them, keep teaching them about God and His His goodness and His holiness, about sin and righteousness. The wonderful death and resurrection of Jesus and all that that means. Talk to them about it this way and then that way. Give them other illustrations and be patient with them as you teach them. A second Tip for you is that you need to be gripped by truth before you're going to be an effective teacher. Sometimes dads feel, I'm going to go ahead and teach. I'm going to give this a shot. I'm going to teach them. But they're so dispassionate about the word of God The truth hasn't gripped their mind and their heart. They don't love the truth. And that comes across then as this is a duty to put up with and sit through like maybe a professor's lecture somewhere that you have to do to get a grade. And there's no life-giving power coming from the heart of the father there. He doesn't handle the word with passion. Thirdly, be patient and be hardworking. Don't give up quickly. God changes your children, this is true, but he chooses to change them through your spiritual sweat, your discipline, on and on and on, with patience. He said, I've been doing this for years. That's right, and you'll do it for more years That's what it's all about. It takes time line upon line to influence children for good. Oh, just remember your own life and how long it took you to learn certain lessons. And if you've forgotten, just go ask Dad today if he's still living. He'll tell you. Or mom. A fourth tip, be consistent. Be consistent with your devotions. Don't get started, run at it for two weeks and drop it. You frustrate the kids. They think you don't really think it's all that important. They're not all that important. You come into focus every once in a while and then drop out of the picture. Well what does that say about them and how you feel about teaching them? Be consistent at home. Review sermons, read scripture together, use object lessons for them. And don't uh neglect it for three weeks and then sit them down and try to make up all the ground in one time. When we teach them so much doctrine now they're never going to forget this lesson. Yeah, they're never going to forget how tired they were. Because they lost you after about 15-20 minutes. That's it And then of course lower your vocabulary. This is not to prove how smart you are. It's to make sure they understand. By the way, if your wife is looking at you funny while you're teaching, you know something's going on, right? Something's going on. You've got to change the way you're talking to them. Of course, fifth, pick good moments for teaching. Make sure the distractions are eliminated, that the children are alert. A sixth tip is just to teach in the context of life. This one's so important. Kids listen better when they all of a sudden wake up and see the benefit of what you're saying. And that's why you have to know your children. You have to know what they're going through, what decisions they're facing. They may not want your advice for a while, and then all of a sudden they'll come. And you know what they've been going through and you have advice. You have to become personally involved with your children to be able to teach them in the context of life. If you're distance Intimidating or cold, that won't work. Lou Priallo, he wrote in his book, How Well Do You Know the Scriptures Yourself? How often do you refer to the Bible in the course of normal conversation with your children? How adept are you at teaching and relating the scripture to them in everyday life? Those are the kinds of questions we need to answer. You know, Jesus did this He taught in the context of life. You ever gone through and just thought about Jesus as a teacher? Should we pay taxes to Caesar? What does he do? He asks for a coin, lifts it up. Whose inscription is this? You and I never forget that lesson Because he taught right there in the context of the question and he used an object for an object lesson. Who's the greatest in the kingdom of God? What did he do? He grabbed the child, put him on his lap, and said, You have to become like this child if you want to be the greatest in the kingdom of God Walking through the fields and he says, Uh, look at the uh lilies and look at the birds and see how God feeds them and clothes them, and don't worry and be anxious. The context of life, showing them, teaching them That's so important for your children to see you're alert to that and bringing biblical truth to bear. The seventh tip is to remember that you're in spiritual warfare. This isn't teaching math. This isn't teaching grammar. This isn't teaching American history. This is teaching the Word of God and there is opposition to this into the hearts of you, particularly your children will be targeted. God wants to bring sorrow to your home. I'm sorry, Satan wants to bring sorrow to your home. God wants to build you up. Satan wants to tear you down and one way to do that is to bring grief into your heart with your children walking away from the faith Satan wants to attack. And he sends his hordes to be involved. And that's just uh you need to be alert to that. That means you have to pray. You you teach and teach and teach, but you pray more. You constantly are interceding for them. And remember, most important of all, you can undo with your life what you say with your words. Your words just fall flat no matter how well you think that they're said, if your life says otherwise. You have to be loving in your teaching. They won't listen unless you are. Alright, the second step beyond teaching is reproof. Or better yet, I think, translating as convicting. We go from teaching to a second thing he says here in 2 Timothy 3. 16. I believe it's a second step and that is conviction Conviction, convicting is really an interesting but a misunderstood term. It comes from the Greek verb elenko. It doesn't simply mean to scold someone or yell at them or reprove them or rebuke them. Those translations don't get at the heart of what elenko means It means to teach them so well that you convince them of the truth Or if there's sin there, they become convicted that they have actually done wrong. You're convinced, of course. You're teaching them, you're trying to get it across But it translates to where they are convinced. They are convicted. They are reproved. In that sense In John 14, 26, Jesus said the Holy Spirit, when he comes into the world, will convict, that is, convince the world of their sin and of the righteous standard in the judgment to come. So you, when you teach and teach and teach and teach patiently with added prayer and a consistent life, when all of a sudden they get it, their heart sees what your heart sees They are now convicted. They are now convinced you've reached this second step with them. Conviction is not so much referring to their feeling. We use the word, I felt so convicted about something, you know You know, Pastor, you stepping on my toes, they hurt. And we think of conviction and we think of pain, but sometimes there's pain if we've done wrong. Sometimes there's no pain. You just The child's looking at you and like, I get it. I understand now what you're saying, and I agree. Now you've brought them to the point of elenko. They have been reproved. It's not the feeling. They don't have to cry to be convicted. They don't have to have the great inward pang and be crawling to you, I'm sorry, Daddy, I'm sorry, you know, like they might have done when they were two or three It doesn't have to be like that. They just need to have seen the truth in their own mind and become convinced of it And that is why I mentioned the logical order that this really has to follow teaching. They're not going to get there without teaching. Now sometimes step one and step two happen at the same time You're teaching them and boom, right as you're teaching them the first time, don't you wish it was always like that? They all of a sudden understand. You're like, this was easy I wish it was like this every time. No, but sometimes you you teach them and you're you feel like you're blue in the face and you're looking across there, you go back into the bedroom, honey, what how did it go? I'm not sure, I don't think they got it And you go back and then she tries and teaches them I don't think they got it. And you teach them again and again. You give them a book to read. You listen to the sermon, and still they're still not getting But you keep teaching, keep persevering until they reach this point. You can't skip this point. I'm going to show you why in a minute. It has to follow teaching. You have to be committed to teaching to get to this point. Now understanding the second step may help some of you, dads, moms, teachers, it's such a practical point I think, to understand maybe why your teaching in the past didn't work. Here we are saying the Bible is profitable, it's useful, it works, and you're thinking, yeah, I know I'm supposed to believe that, but it didn't work in my case. It might be because the way you taught them never brought them to this point. You gave up too quickly. You didn't labor at your teaching long enough to where now they're like, I see, I agree, the light is on. That should give you hope for the future because you realize, well, I need to work harder at my teaching. I need to become more skilled in order to help them in this way. I need to come up with Other illustrations, biblical examples, etc. That's right. Now you're getting it. That's what you need to do. Now you parents are younger children, you might be sitting thinking, you really have to go through all of that. But as your children as your children's minds develop, they're gonna The simple answers won't work anymore. You're gonna have to teach them the same thing again, right? And you're gonna have to be more sophisticated in the way you get it across, and you're gonna need to learn. And that's why Kids are with us for 18 years. It gives us time to learn the Word of God and grow and develop. Don't think, well, I'm answering all their questions. I'm a biblical scholar. Dude, I'm okay. No, you wait till they're 14 or 16 Now they're answering you other questions. Do you have good solid answers so that they'll be convinced? Why must this step not be skipped? Well Jay Adams writes this. Conviction is the second step in the process of change because conviction follows an awareness of God's requirements. The logic of that priority is apparent In actual practice, however, there are times when conviction and teaching go hand in hand. So we must not think of them as mutually exclusive. That's the end of his quote. Since your children are sinners They have to get a conviction of sin, of wrongdoing. The truth of Scripture must be brought to bear upon their little consciences God wants them to accept the truth. If you as a parent work on their external behavior so they make you look good at church or in public or at the library, wherever you go. But inwardly they're not accepting the truth. You're leapfrogging this step, and the change that you see going on in their lives is not a change that God is going to be pleased with. Conviction is a prerequisite for godly change, for the Holy Spirit to work on their life. If it happens any other way, God won't be pleased. Fathers are not just dispensers of the Bible. Oh, here's a new fact I learned this past week, kids. Let me give it to you. This is kind of interesting, isn't it? No. We're ministering the Word of God to their hearts until they love the Word of God and see the value of it. They've tasted it and now it's honey and they understand. I think some dads may want to teach, but but pull back somewhat and not lead to that conviction state. Isn't the Holy Spirit who's supposed to do the convicting, not us? You know the Holy Spirit doesn't do direct convicting. The Holy Spirit convicts, we're told that. And how does he convict? Through you. That happens in evangelists when the evangelist goes out. The Holy Spirit isn't convicting people in a place of their sin where the gospel's not being preached. The word has to come and it comes from your mouth, Father, to bring about that conviction Off the dads leave uh the dirty work, the hard work of conviction to the moms. They want to come in, say a few things. Good, that settles it. I'm the dad. Do what I told you to do. Now, if you have any questions, ask her And uh take over. Bail me out now, I don't know what I'm doing. And uh you need to be involved in that as well. Again, Jay Adams, when therefore you are tempted to skip over conviction and correction As if righteousness flows from intellectual change alone. Remember this. The biblical process of change outlined by Paul has four, not two steps. A man who merely gives assent to truth, who merely corrects the errors of his thinking without repenting of sin when there is sin involved, does not change in God's way. But God does not ask us to tally the emotional responses that accompany conviction. He tells us to look for the fruit of repentance in a changed lifestyle. See, kids can become blinded by sin too. You've told them this and they know this is wrong, but they don't really see that what they're doing i it is equal with what you're teaching them in the Bible Here you are and you're saying this is from Scripture, see? This this lying and this this anger and this this stealing and this bitterness, this is wrong, and see the Bible says that. But they look at themselves and say, Yeah, but that doesn't apply to me. I'm not that way I don't have a cold heart. I don't have those needs. And to you it's clear, but they have a they have a hard heart or their conscience has been seared. Even young kids can have that. They've sinned and sinned and sinned and sinned and not repented and you have to keep working with them to bring this about. And by the way, make sure you speak the language of Scripture if you're trying to bring about conviction. If you say, Oh, you have a poor self-esteem here, honey, how's that going to bring them to the point of godly change that God wants them to see? Your faith and confidence and the promises of God is weak. You have too much pride in the presence of God. Learn to speak the language of God. There's a reason we have those words. God uses his word to bring about conviction. Of course That still takes time and effort. Now here's some tips for conviction also you can jot these down. Please remember sometimes the kids don't hardly need any convincing at all. Don't get so excited now about the second step that they're already convinced and you're trying to convince them over and over and over again. I've done that. And my kid said, that's frustrating. I got it already, Dad, okay? You don't need to give the fifth and the sixth point of the lesson. I got it back on Point number one. It may happen quickly and be sensitive to that. Second, examine your motives. What's your motive in wanting to bring about convicting? You're so disgusted with their behavior. You so want to show them they're wrong. And you bring them and say, ah, see, you were wrong. And I was right. Examine your motives on that. Here's a third tip: learn to ask good questions. Again, back to Lou's book. He says, do you know what God these are these are questions that you can ask your child to bring about conviction. These are the types of questions you can ask. Do you know what God calls what you just did? That's a great question. Do you know what God calls what you just did? Here's another one. Can you think of a more gracious way to say that? And let them work it through what's in their mind What did you want when you said that? And that will bring out the motives of their heart, right? How exactly was God glorified by what you said and did? Those are tough questions. What was the biblical basis for your decision? If I were to ask your mother if what you did was right, what would she say? Is none of the others work, that last one's sure to work. But fourth tip, be gentle I need to hear that over and over. I think many of us fathers need to hear that. Be gentle. How loud you are, how intimidating you are has nothing to do with how effective you are and convincing. But rather the rightness and beauty of the truth that you have lived and displayed before them and teaching them, it will resonate in their minds and consciences And fifth and last tip, remember to comfort those who are sorrowful for their sin. Don't skip that. Comfort their little hearts. Now we move to the third step here, correcting. Correcting. What is correcting? Apanorothis means basically to stand something up. It's fallen over, and you've picked it up, you dusted it off, you straightened it out, and stood it back up again. That's what the word really means It's setting a child or setting a person straight again. They've got off base. They've fallen off base. They've become wrong and now you're bringing them back, straightening them out, putting them on solid ground. Correcting is not the same as scolding. Scolding can be part of that. Doesn't have to be. It's not sitting down and having a long talk necessarily, although that can be part of it. It's not spanking necessarily, all that done in love, and at the right time can be part of it. It's certainly never just embarrassing a child. You're not to embarrass your children. Correction is akin to repentance, bringing about repentance. And repentance is not strictly about the sorrow they feel for doing wrong, they could have sorrow, but it is about change. We are not leading our children to regret, but to change. Regret might be part of it, but it should be briefly done, and they move on to change. Why is it that correction has to come right after convincing or convicting? Well, very simply, because the Bible doesn't want us to leave people, leave our children in a state of just mere conviction. That's not good enough. Just to show them their fault. Ah, now you see your fault. My work is done See? Ha! You're convicted! And walk away! That's not what it's supposed to be about. That leaves the child with nothing. It leaves them defeated. It leaves them beaten down. The kids now see they're no good in daddy's eyes, and they can never become good. The sting has come and the sting stays. There's nowhere to remove it They realize they're bad, they start to call themselves bad. But then what? How do they change? How do they get out of it? There's no hope Conviction alone is not good enough. You can't stop there. They need correction. They need to know their love, that there's hope for them, that there's a new way to begin to live, that they can do something now to change. That with God's help he can work in their life. They can get straightened out. You see, correction, kids think correction is such a negative thing, we ought to view correction as a very positive thing and beneficial for them It leads them to joy and productivity and peace. A few tips on correction also First, make sure that they confess their sin. That way you know what they're confessing. That's needed for the proof of conviction, I think. Confess the sin. Second, have them seek forgiveness and restoration with anyone that they've offended Seek forgiveness and restoration. And third, remember we're not just abandoning bad habits. We want them to embrace what? good habits. We want them to replace bad habits with good habits, so we have to replace stealing with hard work. We have to replace, you know, being angry with being peaceable and forgiving and trusting God. We have to replace lying with telling truth in hard situations. And fourth, make sure that you identify the specific sins that your child truly is struggling with so you're not correcting something they don't really need correction with, but you're going to the heart of the issue. And then fifth, here are some questions again by Lou to guide us. He says, Ask these questions of yourself. Does my child need to change his mind about anything? Have I discussed with my child the thoughts and motives of his heart? Has he or she confessed this sin to all appropriate parties Is restitution in order. Is there anything which must be removed from his or her life? Some things have to be removed so they don't keep falling into the sin. Does my child understand what God expects of him to do the next time he or she finds his or herself in the same or similar circumstances. Those are the kinds of questions you ask when you're trying to bring about proper correction. Don't think of correction merely as yelling or spanking and it's over with, but as really bringing about straightening so they now know how they are to live and they know what they are to do. And that leads us to our fourth and final step here, and that is training in righteousness. Training in righteousness. What is training? How does that differ from teaching? The word training here is a word used in child training, interestingly. Pidea. It's used in Ephesians 4. 6. Fathers train up your children. Again, Priolo gives a comparison with teaching. He writes this: It has been said that the essence of teaching is causing another to know. It may be similarly said that the essence of training is causing another to do. Teaching gives knowledge, training gives skills Teaching fills the mind. Training shapes the habits. Teaching brings to the child that which he did not have before. Training enables a child to make use of what he already has as his possession So teaching has to lead ultimately to training. Just putting all four of the steps together. Let me just run this through for you here. If a child has a problem, let's say with lying, You teach them what? You teach them from the scriptures, the benefits of telling the truth, the problems of lying, that God is a God of truth. Help them to see the folly of lying and how it hurts and how they thought it was going to benefit it, but it wasn't really doesn't do them well in their relationships. You teach them and teach them illustrations. after another until finally now they're convinced and they realize this is not something that they should do. They make confession and we lead to correction. They go back, they tell the person the truth. They're corrected. But now If we just leave them with that, they may fall back again into telling lies. And so they need training and reinforcement in speaking the truth. And so in steps this fourth step Teach them and train them how to teach the truth. Each time you can tell they're faced with a tough situation. You help them out. You be a support to them. You tell them you're going to be in this situation. You're going to be tempted to say this. I want you to think about this Here's the scripture verse that I want you to memorize, and you began training them and helping them out and reinforcing them. If the problem was anger, let's say, and put the four steps together Anger towards the siblings, brothers and sisters at home. You teach them the evils of anger and its origin and how we're selfish when we do that, how it messes up relationships and doesn't please God You show them how patient Jesus was and you teach them and teach them, give them examples and show them the destructive nature, and you keep going with teaching over and over. You see how much time you have to put in that And now they're convinced. They may cry because of their anger. They realize they've really hurt others and they're under conviction this time and they're shedding tears. And so you reassure them with love. And now they're ready for correction. They know that a lot has to change in the way that they think. They go back, they make apology, they face consequences for their anger. Maybe they lose out on something that they wanted to do And now you don't leave them just with that. You realize, well, there's a weakness in them. They need increased teaching that reaches to the level of training, that reinforces their behavior, and you begin training them They memorize scripture, they get accountability, they learn things to think in their mind, they learn truths from God's word that relieve them and that leads to the anger in the first place. They learn to trust God They learn to love others when others fail them rather than getting angry at them. And they see the benefit of that. What is the importance of this last and final step of training? It keeps listen, it keeps your kids out of discouragement. You don't like going through a step of getting taught, getting convicted, getting corrected, and falling back into sin again. You don't like that. You get discouraged when that happens to you. Same with the kids The only way to get rid of the old is to put on the new, and putting on the new takes time and training. Many dads think the job is done when they sat down with a child and they educated them. No, that's the beginning The step really has to lead to godly lasting change, and that requires training. Sometimes we think the Holy Spirit is supposed to do all the sanctification for us. Listen. We're told over and over the things we're to put into practice in Scripture. How does the Holy Spirit fit into that? Because the Holy Spirit reinforces and energizes the efforts that we put in there Being a Christian requires discipline. It requires spiritual sweat, and our children need to learn that too. No one becomes a righteous person without developing righteous habits, and that takes time. And that, by the way, is the goal of training. It says training in what? Righteousness. That's not positional righteousness, you get that from Christ alone as a gift We're justified in the sight of God by His righteousness and by faith alone. This is practical lived out righteousness to please God in the way we live in response to the forgiveness that God has given us. This is the righteousness that is developed day by day and week by week in the process of progressive sanctification. You cannot skip this step in your child training. And you cannot jump to this step if you have, listen, an unsaved child. Because you cannot Train an unsaved, unregenerate child the steps of righteousness because he doesn't have a new nature and he doesn't have the Spirit of God in him. And if the focus of your parenting is on that You'll work hard at producing a very well trained little Pharisee and not a Christian who is obeying the law of God from the heart To encourage us in the efforts of training in righteousness, Jay Adams writes this. Notice I did not say that doing righteousness is easy Or that a believer would always do righteousness. Nor did I say that a person who has learned to do righteousness will never slide back into sinful behavior patterns again. All that I am affirming, and it is a large point in itself, is that it is possible for a Christian to follow Christ as his disciple, walking in righteousness. Not perfectly, not completely, but nevertheless, truly. I don't have time to give you the tips on training in righteousness. Get the book and read it or one of the two and it'll give you more tips on that. I just want to say in closing here that you may have an objection, that this takes a lot of time. Well, then I know you listened well. But remember, you signed up to be a dad. This is what you signed up for. And if your children are already grown And you miss this? And all this message did is bring sorrow to your heart. Can I say that the battle for the heart and soul of your children is not over? Just because they're beyond the age of 18, 21, or 35 doesn't mean you have no equipment to use in your battle to win their soul and bring them along. Pray heavily for them Find opportunities to teach them. Demonstrate your love for them. Persevere with them. The last chapter in their life has not yet been written And you have the Word of God to use as your weapon. You just be faithful and you work hard and you rely on the inspired. Word of God. I'm going to pray and then Alan's going to come and we have a child dedication also to go through. Would you just bow with me? Lord, we ask that you would take uh this message, reinforce it, and apply it where your spirit would want it applied. And we pray that you help dads and moms, and even those working with children, to rehearse these steps and think about them, Lord, to teach our people to use your word well. And we ask that you would forgive us for our sins as parents and help us to be more diligent in relying on your word. Again, in Jesus' name we ask it. Amen.