Follow along as I read the first eleven verses of chapter one, First Timothy. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, according to the commandment of God, our Savior, and of Christ Jesus, who is our hope. To Timothy, my true child in the faith, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord As I urged you upon my departure from Macedonia, remain on at Ephesus, so that you may instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines, nor to pay attention to myths And endless genealogies, which give rise to mere speculation rather than furthering the administration of God, which is by faith. But the goal of our instruction is love from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. For some men straying from these things have turned aside to fruitless discussion, wanting to be teachers of the law, even though they do not understand either what they are saying. or the matters about which they make confident assertions. But we know that the law is good if anyone uses it lawfully Realizing the fact that law is not made for a righteous person, but for those who are lawless and rebellious, for the ungodly and sinners. for unholy and profane, for those who kill their parents, their fathers or mothers for murderers and immoral men and homosexuals and kidnappers and liars and perjurers and whatever else is contrary to sound teaching, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. Let us pray. May the words of my mouth and the meditation of our hearts be acceptable in your sight Our Lord, our rock, and our Redeemer. Amen. Timothy joined the Apostle Paul in the early stages of Paul's second missionary journey. presumably having become a believer as a result of his first missionary journey around seven years earlier. And here in verse 2, Paul refers to Timothy as his true child in the faith. Timothy accompanied Paul into Macedonia and Greece, and Paul sent him as his emissary to places like Corinth and Thessalonica. Timothy was Paul's close companion as he wrote Romans, 2 Corinthians, Philippians, Colossians, 1st and 2nd Thessalonians, and Philemon. And according to Hebrews 13, 23, Timothy seems to have been released from prison at some point, presumably having shared in the persecution. Experienced by Paul. But perhaps Timothy's most famous role is referred to here in verse 3 of chapter 1 as a pastor. In the church in Ephesus, where Paul had labored for three full years This letter to Timothy was apparently written by Paul at around 62-64 A. D. after the close of the book of Acts. And according to verse 3, Paul had left Timothy in Ephesus with the urgent task of teaching sound doctrine. with particular emphasis on exposing and correcting false teachers within the church. This letter begins by reminding Timothy of that ongoing responsibility, and indeed that theme is very reminiscent of Paul's earlier exhortation To the Ephesian elders at the close of his third missionary journey, as recorded in Acts 20, 28-32, which I read earlier this morning, but I want to repeat Again now, Paul told them, be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers To shepherd the church of God which he purchased with his own blood. I know that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. And from among your own selves men will arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them. Therefore, be on the alert, remembering that night and day for a period of three years I did not cease to admonish each one with tears. And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. Timothy was not one of those elders to whom Paul spoke those words, but he was there. Since verse 4 of Acts 20 indicates that Timothy was one of Paul's companions on that trip. So we should expect that as Timothy read this letter from Paul, he would have remembered not only Paul's words to him as he left Ephesus for Macedonia. But also the words that he spoke to those same elders years earlier. It's a common theme. And as we study Paul's instruction to Timothy here, we see that he first specifies errors to correct. And then he provides an example to follow, and then finally he provides an example to avoid revealing the underlying causes of all false teaching So let's take a look first of all at the errors to correct that Paul highlights here. In verses three and four. Paul urges Timothy to correct two aspects of an underlying problem in the church at Ephesus. He says, instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines. Nor to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies which give rise to mere speculation rather than furthering the administration of God, which is by faith. That word instruct is not just passing teaching It means to transmit a command, in this case from Paul. Paul is not saying that Timothy should make a recommendation or suggestion to the people in Ephesus, but rather that he should speak with Paul's authority. To correct error. The term certain men is actually neutral. It's not necessarily male. Maybe you it would be translated instructs certain ones or certain people. But it's almost certain that the ones who were committing this error were in fact men But having said that, Paul lists two errors that need to be corrected. Did you see those? The first is the teaching of strange doctrines. This is a compound verb that combines the noun teacher with the adjective different. And so it means to teach different doctrine or false doctrine. Paul uses this term Only one other time, and it's in chapter 6. 3 of this very same book, where he writes, beginning in verse 3, if anyone advocates a different doctrine, And does not agree with sound words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and with a doctrine conforming to godliness He, this teacher of different doctrine, is conceited and understands nothing. Strong words. The second error is in verse four of our text, he says that they're paying attention to myths and endless genealogies. Now, you know the word myth means fables, tales, stories that depart from historical fact. In which significant details have been invented. And the word is used four other times in the New Testament, and three of them are in Paul's pastoral epistles. Naturally, where he's warning against useless teaching. Those references are in 1 Timothy 4:7, Titus 1:14, and 2 Timothy 4, 3 through 4, which says For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but wanting to have their ears tickled, They will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance with their own desires, and they will turn away their ears from the truth and will turn aside to myths. Falsehood. The term endless genealogies refers to unending recounting of a family's origins or ancestors. as might be the case if you hoped that your pedigree improved your standing with God. It's used just one other time. In the New Testament, again in the pastoral epistle of Titus, chapter 3, and verse 9, where Paul says: avoid foolish controversies. And genealogies, and strife, and disputes about the law, for they are unprofitable and worthless So, the two key errors that Paul addresses here, I'm going to look at them in reverse order, is first of all being influenced by unbiblical concepts. And then, secondly, deriving and teaching doctrines that are based on such biblical concepts. But notice the result in verse 4. Which give rise to mere speculation rather than the furthering and administration of God, which is by faith. Do you see Paul's endless cycle here he's referring to? When people adopt unbiblical theories That causes them to teach false doctrines as truth, and that in turn produces mere speculations and assumptions. Which lead them further down the path of error, and so on, and so on, and so on. The word translated speculation has to do with questioning, as in a debate or a controversy In this case, it seems to have more to do with questioning sound doctrine. Usually that happens when people try to apply their own or some other human logic A reason to a text of Scripture. And that's why Paul contrasts it with furthering the administration or stewardship of God, which is by faith. Faith in what God has said rather than the wisdom and reasoning of men Secondly, this prompts Paul in verse five to provide the qualities of his own instruction as an example of how to avoid those errors. He says, but the goal of our instruction is love from a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. Now, many of you have the New American Standard that I'm reading from. It translates that as a goal. The ESV uses the word aim, but really it's stronger than that. Paul is describing here the natural result or end of sound teaching. And what is that result? Love. God's agape love. Loving God and others without regard to how lovable they are. It's an unconditional commitment. That doesn't depend on how we feel. But rather it comes from our inner nature. And Paul describes that inner nature in three ways: a pure heart, A good conscience, and a sincere faith. Now, those are not really separate things. Paul is speaking here of our immaterial being, our heart, the real us on the inside. That's the seat of our intellect, our emotions, and our will. But it's also where God has given to each person a conscience. Giving us an understanding of of the fact that there is right and there is wrong, and a sense of what is right and what is wrong, and nudging us toward what is right and away from what is wrong. We each have a conscience. But notice how revolutionary Paul's point here is. Instruction in sound doctrine from Scripture transforms our inner person. Promoting us to love God and others unconditionally and sacrificially from the heart to do the right things for the right reasons. Thus fulfilling the two greatest commandments of the law. False teaching, you can't do that. False teaching focuses only on the outside, not the inside. And this is what Paul is urging Timothy. To pursue, and to correct those who teach anything else. He picks up that theme again in verses six through eleven. Explaining the causes of false teaching through a specific example to avoid. He writes, For some men, straying from these things have turned aside to fruitless discussion. wanting to be teachers of the law, even though they do not understand either what they are saying or the matters about which they make confident assertions. So the example Paul provides here concerns those who wanted to be teachers of the Old Testament law, perhaps even in the early church. But who were really ignorant of the purpose and role of that law Perhaps these included Hymeneus and Alexander, whom he later said in verse 20 of this chapter, had blasphemed by rejecting the faith. Such people strayed from any attempt to reach the hearts of people and instead made two fatal mistakes, to which Paul draws Timothy's in our attention. The first mistake was fruitless discussion. This compound word speaks of talk that is vain or empty, talk that doesn't carry any weight. And doesn't accomplish anything of value. This is the only place in the New Testament where this word is actually used. But the corresponding word that describes those who practiced this fruitless discussion is used in Titus 1, 10 and 11, where it says, for those, for there are many rebellious men, empty talkers. And deceivers, especially those of the circumcision, who must be silenced because they are upsetting whole families, teaching things they should not teach for the sake of sordid gain. Fruitless discussion. The second fatal mistake was making ignorant but confident assertions He writes that they do not understand either what they are saying or the matters about which they make confident assertions. Now It's not always wrong to make confident assertions. The same word is used in Titus 3 8, where Paul instructs Titus This is a trustworthy statement, and concerning these things, I want you to speak confidently, so that those who have believed God will be careful to engage in good deeds. These things are good and profitable for men. So when is it wrong to speak confidently? Well, Paul tells us they don't understand either what they are saying or the matters about which they make confident assertions. When we don't understand something, it's rather foolish to make confident assertions about it, right? The problem is that most people who make this mistake don't realize how much their understanding is in error. And as we saw in verse 4, this happens because they proceed on the basis of mere speculation. It's not just that they speculated or guessed what the truth is, but they proceeded as if their speculation or assumptions were true. So they made confident assertions about it. Even though they had no reason for that confidence. Or that their assumptions were correct. Notice then Paul's example of this: those who wanted to be teachers of the law, but who didn't understand its purpose and therefore didn't interpret or use the law correctly. Picking up in verse eight. But we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully. Do you see us play on words here? Realizing the fact that the law is not made for a righteous person, but for those who are lawless and rebellious. For the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who kill their fathers and mothers, for murderers and immoral men and homosexuals and kidnappers and liars and perjurers and Whatever else is contrary to sound teaching. It's a long list, I'm sure. According to the glorious gospel of the Blessed God, with which I have been entrusted. So, what assumption did these false teachers make? Treating it as fact even though it was completely wrong? Well, Paul tells us in verse 9: the assumption that the law is for righteous people. In particular, in their thinking, separating righteous Jews from unrighteous Gentiles. But what is the truth? It's the fact, which Paul considers rather obvious, that any law is made for those who are lawless. Rebellious for those who it's not made for those who don't need it. We all need it because we are sinners. Only when a person's departure from the standard of the law is exposed can he see his need for change. That was true not only of the Old Testament law, but as Paul put it, of any sound teaching based on the glorious gospel of God. Anything consistent with God's nature and truth. Is righteous law exposing our unrighteousness. So these false teachers missed the whole point of the Old Testament law. It was not so that people would obey it completely to become righteous, but rather so that they would come to understand that they couldn't Obey it completely, thus causing them to see their need for a Savior who would satisfy God's wrath against their sin. That is, their need for God's grace. The law was to teach them the need for grace, God's grace. That's their only hope Paul makes that very point in Galatians 3, 21 through 24, where he says, Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? May it never be. For a law, if a law had been given which was able to impart life, then righteousness would indeed have been based on law. But the Scripture has shut up everyone under sin, so that the promise by faith in Christ Jesus might be given to those who believe. But before faith came, we were kept under custody, under the law, being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed. Therefore, the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ. So that we may be justified by faith, that is, not by the law. Well, back in 1 Timothy, Paul lists in verses 9 through 10. Examples of those who are lawless and rebellious, just in case there was any doubt about that. But the list could obviously be quite long, and he admits that. It would certainly include every single human being, including us. The specific sins he lists here, interesting enough, Seem to be the direct opposites of the Ten Commandments. Did you notice that? Notice that the false teachers whom Paul is exposing here were probably not evil people, at least on the outside. Like the Pharisees whom Jesus confronted, they may well have kept virtually every requirement of the law. In their outward behavior, so it may have seemed natural for them to view the law as something that proves our righteousness. But like Jesus said in Matthew 5. 20, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. That is, our righteousness needs to come from a changed heart. Or, as Paul put it here in verse 5, a pure heart, a good conscience, and a sincere faith. Keeping the law, as the Pharisees attempted to, didn't necessarily produce that in the heart. That was the intent, but many were hard hearted. So when these would-be teachers missed that fundamental purpose of the law. They were reading into it something that was never there. We call that isogesis. The Greek term that means interpretation by inserting into the text, meaning that it's not actually there. At the most basic level, it means making an assumption about the meaning, perhaps based on your reason or experience, or your ulterior motives. And then treating that assumption as fact. It's what Paul describes in verse 4 as mere speculation. And in verse 7, as ignorant but confident assertions. The problem, of course, is that when you're so confident that your assumption is in fact, that your assumption is fact. That you assert that it's that's what the text says, because I've assumed it. That therefore that's what the text says, and you force that meaning into the text, ice in isegesis means into. And that results in misinterpretation. So when would we do something like that? Well, when, as Proverbs puts it, we're wise in our own eyes. In essence, we're standing in judgment over God's word instead of allowing His Word to stand in judgment of us. And that's not a new phenomenon. It's been around ever since the Garden of Eden, when Satan asked, has God really said? The opposite of isegesis is exegesis. Interpretation that draws out. Ek means out. The meaning of the text from the text itself, since it is God's word that is inspired, not our assumptions. Exegesis starts with careful observations about the words, the grammar, the historical and textual context. Which includes all of Scripture, ultimately. It's not that one refrains from making assumptions, but that any assumptions are tested against the full teaching of Scripture. We can't impose onto the text an assumption about the meaning of a particular verse if that assumption is not consistent. With the author's flow of thought and use of words, or if it's not consistent with the rest of Scripture. The key is to draw out the meaning of the text from the text itself Which leads to correct interpretations. So, what's required in order to do that? Humbly submitting ourselves to God and to his word, allowing the scripture to judge us rather than the other way around That's why Paul urged Timothy and us in 2 Timothy 2 to be diligent to present yourself approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed. Accurately handling the word of truth. Now, I know that you know that. Most of you know that. But do you realize how easy it is for us to violate that basic principle? A large number of our dear Reformed brothers in Christ, for example, assume that the Church has replaced Israel. And that baptism has therefore replaced circumcision as the sign of the covenant, and so it should therefore be administered to children. But even the leaders of the Reformation didn't perceive the extent to which they brought those assumptions into their interpretation of the scriptures, assumptions based largely On traditions from the very church they were trying to transform, to reform. And they weren't alert about how much they had to force Scripture to say things that it doesn't say. But they're not alone. A large number of our dear dispensational brothers in Christ assume that it would be unfair for God to choose who gets saved. So they assume that man can generate saving faith on his own. So much so that their concept of faith is actually human effort, works. Now that may appeal to our our logical minds But it conflicts directly with what the scriptures plainly teach. Does that mean that we call us dispensational Calvinists? That we have avoided the temptation to read into the text of Scriptures assumptions that are not true? I don't know, but since it tripped up men of God in the Reformation, whom we greatly respect And who undoubtedly did a much better job of rediscovering the truths of Scripture than we would have done had we been in their place. I have to think that we would be well advised to be humble and diligent in our interpretation of Scripture. And if the examples are all around us of biblical eisegesis don't cause us to be humble and alert I want to show you just how pervasive isegesis is by showing how it pops up in three other areas of life. And I think you'll see these very easily. The first is science. Many of you saw the recent debate on creation versus evolution between Ken Ham and Bill Nye, the science guy? And although I don't think I've met him, I kind of like Bill. He was a year behind me at Cornell. And I kind of like his knack for making science interesting and fun. But if I had been the one debating him, I would have let people know up front that Bill, like most modern scientists today, often ignore the basic principles of the scientific method. Causing them to arrive at faulty conclusions. As you might recall, the scientific method involves making a hypothesis about an observed phenomenon. And then testing that hypothesis in a controlled experiment, and then modifying the hypothesis To account for what you observe in that experiment, and then continue that cyclical process of hypothesis testing in order to improve our explanation of the phenomenon as much as possible. What does that require? Objectivity. A willingness to subject our hypotheses, our assumptions, to rigorous tests Including the scrutiny of others. And to change our hypotheses when the data require it. Unfortunately, we increasingly find people making scientific assertions that are based on untested assumptions. That is, they read into the data, meaning that it's not there. They commit scientific isogesis. I just made that term off. That leads many today, like Bill Nye, to assert that life originally arose accidentally. From non-life. And that that living organism thus created has evolved over billions of years into the wide range of higher life forms we see today. Not only does that position ignore scientific observations to the contrary, but it refuses to see that it is based on untested assumptions. Using that approach to science, I can prove to you that I'm 5,000 years old In fact, I'm confident my kids have sort of concluded that already. But you can scientifically measure my height to be 72 inches. And you can find evidence that I, like most people, was 22 inches long at birth. Right? So that means that I've grown 50 years since I was 50 inches since I was born. Now, you could scientifically also measure my rate of growth, or at least you could a few years ago when I was actually still growing vertically instead of other ways. But let's say that you measured my my growth rate to be one one hundredth of an inch per year. That's an inch of growth every hundred years. So it must have taken 5,000 years to grow those 50 inches, right? There you have it. Scientific proof that I'm 5,000 years old. But did you notice the untested assumption that I made? I assumed that the rate at which I'm growing now has always been my rate of growth. I didn't test that assumption against other data, such as the observation that humans grow much faster when they're younger, including 22 inches in the womb in nine months. My point is that by treating exactly that kind of assumption as fact, scientists today regularly read into Scientific data, interpretations that are not really supported by the data. That's scientific eegesis. By the way, the assumption that the processes we observe today, the natural processes around us, the assumption that they've always been and always will be in effect is called uniformitarianism. And the Apostle Peter refuted that in 2 Peter 3, verses 3 through 7, where he wrote, Know this first of all, that in the last days Mockers will come with their mocking, following after their own lusts and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? referring to the return of Christ. For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all continues just as it was from the beginning of creation. And Peter answers that by saying, For when they maintain this, it escapes their notice but that by the word of God a supernatural intervention. The heavens existed long ago and the earth was formed out of water and by water And through which the world at that time was destroyed, being flooded with water, again, the flood of Noah being another divine intervention into those natural processes. But, Peter continues, by his word, again, another supernatural intervention The present heavens and earth are being reserved for fire, kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men. Do you see how we can easily draw false conclusions when we treat our untested assumptions as facts? In a similar way, people have discarded true science in favor of untested assumptions when they make confident assertions about the origins of such politically correct things as global warming or homosexual behavior But another common context in which people practice eisegesis has to do with legal interpretation. We see this often when the Supreme Court justices read into the U. S. Constitution meanings that are simply not there. This has led, for example, to official rulings that slaves and unborn children are not persons and therefore don't have any rights protected by the Constitution. Even the most basic right to life. I'm sure that the framers of the Constitution would have been shocked To see how often the Supreme Court would read into that constitution meanings that are not there, a practice we might call legal isegesis. They base their interpretations on untested assumptions. And it's important to see that the the me the meaning That one reads into, in this case, the Constitution, depends entirely on the philosophy of the one doing the interpreting, not the original intent of the writers. Do you see the parallel with biblical interpretation? Should I even mention journalistic isegesis? Now, perhaps you're pointing your finger right now at those who shamefully commit scientific or or legal or journalistic eisegesis, but don't be so self-righteous. Even if you've never advocated or practiced bad science or bad legal interpretation, I know we're all guilty of my next example. It's what I call relational eegesis. Reading into someone else's words or actions motives that are not necessarily there. You've done that, right? Someone says something to you, or does, or doesn't do something according to your expectations? And you immediately fault him in your heart. Sometimes we call it jumping to conclusions That's kind of being nice to ourselves. We pronounce them guilty without bothering to check the facts, without testing our assumptions. We act as if our assumptions about his motive is true when in fact it's just an assumption. It's for this very reason that Jesus laid out a very clear process for church discipline. He said in Matthew 18, 15, and 16, if your brother sins, go show him his fault in private. If he listens to you, you have won your brother. But if he does not listen to you, take two or three with you, so that by the mouth of two or three witnesses Every fact may be confirmed. So when we think someone in the church has sinned, we go to him directly and privately, right? Why? First, to check the facts. Perhaps we misunderstood his words or his actions. Perhaps there's more to this than we had assumed Rather than reading into his words or actions, we need to let him speak for himself. And having done that, if we think he really was in sin, and he doesn't repent, then the second step is to Take one or two others with us to visit him again, and what's their role? To be honest brokers who will objectively determine the facts. As Jesus explained. It's not sufficient for others to take our word for it, right? They need to check the facts too. And only when multiple objective people agree on the facts can the person's heart be understood. And only then can he be held accountable publicly. But all of us tend to avoid that process to some extent in our relationships with other people. We're quick to judge their motives even though we don't have all, or sometimes any of the facts. We make confident assertions and even accusations. How many arguments and and riffs between people Would be avoided if we practiced relational exegesis instead of relational isegesis. Probably most of them. So, what I mean to demonstrate through the examples of scientific and legal and relational isogesis is that the tendency to treat our assumptions as facts is pretty natural for all of us. We're not exempt as Christians. Therefore, we should take Paul's charge to Timothy as a warning to ourselves, not to impose our theories and assumptions on Scripture. But rather to let Scripture speak for itself. In the same way that we misinterpret scientific data, Original intent or people's words and actions when we treat our assumptions as fact without subjecting them to careful testing? In the same way, we also misinterpret Scripture when we don't objectively test whether our assumptions hold water biblically. And given how common it is for people, even us, to practice eisegesis in other domains, we should be especially alert. Not to do this in our interpretation of God's infallible word. I dare say that most heresies Have probably been rooted in egesis that was not intentional, not deliberate. But it was inevitable once human logic or assumptions Were taken as supreme, forcing Scripture to conform to man's wisdom rather than holding man accountable to God's wisdom And let us not be so proud or foolish to think that we're immune from that error. Let's always be on guard to avoid developing or teaching what Paul refers to here as strange doctrines, that is, different from Scripture. Or paying attention to myths. Where there's a lot of non-truth added, or mere speculation, and then making confident assertions Instead of working to understand what Scripture really says. So, how can we avoid these errors? Let me offer four suggestions in closing And these apply to all of us, not just those who teach. First, ask God to expose any pride in your heart that would incline you to treat your interpretation And your assumptions as facts. Ask him to expose any specific assumptions that you've made that you haven't objectively tested against what Scripture actually says. Second, do the work necessary to understand the breadth of biblical teaching as well as the grammatical and historical context of the passage in question. so that you fully test any interpretive assumptions that you make. It takes work. Third, list the weaknesses of your initial interpretation from a biblical perspective. And adjust your assumptions accordingly. What does that require? Objectivity. And fourth Consult with others who have followed a similar process to see if they took into account clear biblical information that you overlooked. Such commentaries won't be inspired. Indeed, the more you have studied a passage, the more you may be able to identify untested and incorrect assumptions in their work. But they can be helpful to test your interpretation. May God enable all of us to accurately handle the word of truth. Allowing him to use his word to change us into conformity with Christ With that in mind, let us prepare now our hearts for the Lord's Supper. Let us pray. Lord Jesus, we come before you with great humility. Seeking to faithfully handle your word, not for our glory, not for anything we can brag about. but so that you would be honored by the transformation that your word makes in our hearts by your grace, by the power of the Holy Spirit. May we be faithful to rightly dividing that word to your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.