In the beginning of life on this planet, the Lord God created man and woman in his very own image To live down here on this planet, to worship him, to serve him, to rule over all of the planet underneath his authority and by his direction When man listened to the tempter and decided to go his own way, sinned against God, disobeyed his clearly revealed word. Man became in his nature corrupt, became sinful, became morally incomplete. The image of God in man Though still present and still remaining, was now marred and twisted. As sinners, humans were no longer allowed into God's holy presence, they were banished from paradise They obtained a guilty standing before God, who was the lawgiver. They lost their original righteousness, their innocence. And they lost their spiritual life that they had in relation to God. We on this planet now are fallen creatures, no longer right in the sight of God. And with that fall into sin that the scriptures document, man experienced sinful and physical death. He had fear now for the first time, insecurities, as his relation to God was damaged He lost truth. They began to lie and to pass the obligation for sin on to others, resulting in further deception and confusion in the human race. There was a loss of that pure relationship between the man and his wife, horizontal relationships now damaged and hurt. In time, indeed, false worship entered into the picture as well. And some God and some image was worshiped, but no longer the way God truly was. Man is corrupt. That is the teaching of Scripture. And without help, man increases in his corruption His morals through life become weaker, his deception becomes stronger, his pride gets lifted up, he seeks what he wants, and he never finds satisfaction. What is to be done for mankind in this present state? Many try to ignore the truth about men that we're really not as bad as the Bible says. They measure themselves by themselves and they have no understanding. They find a measure of peace in that, but it's not the truth. They assign depravity, if there is any, only to a few human beings who do these horrendous crimes They happen to express it more deeply and more overtly. They're sick, they're called, but they're nothing like me because I'm different in nature. they think. Others recognize that there's something that's wrong and they try to go through a reformation of some kind, moral reformation. Let's teach people how to be less violent, how to be lie less and rely on drugs and alcohol less, to be less selfish, to think more productively and more positively But as they try to reform this nature of man, it remains the same. It's unchanged. It's moved around a bit, but at the core it's the same. And man's distance from God only gets farther for the one who tries to morally reform them. So there's no glory for God in that. And God is unpleased with that, for it doesn't go far enough or deep enough. Others turn to man-made religion, and they say there's the solution for man and his fallen state. But man's religion can't fix the problem either. Religion does not bring us back into favor with God, for we still remain sinners. What's to be done with that? One cannot do a few rituals and be right with God when the very core of his being is fallen and is distant from God In fact, religious people can be some of the most hypocritical and proud and hard to reach for the true God. Religion has no power to transform the very nature of man. It can only add a few externals. It only really adds to the deception as people now think they're right with God, that God is pleased that they're going to church, or God is pleased that they did these few things. Indeed, God is not God has a different solution than all these things to man's problem of sin. It's not religion, man-made religion, it is a relationship. With his Son, the one perfect human being, God's own Son, Jesus Christ. And how do we get that relationship with Jesus Christ? We get it only by having a new birth and be given new life in Jesus Christ. Since we by our human birth through our mothers are corrupt, and in this state we will always be unacceptable to God no matter what we do God tells us, do you want to see the kingdom of heaven? Do you want a relationship again with God? Do you want to be brought back into paradise? You must be born again. Not our doctrine, not our teaching, Jesus' own words, John 3. 3. Truly, truly I say to you, he said to a very religious man named Nicodemus Unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. You and I need a new birth, not a moral reformation We need entirely new life. And this is what Jesus does for any man, woman, or child on this planet. He provides free life, the kind of life that God is pleased with. If they will only turn to him in true faith and give up that old life that is unacceptable to God. New life in Jesus Christ is not a mystical experience. It is not conveyed to us by some form or ritual such as water baptism. It is not a twelve-step program whereby we go through these steps and somehow at the end we come out in a relationship with God as we've reformed our behavior. It does involve the mind and the transformation of the mind, but it is much more than rational. It's much more than just a changing in our thinking, an intellectual agreement that something is true. It is entirely new life, supernaturally provided, straight from heaven kind of life to the soul of man. You become a new you, God said Therefore, if any man is in Christ, he is a new what? Creation. The old things passed away. Behold, new things have come 1 John 5 and verse 4: Whatever is born of God overcomes the world, and this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. It is through faith we are born again. In John 5, 24, Jesus said, Truly, truly I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. And does not come in the judgment, but has passed out of death into life. You can even see from that passage that God Himself grants the very faith as He's given us the life and caused us to pass out of a spiritual death and into life. This is what Jesus gives. This is far better than anything that anybody else gives. This is what turning to Him genuinely is all about. You bring nothing with you. You don't add to the process. You come bankrupt. You come as a beggar. And then God accomplishes something in you by giving you new life. See, there's an exchange that is made. We have a life that's unacceptable to God. That life with its sin and its disobedience was placed upon the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross, and he took the full wrath and penalty for that life Meanwhile, his perfect life of obedience, always doing the will of the Father, is transferred to us and given to us freely, simply by believing. Simply by believing. By faith in him we have victory. By faith in him, and only by faith in him are we given new life This is a gracious and merciful provision from God, an exchange. Jesus suffering for us. Giving us perfect life, everlasting life, new life as a gift is a whole new beginning. That's the Christian life. You have to understand that to live it properly. But then it brings up the question: if everything is new and I'm a new creature new creation in Christ and I've been born again, I've been born from above, I've been born from the Spirit. I have this new life in Christ. If all of that has changed and it sounds so radical It's not just a dusting off of the old man a moral reformation. It's not just some behavioral psychology that I've entered into. And I ought to be totally changed, right? I ought to be completely different in the way that I think, in the way that I speak, in the way that I behave. And then it seems like that's just not the case. Because as I'm honest with myself and I look at the way that I live, I say there's an awful lot still that sounds like the old man. The old guy. You there with me? Are you there with me? You've been born again, you have new life, but how come you don't see more of that newness in you Is it just not true? Oh, it's true. We are a new creation. It's not something we're hoping to attain. We are that already. God has already done the miracle of the new birth. It's past tense. It's a reality in your life Well then, what has happened in us? Well, God has chosen to leave us as believers who are born again in a state of having to learn who we now are. Isn't that the funniest thing We have already been made new, but we don't really believe and understand that, and so we have to become who we are in a sense We are already new, but we don't understand how to think as that new person and how to speak as that new person and the wisdom for that new life. And so he's left us in this state where we're growing to understand that step by step There are new emotions, new behavior. It has to match the new person. In Ephesians chapter 4, verses 22 through 24, Paul wrote, in reference to your former manner of life Lay aside the old self which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of deceit. And be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and put on the new self, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. The new self has already been created, he says, but put it on in your behavior. Learn how to be that new person which you already are. We still have to shed the old practices. We still have to learn to live as the new person God has made us to be. That's God's plan That's the state in which we are now. We're being sanctified. We're growing in grace. We're learning to become the new person he has made us to be. Yes, we're the temple of the Holy Spirit already, but sometimes vile things come out of our mouths. And we do wrong things with this body that is a temple of the Spirit. There is the wicked flesh that remains, and though it has been defeated, it still tries to express itself. It doesn't agree with all this new stuff. It wants to hold on to the old. It wants its power And so we are given temptations. Temptations. We have to deal with temptations in the present. And they're hard. But listen, they have a purpose in our lives, a very important purpose. As new creatures in Christ, they serve us in a very important way. Listen, I want you to understand this from the beginning. It is never a sin to be tempted. When you are tempted and you're undergoing temptation, you realize that you're a step away from sin, you have not yet sinned It is not wrong to be tempted. It is not wrong to have a wrong thought begin to come into your mind. It's wrong to hang on to that, cherish it, turn it around, and then act on it. Every single person is tempted without exception. And so we need to remember it is never wrong. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 13 tells us about temptation. It was written to provide us with very specific and helpful teaching to know how to deal with temptation, how to deal with temptation. As believers in Jesus as those who are new in Christ. I want you to open 2 1 Corinthians chapter 10, if you're not there already And the entire message today is on this one verse because it's so practical and it's so helpful. I wanted us to take our time with it, look at it, and just see how encouraging it is. Chapter ten, verse thirteen. Let's read it. Follow along as I read. No temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man And God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. But with the temptation, will provide the way of escape also. So that you will be able to endure it. Well, the text lets us know temptations are inevitable. Yes, even for believers. Life just happens to be full of them. You were probably already tempted today, coming to church in some way. This afternoon you're going to be tempted as well. And when it happens, you're going to remember these words You're going to be tempted tomorrow. You're going to be tempted the next day. You're going to be tempted many months from now. Jesus was tempted. Yet he was tempted without what? Sin. He never gave in. So you see, it's not a sin to be tempted, for he was tempted. Every man and woman of God that we've ever read about or looked up to was tempted And we learn a lot by looking at how they handle temptation. There is no course that I am aware of, nor any advice or book that has been written that teaches us how to completely avoid temptation. If you find it, let me know about it. I haven't found it. Run away if you would like to. Get far out into the desert. Have no other human being around you, and you will still have yourself. And yourself is all you need to be tempted. Each one is tempted when he is carried away and enticed by his own, not wives or husbands there, own lust. Then when lust is conceived, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is accomplished, it brings forth death. James 1, 14 and 15. Why did the Apostle Paul decide to put this helpful teaching in verse 13? about temptation right at this point in the letter of First Corinthians. Well, if you remember last time in verse twelve, first Paul wanted to knock out all that pride, all that false security that we might have, thinking we're so spiritual We're going to stand and there's going to be no problems with our faith at all. Look back there. In fact, I'm going to start back at verse seven and read through verse twelve. Do not be idolaters, he writes in verse seven, as some of them were, talking about the Israelites of old As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and stood up to play. Verse 8, nor let us act immorally as some of them did, and twenty-three thousand fell in one day. We covered all of this last time Nor let us try the Lord as some of them did and were destroyed by the serpents, nor grumble as some of them did, and were destroyed by the destroyer. Now these things happen to them as an example And they were written for our instruction upon whom the ends of the ages have come. And here was the point. Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed that he does not what Fall. There was the warning. Paul wanted to knock that out from underneath them to begin with, any false security. But now he wants to remind the Corinthian believers of where their hope to fight against sin and to stand really comes from. This is what they can rely on. As they move forward in that Christian race, as they're serving God, here's where they can find their certainty and their hope. John Calvin in commenting on this verse notes that Paul was not chiding the Corinthians at this point. He was not saying, ah, the kind of temptations that you have are just the common variety, you haven't faced anything yet. It's not a warning passage, it's a reassuring verse. He's giving them reassurance and hope that their temptations are common and they're not insurmountable if they rely on the power of God. Matthew Henry in his commentary makes this important observation in comparing verse 13 back to verse 12. He writes, though it is displeasing to God for us to presume, there's our pride, it is not pleasing to him for us to despair. On the one hand, we can be proud and we can presume and we can think we'll stand and that's not acceptable to God. On the other hand, we may say, Woe is me, I'll never be able to overcome sin. I'm doomed There was much opportunity, by the way, for compromise of the Christian faith among those Corinthians there in that vastly immoral city of Corinth in the ancient times, so much to drag them down, including idolatry and immorality and grumbling and the other things that were listed there So Paul wanted to stand them up, to show them how to stand firm underneath temptation and not to fall. Those Israelites fell. They failed, and they fell. And he doesn't want the Corinthians to do the same, for he senses a lot of pride in this church, and they need this teaching. This is really terrific teaching on dealing with temptation. For them, yes, but now for us as well. I think this is one of the most helpful verses for living the Christian life in all the New Testament. It's a great verse to memorize and to understand and to use. What does it tell us? It tells us this. God provides sufficient help for us in temptation. It's that simple. God provides sufficient help for us in temptation. What is our part? To trust him, do what he says. Don't trust our feelings. Don't trust our past experience and its failures. Don't trust the latest psychology book. Trust what God says about temptation. Do what he says, and you'll be fine. He's charting a course for you through temptation in this verse. I think we have at least four helpful truths about temptation here. You can try to write them down now, but I'm going to go through them quickly and we'll go through them later. We have common temptations, that's the first truth. We have a faithful God, we have a way of escape, and we can endure temptation. Those four truths, I want to focus on them. Number one, we have common temptations. Look at the verse again, would you? No temptation. has overtaken you. Now remember he's writing to a whole vast group of people who have uh all kinds of different personalities and upbrings and all the rest of that and he's putting them all in one category and he's saying no temptation has overtaken you but such as is common to man. The word temptation we've seen before, parasmos means either a temptation or a test in a positive sense, depending on the context. We discussed this when we were back in James chapter 1. Literally a parasmos was something that put something else to the test to see what it was really made of, to see the quality of it, the character of it. When we are tested, it proves the quality of our faith and our Christianity. Now sometimes the same word has to be translated temptations because the intent there on the part of the tempter is to bring us down. They're soliciting us to do evil. They're trying to pull us down by the test. And so it's a temptation to bring us into evil. Rather than attempting to prove the quality of someone, a temptation is an attempt to bring their faith down, to cause them to stumble, to sin, to err. Now here in 1 Corinthians 10, it's being used in its broadest sense, including both ideas. For example, in Luke chapter 4, it tells us about the experience the Lord Jesus went through. It tells us that the Holy Spirit actually drove Jesus out into the wilderness to be tested. Very interesting. And when he was out there, the tempter came and tempted him three times, trying to bring him down at the end of the 40 days. You remember the story of Christ's. temptations in the wilderness. On the part of the Holy Spirit he was pushing Jesus out there, basically telling the tempter, Come And give Jesus your best shot, will even weaken him humanly speaking, he hasn't eaten for forty days. You come to him and give him your best temptations to pull him down, it'll serve on our end, the Holy Spirit saying together with the Father, as proving the quality of the Son. Because he won't fall. So it was a test and it was a temptation depending on the intent. God meant the test for good. The devil meant it for evil. And remember, God tests. But God, because intent his intent for us is always good, he can never what? Attempt. He doesn't do that. God tests us and he allows us to be tested. He allows us to fall into a period of testing because he wants to bring out our true character, make it manifest to others either by proving that we have a lot more still to learn, a lot more grace we need to learn, a lot more grace we need to rely on Or by showing how much we've grown and how much his grace is already at work in us. In Deuteronomy 8, verse 2, It says of Israel, You shall remember all the way which the Lord your God has led you in the wilderness these forty years, that he might humble you, testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. So the forty years was a test, and it brought out what was in the hearts of the Israelites. Not that God didn't know, but it all is brought out and made manifest to everyone, even to themselves. Well it says here that temptations can overtake us. That's interesting. Sometimes a test or a trial is something, and back in James 1 We learn that we can fall into. We just kind of stumble into it, and all of a sudden we're surrounded by a trial. We didn't expect it. We didn't want it, but we're there and we're in the midst of it. It surrounds us and we were told to count it all joy. Remember that Here it's the verb lambana, to take or to overtake. Temptation is actually pictured as coming and running after you and grasping after you to overtake you, to grab you and take control of you. To run faster than you and catch up with you, to dominate you. And then when he talks about temptations overtaking us, he says something here that is really astonishing. If you think about it, it's something I think many people, maybe some of you, might just simply disagree with. He says, all our temptations are common to man. Common to man. That common to man phrase comes from the Greek word anthroponos, meaning human, or pertaining to humanity, or belonging to the realm of men. In other words, our temptations, all our temptations, are normal temptations, the kind that every other human being experiences as well. You say, I don't agree with that. Well you're gonna have to agree with that. That's what the Word of God says. There is no superhuman stuff being thrown directly at you. We all have the same temptations. They are common to humanity. There's nothing new popping up now in our age that wasn't there a thousand years ago, two thousand years ago However many thousand years ago. Now, this does not mean that we all equally feel the pressure of giving in to them. Some of us are stronger in some areas and weaker in other areas, but we're all tempted in all the areas. It means we are all being tempted by all of these common temptations. They are the kind that we all face in life. We're liable to the same temptation. None that come to you are any different than the ones that come to me. None that come to me are any different than the ones that come to you. People have been contending with these all throughout human history. That's sort of the point here. Looking back to the Israelites from our perspective 3,500 years ago, the same stuff. They were dealing with idolatry. Are we dealing with that today? Yes They were dealing with immorality. Are we dealing with that today? Yes. They were trying the Lord back then. Are we doing that today? Yes. They doubted the Lord. Do we doubt the Lord today? They had pride. Do we have pride today? They had gluttony. Do we have gluttony today? It's the same stuff People just take the same stuff and give it a different definition, say it's science, and then we think, oh, it's all different today. How naive. This is one of those splash water on the face verses. Wake up, it's all the same. You and I are not special cases. The trials you face are normal. I know you're going to hate me saying that. But it's true. Hebrews 4. 15, for we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses. But one who has been tempted in all things as we are, as we are, yet without sin. See, if we don't accept the doctrine that all our temptations are the same, then Jesus really didn't face all the temptations that we have, and he can't sympathize. with us. You have to accept this doctrine. Jesus, who is sympathetic towards you and understands what you're going through, because he was tempted in every single way, which shows there's no sin in that, because he didn't give in to any of that. He experienced everything. That was 2,000 years ago. There are no new temptations today. None. The modern world has invented no new temptations. Not one. Jesus was tempted in every way as we are during his just 30 years, 30 years on the planet, 33 years, whatever it was. All temptations are common. I read online a survey that Discipleship Journal took uh I think it was a few years ago, ranking uh the readers were to rank areas of greatest spiritual temptation or challenge to them. Number one on this particular survey was materialism. That does that hit any of you guys tempted for materialism? Thought that was interesting they said that. Number two was pride. Three self-centeredness. Four laziness. There was a tie for fifth. Anger and sexual lust. Seven was envy, eight gluttony, and nine lying. Sound like you and me? Sound like you and me? Is your number one somewhere in that list? Is your number two somewhere in that list? Survey respondents noted temptations were more potents when they had neglected their time with God. 81% said that. And when they were physically tired, 57% said that. Gee, that sounds just like me. When I neglect my time with God and when I'm tired, mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. That's when I give in It's just the same stuff. Ah, some of us will move number nine up to number five, and number five down to you know ten if we had that, and number seven, you're like, no, that's my number one, that's my number one, there's no question about that. But they're all common, you get the point? Why is it that we have to have all the same temptations? Why is it that that's the case? Why is that the reality? Well, because we all have the same flesh. Yes? Same flesh battling our new nature in Christ. We all live in exactly the same world, true? We all have to deal with difficult people, you say. Not not as difficult as the people I deal with. Maybe more difficult in other ways than the people you deal with. We all have uncertainties of life. We all had imperfect parents. We all have been wronged by somebody. We all have financial concerns We can find others around us who look better than us, who are stronger than us, smarter than us, more skilled than us, more popular than us. And if you think you're at the top of one of those categories, give it time. You won't be as popular or as good looking or as strong or whatever soon. Someone will beat you. We all have Satan who's after us. We all need rest. We all desire to be loved. We all want friends. You know, Satan wants us to believe this lie. My temptation, my situation is unique. And nobody in that church around me can I understand what I'm going through. Oh. Well if you put yourself in that category, you might as well not even come to church. You need to go form some other super kind of church church because you're more tempted than all the rest of us. We don't belong here. We're just the very low tempted. You can't put yourself in that category. There's no hope, there's no help in that, and it's a lie. The fact that we have common temptations, I think, has certain implications. First, these are the implications. We can learn from each other Yes we can. There are others out there in this congregation, or if not in this congregation, and others who have faced what you face And have gone through it. Sometimes it's great to pick up an old book, right? You read about how they face some situation and you're like, that's what I'm dealing with. And you look at this story is like 120 years ago, some missionary story. You're like, that's what I'm going through And you read about it, what happened? You see their weaknesses and how they work through it, and you're strengthened by it, and you realize, wow, I can learn from that person. It's great. We can learn from others. God leaves older and more experienced believers in the world just to help the younger one. Do you have a neglectful husband? Other women have that too. And they still have learned to be joyful, despite the selfish character of their husband, not to excuse that. Do you have a difficult teacher at school? Gives you a hard time in class, picks on you Many others have gone through the same thing, maybe worse. Listen to them. Learn from them. Put into practice what they say to do. Do you have jealous feelings toward other more successful people? You definitely are not alone. Others have faced that and they've not given in. And they've learned joy and thankfulness and peace and trust. You have financial burdens. Many do too, and many who don't now did in the past. They learn how to have self-control. They learn to work hard and maintain a thankful heart and trust in God for provision. You have a rebellious and unbelieving child Many have shed more tears than you have over their children. Find out how they prayed, how they endured, where they gained strength from. Learn from them Do you have physical pain? Thank God for listening ears and gentle and kind hearts and merciful attitudes of those who've had similar pain and gone through it already and come to listen to you. Listen to them and learn from them. That's one implication. The second implication of this is that there is no special gene inside of us which gives temptation only to some in categories Boy, we think that now. We think science is unearthing certain things. And if you have this gene, that means you're going to fall with this sin. And if you have that gene, you're going to fall with this sin. Listen, you don't even know a thing about Jeans Sinnoh, that can't possibly be true, because the source of the temptation is not your body, it's your soul The secular psychologists know nothing of the spirit or the soul that is inside of you. They can't study it. Many of them don't even know it's there. And so the very beginning of their analysis is faulty. Their research is flawed from the start. The human spirit is accountable directly to God and it is tempted. A third implication of this is we Can't say to others as an excuse you don't know what I'm going through. That's simply a cop-out. Now, I want to give you a quote from Jay Adams. He's an experienced counselor. Many of you have heard of him, trainer of other counselors In his book, Competent the Counsel, he says this, God allows no Christian to plead that his case is unique or special. There are, of course, unique features about everyone's problems. No two cases are exactly the same. But the basic elements of the problem are not significantly different from those which others have faced. And that's just the way it is, and we need to learn that. A fourth implication is this. If you're one of the ones, one of our leaders, you're thinking about counseling others, you're a small group leader, you're thinking about caring for souls, you're doing it formally or informally You should also take to courage, take to heart and take courage in this statement right here, for it says, those who come to you are pretty much all in the same boat. You're not going to face something that is a unique counseling case either As you gain more experience in helping people, you start to see that it's the same heart patterns manifest over and over again. Different names, different faces, different circumstances, different times, same heart issues, same solutions. Human beings are human beings. They're tempted with the idols of the heart. Pride controls them, creates in them fears and insecurities. Lies are a tool that the darkened heart utilizes to make things seem the way they want them to be and to redirect from the the real issues of the heart As you get close to pinpointing what the problem is with someone, they try to divert attention. It's the same stuff over and over again. People are people. You face commonality as counselors and small group leaders. Don't let anyone pull the wool over your eyes saying, my case is special. You can't help me. The problem I have is, and it's some fancy psychological jargon, have confidence in the penetrating insights of the Word of God. You must. You must have confidence Hebrews 4. 12, the word of God is living and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit both of joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. What better tool do you need? What sharper sword do you have? Psychology has become nothing more than the great excuse maker for every vice on the planet. I can't help getting angry because I have an anger management problem. Yeah, yeah, we know. It's called selfishness and sin, and I want my way. You expressed it when you were a baby, you just didn't do it the same way Got news for everybody. We all have a disorder. It's called sin. We're all addicted. It's called selfishness. It just comes out in different ways depending on what experiences we've had. It comes out in different degrees You know, the only time we ever removed someone from this church in the fourth step of church discipline, the excuse of both the husband and the wife was she can't help it. She has a different situation, and none of you understand that. They were telling us we're special. The rules in God's book don't apply to us. And we as a church should always be wise enough to see through that lie Beware in your own heart of the deceitfulness of sin, because it will convince you you're special through even your feeling. Second lesson we have in this passage is that we have a faithful God. We have a faithful God. Look again at the verse. It just says right there in the middle Three solid reinforcing words. God is faithful. I think it's pinned right in the middle of the verse just to hold it all together and remind us what this is all about. God is faithful. What can we bank on? There it is. God is faithful. Much that we go through in life is discovered not to be what we thought it was. People provide many promises, many confident assurances. This business is so good. This lawyer is the best. This resort is the most accommodating. Then you get there and you're disappointed This is the most proven method to help you be productive and done work for you. Life just is that way. But the Holy Spirit of God It says right here, have no hesitations with the advice given in this verse. Lay it all on the line at this point. God truly is faithful to every promise and every guarantee that he makes. God's promises are as good as his perfection, and God is perfect. Why are we so quick to trust in man who's already proven himself to fail and so slow in our hearts? to trust God, who has never broken a promise. Just feast your ears on this refrain of God's faithfulness recited throughout all of God's Word. Psalm thirty three four The Word of the Lord is upright and all his work is done in faithfulness. Psalm 36, 5, Your loving-kindness, O Lord, extends to the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the skies. Psalm 89. 1, I will sing of the loving-kindness of the Lord forever to all generations. I will make known your faithfulness with my mouth. Psalm 91, he will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you may seek refuge. His faithfulness is a shield and bulwark. Psalm 100, verse 5, the Lord is good, his loving kindness is everlasting, and his faithfulness to all generations. Earlier in 1 Corinthians 1, verse 9, God is faithful. Through whom you were called into fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. First Thessalonians 5 24. Faithful is he who calls you, and he also will bring it to pass. 2 Thessalonians 3:3, the Lord is faithful, and he will strengthen and protect you from the evil one. 2 Timothy 2:13. If we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. Hebrews 10 23, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all. unrighteousness. J. Adams again. If God's faithfulness can fail, then so can this promise. If God's faithfulness can fail, then you can doubt these words If God's faithfulness can fail, then you can find loopholes and voice valid objections. But if God is faithful and you know He is, then you have no choice but to believe and act upon this promise. Do you want to know why life is hard? Do you want to know why it's filled with tests and temptations? Because God wants us to discover truly how weak we are, spiritually speaking. And how faithful he is to provide his help right in the midst of the storm. When he has preserved us through pain and danger, then we marvel at his faithful mercies. Temptation can make us stronger if we can successfully overcome it by his power. Temptations are simply a place for you to learn your weakness. For us to crucify our pride, to learn in reality how little we were leaning on the Lord despite all of the outward religious and church things we're doing. The reality comes up who we are when we're tempted and we give in. I must have gone to church and I must have dozed off during the sermon and I didn't let it sink into my heart I had a quiet time and I read the scripture, but it didn't get any further than in my mind and it went in and out. And I'm not applying the word to my life. And I'm not living the word of God. And my relationship with Christ is much weaker than I thought. And so you need to be tempted because it reveals who you are. Say, but I lead a Bible study. That doesn't matter. What matters is how you lead the Bible into your heart. That's what matters. The Lord promises to be a sure guardian of his people here. There's no reason for us to be afraid with temptation. There's no reason to lose hope. God is the only source of power that we are given to deal with the temptations that we face, and God is all we need. Satan wants you to believe another lie. Not just that your temptation is unique, but that God doesn't care. He's not there and he's not going to help you in your difficulty. How is it that God shows his faithfulness to us? Well, the last two points deal with two words that begin with a letter E. He's faithful to us by providing a place to escape from temptation. And ability to endure under it. To escape and to endure. The third truth here is that we have a way of escape when we are tempted. We have a way of escape. God shows his faithfulness by setting boundaries to temptation. He's mindful of how we are in our weaknesses. Look again at the verse. He says, He will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. Remember now, this is a promise only for believers, only for Christians. Unbelievers are tempted all the time. They have no power, no power to handle temptation. They have no power to keep the moral requirements of God. But God will not allow us to be tempted beyond what we are able. Beyond is the preposition in Greek. who pair. And it's a it means spatially, above and beyond. This comment reveals to us that there's a limit to our abilities to resist temptation. And God knows where that limit is and he won't allow us to go beyond that. God knows your strength. God knows your limits. He knows your level of maturity. He knows exactly what you can take. By the way, this phrase also assumes the sovereignty of God to control all temptation. He actually regulates the temptations in our lives. He regulates the level of the temptation. the kind of the temptation, the timing of the temptation. He regulates it all. And he won't let it get beyond the point where you can't handle it. Albert Barnes, in his extensive notes on the New Testament, says this: it implies that all the circumstances, causes, and agents that lead to temptation are under the control of God. Every man that tempts another, every fallen spirit that is engaged in this, every book, picture, place of amusement, every charm of music and of song Every piece of indecent statuary and every plan of business of gain or ambition are all under the control of God He can check them, he can control them, he can paralyze their influence, he can destroy them. See, God doesn't just sit up there and watch the events. Oh, they're getting tempted down here He's actively working in your life and controlling all of those things. People have such a wrong view of God. He's working. You're his child. He's working on your benefit, and the temptation is there so we can teach you something. That's a test from his end Many of you silently suffer under the same temptations and continue in the cycle of despair. You feel stuck locked into either circumstances that are beyond your control or gaining victory over certain sins, and you think there's no escape. I've been there too. I know how you feel. Sometimes I think, I'm never going to overcome this. I'm never going to escape this. You know, we elders and leaders of the church are men just like you. There's no difference. I want to give an extended quote from Jay Adams' book, Christ and Your Problems. Great little booklet. Now pick it up and read it. Christ and Your Problems by Jay Adams. Just listen to this. In pastoral counseling, he writes, we find that many people come for help with a little hope. They've tried all they know to do. They've often sought advice elsewhere, but matters have continued to go from bad to worse. So you can understand why they come with a little hope In fact, their attitude might be described as a hope against hope stance. Many who for years have consulted psychiatrists and other counselors to no avail come expecting nothing and indeed often hold hope at arm's length So often have their previous expectations failed to materialize, and so often have their hopes been dashed to fragments that they are wary of promises. For fear of being heard again, they almost defy initial suggestions that there is hope Such people need to hear Paul's words. God is faithful. Past disillusionment came from setting one's hope upon man and his promises. But when one's hope is properly set on God and fixed upon his promises and founded upon his word, that hope does not fail. The problem you face, seemingly impregnable, seemingly insoluble, seemingly impossible, has a solution in Christ. The psychiatrist may say to his prospective client, now you know, that analysis will probably take a long time, and I can guarantee nothing. But God does not speak that way. Indeed He says with effect based upon my own faithfulness, upon the integrity of my own word in person I declare that there is no problem that my redeemed sons and daughters ever face that is either unique or beyond their ability to handle if they meet the problem in my way using my resources. God gives a guarantee, and there is no fine print to make it worthless. Still quoting him. God does not permit you to lose hope if you are his child. The very concept of a child of the faithful God in utter despair is an anomaly. God's hope will not fail. It is hope that delivers. Throw aside that all self-pity. Abandon every vestige of hesitation Strip yourself of excuses and rationalizations and cast yourself wholly upon this promise of God and the God of this promise Then you will learn the joy of echoing those ringing words of faith and trust, great is thy faithfulness. God is faithful. He will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. But with the temptation will provide what? Way of escape also. That verse points to something, that part of the verse points to something that happens simultaneously with the temptation. Paul uses the preposition soon. It ties the two together, the temptation and the way of escape. They're there together. Please remember he's not saying here that God is bringing the temptation. He brings the way of escape. He may bring the circumstances that Count as a test on his end, but not a temptation. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. James 1. 13. For God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself does not tempt anyone It just means every single time there's a temptation in your life, there will always be a way of escape. And he'll get to the point here later, until there is a way of escape or until you find it, he also has you bear bear up and endure. He gives you endurance. What's our responsibility if there's a way of escape? What are we supposed to do? We've got to find it, right? We've got to find a way of escape. That's our duty. That's our job. There's a way of escape. We've got to find it. We've got to know what it is. What is this way of escape? This is interesting. This word here, ek basis, is used only twice in the New Testament. The Greek lexicons say it means an egress, a way out, an escape Sometimes it's used as an end, such as the end of life, where you exit and leave. The related verb is ek bino. It's a compound verb with ek which means to Proceed out and bino, which means to go or proceed. So it just comes to mean to go out, to exit. The verb is used in Hebrews 11:15 to mean to go out of a country, to leave or exit a country Thus, for us, it means that there is an escape from temptation. Think of an army that's been trapped in the mountains. They're down in a valley, and the stronger army is coming against them to destroy them. And they're wondering what they should do, and all of a sudden they find that path through the mountains and they find their escape and they leave and they escape danger. That is what it is spiritually speaking. You look all around you and you see there's no way, there's no way, there's no way I can endure this. There is a way of escape. God has provided it. Temptations are dangerous. In 1 Peter, we're told in chapter 2, verse 11. To abstain from fleshly lusts. Why? Because they wage war against the soul. We're in a spiritual battle. And sin wants to bring us down. Temptations are dangerous. Sin is dangerous. It wages war against our soul. We're never to take this lightly. We must hunt for a way out. But Potiphar's wife threw herself at Joseph. Joseph saw one way out and one way only. It was to what? Run fast. And then that led into another temptation as well as when he was falsely accused and thrown in the prison He could have been tempted to abandon his faith in God and he didn't. He continued to trust in the promises of God Before heading out into the day, tomorrow, or any day, take the Apostle Paul's advice and put on the full armor of God, Ephesians 6. So that you can stand against the schemes of the evil one. Unfortunately, we invite failure to temptation by never fortifying ourselves spiritually, never availing ourselves of the armor of God. And then we fall and wonder, how do we go down in battle? Galatians 5, 16 says, walk by the Spirit and you will not carry out the desires of the flesh. Turn that around. Don't walk by the Spirit, and you will carry out the desires of the flesh. Another way of escape is to memorize the Word of God and use that in the heat of the battle. Your word I have treasured in my heart, that I may not what? Sin against you. Psalm 119-11 Also pray for inner strength for yourself. Ephesians 3, Paul prayed for the churches that they would be empowered in their inner man, their inner person. Pray not to be led into temptation, the Lord's Prayer, but be delivered from evil, the evil one. Pray. Prayer is a means of escape. To gain motivation to escape temptation, if you're wondering if you even want to escape the temptation, think about the consequences if you go ahead and do it. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked, for when whatever a man sows, this he will also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal life. Galatians 6 And of course, don't put yourself in the pathway of temptation to begin with. You know the Internet is a very special tool that we have in our day and age. But it is a very worldly venue as well. You must have accountability. If you have no accountability, you've set yourself up to fall already. Your self-will only goes so far. Same with DVDs that you could pick up anywhere. Or the service that the uh Comcast provides, and you can put any kind of picture up there you want. Where's your accountability in your home? If you have no accountability, you just told your flesh, when you're tempted, you have a green arrow. Go for it. Remember this too, beloved, until you overcome a test, God is likely to bring that test back to you over and over and over and over again until you learn how to escape that temptation. Jesus came and found them sleeping and said to Peter, Simon, are you asleep? Could you not keep watch for one hour? This is in the Garden of Gethsemane. Keep watching and praying. Why? So that you not enter into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. By the way, when you flee temptation, be sure you don't leave a forwarding address. You cut it all off. Satan has a third lie for you. Not just that your temptation is unique, not just that God has abandoned you in the midst of the temptation, but also that you had no choice and you couldn't help it. Listen, there is no dark valley that does not have a pathway out. There is no corner you will be backed into in life where God does not have an escape patch. What is impossible with men is no problem with God. 2 Peter 2:9, the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from temptation. He's an expert in it. We have to make the right choices. Unfortunately, some are not even looking for a way out when they're tempted. They're looking for a way to indulge without being caught. If you're a child of God, that won't happen. You'll be caught. pay. So you're provided escape and the escape allows you out before you give in to sin, but sometimes you have to endure Sometimes the escape allows you to endure, and then sometimes you have to endure under a period of fasting. And so that's what he says at the end, so that you will be able to endure. This also is a magnificent promise A promise of how God preserves the soul, strengthens you under temptation. I don't think we believe this. You can endure those temptations. Beloved, yes, you can You will be able to endure it. You can stand. Yes, you can do that. You're a child of God. You have spiritual resources. Quit thinking like the old man. You've been given a new life. You can do this. I can't say that to unbelievers. They can't do this. You can. You have the capabilities to do this. Quit saying you can't. But listening to the lie. Victory over sin. Each of the sins in your life that you're thinking of now, victory is available to you. And it is always there for you. You can endure That verb is hoopa pharaoh, to carry under, to bear on the shoulders, to endure, to stand and not crumble and fall. Christians have special power. Jay Adams again, Christ in your problems. When others around you who do not know Christ cave in under life's load, you may stand. No, you must stand For God has caused you to face the same problems that they face in order that He may demonstrate in you the wonder of His power and grace. When the trees outside are bent to the ground and the storm rages with ever-increasing intensity, and the hearts of men are failing for fear, your heart must be like the clock that never misses a beat That steady as ever ticks away at the same pace. You must demonstrate that the Lord of the Word has kept his word. Stop complaining. Stop whining and worrying. Pick up the Bible again. Feed upon its strengthening message. And solve these problems God's way to the glory of His Son Jesus Christ. 2 Peter 3. 18, grow in the grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. You can grow in grace. Put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh in regard to its lusts. You can endure. You can. You can by the power of Christ, and you must believe. in this promise of God. Let's bow our heads. Oh Father in heaven, forgive us for our lack of faith in you, for our minimizing your mighty power and your resources. Teach us how wonderful this instruction is, how helpful it is to our souls. Help us to shed the old ways of thinking. And realize that we're one step of obedience and faith, a way of saying goodbye to that sin forever. Lord help us to not doubt that. The drunkard can stop being a drunkard. The one on drugs can put it all behind him or her. The one who's tempted to lie can end that and speak the truth. Anger does not have to persist. Your power is available to calm that. Oh Lord, help us to believe, help your people to deal with temptation with your resources. We ask it in the name of the one who endured all temptation without sin and knows what he's talking about.