We are continuing our look at the Gospel Cyclorama as we examine various scenes from the final hours of Christ's life. We started looking a couple weeks ago by seeing that the cross is the fullest display of God's glory, and it's there at the cross that we learn who God is as He puts His name on display, that he shows us his character and what he really wants us most of all to know about himself, that he is A God of grace and forgiveness, full of compassion and loving kindness, that He is just and righteous. And so if we are to imitate him, being made in his image, then those are characteristics that should be demonstrated in our lives. And We also saw as we looked at Christ that suffering and death, when Jesus suffered and died, he paves the path for our life That he didn't just suffer and die in order to pay the penalty for our sin. He didn't just do that to ransom us, to purchase us for himself. But he did it as a model, as an example of what our lives should look like. And last time we looked at seven different ways in which we are to die to ourselves. And those again were not exhaustive ways, but just a variety of ways that I think we could observe how Jesus Himself died to himself for the purpose of uh serving the Father and and serving us uh and all of what we talked about last week. But we ended last week and I told you that today the the third thought that we would consider This third gospel thought as we look around at the Gospel Cyclo Ramah is that death is not the end Power and life comes to those who die. And we're gonna uh I plan to spend the whole morning on this. I I hope that next week we'll start to cover more points in a single week, but uh based on how many notes I have for this, I think we'll we'll spend the whole morning on this particular point As we look at Jesus going through and experiencing torment at each scene of suffering that he experienced, We don't just see a man who is suffering. We see a man who is infused with power. And then, as we look to the tomb, the empty tomb, we see that God was pleased to grant this man who had died life. And so God gives us both power in our suffering and life for those who die in obedience to Him. That's what we want to talk about today. I mean, if you think about this, as you look around the the scenes of the sufferings of Christ, one of the words that would most likely come to our minds as we see the the physical stature of Christ is Weakness. You see Jesus and you see a man who is weak. If we only look with our physical eyes, weakness is what we see that uh that characterizes Christ in his In fact, that's what the Jews thought as well, right? The Jews mocked Jesus, saying that if if he truly was the Son of God He would come down from the cross. If he really did have power, he would save himself. Remember that? That's in Matthew 27. We read, and those passing by were hurling abuse at him, wagging their heads. Edson saying, You who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself Right? If you have enough power to claim that you can rebuild the temple in three days, why can't you just come down off that little old cross and save yourself? They they would say, if you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. In the same way, he continues on, uh the the chief priests also When uh also, along with the scribes and elders, were mocking him and saying he saved others, he cannot save himself. He is the king of Israel. Let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe in him. So again, as the Jewish leaders looked at Christ, even though they had seen a man who in this in his final three years of life demonstrated great power. He could heal the sick. He could restore limbs that were deformed. He could raise the dead. He could calm the storms. He could feed tens of thousands of people with virtually nothing. They saw great power in this man, and yet And in these final hours they saw great weakness, and so they mocked him and they scorned him. In fact, the phrase He cannot save himself there in Matthew 27. More literally translated would be he does not have the power to save himself. Dunami is the key Greek word there, which is the word for power, ability, capacity. So they said, this man who had all this ability during his life, he does not have the power to save himself. But here's the thing. What they did not realize was that it was the power of God that was keeping him on the cross. This is very significant. While he looked weak with physical eyes as we see him, the reality is, is it was the power of God that was keeping Christ on the cross. There are many situations in life where we out of a desire to honor the Lord, we die to ourselves, maybe maybe we uh w willingly acknowledge our own wrong in a situation where we feel that maybe someone else has done the majority of wrong uh and they really are the ones who should be responsible to pursue reconciliation in this relationship but okay I'm gonna die to myself and I'm gonna I'm gonna acknowledge My own failure, even though I think it's a very small part of the problem. Or maybe in a situation we give up our right to be Heard or understood properly, we just say, okay, you know, if they're gonna misunderstand me, I'm just gonna let that go. I'm gonna die to myself Or maybe we give up our right for justice and we just say, I'm I'm gonna let that go. I I could exert a right for justice, I could seek justice in this situation, but I'm I'm gonna die to myself and I'm gonna let let that go. Whatever that situation is, we can find ourselves dying to ourselves, but as the pain of that self-denial increases, as the inner turmoil and tension in our souls increases. Increases, we arrive at a kind of boiling point where we feel I can't take this anymore. Uh this hurts too much. And what happens is we give up dying to ourselves, and we say, forget it, that didn't work, that didn't feel very good, and all of a sudden we start living for ourselves once again. Yeah, I know I've done that many times. I trust we've all had those experiences before. But that thought that enters into our mind in that in that critical moment of tension, that thought that says I can't take this anymore. I can't do this. I don't have the power to keep dying to myself. That thought is a lie from the flesh and the devil Because when we consciously die for the Lord, He gives us the power to keep dying to ourselves. He gives us the power to keep dying to ourselves. Where where do we see this in Scripture? We we see Jesus living it out or if you will, dying it out on the cross. But where do we see this taught? Let me encourage you to open your Bibles to 1 Corinthians 1013. And this is a passage that um you know I look at all the time in especially in counseling conversations. You are probably very familiar with it, but I want to just look at it from this perspective and and draw this truth out. So 1 Corinthians 10 13 Let me just read it. It says, No temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man, and God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able. But with the temptation will provide the way of escape also, so that you will be able to endure it. So let's place ourselves in that situation where we feel like I can't take this anymore. I I don't know that I can take the pain. I don't know that I can let this person keep pursuing their sin. I don't know that I can that I have the power to keep dying to myself. What does this verse have to say that helps us in that moment. Well, it says a number of things. First and uh well I won't go into full detail uh of all of what it says, but let's just point out for the moment the phrase God is faithful. God is faithful. Now we know that God has made promises throughout Scripture. He's promised never to leave us or forsake us. He's promised that nothing can separate us from His love. Love. Uh he's made all kinds of promises. And in a moment like that, while we don't consciously think these thoughts, again when we think I can't do this, I don't have the power to do this, I can't take this anymore. What we're essentially saying, in so many words, is God has stopped being faithful to me, or I don't know that God is going to be faithful to me. if I keep dying to myself. So I gotta I gotta stop giving him control and I gotta take the reins back from him and do what I need to do to protect myself and help myself in this situation. But We have to remember, know that God is faithful, that his promises are still true, and we can trust in him. And one of his promises, which he gives us right here, is that he will not allow us to be tempted beyond what we are able, beyond what we have the commandment. capacity to handle. But with the temptation, he will provide the way of escape also so that you will be able to endure it. You know, when we think about a way of escape, uh I don't know what you think of, but I always think of uh an escape hatch, right? Just you know, where's the easy button that I can press and there's some some hole in the floor that I can go down and be on a automatically rescued into safety or or where's the helicopter that's gonna fly in and pick me up, you know, do a rescue extraction from my situation so I can get out of this difficult situation? That's the kind of escape we or at least I tend to think of, but that That is clearly not the kind of escape that Paul has in mind here. Because he uses the phrase there at the end, so that you will be able to endure it. Let me rephrase this promise this way. God has promised that there we we will never find ourselves in a situation Where our only option is to sin. Where our only option is to sin. Instead, in every situation, no matter how difficult, no matter how painful He will always give us the power to keep honoring him. And especially when we think about Temptations to sin, when we think about suffering, he will always give us the power to keep dying, to keep dying to ourselves. And serving him no matter what situation we find ourselves in. The the word temptation here uh it's the Greek word pyrosmos and it's the same word that elsewhere is translated trial. And the root idea between a a trial and a temptation is the idea of a test. So every situation whether it's a mo uh an experience of suffering that's not the result of my own sin or where I'm not necessarily being tempted to sin in in any uh you know overt way uh of covetousness, you know, uh immorality or or lying or whatever. So I'm I'm just suffering. I'm I'm sitting under, I'm on the receiving end of suffering, or a temptation where I am being pulled toward some kind of sin. What unites those ideas is a test and every situation is a test to see am I going to live for myself or am I going to live for Christ? Am I going to trust in my own ability, my own power to deal with this situation, to do what is right. Or am I going to trust in the Lord and do what He tells me that I should do in this situation? So it's every situation is a test, and God always Gives us the power, the capacity, the ability to remain in that situation faithful to him, to remain faithful to to him no matter what is going on. And so, as we think about Christ on the cross, we know because of who he is, that he is and was God. that in his life he had the power of God continually residing within him, that should he want to, he could very easily have come down from that cross. He could have said, This hurts. This this is too much. I can't take this anymore. These people have no idea what they're doing. I need to show them my power, right? They said, uh actually I don't think I read it, but continue on from that passage, they said Said, hey, if you come down from that cross, we will believe in you. Jesus could have said, okay, that that's finally going to do it. They didn't believe everything before, but now if I come down from this cross, they will believe in me. That would be humanly speaking. But instead he knew what God's calling on his life was. And so, in the midst of that painful, excruciating situation. God empowered him and in enabled him to endure and keep following God's will, which was in that moment to die to himself, to die in every way, physically, spiritually. Uh don't take that too far, dying spiritually. I didn't mean I just meant in the senses that we talked about last week. So When we look at Christ dying on the cross, it is the power of God that held him there. And when we die to ourselves, whether it's in a conflict, whether it's in a moment of suffering, and we submit ourselves to the Father's will, we can trust, we can know, based on God's promise right here, that He will infuse us with power, that He will enable us and give us the capacity to endure difficulty and continue to die for him, uh, so that he might be glorified Now, I want to take this a step further and ask: how does one access the power of God to sustain our obedience to die for self? Ha how how where do we get this power? W what what does it feel like or look like to have this power Well, again, we follow Jesus' example. And I think we looked at this briefly, perhaps a couple weeks ago, maybe last week, but it's worth looking at again. It's the kind of thing we just need constant reminders of the same truth. So if you have your Bible, go back to Hebrews chapter 12. How did Jesus have the power to stay on the cross despite its shame, despite the pain, despite everything it was costing him? Well, we read the answer to that in Hebrew 1. Hebrews twelve verses one and two. Therefore, since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us also lay aside every encumbrance and the sin which so easily entangles us And let us run the race that is set before us, fixing our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, despising the shame and has successfully. Sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. So I I read right through it there, but how did Christ despise the shame? How did he endure the cross? Well, he had his eyes fixed on the joy that was set before him. He looked to the reward. He looked to the future. He looked to what God had promised him would be the end result if he were to continue to be faithful. Last week we briefly looked at 1 Corinthians chapter 6 where Paul is uh exhorting the believers for not or or for taking each other to prison. He's he's uh scolding them as it were, or not to prison. to uh to court, uh for suing each other. And he says to them, why not rather be wronged? You know, these are matters that should be dealt with within the church and and if they're not dealt with, if y if you can't get to a resolution, why not rather be wronged, wr why not rather be defrauded? And we we see in that kind of a situation that if if we ourselves are focused on this life, on what is in front of our face, if we're focused on on the pain, if we're focused on the loss, if we're focused on the things of this w world, then that concept of dying to ourselves even in material matters is impossible. It's absolutely impossible. I mean if if you're facing, for example, the loss of a significant amount of money in a in a situation and you know maybe someone has wrecked your car, uh they borrowed your car, they wrecked your car, and it was, you know, y y you you can't afford afford to get another car. And everything in you is like, I deserve to have uh that dealt with. I deserve to have that that recompense. But it's it it's not. It's not dealt with. And you're left looking at either I gotta take this person to court, this fellow believer to court, or I'm gonna take this this loss. Well, if all you're thinking about is your financial condition. If all you're thinking about is is money and the things of this world, the answer there is obvious. I I I'm going to take this person to court because that that is what is most important. Because that's that's all I can see if that's what I'm focusing on. But if our viewpoint is focused on eternity, if we're thinking about another perspective then the possibilities change. And that's why Paul says there in in First Corinthians six, he reminds the believers that we as the church we will judge angels in the future. Consider what status, what role, what authority we as believers will have, and that's why we should deal with these matters within the church. But then we also see in Scripture the promise of our eternal reward, our eternal inheritance, in that what is coming to us as believers, what God has promised to us, is exceedingly far beyond any And so we can do away or we can deal with loss and suffering uh financially and in other ways in this life because we know that in the future there is a an infinitely greater reward. As we look to the future, as we look to what God has promised us, we can now all of a sudden have the power to endure suffering. We can endure loss. We can have things taken from us. In fact, uh if you just think back to chapter eleven, um Where uh I didn't have this in my notes, it just occurred to me. Um verse Well let's just let's just start in verse um Actually let me let me go back to chapter chapter ten. I think that's uh that's a better example. In verse thirty two of chapter ten There in Hebrews. He says, But remember the former days, when after being enlightened, you endured a great conflict of sufferings, partly by being made a public skep spectacle through reproaches and tribulations, and partly by becoming shares with those who were so treated For you showed sympathy to the prisoners who accepted joyfully the seizure of their property, knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and a lasting one. So think about this. The believers were loving one another. They were visiting other fellow believers who were in prison, knowing that by doing so they would lose their own homes. They would lose their material. material possessions. They would their property, which of course in those times was that was that was your wealth, that was your uh your retirement, that was everything. If I visit my brother or sister in Christ in prison, that's going to be taken away. And they said, he said, you joyfully accepted that. You took that loss gladly for the sake of loving your brothers and sisters in Christ, and you did it knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and a lasting one. So again, when when we die to ourselves, when when we give up our own life for the sake of serving the Lord. We receive power to endure suffering. We receive power to continue to die to ourselves, and that happens as we look to the future We receive that power by dying to ourselves and fixing our eyes on what is ahead, on what is coming to us in eternity. So we see that if we are going to die like Jesus died, then we shouldn't simply look at Jesus, but we should In a sense, fix our gaze on what Jesus is looking at. We should follow his gaze, and we will receive the same power to keep dying that he received. So when we die for the Lord, power is given to us No, there is another type of power that comes to those who die in Christ When we look at the sufferings of Christ, we see that God grants power to us to keep dying. But we when we turn to the empty tomb, we see that God grants those who die the power to live. And this is there's certainly overlap here, but this is just a slightly different nuance. God grants to those who die for Him the power to live. And for this I want us to consider Philippians chapter three. Philippians chapter three. verse ten specifically. And we read this well known passage. I we we looked at it uh before already in class, where Paul says that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being conformed to his death. So there is this thing that Paul refers to as the power of his resurrection. The power of his resurrection. Now that does not refer to us being resurrected after death. And we know that it doesn't refer to what we might call the afterlife or the final resurrection, because in verse eleven, Paul says, in order that I might attain to the resurrection. resurrection from the dead. So when he says that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, the goal of knowing those things, of experiencing Christ, of experiencing his the power of the resurrection, The goal of sharing in the sufferings of Christ is so that in the future I might attain to the resurrection from the dead. So the power of Christ's resurrection. is something that is for here and now, is it? It is something for our life today. Now, Paul was a man who had a lot to boast about, right? That's what we read earlier in the passage. He had a lot to boast about both before and after his conversion. Before we read about in this passage, we won't take the time to go through it, but he had the religious pedigree, he had the religious resume that uh that he could boast about, that he could could walk around with a puffed out chest and a haughty haughty attitude and uh others would be jealous and and would look upon him uh with uh with great favor But then after his conversion, he also had experiences and blessings that had the potential to make him a prideful Christian celebrity. I mean, if Paul was here today, you can imagine he would have hundreds, well. May I don't know, maybe hundreds of millions of Facebook followers or Twitter followers or whatever. He would be a Christian celebrity, no doubt. H his conversion was marked by uh a revelation, a direct revelation and conversation with with Jesus? I mean who else do you know who was converted to Christ because Jesus physically appeared to them and had a conversation with them? Paul was taught the Christian faith not by the apostles or other believers, but rather directly from Jesus Christ Himself. Paul was given the privilege of receiving heavenly revelations where somehow he entered into heaven and he wasn't allowed to tell anyone about it? Paul did more to spread the gospel to the Gentiles throughout the world than anyone else in his time. Much of what Paul wrote ended up as inspired by God, inerrant, authoritative, and it will last into eternity. How many people do you know who whose writings are on that level. I mean we could keep going, but Paul had a lot that would lead him to exalt in himself. Above others, right? Knowing this reality, God brought suffering into Paul's life to help him die to himself. Because of all the blessings, because of all the experiences that he had, God said, I need to make this guy suffer so that he views himself rightly, so that he can die to himself. I mean any one of us with Paul's experiences, with Paul's knowledge. Would be tempted to rely on ourselves. Hey, look what I've done. Look what I've experienced. I can do this. I can preach a sermon. I don't need to study. I've had direct revelation from Christ I can rely on myself to do what God has called me to do. And so God brought suffering to force Paul into a state of weakness. and dependence and we read about that in second Corinthians chapter twelve, verses seven to twelve We read, because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations for this reason, to keep me from exalting myself, there was given me a thorn in the flesh A messenger of Satan to torment me to keep me from exalting myself. Concerning this, I implored the Lord three times that it might leave me, and he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, I will rather boast about my weakness, so that the power of Christ may dwell in me. Therefore, I am well content with weaknesses, with insults, with distresses, with persecutions, with difficulties. For Christ's sake For when I am weak then I am strong. And I'll stop there in verse ten. What's Paul saying here. Well, again, if we connect this to Philippians chapter three, Paul wanted more than anything to experience Christ. He wanted more than anything to experience the power of the resurrected life of Christ in this life. And given his experience, given his knowledge, given his Blessings that God had given to him. It would again be tempting for him to live the Christian life out of his own power. But because of the sufferings that Paul that the Lord brought into his life, Paul had to learn that he couldn't rely on He couldn't he couldn't just do things out of his own personal knowledge, out of his own ability. He had to depend completely on the Lord in order to Experience the power of Christ in order to live life in a way that's pleasing to God. Paul had to suffer. Now I wonder if if you've had any of these thoughts. God, I could be a much better Christian if I wasn't suffering in this way. If I didn't have all this suffering in my life, I would be much easier. I I would have better quiet times. I'd have better prayer times. I I would have more ability to give to the church if I didn't have you know the the loss of my job. I could be a much better Christian if I wasn't suffering all like I am. Or maybe, Lord, if my spouse only blank, I would be a better husband or wife. If they improved how they treated me, then I could be a better husband or wife for you, Lord. Or maybe my spouse knows how to push my buttons, and if they didn't push my buttons, I wouldn't struggle with Anger so much. I could be a better Christian if my spouse only made it easier for me Or if I didn't have to work so hard and long to provide for my family, I could serve the Lord more effectively. In other words, we have these thoughts, we're like, man, the difficulties, the challenges, the sufferings, whether it's my own sin or the sins of others, it's hindering me, it's suppressing me, it's oppressing me, and therefore I don't have the ability to live my life for God the way that I want to. I could be a much better Christian. I can be much more effective in ministry. I could do so much more for the Lord. If I was released from these difficulties, I think that's the kind of mentality that Paul had. He's like, Lord, this thorn in the flesh, whatever it was, this thorn in the flesh is hindering me from serving you more effectively and more faithfully. And so, what is God's answer to that life or to that kind of thinking? The answer is: if you want power to live the Christian life, If you want to know how to truly and fully live for the Lord Then know that that power that you're looking for is actually most demonstrated in the midst of your difficulty In the midst of your suffering. God comes along to us and he says, My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in the In weakness. I I think I can say for myself that when I think about you know those visions of doing great things for God You you always think about, you know, just complete freedom, uh perfect health uh freedom from uh financial stresses, uh time to do what you you need to do. You think about just the the most trouble free life possible and in that kind of life that's when You know, I can do great things for God. But God says, no, if if you want to see my power on display, it's actually on display the most. When you are at your greatest moment of weakness, His power is perfected in us in weakness. So we can know that when we die for the Lord, when we die to ourselves, or maybe when we are actually dying. Whether it's because of disease, because of persecution, whatever it might be, whether it's physical death, whether it's dying spiritually We can experience the power of God most in that in that time of great weakness. Let me put it this way: the powerful and effective Christian life is not the one free from opposition or hardship. It is the one that relies on the grace of the Lord in all circumstances. God's grace is most powerfully seen and experienced in the life of a Christian after they have died to themselves. So again, when we think about dying to ourselves, as we talked about extensively last week, we tend to focus so much on the dying that we think, well what's what's left? What am I going to do after I'm dead? And the answer is is you're going to live. You're going to have the power of God infused in you. You're going to have the ability by God's grace To serve him and to live for him in ways that you haven't realized up until now Let me draw out just one more passage in this context on this point. Colossians chapter 1. I think I started out um I think I prayed this passage w uh today uh when we started. But just to draw out another point here where we think about the power of God for the Christian life, Paul prays in chapter one of Colossians Uh verses uh I'll just read verses nine to twelve again. For this reason, since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you that you uh and ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. So that you will walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for the attaining of all steadfastness and patience Joyously giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light Now, when you think about that passage and you you just kinda slowly work through it, you get this sense of of freedom, of growth in knowledge, of growth in wisdom, of prosperity and fruit bearing and pleasing God. And it's this wonderful thing of oh man the Christian life is is joyful, it's it's powerful. But when he says strengthen with all power, that's that's how we are bearing fruit in that God is strengthening us with power according to his glorious might. Notice that he says, for the attaining of all steadfastness and patience. Now we all know how we grow in steadfastness and patience. And it's not in the happy times. We grow in steadfastness and patience in the very difficult, painful times when When we're struggling in our own life in uh uh with our own sin or with with challenges that we're facing, or we're on the receiving end of wrongdoing, and we're just having to endure. And be steadfast, trusting in the Lord, staying faithful to Him in those very dark days. That is how we grow in steadfastness and patience. And so the Christian life here, even though it sounds at first glance to be something of, you know, wonderful education and and then taking that knowledge and wisdom and going and living it out and bearing fruit all over the place. The reality is there's this underlying uh context that the the the situations in which we grow The situations in which we bear fruit, the kind of life we are to live that's worthy of the Lord, the times in which we are We have the greatest ability to please Christ is in those times when life is hard, when we have to die to ourselves, when we have to give up our rights and our desires and our preferences. Uh when we have to endure in a difficult situation, whether it's at work with a boss or co-workers who hate us and just can't seem we can't seem to get along with them, or with someone in the home who's just c making life difficult for us at home, or or with children who are obstinate and rebellious or with with parents who you know are are just wreaking havoc in in our own lives. What th those situations when there's difficulty that from one perspective is oppressive, on the other Side, God is saying, My grace is sufficient for you that you might have the power to grow in steadfastness and patience. So God strengthens us. So we've looked at the type of power that enables us to keep dying to ourselves. Then we saw the type of power to live for the Christian life that that God Himself gives us power when we die for Him to serve Him, to live for Him. Even in difficult circumstances. But there is another type of power that the Father gives to those who die, and that is the power to know Him more intimately. the power to know him more intimately. For this, if you're there in Colossians, you can turn back a few pages to Ephesians chapter 3. And this is another prayer of Paul's. that that we've prayed and and looked at before. But in Ephesians chapter 3, verses 14 to 21, this prayer of Paul includes uh a statement of what Paul is asking, namely that that we would grow in our power, in our capacity and ability to know God more intimately. So let me let me read that prayer Paul says in Ephesians three fourteen, For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth derives its name, that he would grant you according to his riches, the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with power through his spirit in the inner man, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth And to know the love of Christ, which surpasses knowledge. that you may be filled up to the f all the fullness of God. And then he ends with this uh doxology now to him who is able to do far more abundantly be beyond all that we ask or think according to the power That works within us. To him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and ever. Amen. Now let's think about this. What is Paul praying? Well, his first prayer in verse 16, his first request, is that God would grant us to be strengthened with power through his spirit in the inner man. So we need power, we need strength. And the word power means ability. It means capacity. It doesn't mean necessarily that, you know, unique supernatural strength. It's it's simply a word that means ability or capacity. So, you know, the the Greek word is dunami, and you know you've maybe heard it's from the word from which we get dynamite, but it's not that explosive kind of power. It simply refers to ability or capacity. So we need to have developed within us by God, God needs to do this, we can't do it ourselves. He needs to create in us an ability and a capacity for something. And what is that something? Well it starts in verse eighteen that we might have the Capacity that we might be able, he says, that we might have the capacity and the ability to comprehend with all the sayings what is the length and uh the breadth and height. And length and depth. And the second thing, verse 19, and to know the love of Christ. So these are basically the same thing, saying saying it two different ways, but that we might have an increased capacity To know the the full extent of the love of Christ. And the reason we need God to infuse us with power To know this is because it is a knowledge that surpasses understanding. It is a type of experience of Christ's love that goes beyond something you can learn in a book. Alright? So that's the prayer. God, or Paul is praying that the believers would grow by God's Spirit, grow in their capacity to experience and know Christ's Love. The more we live for ourselves and our own personal desires, the more we live for our flesh. The less we are aware of our need for God. Right? Because we think, hey, I can do this, I can live my life. I I I don't need God. I got life handled. But the more we die to ourselves, the more we realize just how sinful we are, because it's so hard to die to ourselves and we keep experiencing Experiencing new dimensions of our own heart and and the temptations that that we experience, we realize just how sinful we are And thus, how great is God's love for us? Because the more we expand our understanding of our own sin, the more that magnifies God's love for us, because He's loved us despite our sin. If you think about Christ in the empty tomb It's difficult to say how he could ever grow in his understanding of God's love for him. Certainly scripture doesn't indicate that that he did that in any explicit way, that he grew in in his knowledge of the Father's love for him. But we do know that as a boy, Jesus grew as Um and as he grew as a man, he grew in favor with God and man. Yeah, scripture says that. Um and so there's there's an idea there that the relationship between Jesus and his father grew in some way. We also know that during his three-year ministry, and in fact even going back to when he was twelve years old, uh Jesus uh spent considerable time with the Father. In prayer. He had a intimate relationship with the Father And we also know that in his final hours, the most painful reality that Jesus faced was not the betrayal of Judas. or the disciples who fled from him and and and left him, abandoned him. Nor was the most painful experience of Jesus in those final hours the physical torture that he went through. Rather, it was when the father turned his back on the Son Think about this, his whole life, as far as we know, as far as scripture tells us, his whole life, Jesus referred to God as his Father, my father. Didn't you know when he was twelve that I should be in my father's house? Certainly in his three year ministry, he always referred to God at his as his father. But in that moment, as he hung on the cross and the darkness overtook the land, Jesus cried out, My God My God, why have you forsaken me? And don't think for a minute that Jesus was just, oh, I have to fulfill prophecy. I have to quote the Old Testament here. That was the cry of his heart. Now I don't know, because scripture doesn't say, I don't know that when Jesus said that That there was any question in his mind about the Father's love for him. But I do know that when people say that today In the midst of their suffering, when they ask a question, has God abandoned me? Or I feel like God has abandoned me. What they are essentially saying, and they'll say it at the same time, is they are questioning God's love for them. Does God love me? Look at what I'm going through. So in his humanity, it's possible that Jesus, as he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That in his humanity there was a question of God, where are you? And there's a question of his love. But after the resurrection In John 20, when Mary clung to Jesus in the garden, remember that? I wish we could take the time to look through that passage because it's such a beautiful uh Scene. Mary clung to Jesus when she realized who it was, and Jesus essentially said to her, Stop clinging to me, because I have not yet ascended to my Father. So once again he calls God his Father. So if there was any question of the Father's love for him while he hung on the cross, the resurrection answered. that question and resolved it. Clearly the Father loves the Son with an infinite love. And in the same way that Christ grew in favor with God and man throughout his life, undoubtedly as as he lived life as a human being, he experienced new desires. Dimensions of the Father's love as he experienced life on this earth. This connection between suffering and love is so strong that when Paul writes about suffering in Romans 8, he understood that we as human beings beings, when we suffer, we wonder about the Father's love. Is God there? Does God love me? I I didn't under I don't understand how my suffering fits with God's love. But Paul affirms there at the end of Romans chapter 8 that nothing can separate us from the love of Christ And as we go through experiences of suffering, we have a a natural, or I should say supernatural, because the spirit gives it to us uh a greater capacity to experience the love of God because we see that the love of God is not just experienced in the good times, in the blessings, in the gifts, in the prosperity. That he gives to us. But his love comes to us even in the those greatest times of difficulty. Those of you who are married know that when you go through a difficult situation, whether it's difficulty in the marriage itself or it's just a a difficult situation that as a couple, as a family, you have to endure. The love that you have for one another naturally increases because now you've gone through suffering, you've gone through difficulty together, you've lived out the vows that were made in sickness and in health, and prosperity, and poverty. We have loved each other even through these difficulties, and so now our love is stronger. In the same kind of way when we experience dying to self When we die to ourselves and when we go through the difficult times of life, we have a greater capacity to understand the love of God because his love remains steadfast. In our lives. So As we die to ourselves, not only do we experience the power of God to endure suffering and to keep dying to ourselves, God enables us to die in every way. We also experience the power of God, the capacity and ability to live for Him even in difficulty. And we also build experience the power of God, the capacity to know him more intimately, uh, as we die to ourselves. That God Himself is with us even when we're dying and we're living and In every situation, God is always loving us and our understanding and comprehension of His love. In those moments is not something we can learn, but is something that God gives us. It's a power, it's an ability. So for those who die, again, death is not the end. Power in life comes to those who die for Christ