We do know that our Western society has had Christianity in it, around it, among it for quite some time, many centuries. Historically, Christianity not only spread throughout Europe and then the Americas, but clearly it became the dominant religion of the entire Western world. Much, if not most, of the missionary activity to spread the faith through the rest of the world was launched from the West. Yet with churches and Christian ministries seemingly on every street corner, or at least in every town, the West has been turning away from Christianity now for a number of decades, first in Europe and now here in America, we know this. We see this. We feel this We even see many who are raised in Christian homes, growing up, turning away from the church, from the faith, pursuing worldly things, worldly lifestyles. They want popularity, pleasures, riches. They want it here and they want it now. Many who rejected an active faith in Christ may have done so because in an earlier time they were dragged to church and didn't really want to come to church. Maybe a faithful grandmom doing what she thought was best, or a mom trying to bring the little ones to church, keep them in the faith. It was resented, they grew up, made their own decision, and turned away. They had enough of it. They left. There are others who made commitments when they were younger, maybe fireside at a Christian camp, maybe at some great crusade, tent revival. Some church meeting, a youth group of some kind. But over time they decided that's not what they really wanted for their life. They had other things to pursue, and so uh enticed by other things, maybe even uh their faith choked out by the riches of the world, they uh left their devotion to God and to Jesus. Some come back this time of the year at Christmas, sometimes at Easter. They wonder about it. But they're not really committed to Christ yet. It's maybe a way of connecting with their religious past or the religious part of their family. Maybe to prove to themselves deep down inside that they're really Christians still, but nothing really genuine in a pursuit of Jesus. Defection from Jesus Christ is unfortunately widespread. While many pretend in our society be to be devoted to Jesus, it's obvious from the way they live they're devoted to other things. Contrary to the ways of God. The Bible calls defection away from God apostasy. It's a scary word, but it is a biblical term When apostasy happens, it is always due to deception, a lack of understanding about God, His ways. about Jesus and what he has done, about their future, about who they are and what they need. They lack understanding. They lack it because they're blinded. They're blinded by other things. You know, Monday, a week from now, we're told there'll be a lunar eclipse, and uh the shadow of the earth is going to fall over the moon, eclipse the light that the sun would shine upon it. It's kind of what happens to them. People who defect from Christ are are kind of like that. They lose sight of the light. They slip into darkness. If they could but behold the future, if they could but today see the beauty of Jesus Christ. They would quickly change their minds. They would never ever leave Jesus. They would, in fact, cling to him tenaciously. They would understand this is the most important thing in their life. They see religious people around them and they might think, I know better than them, but they've lost sight And we would pray that they could see. Today we reach the conclusion of a long discourse from the Gospel of John, chapter 6, the Bread of Life Discourse. And as we reach the end, we see the author has brought us to a decision point, to a point where decisions are made in the text, and then we who read the text and think upon its spiritual meaning would be brought to a decision point as well. Some, in fact most, turn away from following Christ But there is a smaller group that still see the excellencies of Christ and remain true to Him. The text is John 6 Verses 60 through 71, please follow along as I read. John 6, verses 60 through 71. Therefore, many of his disciples, when they heard this, said, This is a difficult statement. Who can listen to it? But Jesus, conscious that his disciples grumbled at this, said to them, Does this cause you to stumble? What then if you see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I have spoken to you are Spirit and are life. But there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe, and who it was that would betray him. And he was saying, For this reason I have said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted him from the Father. As a result of this, many of his disciples withdrew and were not walking with him anymore. So Jesus said to the twelve, You do not want to go away also, do you? Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life We have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Jesus answered them, Did I myself not choose you, the twelve, and yet one of you is a devil? Now he meant Judas, the son of Iscariot, Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him. Well, we first see in this passage those who turn away. This is the sad part in verses 60 through 66. the first group of people, those who turn away. Look at verse sixty again. Therefore many of the disciples, when they heard this, that is the teaching about eating the body of Christ and drinking his blood They said, this is a difficult statement. Who can listen to it? So yes, the grumbling continues on. We've already seen some of the grumbling already, have we not? We've heard it, we've seen Jesus rebuke it, yet it continues. What has Jesus been trying to do? He's been trying to move this group of Jewish men in the synagogue there at Capernaum from a superficial kind of belief Due to beholding the miracles and saying, obviously there's something to this man, and getting them to embrace a relationship at a deeper level, at the level of need. Where they would understand of their vital need of Christ, just like eating and drinking, we have that need of Jesus Christ for spiritual life at that basic level. But what they did was they just heard the difficulty of the statement. They didn't perceive the meaning, and they have decided as they're listening they want none of it. It was hard to figure out. It was hard to believe whatever it meant, and it was certainly hard to accept. And what they wanted and why they pursued him in the first place across the lake and back to Capernaum was physical food. We were told that was their motive back in verse 26. They also wanted a political messiah to throw off Rome and give them the kind of lifestyle then and there that they wanted. We learned that back in verses 14 through 15. They wanted to see more miracles. We learned that back in verses 30 and 31. They didn't want to learn the spiritual lessons of what they needed in their life in connection to God through Christ. They were offended. They were offended by Jesus saying he came down out of heaven. Come on. They were offended when he talked about eating his flesh and drinking his blood so they could get eternal life. What's that? And they just took offense. Dr. John MacArthur, I think, really describes them well here. And here's his quote. Their reaction is typical of false disciples, Dr. MacArthur writes. As long as they perceive Jesus to be a source of healing, free food, and deliverance from enemy oppression. The self-serving disciples flocked to him, but when he demanded that they acknowledge their spiritual bankruptcy, confess their sin, and commit themselves to him as the only source of salvation, they became offended and left. Like countless other false disciples throughout the history of the church, they followed Jesus for what they thought they could get from him. True disciples, on the other hand, come to Christ. poor in spirit, Matthew 5. 3, mourning over their sin, Matthew 5. 4, and hungering and thirsting for the righteousness that only He can supply, Matthew 5. 6. False disciples do not follow Christ because of who he is, but because of what they want from him. They have no problem viewing him as a baby in the manger at Christmas. a social reformer with a broad message of love and tolerance, the ideal human everyone should emulate, or a source of health, wealth, and worldly happiness. But they are unwilling to embrace the biblical Jesus, the God man who fearlessly rebuked sinners and warned them of eternal hell. And that salvation from that hell comes only through believing his words. John 5, 24 That describes them and their mentality and the decision before so many today who seem to get excited about Jesus at Christmas time. But are they really? Do they really know him? Have they really come to saving faith? Please notice as we read on in the passage verses sixty one through sixty three. But Jesus, conscious that his disciples grumbled at this, said to them, Does this cause you to stumble? What then if you see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I've spoken to you are spirit and are light. So this teaching about eating the flesh of the Son of Man caused these Jews to stumble. That's the word in Greek skandalizzo. You get our word scandal from it. It means they took offense at this. They stumbled over it. They couldn't get past it, we say. This was offensive. Jesus' teaching caused them to stumble away, not because the teaching was bad or wrong, but because their hearts were repelled to the truth he was saying. Jesus is confronting their hearts. He's giving them no excuse to hide behind at all here How could something like what I have spoken to you cause you to stumble? He asked them. Is this the kind of thing that would cause you to stumble? See, he knew the main problem. The main problem that they had with him. He claimed to come down out of heaven, and he claimed to provide his body as the life for the world. So he challenges them here. This causes you to stumble? What if you saw the Son of Man? Remember, that's a designation for himself that has eschatological implications. the one coming to reign over the world. What if you saw the Son of Man ascending, going back up to where he was before? Where was he before? In heaven. What if you saw me and my body leaving the earth and ascending back into heaven? Then what would you say? Would you be convinced then? You may remember later at his mock trial before the Sanhedrin, Jesus made very similar words, except he was talking about coming back from his ascension. In Matthew 26, 64, he said Hereafter you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of power and coming with the clouds of heaven. Really, an incredible statement. I came down out of heaven. What if you see me going back to heaven? You will see me from here on coming with the clouds of heaven. They want to see, they're going to see alright, but it's going to be too late for them then. What would you do if you saw with your own eyes me on the Mount of Olives ascending back to heaven? That's where he ascended from. And then he goes on to make the most important interpretive statement in the entire bread of life discourse. Don't miss it in verse 63. It summarizes and explains the point of the entire chapter, really. And you can underline this, highlighted it. Here's the message. It is the Spirit who gives life, not the human spirit. This is the Holy Spirit. The flesh, our body, flesh, profits nothing. And then he says, the words that I have spoken to you are spirit and our life. How do you get everlasting eternal life to meet God in the heavens? To have a future resurrection from the dead so that you will never die again? How do you get that kind of life in existence? It comes by the Spirit of the living God. Only He can impart this kind of life. The Spirit of God gives life. Physical things cannot lift us up out of this temporary world. We can't Drink literal water and eat some literal body and have that happen to us. There's no fountain of youth like that. There's no pill we can take. There's no science we can study. It's going to come from the Spirit of God Not even religion can do this for a man. Not even religion can give everlasting life. They'll try hard as they may. Remember the words to Nicodemus, a man committed to his religion far more than any today, I would think A Pharisee devoted to the law of God, a prayer man, a man of the book, a man of the scrolls. Jesus says, unless you're born again, you will not see the kingdom of heaven. You won't even see it, much less enter it. You can't get eternal life by your flesh. By doing anything, by eating physical things, eating literal flesh could never do that. That's not what I was talking about. The flesh profits nothing. By the way, don't take that statement beyond the way Jesus meant it in this context This is not an endorsement of some Gnostic teaching that all of a sudden Jesus thinks all of bodily existence and physical things are evil the way some that brought false teaching into the early church later began to teach And through that teaching said Jesus never really became a man. We were already told in John 1:14 the eternal word, the word of God, who was with God and was God. Verse 14, he became what? Flesh and lived among us, and we saw his glory. And in the letter of 1 John, he starts out by saying, We touched him. Our hands handled him. He was flesh. He wasn't a ghost. He wasn't an apparition. He was flesh like we are, flesh and bones. So don't take it that way. But our flesh, our eating of literal flesh, can never produce eternal life. This is more reminiscent of Paul's teaching in the letter of 1 Corinthians 15, that great resurrection chapter in verse 50. Now I say this, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable. It has to be something given by the Spirit of the living God. What is it that gives life? He tells us, and there it is, we talked about it last week: the Word of God and the Spirit of God. Just a flashback to chapter 5, verse 24, Jesus said, Truly, truly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life, a present possession. And does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death in the life. That verse assumes everybody's headed for judgment, because everybody's in death, and the only way they can get out of death and in the life is to hear the words of God and believe. That's the way. This book here is the word of life. We have the words that give everlasting life right here. You have an accurate copy of that right there in your hands. Paul says in Philippians 2. 16, we are holding fast, we're holding forth the word of life. Kind of reminds me of Jeremiah's words in Jeremiah 15, 16. He said, Your words were found, and I ate them. And your words became for me a joy and the delight of my heart. Eat the words of God. Bring them in. It doesn't mean you start tearing off pieces of the Bible and putting that's again it's missing it It's take the meaning and eat it and consume it. Let it be your thoughts, your beliefs, your guide, your light. This is reality, not religion. 1 Peter 1:23, for you have been born again. Notice the new life. You have been born again, not of seed which is perishable, but imperishable That is, through the living and enduring Word of God. The Word of God is eternal, yes? It endures and so it imparts eternal life. The Spirit of God is eternal, yes, and so He works to impart everlasting life. We don't do that. We gain everlasting life through the Word of God and believing it as the Spirit of God operates on our evil, stubborn hearts to make us willing to believe and give up the rulership of our lives. And so it is so important, I say to you today, it is so important for you to hear the words of God and take them seriously. Look at the warning next in verse 64. But there are some of you who do not believe. Imagine Jesus standing in front of all this group of people and they've claiming that he's Lord. They've seen his miracles, they're excited about him. They're in the synagogue now. They're believers in God. They believe there's a God the Jews did. But he says to them, There's some of you here who do not believe. You don't believe in me, and I know it. He knew it. And it says next, for Jesus knew from the beginning, that probably means the beginning of his ministry here, who they were who did not believe, and who it was that would betray him. Jesus was not surprised and disappointed by some surprise thinking, I'm going to have this wonderful ministry throughout all of Israel. You see these crowds that are coming out because I fed the 5,000. We're gonna drum it up and we're gonna get bigger and bigger crowds and we're gonna take over all of Israel. This is gonna be a fantastic He knew exactly what was coming. He knew exactly what was going to happen. He even knew the hearts of those standing before him. They did not believe. They did not believe. And Jesus knew it. And he confronts them directly with their unbelief. Sometimes you need to say that to some people. I believe in God I I I go to church, but you see in their life they don't believe. You think maybe there's a looking at their lifestyle they don't believe. And when you're sure of it, be careful with your judgments. When you're sure, say to them, you don't believe. You don't act like a believer. You don't have the heart of a believer. Your heart's married to this world. You're not a believer. At least it doesn't look like it. There's a confrontation right here. How can you tell an unbeliever? Well, I'll tell you how you can't tell an unbeliever. Unbelievers can come to church. Did you know that? Because these men are right there in the synagogue. You can't tell unbelievers about whether they talk about God, the Bible, and Jesus. Because that's exactly what these unbelievers are doing here in the synagogue. You tell by whether or not they've really accepted the words of Christ, the words of the New Testament, the promises of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that they've really taken it in and it's changed their life. They have a love and affection for God. They have a desire to read the Word of God and believe. They may struggle with their faith, but they're growing in a certain direction. The old direction of their life has changed. They're not perfect by any means. They still struggle with bad thoughts. But now they're believers. They're headed in a different direction. Christ is before their eyes. They're not living that way. They're trying. They're asking God to change them to be like that. Christ is their hero. That's a believer. They're a disciple. They're a follower. They're a believer. That's how you tell it. We ought to be devouring these words, the words of life, and putting them deep inside of us. You who have eternal life right now, just soaking in the words and loving the words, letting them change you. Don't hear something and let it drift away. Hear it and then go back and think about it. Like this is a meal that's provided for you on a plate, but you have to take that fork and you have to take it home and begin eating it. Otherwise, someone else is going to grab the plate, the food's going to be taken away. You're going to lose it. Put the words inside of you, and you'll have everlasting life. If you believe the gospel, you'll have everlasting life. And Jesus will raise you from the dead, he promised it. So make up your mind. Your eternal destiny hangs in the balance when you hear the good news about Jesus Christ. No one can make the decision for you. You don't get in because you have a godly wife, a godly mother, a believing child. You've heard. You're intelligent enough to understand. And you know something? God knows that. You gotta make your decision. Don't sit on the fence. To sit on the fence, you've already made a decision, and God knows that. God knows you've decided against his son. Because you have to say no to you, and you say I have to say yes to following Jesus Christ. Or you're an unbeliever. And Jesus knows it. That's your decision. That's you. That's your eternal destiny. Nobody else is going to give you the words of everlasting life. You can't get it from any other source. He's the bread of life. Either you're going to eat or you're not. Make up your mind, you young people. You sit, you listen, you hear the promises of God. Make up your minds. Are you going to believe or not? Make up your minds. You don't know what tomorrow has. Jesus confronts them with their unbelief. I wonder if some of you were in this story, which side you'd be on? Would you be standing with the grumblers? Who can believe this? Or would you be standing with the twelve, as we'll see later? Jesus not only knew those who were going to believe, he also knew who was going to betray him, it says That's a future participle. It hadn't happened by this point in time in John 6. Obviously it's Judas. It's named later in the passage. Judas was the traitor. Every time you hear the word Judas, what do you think? Traitor. I mean, who names their kids Judas anymore? Judas the traitor. No name that. Jude was actually a very uh common name back then, so he has to be designated Judas, son of Simon the Scariot, that Judas. Well, traitors are the very worst kind of people, and so his name is put in such a terrible light here in Scripture. They pretend to be a friend, as Judas was doing, and then they turn. Against their friend without warrant or just cause. And so Judas would be the one to hand over Jesus to pain and destruction and death. Traitors are worse than enemies, for they feign friendship and then are seen to be enemies from within. Jesus knew Jesus knew all about Judas. He knew his heart right then and there. He knew he was unbeliever and worse than an unbeliever. He was the traitor And you know something, Jesus still loved him and still cared for him. Verse 65. And he was saying, and he was saying to the Jews here, For this reason I have said to you that no one can come to me unless it has been granted him from the Father. Notice again Jesus reinforcing God's sovereignty and salvation, which we've already seen emphasized in the passage. No sinner fallen in nature, blind to them to truth. has the ability to believe in Jesus and be saved. Only the Father can give them to the Son. A man who sins is a man who is a slave to sin and has no power to free himself from slavery. The ray of hope is the exception that is given. It's the word unless again, unless it has been granted by the Father. The verb grant is a perfect middle of dome, meaning to give or to grant. Only the Father can do that And when he does it, it has been granted, it is given, it is perfect and complete. And when he grants, the person comes in faith. Yet we see the Father does not grant for faith for everyone. You may cry unfair. The Bible says that is the Father's prerogative. He is sovereign of the universe. Only those sinners granted does the Father draw to Jesus with an omnipotent draw, with an effective call Those he has chosen from eternity past, he foreknew in relationship, he now mightily draws. Jesus faced a lot of unbelief in that day. And he knew and understood the unbelief that he faced was because the Father had not granted for them to come. And he accepted the sovereignty of God and salvation without question. And we should too. In fact, Jesus stressed the sovereignty of God in disallowing people to come. Not so much in him disallowing, but in him not empowering. In fact, it is the very explanation in the passage why so many didn't come. No one can come. Jesus is not Jesus is not trying to figure out what's going on. He knows exactly what's going on. I see all this unbelief, and I say to you, none of you can come unless it has been granted of the Father. Why do so many not come? Jesus has an answer. It hasn't been granted of the Father. That's the answer. The Father does not draw all, and knowing the Father does not draw all prepares you and me for the fact that many, many, many are going to reject. The gospel that we preach. Does that discourage you? Didn't discourage Christ. Didn't confuse Christ. He knew exactly what was going on. Verse 66. As a result of this, many of his disciples withdrew and were not walking with him anymore. Please understand this was not just the crowd, these were many of his disciples. Disciples, mathetes, followers, student, learner. Every teacher had a group of mathetes, a group of learners enrolled in his class. His class roamed about, but it was still his class. They followed him, they learned from him Many of his disciples withdrew because of this, the verse said. With Drew is Aircomai. Ercomai is to go or come. Op is to go away, to go or do to come away, to depart. They withdrew. They heard it. They now kind of understood more of what Jesus was saying. And they made their decision and they withdrew. This was not what they were looking for. If they were going to go shopping for a religion, this wasn't it. Why listen to this anymore? There's no sense even hanging around here. Let's go. Come on. You going? I'm going. Okay, let's go. They bailed. They're out of here. They're gone. That's again like so many folks today. They don't walk with Jesus anymore. They don't follow, they turned back. You know this is uh At the end of chapter six, we kind of come to a very crucial turning point in the Gospel of John. You'll see the same thing. Six chapters later, at the end of chapter 12 Where again you see the massive number that are not believing. And here you have kind of a statement, and John is preparing everyone for this. This actually happened, but it's chosen to be right here in the middle of the gospel to prepare everybody for this. They were not believing. The Jews were not believing. It shows a large-scale rejection of Jesus. Jesus, the popular, now is Jesus the rejected D. A. Carson writes, These Galileans thus joined the earlier Jerusalem followers who failed to pass the test of unqualified allegiance and perseverance grounded in grace prompted faith. The Jerusalem people turned against them and didn't believe now the Galileans are. I'm glad that's not the entire story. Verses 67 through 71 show us the second group, those who stayed. Those who stay. Verses sixty-seven to seventy-one. Notice the penetrating question Jesus has with all these people leaving. Think of They're think of them walking out of the synagogue, think of them walking through the streets of Capernaum, going away by the hundreds, maybe by the thousands. Think of them going away, you see the backs, there's their white tunics, they're walking away, they're still grumbling. The 12 are still hanging around them, and Jesus turns to the 12. Just a very dramatic scene in the life of Christ. One of the ones, really, frankly, that means the most to me personally. He turns to his closest and dearest disciples who are called the twelve here, and he actually gives them the opportunity of getting out also. You do not want to go away, also, do you I don't quite know how he asked that question. I've been trying to figure it out. But it was a penetrating question. This was Jesus' way of testing them. He already knew hearts. But here was a decision point. For all of the disciples, not just those that had feigned discipleship, the false disciples who are now walking away, but those around him Do you also want to go away? Do you want to join them? Do you want to follow the crowd? I think every disciple of Jesus, yes, even the true ones, comes to a decision point like this also. come to follow Christ and to believe in him. They're excited about him, but then they run into something in following Jesus that's hard, where it may seem unfair, where it doesn't seem to be all lining up the way they thought it would line up for life. And they ask, is it worth it to follow Jesus? What am I getting out of this? Why am I coming to church reading my Bible? Why am I doing this? Why am I living for Jesus in a world that largely rejects him and then mocks my faith and doesn't allow me to do certain things that kind of in my heart I really want to go out and go do? My faith is mock as archaic and useless and misguided and of no consequence. And others live their lives happily without this. Do I too want to abandon ship and join them? Do I want to turn back because the climb is too exhausting? Do I want to out? Well the twelve right here, right now, we're faced with this opportunity. As they watch the droves and droves of former disciples turning, literally turning their back on Jesus and walking away. Can you imagine that? Yeah, sometimes we romanticize how it would be to be there with Jesus in the land, you know, seeing him. You know how it would have been this day? It would have been confusing. This is Jesus, the Son of God, right? And they're they're walking away from him. Why are they doing that? Well, what a moment, humanly speaking. I mean, you know, God's sovereignty has the whole thing planned, but humanly speaking, the whole Christian movement church thing could have ended right here. Humanly speaking, the 12 could have looked at one another and said, What are we doing here? Let's go. I'm out of here. The whole thing ends. No Christianity, no church today for us, it's all over. But it did not, because it wasn't God's will. Look at verse 68. Simon Peter. Blessed Simon Peter. Simon Peter, who often sticks the old large foot in the mouth, says the the just the dumbest thing And here he is. Simon Peter answered him, answered him, Lord, to whom will we go? You have words of eternal life. We have believed and have come to know that you are the holy one of God. You know, Peter is speaking for the twelve. He says, We have believed. He's speaking for all of them. You know, we're used to thinking of Peter's confession of faith as in Matthew sixteen on the road to Caesarea Philippi. Where Jesus turns to his disciples and says, Who do the people say that I am? And say, Well, some people say you're Elijah, and others, John the Baptist raised from the dead, Jeremiah one of the prophets, and Jesus turns his gaze right at him and says, But who do you say I am? Peter speaking for the twelve. Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Blessed are you, Simon, son of Jonah, and on and on. Well, here's a pretty good confession, too. What do you think, huh? Does pretty well for himself right here, don't you think? He identifies Jesus as the one giving life, the holy one of God. And Peter looks around at the people walking out of the synagogue, and instead of thinking, I'm going to join them, he's thinking, where are they going? Where are they going? Where are they headed? What are they going to do now? They're going to go back to their homes, nice home there on the corner. What are they going to do? They're going to do their job, work a little bit, plant some things, build some things. Raise a family, enjoy the kids. What are they going to do? Because then they're going to die. And they don't have life. Where are they going? And so he says that to Jesus. Where would we go? I don't know anywhere else to go. You have the words of everlasting life Man, that is a confession and that is a thought of faith that ought to be deep inside of every one of us. Whenever it's hard, whenever we think maybe we should go, whenever we're being ostracized for our faith, you just stop and think, okay. Okay, I got the choice. I'm all stubborn. Now I'm gonna go and I'm gonna leave. Where are you gonna go? Jesus only has the words of everlasting life. And so he answers, right? I'm gonna die one day. Who's gonna speak for me on that day? I want everlasting life. People follow philosophies today, rabbis, some other god. None of them grant life. They all have their explanations. But they all die. They're all subject to death, they're going nowhere, and reincarnation is a false hope. It's just a way of lying because you couldn't produce a resurrected person. Come on. Christianity says, here's an empty tomb. What do the others say? Well we can come back here as a cow. That that does something for you. It just smells like a lie, it just smells like a lie. Who's gonna break the power of death? Jesus. He did. And to remind us once again, we get that life by the Spirit of God as we hear the words of God and believe. Well, we have the words of eternal life. And when Peter says, you have the words of eternal life to Jesus. In this context, what he really means is only you have the words of eternal life. Because there's nowhere else to go. I think Peter understood what Jesus was saying about eating the bread of life, coming to him, to gain life. He went on to testify, We have believed and come to know you are the Holy One of God. That's a messianic title. Peter understood this. You know, Peter, after Jesus was raised from the dead, ascended, poured out the Holy Spirit in Acts three, going up to the temple when he healed the lame man. You remember that? Passage, he said these words in Acts 3. The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. He was preaching this. The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus. The one whom you delivered and disowned in the presence of Pilate when he had decided to release him, but you disowned the holy and righteous one, there's the title again, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you. But you put to death the prince of life, the one whom God raised from the dead, a fact to which we are witnesses. This is the same title, the Holy One of God, that even the demons, even the unclean spirits knew was the correct title for Jesus. In Luke 4, they said to Jesus at one point, let us alone. They don't like being around Jesus. What business do we have with each other, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are. The Holy One of God. But I don't think he quite said it that way. Jesus was the Holy One of God, the one set apart, brought into the world. And upon this great confession of faith It's a confession that reminds us why we never leave even when the going gets tough. Well, Jesus concludes in verses 70 and 71. By the way, I just think it's very, very interesting that he doesn't conclude, phew, wow, at least I have twelve disciples remaining. Goodness, I just about blew this whole thing with a very hard and difficult sermon this day in Capernaum. He doesn't even say, thank you for sticking it out with me. You're just my closest friends. That's what I would have said. You all hate this sermon, and someone stuck around and be like, thanks. Give me a break here, you know That's not at all what he says. Jesus answered them, Did I myself not choose you? Here they are believing, and he says, Did I myself not choose you? It always comes back to the choice of God, beloved. And then he calls them the twelve. That's a designation here in this passage. The first time he's called them the twelve. John doesn't explain why they're called the twelve. He assumes knowledge of the other three gospels that were written before his. How Jesus selected all twelve of them after a night of prayer, did I not choose you? And yet one of you is a devil. A devil. No questions about it. No, one Peter, one John who's writing this. James, Philip, Thomas, and no. There it is. Now he met Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for he, one of the twelve. One of the insiders, one of those special twelve disciples, was going to betray him. Still in the future. How sad. Jesus was not surprised by the defection of false disciples. Jesus was not surprised. By the twelve staying, Jesus would not be surprised by the one betraying. The devil would be the power behind Judas. He's called the Devil It says literally the devil entered into Judas at the time of betrayal in John 13, 27. Yet Judas is never ever excused for his decision. Judas is a tragedy. He epitomizes both apostasy and even worse, betrayal. His was a tragic choice. He got to walk and talk with Jesus. He saw everything. He heard all the teachings. He was loved of Christ. But he betrayed him. Betrayed means he handed him over. He went. For the money. He got something out of the deal when he saw the whole thing going south. And he bailed and he betrayed the location of Christ. And he was crucified. Traitors are the worst. There's nothing worse than a traitor. For they gain your trust and then turn on you. But of course, Christ was entrusting himself to the Father, for he knew. I have to tell you one thing here in closing. Betrayal is terrible. But in the end, both Judas and those that walked away from Christ end up in the same judgment Judases will be harsher. But no one there will gain heaven. No one there will gain life. They have all committed themselves to foolish destruction. I would say to you, if you quietly sit there and don't respond to Christ, you're in danger. I would say to you that if you hear words and walk away and go, ah, that's on you. The Bible never blames God or people turning their back on Christ. And I would say to you that as you go out and you speak to others and you give them the good news, you must follow up your evangelism where those turn away from it with a warning. You must not just tell them the good news. Otherwise, the good news really doesn't sound all that good. You must tell them this is these are the words of life. If you choose not to have them, you choose for yourself eternal death and judgment. For that is sure and certain, and is closer than we may know. Beloved, pray for the lost. Be strong in your message. And if any of you need to call on Christ this day, do it in your heart there in your seat today. Do not wait. As the scripture we read earlier from Hebrews 3 says, do not harden your hearts. Respond in faith. Ask Christ to come in as Lord and Savior, and He will today. It'll be a very wonderful and merry Christmas for all of you. Let's pray, and then we'll have our new member reception following the message. Father, we pray for any that need to hear and respond and believe, soften their heart, move them, operate upon them, help them to cry out to you for salvation and mercy. For you have the words of life. We thank you for our service. We thank you for this wonderful season to remember Jesus and this wonderful opportunity to worship Him. Thank you for your people. Strengthen them in faith. Help them to take seriously the words they have heard. For we do ask it in the name of our Savior. Amen.