All right ladies, it's time to begin our session. We're a few minutes even behind, but that's okay. We will get through what we need to do. Thank you for coming and um being part of this workshop on declaring the glory of God. I'm Amy White and um in the bio a little bit has changed since the last time that was updated I think um but mostly with just our children. My husband is Matt White, he's a pastor and the teaching pastor at Belcroft Bible Church and we have four kids and our kids now range from eighteen to six. So this last year as a home school mom I had a senior and a kindergartner. So that was crazy and fun. And um he said we plan things well at our house. But um so this coming school year we'll have one in college, a senior in high school, one in middle school, and a first grader. So we will experience every level of learning. in our um family. But um I'm thankful to be here with you today and share with you from God's Word, declaring the glory of God, understanding the revelation of God and what He has revealed to us about Himself through creation. And even more so the gift of his word that he has given us so that we can have a personal relationship with him. So let's open with a word of prayer before we begin and dive into this lesson. Dear Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you so much for today and just for your gift of your word. Lord, thank you for revealing yourself to us that we can look in the sky, Lord, and see your handiwork. And Father, we can hold in our hands the very word. That you would want us to know. Father, I pray that you would use this time to grow us in our love for you and just in a deeper relationship with you as you have called us to know you. Thank you, Lord, for who you are and for all that you do. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So to begin with, A. W. Tozer, in his book, Knowledge of the Holy, said, The most important thing about you is what comes into your mind when you think about God. The most important thing about you is what comes into your mind when you think about God. And I was just struck by that. phrase or that statement, just wondering, when I wake up in the morning, is that a thought that I think of? What do I think about God? And how does that then reflect in my day as I go about living it and honoring him. The most important thing about you is what comes into your mind when you think about God. And if I'm going to think about him, then I have to know him. And I can't go to any source to figure that out. I can't even go to my own thoughts or feelings, right? I have to be driven to something greater than that and a truth. And so God's word is how we're going to know him and know him more fully. H. B. Charles has said, Your view of God is everything, all in capital letters. So he's saying it very forcefully. Your view of God is everything. If you were to look at Jeremiah nine, Jeremiah nine, twenty-three and twenty-four. It says, Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man boast in his wisdom. Let not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in his riches, but let him who boasts boast in this that he understands and knows me. Ladies, do you know the Lord? Do you know God the Father? Do you know him like you want to know him? Do you know him more today than you did last month? Last week, last year. You know, we should be growing in that constantly. We don't receive everything at salvation It's a growing process as part of our sanctification. And yet God has called us to know Him and He has revealed Himself to us. And that should cause us to rejoice and to glory in who He is. Thinking rightly about God and having a right understanding of who God is is so important for the Christian woman, for the Christian, for the believer. anyone and to have a high view of who he is. Sometimes your pastor may say that to you, may you may hear that in other teaching, but having a high view of God, elevating who he is above anything else in this world. Oftentimes we get it reversed. We have a high view of ourselves instead of a high view of God. Or we try to balance out who God is with our own definitions and our own understanding. And really we're lowering who He is and His glory and majesty and splendor that God's Word declares. J. I. Packer said to disregard the study of God and you sentence yourself to study. Stumble and blunder through life blindfolded, as it were, with no sense of direction and no understanding of what surrounds you. This way you can waste your life and lose your soul. And that's the last thing we want to do as Christian women to stumble around blindly. Knowing who God is and what you believe in Him gives you a sure foundation for decision making, for going through trials and struggles, for all of life, for being a mom, for being a wife. Right? Who God is is so important because it anchors our hearts, it anchors our minds in something bigger than ourselves and in the truth of his word. So knowledge of God, having a knowledge of God, what does that mean? do for us. So I just have like a quick list of some things that I just jotted down and you could probably add to this in a number of creative ways. But the knowledge of God, like I was saying, it drives our thinking. What we think about God Who we think of Him drives our thinking. It helps us to be sure and steady. Knowledge of God is truth. So when you're learning and when you're growing and when you're feeding on the Word, you're feeding on truth, and that is good. It guards us from sin. It strengthens. It directs our worship. It convicts. It purifies. It prepares us. Life is a lot about preparation, right? We don't know what tomorrow holds, but we know who holds it, right? And so having that assurance in who God is helps prepare us. It helps us wait. As we prepare, sometimes we're in a stage of waiting. My husband will often preach that life is a lot about waiting. And guess what we don't like to do? Wait, right? We're i we're always for the click line, the click thing, the click food, the click whatever, right? Our kids are hitting reset all the time because they want to fix things. Quick, click, click. But life is about Waiting and we have to wait. And what better place to wait than on the Lord? Psalms reminds us, right? Be still and know that I am God. We have to wait, and we have to be still and in In that we can know him. It grows us in godliness and holiness. Knowledge of God gives us hope, just like even Pam was talking about just a little bit ago. It helps us trust, it teaches us. about love. It prepares us for our future with him. And ladies, don't you know that that's really those who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, that that's what we're doing? We're preparing to be with him forever. So why would We not want to know the very thing, the very one that we're going to spend our whole lives with. He has called us to this and we can know him. So what can we know about God? That's the most basic question of theology. For what we can know about God and whether we can know anything about Him at all determines the scope and content of our study. Here we must consider the teaching of the greatest theologian in history. And so I'm going to give you a big word with lots of syllables, but it's an easy word to understand. All of whom have affirmed that with God there's limits, right? Because he is the infinite God and we are finite. And right, the longer you we live, the more we know that we don't know, right? And so God in his goodness has said, Know me. He has shown us and we're going to look at that. But there's also aspects of him that we cannot understand. understand and theologians call that the incomprehensibility of God the incomprehensibility of God and it sounds like we can't comprehend him at all. But that's not the truth in that terminology. It's that He is incomprehensible, referring to the fact that we just can't know all of him. There are parts of him that he has even chosen not to reveal. And we can see that in scripture, if you look back in Exodus, at the great man Moses, right, the leader of the children of Israel, he got to commune with God. He got to talk with God in ways and hear his voice that we will never experience or know here on earth. And yet After his time on the mount with the Lord, do you remember that passage in Exodus? When he even got to the end, he said, Lord, show me your glory. There were parts of the Lord that he didn't even see. after all that communication with him and that time away with him one on one. And did the Lord reveal his whole self to Moses at that time? He was like Moses, he hid him, right, in the cleft of the rock and he was like, I'm just going to just pass by you so that you're just going to see the tail end of who I am because to see God in his full glory and his full countenance and his perfection would be too much for Moses and way too much. And so even in that, there are parts of God that we cannot know, but yet He has called us to know Him. And so it is our duty, out of obedience and love for Him, to learn what we can and to grow. Like I said in the beginning, the finite cannot contain or grasp the infinite. In Deuteronomy 29, 29, it says the secret things, the secret things belong to the influence. to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us. Isn't that great? Like there are things he has kept for himself, but there are immeasurable things for our human minds that he has allowed us to know. And shouldn't we find joy in digging into that and growing in that and reveling in that and cherishing that? I think yes. In heaven God will be much more to us than he even is now. when we when we begin to think about who God is, right, our minds can just be like it like grows and grows to where it's like like you just have to stop, right? And catch your breath and be okay. But there's aspects of God that we have have to even imagine that are beyond our human comprehension. That on this side of heaven we just couldn't even understand if it could like there are no words to contain who God is beyond what we can right now. C. H. Spurgeon says there's a quote there on your paper that says it is impossible that there should be a God at all, except the God of Revelation. A God who can be fashioned by our own thoughts is no No more a God than the image manufactured or produced by our own hands. Meaning we wouldn't want it. It would be worthless, right? If we could construct it, we couldn't we couldn't even compare it, come close. A true God must of necessity be his own revealer. And so he is both the creator and the revealer of all that we need to know. In First Corinthians thirteen, just one other verse, it says, For now we see in a mirror dimly But then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I will know fully, just as I also have been fully known. And so, ladies, one day we will be with our Heavenly Father, and we will give you the Lord. to see the completeness of who He is. And what an exciting day that will be. According to the Holman Bible Dictionary, the revelation of God, here's just a basic definition of that. is the content and process of God's making himself known to people. So the content and the process of God's making himself known to his people or to people. All knowledge of God comes by way of revelation. Human knowledge of God is revealed knowledge since God and He alone gives it. He bridges the gap between Himself and And his creatures, disclosing himself and his will to them. By God alone can God be known. I think that's important. By God alone can God be known. It's not, again, the Formulations of our thoughts. It's not even what our pastor tells us, but it is who God is. So when we're learning, we need to check it through the authority we have in Scripture to see if it is true. The word revelation. Revelation is just the word that means uncovering or to remove the veil, just like we were talking about in First Corinthians thirteen. So as God uncovers himself, as he reveals himself, he does it in two ways. The first way being general revelation. General revelation, that's point one there. And general revelation is by definition God's witness of himself. Himself through the creation to his creatures. So God's witness of himself through the creation to his creatures. In it we see his glory on each other. display we see his significance, his weightiness. And general revelation is for all people. It's for all people. Number one, a little bit about General Revelation. It is an appreciation for God's wisdom and power. Appreciation for God's wisdom and power. So if we think of general revelation, we often think of it as God revealing himself. Through creation, through the things around us when we look outside. And so if we just take, for example, it's summer, and so many of you, there are lots of people that love the beach and love going to see the ocean and spending And if we just think about the ocean in and of itself, right? There's a beauty on display at the ocean. As you watch the waves roll in and out, as you watch just take in the sunrise or the sunset out. at the beach, right? There's a beauty there. But there's also a power, a mighty force that's on display there. As those waves are rolling, there's crashing, there's force. There is power behind that. Right? We could also think of a thunderstorm. I enjoy a good thunderstorm. Do any of you? My children, my youngest, do not enjoy the thunderstorm as much. They're like getting on the app to track it and see when it's coming and so they don't have that love for the storm that I do. But there's something beautiful about the clouds as they roll in and they form, but then there's the power on display as the thunder and the lightning happens. And so as I'm miniature Ministering to my children through the storm, reminding them that God is in control of this storm, right? Who made the storm? God made the storm. He's got it all in his hand, right? Isn't that amazing when you stop and think about just in these aspects that we see around us every day. Clouds, storms, oceans. He's holding it all in control. And all of us at the same time, down to the tiniest little atom and particle, right? Again our minds are but that's who God is. That is who he is. An appreciation for his wisdom and power, that we can see both beauty and power on display in him. Also in General Revelation, especially if you get Martha's book, this is chapter one in her book, but she talks about also how General Revelation can also include just the Inherent knowledge of right and wrong or your conscience, we would call it. Everyone has a conscience. Some people's conscience gets hardened over time to where they can't hear it, right? We see examples of that in scripture. like through Pharaoh when it says God hardened his heart. King Saul, he went through a time where he was hardened. But we all have a conscience, whether we're saved or not or unsaved. In Romans two, fourteen through fifteen. talks about that. And so just having a conscience, the ability to think right and wrong and make a decision on that, right? We know lots of good people who are unsaved. Praise the Lord. They have a conscience that God General revelation also can be seen through providence. Martha talked about the colour. about this in her book. So in the world, people might say, I had good luck today, right? But as a believer, Martha wants us to retrain our minds and she is good at ushering us through that. That it's not the idea of, well that was lucky. No, that was God working out details in our lives that we weren't at that intersection when a car crash happened, right? That to the way the Lord moves and works things out, his providence. Again, for the believer and the unbeliever, and she shares stories about that or her own testimony to that in the book that we're all getting later so you can read it and find out how the Lord orchestrates that in her life. But God does that, right? And so as believing women, when we're in situations where someone is saying to you, sharing a story, maybe a family member or coworker, that so lucky this weekend you'll never believe what happened and you can then turn and say, well yeah I do know how that happened. That was God at work in your life and maybe even opening a door to share in a way that you didn't even know was possible. So his providence is on display. It's also shown in the preservation of life, shown in the preservation of life, that all of our days are in God's hand, right? We cannot, no matter what we do, add days to our life that haven't already been ordained by God. He has given us every single one, from our birth date to our end date. The Lord has that in control. In Psalm 139, you can read about life, but it says says, in your book were all written the days that were ordained for me. He has a plan for our lives and we can trust him. And the preservation of life both for the saved and the unsaved is the same. There's a time that we have been given. The one thing with general revelation is that it is limited in what can be observed by sinful man. It is limited in what can be observed by sinful man. Because even as we look out at our world and see the beauty of things around us, how many people who don't believe in the Lord are denying the clear reality of a creator, right? We hear that a lot and we see that a lot in people some people that we even love and care about very much. Right they they just have that disconnect with understanding that there is a creator, a designer of our world, of our lives, of our very being, and without the Holy Spirit opening and illuminating their eyes they are in a darkness, right? Of what they can see and understand. General Revelation points to the Creator and it leaves people without excuse, but it does not save on its own. And so we cannot go out in nature and meet the Lord as far as to come into a salvation relationship with Him. That's not going to happen. It may be something that starts your mind thinking, that begins that the Lord uses to reveal himself to you, but we are not saved through his creation. We'll talk more about that though. General revelation has been for all people, for all time. and it's observed by human senses, right? It's not for just the elites that have science degrees that can see the world through microscopes and the tiny little particles, right? It's for all of us. We can go out. and see the beauty that God has created. We can experience what He has given. And then just one more thing, which I've already stated, but no one can be saved by general revelation. And we could look to Romans 10, 5 through 6. We could also look at First Corinthians 1, 18, 2 through 5, and we will look at a little bit of that in just a minute. But if we were to look at Psalm nineteen, I do want to spend a little bit of time there, because Psalm nineteen declares the glory of God. It shows us both general revelation and point number two. We're going to get to special revelation as well. And so Psalm 19 and Psalm 119 are beautiful passages in which God reveals Himself through his word and at the beginning of this psalm through his general revelation. And so David is good to remind us in Psalm 19, 1 through 6, the heavens declare the glory of God and the sky above proclaims his hand. Handi work. Day to day pours out speech and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech, nor are there words. Whose voice is not heard. Their voice goes out through all the earth and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun. which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and like a strong man runs its course with joy. Its rising is from the ends of heavens and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat. And so in these first six verses, David uses significant things of Scripture to display the glory of God, things that we could walk outside right now. and experience and things that we can picture in our mind right now and praise the Lord for. And so we first see in verse one that the heavens declare the glory of God. Right? Just watching the clouds, just looking at the sky declares the glory Glory of God. When you see the sky every day, are you thankful? Are you giving thanks to the Lord for what He has given to you that you can see His handiwork? We can decl it declares the glory of God, and it should cause us to respond and worship to Him. The heavens declare the glory of God. And the sky above proclaims his handiwork. At night, when we can see stars, right? They're just so intric intricately put in place And being a homeschool mom, when I like study science with the kids, I'm like reminded and blown away how actually far away those stars are from us. It's like wow, they just seem like they're right up there But they are so far away from earth, and yet they're put in a perfect place for us to see God's handiwork on display. Same with the sun, when you just consider where we where Earth is in relationship to the sun and the heat that we do receive and the fact that we're spinning at just the right speed and that we're moving around the the sun so that we can enjoy the seasons. And then you learn about Mercury that's so close and it's like freezing on one side and burning up on the like life can exist there. But on this planet, life can exist perfectly in perfect unity and harmony just by accident, right? No foolish people, right? You can No, it is not that. It is God and his handiwork on display Day and night they give their knowledge of God, they point to a creator, the fact that we have day and we can Night comes and we can lay down and rest, right? We can lie down and rest and then morning comes again. Are you thankful when it comes again? Do you give him thanks for another day? So much that we can be thankful for that God has revealed to us. And we don't have to guess. And we don't have to just say thank you to whatever. Being, thing, dust. rock, whatever, we give thanks to the true and living God who has revealed himself to us through his creation and through his word. The object of which we get to say thanks to is so great. And we don't want to miss that every single day. The message of the created world is everywhere. In verse three, there's no speech or words that are happening as we look up at the sky, as we look at the trees, or if you're By a river, whatever it is that brings you joy in the creation. Many of you probably like to garden and you find great joy. Seeing many of the things growing in your garden this time of year, and yet without a word they are declaring the glory of God. And we've I've already mentioned the sun, but just how what an amazing thing that is in the sky. And one day we won't even need that sun because we will be with the sun who is the light of all lights, right? And it's com the sun even in this passage is compared to a bridegroom and a runner, right? It happens every single day. There is consistency and there is um just that reliability in who God is and even in his creation. So a few additional thoughts about general revelation is that j general revelation is sufficient to show us there is a creator and that he is all powerful, but it is ineffective for salvation. It is, however, enough to make one culpable or guilty before God. Martha states that on page seven of her book. Like I was saying, no one can be saved through general revelation But it does make one culpable or guilty before a holy God because he has bare witness on who he is. Anne, yes. I'm sorry? Which book you're doing. Oh, the book that I think they said everyone was getting for free uh mark the pieces. Um, there it is. Okay, fine. The precious truths in practice. Yes, yes, ma'am. So um PC here. In um Romans ten, I was talking about earlier, we can see that on display, that no one is saved through general revelation. And um First Corinthians one eighteen two through five. General revelation condemns but because the heavens declare the glory of God and point to God the Creator. In Romans 120 it says, For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived Ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made, so they are without excuse, meaning people, his creation, his people are without excuse, meaning that we are without excuse before the Creator as He has revealed Himself to us. And so when the Bible talks about people appearing before the Lord without excuse, even if they haven't heard the message, it's because his creation has been revealing his power and majesty all around them for all time. Time and all eternity. And then it should also compel us who know him that we have a message to share. Because as you know, the Bible says Space comes by hearing and hearing through the Word of God. And so that leads us to point number two, special revelation. Those of us who have been saved have been saved because of the message of God's Word. It's been preached to us, it's been shared to us, it's been communicated with us in a way that has drawn us to the Father as He has opened us. eyes for a need for him. Special revelation, just a simple definition, is God uses special revelation when he reveals himself directly. And that's the key point. That he reveals himself directly. and in greater detail. It is seen for us today, only in the Bible, God's Word. So this is your tool. This is what you need. This is what you need to be in. Okay? In the past God has revealed Himself in various ways, but for us we have it recorded in His Word and we have His Word. So number one, God has revealed Himself through direct acts. Meaning that God spoke directly with those in the Old Testament, many people, right? Like we can even start in Genesis. In Genesis one, we can see that he spoke directly to Adam and Eve, right? He walked with them in the garden and he communicated with them directly. Moses already mentioned him. The children of Israel had direct communication. They didn't like it, but they had it. And um even in the gospels, the father spoke in the Gospels. You can see that in Matthew 3 and in Matthew 17 verse 5 and in John 12 28 when he even speaks about his own son in John 12 Twenty-eight, the Father says, um the Lord is speaking, or Jesus himself. He says, In verse twenty seven, Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven, I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. And he also spoke as his baptism. And so we have recordings of him in both the Old Testament and the New Testament. In Matthew 17, verse 5, it was when he spoke and said, This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased, and then he even goes on to say, Listen to him. And so in the Old and New Testament there was direct communication with the Lord. And like we can experience today, also recorded in Scripture, we know That God revealed himself through dreams and visions. So that would be a second way. He revealed himself through dreams and visions, especially through the prophets, right? We can think about those major and minor prophet books, and God was revealing himself. To those people at that time. We can think of Isaiah and Daniel, and even the Apostle John, when he was on the island of Patmos and received the book of Revelation, he saw and heard from God in dreams and visions. And so God used that way at that time. The third way, and ultimately, we see his revelation in the incarnation of his son, Jesus, right through the Gospels. We see that clearly displayed and then throughout the New Testament. But Colossians states that Jesus himself was the image of the invisible God, Colossians one fifteen. And you could also see Hebrews one three. Son of God was God in the flesh, right? Declaring himself here on earth. In John 14, nine in John 14, verses 9 and 10, Jesus is talking with his disciples, and he says, Have I been with you so long? And you still do not know me, Philip? Or just put our name in there, right? That would probably be all of us. Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father? Father is in me. The words that I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works. He was revealing himself to his disciples then, and his word screams to us now. of who he was and is. So he spoke directly to them. He gave dreams and visions. He came in the form of the God man Jesus Christ. Christ and ladies, number four is the Bible. The Bible is a fixed written testimony from the Creator to his creatures. That's what we hold and hopefully that's what we love. And that's where we're going. to find out our most and our most special knowledge that we can have of who God is. When we think about the history of the Bible, that it was composed over a period of 1500 years, right, in three different languages. By forty different human authors, and yet it conveys one message and points to an eternal God, and that we are in desperate need of Him. It's more than the words of men. inspired words of God Himself. And so the Bible, it reveals the mind of God. Right? If we're going to know God, we need to go to its source. So if we want to know the mind of God, if we can even say that in human terms, then it'd be okay to say say, then we need to go to his word. The ways of God are recorded in the Bible. The righteousness of God, recorded in his word, and the means by which man may please God. It is superior, meaning the Bible is superior to general revelation because it is specific and it is verbal. It is specific and it is verbal. It is written by his apostles and by prophets and it is a lasting and forever settled witness to an unchanging God. And so as things in our world constantly change and lose relevance and all the things, God's word remains unchanging forever because he is an unchanging God and so his word is pure and true forever. In Psalm nineteen, if we go back there, we can see once again The beauty of his word on display in verses 7 through 11. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true. True and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, even much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is your servant warned in keeping them, there is good. Great reward. There is great reward in knowing God's Word, and in knowing God's Word we come to know God better, deeper, richer, fuller. In this section, we can look at what the word is. We can see it declared, what it is, and what it does. And we first see in verse seven that the Bible is called the law of the Lord. The law of the Lord, according to verse 7, says it is what? If you're looking there with me. It's perfect. Perfect. And what does it do for us? us. It revives our soul. How how many of you need that daily? A little reviving? I do, and a lot of times I think it's coffee that I need. I probably just need more time in the word. Right? The law of the Lord is perfect. reviving the soul. Ladies, this portion of scripture just kind of it makes you feel refreshed and clean when you read it because God's word is that good. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The law of the Lord is also called the testimony of the Lord. It's a testimony of who he is, and his testimony is sure. Making wise the simple. That's us. We're simple. We are simple people. And again, like the older we get, the more we realize it. And it's through his word that we can become wise. Like when a friend comes to you or your child comes to you or a family member comes to you, you are simple in what you have to say. The thing that makes you wise is when you can share truth in God's Word with someone. And that is a sure thing. It's also called the precepts of the Lord. The precepts of the Lord Then the precepts of the Lord are right. Right? It doesn't mean that we always like what it says. It doesn't mean that who we say it to will like what it says, but it's always right. It's always right. And at the end it rejoices the heart. When we submit and obey to what God has said, it makes us rejoice in heart. It's also called the commandments of the Lord, and the commandments of the Lord are pure. enlightening the eyes. We need pure things because our world is very clouded, it's very messy, and it's hard to see through clearly, and so we need something pure in our life. It's also referred to as the fear of of the Lord. We don't often talk about the God's word as the fear of the Lord, but God's word directs us in the fear of the Lord and so it comes through knowing. The fear of the Lord comes through knowing his word and that it's clean and that it endures forever. When this world passes away, it will remain. The rules of the Lord are also noted as true and righteous altogether. And ladies, we should be desiring it more than anything. It should be what we desire and long for, day in and day out, right? Every hour. Right? I need the every hour. We need his word. We need to go to it. We need that refreshing. um nature of who he is and he has revealed himself through his word. Additional thoughts about it. It is the word that calls people to repentance and faith according to um according sorry, I keep flipping here. I missed that. But according to Romans 10, 5 through 6 seventeen at the end of that section it says How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have n never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news but they have not all obeyed the gospel, for Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us? And like we already mentioned, so faith comes from hearing and hearing through the Word of Christ. And so people need to know, and it's not just up to your pastor to tell them, it's up to each one of us. We've all been given that commission to share what God has opened our eyes to through his precious, precious word. So in conclusion, if we look at the end of Psalm nineteen, verses thirteen, we're starting at verse twelve through fourteen. His errors. Declare me innocent from hidden faults. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me, then I shall be blameless and innocent of great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and The meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. The result of God's word, the result of God's creation and seeing him revealed and on display, ladies, should keep us from sin. It should convict us and help us to r remind ourselves to keep short accounts with Jesus. It keeps our minds focused on the right thing and it should ultimately lead to praise to the Lord. Because it is for his glory alone. General revelation in nature, the things around us, those things are fading and passing away. And they will one day be destroyed. destroyed, right? We hear that in Revelation. But the word of the Lord, the special revelation, will not pass away, because it is forever. The beans of general revelation in nature is cursed. And in bondage to the corruption of this world. But the word of God is inspired and always perfect and holy and pure. We just saw that in Psalm 19. And general revelation. Revelation is limited in scope when compared to the multidimensional expanse of special revelation. One aspect of that is that we've already said that general revelation only condemns But special revelation condemns and redeems. And aren't we thankful for that? Again, in Martha's book on page 16, she has a quote that says, God has revealed himself to us through gentlemen. general and special revelation, and while we cannot know everything of who he is, the truth is we can know him. This truth should cause us to worship him, proclaim his excellencies, joyfully obey his word, and to submit to his will in our lives, even while undergoing very difficult trials. And as we close, ladies, I just want to read to you some Psalm 145. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his works. The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. truth. He fulfills the desires of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. The Lord preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy. My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord. and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever. Ladies, I hope that you take these truths and just even marvel today at God's goodness and work in your life, that He has opened your eyes and revealed Him. to you not by things in your head and by um visions or dreams but he has given you his creation and he has given you his holy word. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this day. that you have given and just even for this time we could share for these few minutes to think that you, the God creator of all things, would reveal your majesty, your splendor, and your glory to simple people. like us. Lord, may we never lose the excitement. May we never lose the joy. May we never stop giving thanks to you for all that you have given to us. Be with us throughout the remainder of the day. May your word just encourage, refresh, We thank you, Lord, and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen