We love this time of year. You know, there's such imagery of worship. We think about the shepherds kneeling before Christ, the newborn king, lying humbly in a manger. We picture the wise men who rejoice exceedingly with great joy to find the King of the Jews. And to this day, this child, the King of the Jews, makes our hearts fill with awe and worship. But why did Christ the Messiah come? Luke nineteen ten says, For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost So the Christmas story is the story of redemption. MacArthur says in his book, um, the ultimate priority He said, The Father and Son have sought to redeem us that we may become his worshipers. And in John 4 it says, For such people the Father seeks to be his worshipers. What is worship? It's simply ascribing worth to God. It's honor and adoration directed to God. Indeed, it's something that we give to God. Our church has a vision statement. In that vision statement, part of it is an exalting church. Listen to this part of Hope Bible Church Church's vision statement. We endeavor, as a saved and sanctified community, to lift up and glorify our most awesome God. through heartfelt corporate worship in which we enjoy the presence of God and aim to please Him. We express this worship of Almighty God in both spirit and truth through spiritual music Intercessory prayers, loving adoration, genuine thanksgivings, communion at the Lord's Supper, and love-inspired offerings as we lay aside our own desires and present our whole selves to God. We leave our times of praise and worship with a renewed desire to obey God's commands as an ongoing act of worship and service to His holy name. So our focus this morning is worship in particular, corporate worship, the gathering of the church to worship God. And the title of Barbara Hughes' chapter that we're looking at this morning is so appropriate because it says the discipline of worship, submissions, celebration. Yes, worship's a discipline. It's something we need to cultivate in our lives. And when we're submitted to God, it is a celebration. And this morning we're going to look at Psalm 100, which tells us all about worship. It's an entrance psalm that worshippers when they would arrive at the temple in Jerusalem would say. Even though it was meant for that time period for the people of Israel, it's a psalm that speaks powerfully to us in every age. There are seven calls or commands in this very short psalm, and these calls are for the community of believers. The summons though, even though it's for believers, the summons at the beginning of Psalm 100 says to all the earth. And the psalm ends with telling us that God's faithfulness is to all generations. Psalm 100 reminds us that worship is the church's highest priority and greatest privilege. It's not just a priority, it's a privilege. Psalm 100 reminds us as a church that we exist to worship and glorify the God of Israel who came in the person of Jesus Christ, whose birth we focus on and celebrate this Christmas season. So Psalm one hundred may only contain five verses, but it's it's got such depth and um I will just kinda give you a disclaimer. I was like, I'm preparing this and I'm like, what in the world was I think? I'm like, oh five verses of sun worship This will be this will be great. I I kind of figured out I could do like a year's Bible study on Psalm 100, so I'm sorry, I'm just gonna be like quickly dumping all this information on you Um and I'm sorry also I didn't have myself together to get the outline. So that will come post this lesson on Hope Book. I'll give you some outline, but I'm giving you a lot of information, but I will let you know my resources. This of course is the book we're going through, Disciplines of a Godly Woman. She has a great chapter. It's not lengthy, it's just concise, and it highlights all the essential elements of corporate worship. So it's a great chapter to read. Um of course John MacArthur Um this is an old copy, so I think it's got a new covernaut with the ultimate priority on worship And then Tom did a sermon series called The Priority and Practice of Corporate Worship So there were four parts to that and boy, number four. If you're if you can only have time to listen to one of 'em, it is so exalting. Um the priority and practice of corporate worship and then he had one called Approaching God on Sundays, which are all available on sermonaudio. com or um the website So, I am going to start oh, and I also a little disclaimer, you're not gonna get sick from me. I have a cough. It it might happen, but You know, when you work in a school, those little preschoolers, I was working with preschoolers. I kind of do different roles at the school. I was with preschoolers and they just love you and they share everything, so they shared a cold. And um I'm fine, but it's left me with a cough, so I'll do the you know, cough and the elbow things we tell the kids at school to do. So but I'm not contagious, just let me know. Alright, I'm going to open up to Psalm 100, which says, shout joyfully to the Lord, all the earth Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before Him with joyful singing. Know that the Lord Himself is God It is he who has made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving. And his courts with praise. Give thanks to him. Bless his name. For the Lord is good His loving kindness is everlasting and his faithfulness to all generations. So we're gonna first look at the call to corporate worship. There's seven. Seven calls. The first one is to shout joyfully to the Lord all the earth. And shouting is an expression given to a king. It's a picture of triumph. Your translation, like mine, mostly, most likely says, make a joyful noise. But the Hebrew word is literally a command to shout. You can think about the time when Joshua was leading the people around the walls of Jericho and they gave out a shout and the walls of Jericho came tumbling down. This same word shout is used in 1 Samuel when the Ark of the Covenant came into the camp, and all Israel shouted with a great shout. When the ark was brought to Jerusalem, David and the people shouted in 2 Samuel 6 When Solomon was anointed as king, they all shouted, the people shouted, Long live King Solomon. And as I was preparing this lesson, I thought of a time, Christ is going to shout There's a time coming when Christ is going to come to earth and it says, For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout. It tells us of triumph of a king. So most of us have never experienced the shouting to a king. We're here in America. Maybe we might liken it though if you've been to a sports game and there's enthusiasm and camaraderie and everybody's excited. But shouting to the Lord is triumphant, robust enthusiasm. I think there's one time during the year that we might get close to that, and I love Easter time when the worship leader We'll stand up in front and say, He is risen. And we rise to our feet and we say, He is risen. He is risen indeed. Let me read you a few psalms that speak of shouting to the Lord, shouting joyfully. Psalm 95, 1. O come, let us sing for joy to the Lord, let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation. Psalm ninety eight four, shout joyfully to the Lord, all the earth, break forth and sing for joy and sing praises. Psalm ninety six ten Say among the nations the Lord reigns. So we ought to have this kind of heartfelt enthusiasm when we come to church. Sunday worship should arise higher in our excitement than other weekly events. The psalm began with a clap of thunderous joy, and I don't know all the implications and applications that has for our worship service. But I know it ought to reflect how we feel about our King who reigns. Because he reigns, he's coming again. And our hearts should be exultant when we worship him. Because our God's victorious I was also thinking, maybe you've had this thought too. You get up on a Sunday morning, the sun's rising. Have you ever thought on a Sunday the starting in the east with the sun rising And then all across the globe, all 24 hours on a Sunday, there is praise to God our King. Psalm 113. 3, from the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised. Secondly, we are to serve the Lord with gladness. That's in verse 2. So we serve God with our worship. Worship is the church's ministry toward God. And it's our highest priority since God is the greatest one that we serve. The verb serve here means to work for someone, to be subjects or rulers, to be subject to, I'm sorry, excuse me, to be subject to rulers. Deuteronomy ten twelve. Now Israel, what does the Lord your God require from you? But to fear the Lord your God, to walk in all his ways and love him, and to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. The service we render to God is to that of a king. We call ourselves servants of the Lord, and we have come into his presence to worship him and to serve him. Worship and service always go hand in hand. When the devil tempted Jesus to fall down and worship him, do you remember Christ's response? Be gone, Satan, for it is written, you shall worship the Lord your God and serve him only. The devil didn't say anything about Jesus having to serve him, but Jesus knew that worship and service were forever linked Romans 12, 1 testifies, therefore I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship. We cannot come in church, sing well, worship with just mere mouth, and then go out and not serve the Lord. Genuine worship binds you to the service of the Lord The service we render to God should be done with gladness. The word gladness means a rejoicing heart that loves God. Not every day we have the same joy, but typically if we're following Christ, joy should arise. And all of us should serve the Lord with gladness in whatever we do. Third, in the second half of verse 2, we are to come before him with joyful singing. Again, the language pictures having an audience with the king. Gathering the citizens to give honor to him, and just more of the same, joy. This refers to entrance into the sanctuary, into the very presence of God. Psalm 95, 6, come, let us kneel and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. It speaks of a time of formal worship, but it is joyful and it's exuberant. Worshipers are regularly to come before him in public services of worship. What a privilege it is that we have to be able to come before God. Christ has made that way for us to be in a right relationship with God. And the joy one feels in approaching God is now poured out in a song of praise. Peter, quoting David Psalm 116 says, You will make me full of gladness with your presence. We have joy this Christmas season because Emmanuel has come. God with us. We love to sing about it, but we need to carry that joyful singing into our worship the remainder of the year, for it is Christ who has come, died for our sins, and rose again victoriously. And I look forward to the day when we're actually going to be in God's presence for eternity. A couple of years ago I heard the song One Day, Michael Armstrong sang it for his father's memorial service. And there's a line that says, One day we will see face to face Jesus. Is there a greater vision of grace? I think not Listen, the presence of God will be the most enjoyable location in the universe. Imagine what it will be like to be before the face of the one who created us and redeemed us. And that's why there's joy and that's why there's singing. Next, we're going to go to verse 3. We need to know the one we're worshiping. It's not enough to say, oh, I just I worship God. Who do you worship? It matters the God that you worship. We must know whom we have believed and whom to direct our worship. Our worship must be with the deepest personal conviction about the truth about God. The psalm tells us three things to know to put ourselves in a right relationship with Him, and each pertain to who God is and who we are. No human can know themselves or their purpose until they know their Creator. Here's the first thing, verse three. Know that the Lord Himself is God. Know that the Lord Himself is God. Literally, Yahweh, the Lord, is Elohim, God. This is who the Lord indeed is. And the word no involves acknowledgement. It involves confession. We are to be fully assured of this truth. Deuteronomy 4. 39. Know therefore today, and take it to your heart that the Lord, he is God in heaven above, and on the earth below. There is no other. Isaiah 43. 10. So that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me there was no God formed, and there will be none after me. We're to know this, we're to confess it. God is the only God, and he reigns above all. In Psalm 46, 10, Yahweh says, Cease striving and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. Next, what are we supposed to know? It is he who has made us and not we ourselves. This speaks to God's power and his privilege compared with our weakness and inability. And it communicates effectively our accountability to God. Being made by God refers not just to the Lord making mankind at the time of creation, but more specifically to God making or forming the nation of Israel. God made the nation of Israel starting with calling Abraham and forming a family and a clan that went down to Egypt and then with Moses and the Exodus setting them free from slavery, giving them God's law, being their God. Isaiah 43 says, My chosen people, the people whom I form for myself will declare my praise. He made his nation of Israel to declare his praise. Today as the people of God, as his church, we need to know that we were called into existence for him. not just as creatures on this earth, but as his redeemed people. When we worship, there ought to be a great sense of humility before our Maker Third, in that same verse it says, We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. This speaks to Israel's privilege and close relationship with God. God shepherds his people intimately. Yahweh the King is the shepherd of Israel. Psalm 81, 80 verse 1. Oh give ear, shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock. The sheep of his pasture is a phrase seen in Psalm 79, verse 13. So we your people and the sheep of your pasture will give thanks to you forever. Isaiah 40, 11. Like a shepherd he will tend his flock. In his arm he will gather the lambs and carry them in his bosom, and he will gently leave the nursing ewes. Israel, out of all the nations of the earth, is God's nation. He owns this nation, he's in covenant with them. But we, as the spiritual children of Abraham, are redeemed of God. And reconcile that to him through Jesus Christ. We're his people too. We are the sheep of his pasture. When you come to worship, you should know that God has intimate care for you because You are his sheep. In fact, John ten, Jesus says, I am the good shepherd, and I know my own, and my own know me. Jesus is our shepherd Hebrews 13 calls him the great shepherd of the sheep. So we come to gather around the greatest shepherds. We have greater guidance and protection than all the peoples on the earth. God identifies you as his own. You are stamped and sealed with his Holy Spirit. You're his. You are saved with the blood of his son. You are his. You are given access to the throne room of heaven. You are his He promises us in Hebrews 13, I will never desert you, nor will I ever forsake you. So we need to say as in Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd. Going on to verse 4, we have the next three commands in one verse. We are to enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. This fifth exhortation reminds us that we must worship God not only in truth, because we have the right God, but after truth is firmly fixed in our minds. we must also worship in spirit. It needs to be heartfelt. It needs to be energetic. God wants us walking through his gates and into his presence with fervent joyful, genuine, thankful worship. In the worship service, we're not the audience. God is our audience and we worship to please Him The gates refer to the massive front gates of the temple swinging open, inviting the worshippers to come, draw close to God. And bring the worship right into the king's chamber hall. They are called his gates because they belong to him. They grant access to him. The courts were the courts of the temple, a large enclosure which could fill thousands of people. Some of you here you've seen that temple. The fact is that God's gates are still open to us. God has granted us access to Him, and His door is not shut to us. Because of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. And that is enough cause for exultant praise and thanksgiving. Of course, this church building here is not a temple But we the people of God are his temple, wherever we gather as a whole church to worship. And so we should have anticipation as we gather before God to worship him, just like the Israelites of old. In Hebrew again in Hebrews 4, therefore let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Jesus opens those gates of splendor to us, for us to walk into heavenly glory. Think of this. I can draw near to God. Only through our Lord Jesus Christ, whose coming we are celebrating today in this season. John 10, 9, I am the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. John 14, 6, Jesus said, I am the way and the truth and the life. No man comes to the Father but through me. So come, don't hesitate to enter, come into the gates of the temple through faith in Jesus Christ If you don't know the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, be saved from your sin today. Be washed and made clean to stand before the Lord God. Become a joyful worshiper with the rest of God's people. Just invite you, if you don't know Christ, come speak to me after. Come speak to the person who brought you so that we can share the glorious news of Christ's coming. Notice as we enter the gates into his courts, we give thanks and praise. That's the proper response. Specifically here, the reason for thanks is who God is. Hebrews 13, 15 says, Through him then let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God. That is, the fruit of lips that give thanks to his name. Psalm 149, 1. Praise the Lord. Sing to the Lord a new song and his praise in the congregation of the godly ones. And Hebrews 2. 12, in the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. Next in that verse, we are to give thanks to him. Just more of the same. I think the Lord knew that we needed to hear this over and over. So I'll just say a few things here Worshippers should have a constant heart of gratitude. We know 1 Thessalonians 5. 18, in everything give thanks, for this is God's will for you in Christ Jesus. A friend recently exhorted me to be reading in the book of Colossians because it's filled with reasons for Thanksgiving. It silences my complaints Here's one of the verses that I've been thinking about recently, reading and thinking. It's in Colossians 2, verses 13 and 14. It says, when you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions. having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. I almost think that's one of the most glorious scriptures that there can be. I had a certificate of debt consisting of decrees against me, and Christ has nailed it to the cross. Psalm 69, 30 says, I will praise the name of the Lord with song and magnify him with thanksgiving. And then, bless his name comes next. Blessing and giving thanks are closely related. The term blessed means to say something good about God. To bless God is to count Him as valuable and acknowledge His enduring greatness. Scripture constantly speaks of the value of blessing God. Here are just a few in Nehemiah 9. 5. Arise, bless the Lord your God forever and ever. Oh, may your glorious name be blessed and exalted above all blessing and praise Psalm 134. 1. Behold, bless the Lord, all servants of the Lord, who serve by night in the house of the Lord. Psalms 113-2. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forever. And in Revelation 5, to him who sits on the throne and to the land be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever. sing things and say things and pray things to bless the one being above all other beings Psalms 18, 46, the Lord lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation. So here are the seven summons or seven calls. We shout to the King. We serve the Lord with gladness in our heart. We come into his presence with joyful singing. We know and treasure the great truths about God. We enter his gates to be in his presence, constantly pouring out thanksgiving, and never cease to bless his name. And why? Well, this gets to the climax. and of the psalm, it is in verse five, the reason why is the character of the God that we worship. So verse 5 says, For the Lord is good, his loving kindness is everlasting, and his faithfulness to all generations. This is the basis for all the calls to worship that we've heard previously. We worship and give thanks to God because of who he is, and who he is is most precious. Though God has many attributes worthy of praise, three are celebrated here, and in these three attributes we find the fundamental understanding of the Israelites' faith and ours A belief in God's goodness, his loyal love, and his truthfulness. So first, the first attribute of God that's brought about in this verse is for the Lord is good. Good is a general term which functions in polarity with evil. Things that are good, they function well. They're beautiful. They elicit joy from man who's the beneficiary of God's creation and his goodness. The Lord Yahweh, the Hebrew God, is benevolent. A benevolent king looks after his subjects. In Nahum 1. 7, it says, the Lord is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble, and he knows those who take refuge in him. God's goodness shows that He is the source of everything that is beneficial and blessed in this life. Good things come only because there is a good God in heaven James 1, 17 and 18, a verse I'm sure you're all familiar with. Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above. Coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shifting shadow, in the exercise of his will he brought us forth by the word of truth, so that we would be a kind of firstfruit among his creatures. He gives good life. He delivers from evil. His will is good. Romans 12. 2 tells us that and other scriptures. His law is good. Romans 7. 12 His creation was pronounced good in Genesis 1. And of course, the message he proclaims, the gospel itself, is good news. Did you know that the goodness of God is the foundation on which your very faith rests? There's no reason to come to God and beg for forgiveness of sins if you don't think He is good. And to struggle with the goodness of God is to shape the foundation of your faith and disturb your joy and your assurance. But conversely, if you firmly believe in the goodness of God, despite whatever comes into your life that you think is not good, You're unshakable. It's God's goodness is a solid rot that stabilizes our lives Psalm 34, 8. O taste and see that the Lord is good. How blessed is the man who takes refuge in him Psalm 23, 6, surely goodness and loving kindness will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Psalm thirty-one nineteen, how great is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you. And of course many of you know I've said it a number of times my life verse is you are good and do good. Psalm 119, 68, it's the anchor of my faith. If God is good, will he not do you good? Why do we doubt the one who sent his son to the cross to pay for all our sins and redeem us for own his own possession? You know this verse too, Romans 8, 31-32. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all, how will he not also with Jesus freely give us all things? Do you know that God is good to you? Do you know that in your heart? But there's more good about God. The next phrase, his loving kindness is everlasting. The Lord's goodness is manifested in his loving kindness and his faithfulness. And it said to be everlasting, it's not going to end. Loving kindness is the Hebrew word has said It's a very important Old Testament term. It's used more than 240 times and it has a meaning very close to faithfulness. It's the idea of loyal love, unfailing love. There's a strong relational sense to this term. It involves acts of kindness and commitment to each other in covenant. God's loving kindness is to all his people, not just to some, but all. We're sinners, we need mercy. We're sufferers and we need compassion. We're weak and we need strength. And the Lord extends his kindness and his mercy to all who call upon him. And there's no end to the flow of his loving kindness in his Son Jesus Christ. It flows abundantly. Listen to these scriptures. Ephesians 1. 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Lamentations three twenty-two the Lord's loving kindnesses indeed never cease, for his compassions never fail. I have loved you with an everlasting love. Therefore I have drawn you with loving kindness. Jeremiah 31, 3 Your loving kindness, O Lord, extends to the heavens. Your faithfulness reaches to the skies. Psalm 36, 5 For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his loving kindness to those who fear him. Psalm 103, 11 And listen to Isaiah 54, 10. For the mountains may be removed, and the hills may shake But my loving kindness will not be removed from you, and my covenant of peace will not be shaken, says the Lord who has compassion on you. Well And then next, third and last, his truth or faithfulness to all generations. This is similar to loving kindness. It is truth in the sense of keeping promises. The psalm ends emphasizing the unending nature of this attribute. So the two attributes go together, loving-kindness and truth, as in Psalm 92. 2, to declare your loving-kindness in the morning and your faithfulness at night. And we are dependent on God's faithfulness because there would be no reason to draw near to him if what he said failed. If when we needed him he was not there, if he was like man promising much but delivering little. God has tried a thousand times and always proven true. He was faithful, and he is faithful to his covenant with Israel and all the prophecies of Scripture. No good promise of his will fail With all the changes going on in the world, all the things that could cause us much fear, God is unchanging in his truth and in his faithfulness. A promise made four thousand years ago by God is just as valid today because of the faithful one who made it. God will never cease to be good or loving or true And the fact that he is faithful to all generations allows us to pass this on to our children, the knowledge of this same God and the worship of this same God. Psalm 898 says, O Lord, God of hosts, who is like you? O mighty Lord, your faithfulness surrounds you. So just a few thoughts and conclusion, just some applications Worshiping the Lord is one of the most important things that you do on a continual basis. In fact, we're never gonna stop worshiping the Lord. We're all headed there. It is our ultimate priority. So This was something that I still am working on, but I remember back in our days when we were in seminary, some older women coming alongside and helping me to think this through and I thought just some practical things that really helped me to prepare Because we need to live this if if worship is the ultimate priority, we have to live it out. And we need to be demonstrating to our families So here's just a few things because you know if we don't prioritize it, if we don't plan for it, sometimes it really doesn't happen. It doesn't take that priority that we know that it should. Plan out your Saturday activities. And the rest of the week for that matter, so that you're prepared for Sunday. And these comments I'm making are more for you to be thought provoking in your situation, not to say do this and do this and this is the only way It's just to for you to give thought, am I making worship that ultimate priority? There was a family, um long, long time ago, nobody would know them, but they came to church and um they were always either if they were at church, they were super tired. And but many times they weren't at church and it's because their priority was Monday through Saturday. It's all about the kids' school, all about their music lessons, the sports, making sure they had dinner together, just everything. It was all family all week long. So Sunday was the day like, shoot, you know, we can we can stay at home. I'm so exhausted or if they came. They were dragging. They were tired. They they taught their family, this is what's important, worship is is secondary And you don't want to do that. So plan your week with Sundays in mind. So don't think about like, oh, all these things are important. Okay, I've got Sunday. Make Sunday your day that you plan the rest of the week around. So if there are things out of balance that are keeping you from Sunday worship and gathering as a church We need to be thinking about that. How about this was very practical to me when I was a young mom. How about prepare the night before? How about like if you have babies, pack the diaper bag the night before? Um make sure that like all the shoes are lined up. You're not hunting for shoes. Everybody knows what they're gonna wear maybe. Um it's probably just like you do during the week making meal plans so that the kids have lunch at school or your husband has you know lunch or you have y all your meals. I know some of you are super organized and you plan your meals for the week so you can just take your little container out of salad, you know, your healthy lunch and take it to work or whatever. Do you do that for Sunday? Do you think about like, oh, okay, I'm gonna need breakfast, I'm gonna need lunch, and prepare so you're completely ready. Um, how about just thinking about w what time you need to leave in order to be on time to church. Like you know, maybe you're always rushing and just you know, out of breath and you're getting here and Maybe you need to say, I need to leave at this time if I'm gonna be able to park my car, walk in, you know, whatever, and and get situated. Think about those things. Because it is our it is our priority. Here's another one. Some some people might be upset with me, but I'm just gonna say it anyway, just as an older as an older lady take some privilege here getting on the older spectrum of things Sunday worship, the audience is God. It's about God. Some of you have convictions that your children need to be with you in the worship service. I think that's great. Others think that they need to use the children's classes, others with you. I think both convictions, God gives us complete freedom and you should do how the Lord is um is leading you. But don't use Sunday morning as a training ground for your children for worship. Don't Keep everything else busy all week and then say, okay, Sunday they're gonna sit still. You need to practice all week long so that they're ready. If you have that conviction you want your children with you, practice all week long long. And if they're not ready We have a great children's ministry, just put in the plug. But um but really, you know, sometimes people can get like this is about me and my family and everybody needs to understand me. The worship service is about God. He's the audience. It's really about God. You want to bring your family around, I think that's a wonderful priority to have. I really do. Um, I encourage you in it. But it's also about everybody else. We're proclaiming the Word of God. If you want to read our vision statement, we're an expository church. We're proclaiming the Word of God. So don't bring your kids and say, well, that's my priority. We're going to be together. And let it distract not just you but a lot of other people from hearing the word of God. Practice at home. And and get them ready to be there on Sunday with you. Just also come expectant. Your attitude should be where you're excited, where you're thinking about it. where you're you're getting ready. And I love um just it's a short little paragraph but Barbara Hughes has in her book, just about your heart's attitude, coming expectant to worship the Lord. And I will also say though this lesson was about corporate worship, don't cease to develop the discipline of everyday worship in our lives because you're not going to be able to fully um enjoy the singing and coming before him if you're not developing that personal discipline all through the week of being devoted to him in worship. You ought to try reading Isaiah forty if you want some exultant attitudes at home about the Lord God. Isaiah forty, to whom then will you liken me that I would be his equal, says the Holy One. Develop in your heart all week long. exultant and amazing thoughts about God and then bring that expectancy into the worship service and be excited So I want to do two things now in closing. I've asked Hong in just a minute. Hong's going to read insist closing in prayer. We're going to close in a blessing to God, and she's going to read that to us from Scripture. We're all going to rise in a moment. She's going to um to read that scripture. But then I don't know Like I'm really bad with details, like turning things on and um what the schedule is. I'm a little scatterbrained with that. So um do we have time for a couple questions or because I was thinking I Sorry, I didn't write these out. But there were two things that I thought we could talk about. One is we could talk about if you just open up at a table, somebody opens up to Psalm 100 verse 5 And talks about, you know, the Lord is good, his loving kindness, see, and his faithfulness to all generations If you could just take that and just talk about that at your table, how you know the Lord is good to you, how you have seen his loving kindness in your life. How has God demonstrated his faithfulness to you? Share some of those um with one another. And the second question just would be What habits have you put on that really help you to make Sunday corporate worship a priority? Or maybe share how you're struggling and and we can you know, the the table we can talk about that and um just share and encourage and praise. um for one another. So, Hong, would you rise and everyone rise? We're gonna bless the Lord from the book of Jude. stand in the presence of his glory flameth with great joy to the only God our Savior Jesus Christ our Lord be glory majesty to a Meaning and authority before all time and now and forever. Amen