Well, Sue is right. Um Pastor Leek had a great love for the church and um being chained to him for Thirty years. I met him when I was six. Um, it rubbed off. And I love the church And I can't wait to talk about it because Sue's right, we've heard a lot about it, but interestingly, today the modern evangelical church is not known for its strong view of the church. It can be said of evangelicals we have a strong soteriology, meaning our doctrine of Christ is strong, understanding salvation is by faith alone, in Christ alone, for God alone. But our doctrine of the church, our ecclesiology, is a little weak Uh one of the reasons is Americans are known for our fiercely independent spirit. Uh and that has bred into our churches. Another is We've responded to churches throughout the centuries like the Catholic Church or the Higher Or the Orthodox Church and some even higher Protestant denominations that I've taught the church is the place and the way you meet God. It is the mediator between you and God. And we know in scripture this that's not true. So uh it's been a bit of a a reaction to that in America. And now the Modern Evangelical Church gets to figure out what the fallout will be from a post-COVID world when many churches stopped meeting together, all the meeting all together. Some churches still haven't seen their numbers return or their members come back. Um people are a little used to watching church with their cup of coffee and their pajamas on. Notice I said watching church. 'Cause churches very quickly, I think, the Lord used technology to help our churches be able to go online, so that's a blessing. Um but I think it's the Lord Satan's used that, I believe, to keep many from coming back to the church. So we're we're still gonna see what the modern evangelical church will turn into. But one can say it doesn't look anything like the Church of Acts. Um I was reading through the chapter of Acts with my son this week and we're talking about how five thousand were added to their numbers and they were giving of their property and sharing in meals and over to each other's home and my little son said, That sounds And it I can't imagine how fun it must have been to be a part of that early church and acts. How wonderful and vibrant and alive is the Church of Christ Barbara Hughes, in her book, Disciplines of a Godly Woman, writes that the church must be important to every believer because it is of supreme importance to Jesus Christ Himself. After all, he loved the church and gave himself up for her. Do we dare devalue what Christ cherishes? So um I have spent a lot of my life loving the church, uh serving her. I remember helping my parents helping to plant Hope Bible Church Uh Bible studies were in our home, choir happened around my piano, babies were napping in my bedroom, and I remember even Saturday mornings weren't safe. I couldn't come down in PJs because the men were around the dining room studying their theology It was uh everyday, all contacts, all year-long sport, and it gave me a great love for the church. A great love. It was a blessing and a privilege. And now that I am older, uh I quit my job at a young age to come serve the church and I just can't stop talking about the church. Even when I rest and on vacation. My husband and I are dreaming of ministry and church and I am have a pretty singular focus. I never get tired of the church. But with all of that said, I don't want you to leave today with my love of the church or with my view of the church. I want you to see the church the way Christ sees it. Through this message, I hope to encourage you to have a higher view of the church. Indeed, the same view of the church that God has, the divine view of his church. I'm going to read now from our text, 1 Corinthians 3. We will be staying in the verses 16 and 17, but I'm going to give a little bit of context. So I want to read in 1 Corinthians 3, starting in verse 10. First Corinthians three verse ten. According to the grace of God, which was given to me, this is Paul writing to the Corinthians. Like a wise master builder, I laid a foundation, and another is building on it. But each man must be careful how he builds on it, for no man can lay a foundation other than the one which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now if any man builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each man's work will become evident, for the day will show it. because it is to be revealed with fire, and the fire itself will test the quality of each man's work. If any man's work, which he has built on it, remains, he will receive a reward If any man's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, yet as through fire. Do you not know? That you are a temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you. If any man destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy And that is what you are. Ladies, I'm going to pray as we approach this text. Gracious Father, you are holy. And we don't think enough about your holiness and your mighty. If heaven could be peeled away, and we were to see your holiness and your glory revealed. Father, we would tremble and we would be so grateful that you bestowed that on us. As we come to this text, Father, I pray you would elevate our view of the church. As much as we love the church, increase it till our hearts are fit to burst as we see how you loved this bride, this body. And Lord, it's us. So I pray that with this text you would use me in my words to help these women here to leave with an an excitement in a a fire that spreads all throughout our church and the churches around the region to honor and love the bride of Christ. It's in your name, Father. Amen. So we're going to learn two truths about the church from verses 16 and 17 is where I'm going to be camping today. The first truth that we're going to learn is the exceptional nature of the church. And then the second will be the extraordinary defense of the church. And you have those notes there. There's a couple typos But you can fill it in. First, point number one, the exceptional nature of the church. Verse 16, do you not know that you are a temple of God? And that the Spirit of God dwells in you. If any man destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy, and that is what you are. Look how strongly Paul starts verse 16. Don't you know? That's pretty much what he's saying. And it's a rebuke to the Corinthians. Uh the Corinthians the Corinthians had boasted in their knowledge. And so Paul in this letter uh used ten times this device. Do you not know? Do you not know? Sorely. I mean you're so smart. You sh you should know. So it's helping to humble them. Um and and this is the device he used. Do you not know that you're the temple of God Paul uses a Greek word here for temple. That means the inner sanctuary of the temple. And that would be the Holy of Holies, as you think about Solomon's temple or the tabernacle. This is that inner part that no one is allowed to go in. And this is distinguished from another Greek word that would have been used to describe the whole temple mount, like that is Solomon's temple, that is Herod's temple. Those two words are distinct. And this is important because the readers of Corinth would have understood that any Jew through purifying and cleansing himself could approach the Temple Mount. They could not go into that inner sanctuary, which only the priests would be allowed to enter on one day of the year in a very specific way. So Paul is saying Do you not know you are the inner sanctuary of the Spirit of God? They house the very presence of God. They are the temple where God, the Holy Spirit, dwells. This is and and here in 1 Corinthians 3 is referring to the collective church. Right? A little further in 1 Corinthians 6, Paul speaks of our individual bodies being the temple of the Lord, so don't defile it with sin. And he urges believers not to commit acts of immorality. But here the you that he's talking about is a plural you. It means the church. That is what you, the church are. The collective church is the temple of God. And the image that Paul just finished talking about from verse 10 and 12 through 15 is a church building, right? Christ is the cornerstone, Paul lays the foundation, workmen are building. It's a building. And then later in verses 21 through 23, then the possessions for the building are being spoken of. So just as the Spirit of God has come into each of us individually at the time of our regeneration and our salvation, so also collectively God dwells and indwells his people. Like, do you understand how special this is? How abnormal. The very idea of us, you and me and other believers in Christ together We are the temple of God. It's precious and it's magnificent and we should think deeply on it. It would have been significant for them because of their history, their culture. So you see, we understand God is omnipresent. It says in the Psalm, if I go up to the heavens, you are there. If I make my bed in the depths of the sea, you are there. Where can I go that your spirit is not there? So we know God is everywhere. So that is true, right? But even though that is true, if the scriptures also teach that his presence, his presence is specifically manifested in certain locations. The Lord dwells in heaven in a fuller manifestation than he dwells here on earth. Acts seven uh verse fifty-five says, But being full of the Holy Spirit, he gazed intently into heaven and saw the glory of God. This is when Stephen was being being martyred. And he gazed intently into heaven and he saw the glory of God. We can't see that right now, right? We can all heaven is declaring the glory of God. We can see it as a picture in the trees and the nature and all of this here, but That's not seen here. Revelation 5. 13 says, and every created thing which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea and all things in them, I heard them saying To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever. That's happening in heaven. We don't see that. So there's this manifestation of God's holiness and glory that's fully more present in heaven than here. But if he's omnipresent, why does he need a temple on earth? And if so he can dwell with men. When God made man on the earth, God came down to be with man in some limited way. We hear in Genesis 3. 8 That Adam and Eve in the garden heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden, because they were ashamed of their sin. So they heard God and they knew it was God. So this had to have happened with some frequency that God manifested himself in some way that he could walk and they could hear God So in the garden, God came to be with Adam and Eve and had fellowship with them, the likes of which we don't see. They knew he was coming. It was a regular occurrence. He would take on some form and meet with them in the garden. But when they sinned, The penalty of their sin was not simply extra pain and menstrual cycles and childbirth and thistles and thorns and death. The the the other penalty was separation from God. Remember, you can no longer be. He kicked them out of the garden, yes, so that they wouldn't eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil, but it's to show you can no longer be with me. You are unholy. You are now marred with sin. They were excommunicated from paradise. And that significance, they no longer have the privilege to be in the presence of the greatest being in the universe. They were no longer allowed to be near him, to hear his voice, to fellowship with the Almighty to experience the highest joy. David writes in Psalm 16, in your presence is fullness of joy. In your right hand There are pleasures forever. Not in your arms and your hands and your feet. You think of a kid like trying to grab all of his toys. Come on, let's go. No, just in your right hand are pleasures forever. Instead, Isaiah teaches, what Isaiah teaches had become true of them in Isaiah 59. Your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you. so that he does not hear you. So after their sin, after the garden, in order to meet God, man had to come with blood. That's what the Lord did. He made an altar He killed the first animal or animals and he showed them this is the sign and the sacrifice to come to me And it's death. These altars were places marked off for meeting God, special places where God again would sometimes manifest Himself to us. It is a place set apart for the highest and holiest purposes. Which is why immediately after getting off the ark, Noah built an altar to the Lord in Genesis 8 and took of every clean animal and every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar. He had just saved them from the destruction of the entire world. So coming off of the ark, Noah wanted to meet God and he had to come through death at an altar. Genesis 12, 7, the Lord appeared to Abram and said, To your descendants, I will give this land. God met him. So what did Abraham do? He built an altar there to the Lord, who had appeared to him. This is where God connected with man and his sinful state as a sacrifice was made at these altars. When his people were called out of Egypt, God had them build a tent. with an altar. They had this portable worship. It was called the tabernacle. So after the garden you had altars, and then after being out of Egypt, you had an altar in a tabernacle which would be portable. Exodus 259 says According to all that I'm going to show you, this is God, as the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all of its furniture, just you shall just so shall you construct it And in Hebrews the author says this is a copy and a shadow of the heavenly things. So God was showing This is a copy of how you approach me. This is a shadow of what's to come. Exodus 40, verses 34 and uh through 38 says, Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled on it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up over the tabernacle, the sons of Israel would set out. But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out until the day it was taken up For throughout all their journeys the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and there was fire in it by night in the sight of Israel. Very simple. Is the cloud moving? Follow the cloud. Is the fire moving? Follow the fire. If it's not moving, don't move. Why? Because God is there. This is how where this is where the Lord manifested his presence. What would happen, if you remember in the Old Testament, if God's presence was treated poorly? Leviticus 10, 2 is a pretty good illustration. It says, and fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. If you know your Old Testament, this is Nadab and Abihu. These were priests They offered strange fire, strange sacrifices on the altar of the Lord. God cares about how you approach Him. Once they were in the land of promise, and after a few centuries, David, as he stood around at his grand palace, says, It's not right that the Lord's presence resides in some portable tabernacle, and I reside in a palace. So he wanted to build a permanent temple, grander than his own palace. But the Lord did not allow David to build this. Only Solomon was allowed because David was a man of war. And when it was constructed, it says in 2 Chronicles 7, now when Solomon had finished praying, this is amazing, fire came down from heaven. and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices. And the glory of the Lord filled the house. The priests could not enter the house of the Lord, because the glory of the Lord filled the Lord's house. The priests couldn't enter it. They just They were just in there constructing it. What's the difference between when I place the golden lampstand and now I'm out of it? Now the Lord's presence is in the temple. You can't go in. Solomon's temple, then after being destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar, was rebuilt by the people under the leadership of Ezra and Nehemiah. And then during Christ's time, Herod had made the temple even grander, although for far different reasons. But all of that Old Testament worship pointed to something greater, to Jesus. Jesus would bring the very presence of God down to man. And I know it's Easter, but this is an amazing Christmas truth. All of those years You had to go to an altar. There had to be death. You could not approach God. If you did, you were consumed by fire. And then John 1. 14, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. So here in John 1. 14, the word dwell that John uses means to pitch a tent. Sound familiar? Or to tabernacle among us. Jesus is the tabernacle. Walking around, he is the presence of God. They saw the glory of God in Christ as he tabernacled among his people. He was Emmanuel, God with us. Colossians 2. 9, for in him all the fullness of deity dwells in bodily form. Jesus was God, living in a body, come down from heaven, living among his people. Remember the disciples said, Lord, show us the Father. And he says, Have I not been with you so long? If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. I mean, who needs to go to the temple? Jesus is here. So how did the church become the temple of the Holy Spirit? John 2. 19 says Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, and in three days I will rise it up. Raise it up He spoke of his resurrection on the Thursday. See, we're gonna go from Christmas to Easter. We're gonna do it all today on this silent Saturday. After the resurrection, okay, we're also doing the ascension. After the resurrection, Christ ascended to heaven, and he received from the eternal Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, and then he poured the very presence of God out onto his followers, baptizing them, immersing them in the life of the Spirit of the living God. On when? Pentecost. So that now we, the church, collectively house the presence of God. Collectively, we are the presence of God to the people of this world. As those who have the divine being, we take on a vital and holy role in this world. Sinners had to come to the priest to offer their sacrifices so that the priest would go to the temple and offer it to the Lord no more. Where in this world can people go to connect with God? They don't go to the Garden of Eden. They can't go to an altar. It's not the temple in Jerusalem. How sad to see people kissing and wailing the walls. uh railing at the wall in Jerusalem. God's not there anymore. Jesus is not walking around on the earth anymore. I think of the woman that was just I just want to touch his hem. You know, he's not here. The answer? If people want to go to connect with God in this world, they have to go to you. They have to go to the people who are called believers in Jesus, the Church of Jesus Christ, the temple of the Holy Spirit. John fourteen twenty-three said, Jesus answered them and said to them, If anyone loves me, he will keep my word, and my father will love him, and we will come to him and make our abode, our home with him Ephesians 2, 19 through 22 says, So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints. And you are of God's household, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone in whom the whole building Being fitted together is growing into a holy temple of the Lord, in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit. We are growing into the temple. That glorious, magnificent temple not built by human hands. God is taking us living stones and using us to build his temple, his spiritual house to live in. This is the New Testament truth for God's church. You don't, that's what Cyrus said, you don't go to church because we are the church, right? So the church is spoken of in the New Testament in two ways, the universal church and the local church. So first, the universal church, this is the bride of Christ This is the elect whom he died for. I'm going to do a tiny doctrinal sidebar here and be very quick about it and say the church is only comprised of the elect. These are people whom God chose before the foundations of the world, and these are the ones whom Jesus died for. It can be a difficult doctrine for some to understand, but it is all throughout the Bible. From Genesis to Revelation, I heard one author, it was Steve Lawson, say It's not like they're hidden behind in the you know closet when someone comes over to your house. It's the welcoming doormat, it's the front coat closet, you're gonna bang your knee on it getting around the kitchen. This is in the Bible John ten fourteen says, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep, and I know my own, and my own know me, even as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for my sheep. Not someone else's, my sheep. John 13, 18. I do not speak of all of you, he says. I know the ones I have chosen. John 17, 9 also, I ask on their behalf. I do not ask on behalf of the world, but of those whom you have given me For they are yours. Matthew 22, 14, he says, For many are called, but few are chosen. Jesus did not die for all. He only died for his bride. And in Ephesians 5, I'm going to read this. It says 25, husbands, love your wives. just as Christ also loved the church and gave himself up for her, so that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word that he might present to himself the church in all her glory, having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she would be holy and blameless so has been thought, also to love their own wives with their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself. But for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ also does the church. Because we are members of his body. For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is great. But I am speaking with reference to Christ and the church. It's a little pre-wedding sermon there for you, Sarah. I'll forward to each All of these believers in all places joined by one spirit, perfectly united in the very person of Christ. Look what he says to the church, that he gave himself up for her. He cleansed her. He wants to present her in his glory, right? He loves her and nourishes and cherishes her and that this is the mystery, right? This is the great mystery. So Christ loves his church And he chose her as his bride. All of these believers in all of the world are joined by one Spirit, perfectly united in the very person of Christ. That is the oneness we all have in Christ as a present reality. Despite denomination divisions, we are one bride, one church in Christ. This is the universal church And its unbreakable unity happened in fulfillment of the prayer of Christ in John 17 to the Father, when Christ said, I pray that they may all be one to the Father. So second, that was the universal church. Second, the local church. So this is the universal church manifested in each location. The church in Corinth was a local church. Pope Bible Church is a local church. Grace Community Church in Los Angeles is a local church. Baltimore Bible, right? Belcroft Bible. All of these are local churches. Well of course now in the world there are many false churches, apostate, churches which in the past held to the truth but have compromised with modernism or worldly philosophies. So they no longer carry the banner of the true gospel, of grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. So this does not speak of them. When you think of a local church, if they've abandoned the banner of the gospel, this is not talking about them. This is talking of the true the true church, the people. So when I traveled to Europe a few years ago, there's gorgeous cathedrals. And you walk in and your eyes are lifted up, stained glass, amazing arches, and and I was with a group of people. who were mostly Catholic and they wanted to go to see Turin to see the Shroud of Turin. I never heard of the Shroud of Turin, but it sounded fun. And we went And and it's interesting. They walked in all the way on a train, they're just their normal, unregenerate people. As they're getting closer to the church You can see them start to demure as they get in the church now. Yeah, they're covering it with hot, covering their shoulders. And then there it is. A window with a box covered by a tablecloth that's not the shroud, with a tomb inside that has a box inside that has the shroud inside, which you cannot see because it's behind dark glass. But there's a convenient picture over there you could have seen on the internet. But here we are. And they sit on a pew and they're quiet and they're weeping and they're praying. They're having a very religious experience And I'm disappointed because I wanted to see the shroud, which is supposedly the blanket that covered Christ during his tomb. Um I wanted to see if you could see a face. Anyway, leave and uh it just as quickly as they can Take the shawls off, you know, because you can't wear shorts, they took the covering off of their shorts. It was like so went the reverence Reverence in a in a sanctuary is a good thing to be reverent before the Lord, but these women weren't being reverent. They thought they were actually in the presence of God. That they walked into the church Now they were in God's presence. They had to be holy and reverent before the Lord and this cloth, which even if it was on Christ, they had to be holy and reverent because this is where God was I wanted to say, he's here. He's here. He's here. Yeah, he's in there, but he's on the steps in the piazza too. Like everywhere. He's still here, but So he wasn't hi he wasn't back there in that building, right? So as New Testament believers, we know that the real house of worship is not the church building. It's the people brought together in one location, right? Not little, you know, at your home with a cup of coffee. Yes, you're an individual member of the body of Christ, but you've got to come to church You know, Israel had a tabernacle and a temple, but now the church is where God has chosen to live. And that is us collectively together. We should be reverent in our behavior at all times. Not just when we're in a building or when we're out of building, because we house the Spirit of God. This is how we are to think of ourselves. The you in 1 Corinthians 3 is emphatic. You are the temple. And that should affect the way we live. It should influence how we think about the church, what we think about it on Sunday morning, what we think about it on Wednesday evenings, what we think about it on Saturday mornings. And every time in between, right? We should want to be together with each other for the sake of Christ and God. We're designed to fit together. He is manifest when we come together. As a Christian or a a Christian who's loosely connected to the body of Christ, thinking she's doing fine by herself, is robbing God of glory. For God tells us that collectively we house Him. We should want to come together to work and labor and serve in the church We should want to give of our time, our Saturday mornings, our Wednesday evenings. We should want to come so we can spur one another on towards love and good deeds to pray for the building up of the temple and to obey the Lord together so that God may be honored in this lost world. It was God's design to put a temple here in the midst of a society of Christ rejectors as a testimony to him. It was God's design that we bring him honor only as we function properly together. So it's imperative that we understand in the midst of this dark world that we have to be vitally connected. When we assemble together and when we work together throughout the week, the glory of God should be our intense interest. and singular focused. It's not how my needs are met. What can I get out? Will I be fulfilled The single focus is the glory of God. We should remind one another. You have the Holy Spirit of God. We have the Holy Spirit of God. And that's what makes us distinct from this world. We are set apart for God. Hope Bible Church is the representation and the housing of the Spirit of God in the location for Columbia, Maryland. For the Corinthians, this would have jolted them. You see, they were nothing like the temples in Corinth. There were temples of plenty in Corinth at that time. On top of the Acro Corinth was the temple of Aphrodite, the goddess of love, right? Truly lust, actually. And we're to be nothing like that. We are to be holy unto God. The Corinthians were the only true temple in town, not made with bricks, but with spiritual stones. So what does it mean to be this reverent holy church, temple to the Lord for the presence outside? Being holy is not about being a monk. Right, or separating ourselves physically from this world. Rather, it's separating in our hearts and our practices set unto God in the midst of a sinful world. So it's taking our heart, separating it out, and giving it to the Lord. Holiness is so misunderstood. It's not defined by the externals. The clothes that we wear don't make us more or less holy. Holiness is not determined of whether or not you've had a holy water baptism, whether you've prayed at the altar, you've walked the aisle and prayed at the altar. How much money you donate to the church, whether or not you shop or work on a Sunday, or how many Bible verses you have memorized. These do not determine your level of holiness, right? It's easy to pretend that we're holy because we get conformed to these things and they're external, but holiness goes much deeper. Paul defines holiness by love among the brethren Working with those in church in unity? That's holiness. Living for the glory of Christ? That's holiness. So you want to be holy? Don't worry about whether the person next to you's got a little nose ring or a tattoo. Concern yourself with whether right now, today, and tomorrow You are joyfully focused on pleasing Christ and everything you do. First Timothy 2. 8 says, Therefore I want the men in every place lifting up holy hands without wrath and dissension. Join your sisters together, collectively in prayer, lifting up the concerns of the church. Colossians 3. 12, so as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on not modest clothes, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. See that's the beauty of holiness which befits the Church of Christ Now we move on to our second point. First we saw the exceptional nature of the church. Now we're going to talk about the extraordinary defense. I'm going to read here. Verse 17 says, If any man destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy, and that is what you are What do you think the key word is, is that verse? Um it's destroys. If any man destroys, right, that's the active verb, the temple of God. Um it's like spikairo in Greek. It means to destroy, to ruin, corrupt, spoil, mar, and damage. either literally or figuratively. It was the Greek word used for ruining a house, destroying a marriage, or corrupting a virgin. It used in common Greek, it was meant like, oh, the milk has been destroyed, we would say spoiled. It's meant with a man destroying his time, wasting his time. The noun version of this speaks of corruption and destruction. The verb form is used later in 1 Corinthians by Paul in chapter 15. Do not be deceived. Bad company corrupts good morals, destroys good morals. Ephesians 4. 22, Paul also uses this word to mean when he says that in reference to your former manner of life, you lay aside the old self. which is being corrupted, destroyed, in accordance with the lust of the deceit. Lusts of deceit. Revelation 19, 2, John writes, Because his judgments are true and righteous For he has judged the great harlot who was corrupting the earth with her immortality, and he has avenged the blood of his bondservant on her. So this shows of absolute destruction, absolute perversion So with the understanding of the term destroy and its use in the New Testament, what does it mean to destroy the Church of God? And why was Paul warning about it here in this context? Well, it must be some corrupting harm to the church that goes far beyond just some errors, right, of ministers who will lose their reward, which is what we saw in verse 15. These are men that have worked in the church and they've served, but then when it's tested by fire, their works were burnt up. That's a ugly you served wrong. But there's no punishment for them, right? Just less reward So it's more than that. It's more than just, oh, you made a mistake. Some leaders do shoddy work and they will lose their reward even though they are saved. But Paul's warning goes beyond poor work. Now he goes to the corrupt church. And through that corruption, those who do great damage to her. This context speaks of ruining the temple of God Now, since we know that the Church of God is indestructible, it will never end. Spoiler alert, in Revelation, it's still there. This presents potentially an interpretive problem. How can someone destroy the temple of God? Because this is not referring to the universal church. Remember, there's two types of churches in the New Testament, the universal church and the local church. It's referring to the local church. Local churches can be, and in many cases throughout history, have been destroyed. And I don't mean mean their buildings have been destroyed by tornadoes or earthquakes. I mean that they've been led astray. They've been corrupted by sin. Thus they've been spoiled, ruined, and destroyed. Many have passed out of existence due to attacks upon them. Paul doesn't say exactly how this might happen to a church. Be careful to not destroy the church by Right? He doesn't say that. So we have to be interpretive here throughout scripture. What do we see? It it's likely related to one human philosophy uh human philosophy and worldly wisdom. That's one of the ways the churches can be destroyed The arrogance of the people in the church that think they're wise and they reject the sound doctrine and the teaching. One of the unique and great benefits to the master's fellowship Here in the Mid-Atlantic region, if you've heard about that, it's the connection of like-minded churches that Pastor League and other pastors in this region helped to begin to establish. Is that we know bringing strong churches together and partnering them with newer or weaker churches helps to guard the broader church from corrupting worldly influences and allow it to serve strongly. Churches helping churches is the theme of the fellowship for our region. And and they partner with us and we partner with them as sisters' churches for the advancement of the gospel. When we partner together, we're stronger, and we help protect one another and offer a balance to each other, right? And wisdom. And and it strengthens us against attacks. We're not a denomination, right? We're independent churches, but we're united in the gospel ministry and we have each other's back, so to say. There's another way that the context gives for how churches might pass out of existence, having petty disputes in the church. And you know, we need to take warning. Your disputes that you have individually that you're thinking of right now with the sister or brother here at the church might be used by Satan to do damage to Hope Bible Church. If any of you have a grievance with someone else in the church, your problem can quickly become the problem of the whole church and do damage. You must handle it in a humble and godly way, not assuming things as people so often do, but talking directly with one another, getting all the facts before making judgments and getting upset at others. Leaders in the church, those of us influencing the church, we need to take extra care not to harm the church of God too. For we're not the leaders of the church, we're not building our own houses. This is God's house. And we answer to God for the decisions that the leaders make. In her book, Barbara Hughes mentions another way that specifically we as women can either destroy the church or build her up. She says it has to do with not having correct behavior as a member of the household of God. As in any family. Relationships are maintained by members having appropriately maintained order with one another. Right? The children don't tell the parents what to do or that leads to chaos. Right? So that means there's a unique role for all of us within the family of God. And as women, we need to consider and embrace that role for women. Barbara writes, godly women who are committed to submitting to God's order and rule must come with open hearts to the New Testament's teaching about a woman's behavior in the family of God. Her whole book has been about submission. Submitting in all these different areas of our life. And if we long to be submissive, right, we need to also come to these passages of scripture wanting to submit to what God writes. In 1 Timothy 3. 14, Paul writes, I'm writing these things to you, hoping to come to you before long, but in case I am delayed, I write so that you will know how you ought to conduct yourself in the household of God. Which is the church of the living God, the pillar and support of the truth. Just as there's a designed framework in the family, there is a God-designed framework for the church. So what is a woman's role? 1 Timothy 2, 11 through 13. Paul writes, a woman should learn in quietness and full submission. I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man, she must be silent. For Adam was formed first, then Eve Since this is a very significant topic, and I'm not going to be able to cover it fully in our time together, and I recognize that these words might draw to mind past history, trauma, abuse of this verse. I encourage you that if that is you, come to me private. I would love to sit privately and discuss your specific history of this verse and help you see the beautiful truth and freedom of what Paul is speaking about here. For all of us, just remember, as we commit to bring our lives under the discipline of the gospel, this requires us to receive all of what God has given to us in His Word. We can't pick and choose what we want to listen to. So first, as we come to 1 Timothy 2, consider the heart attitude that is being addressed here first. Paul says, learn in quietness and full submission. He's reminding us that our outward actions always reveal what's inside our hearts. Barbara writes, do you believe God has your best interest at heart? Can you trust his wisdom in establishing order in the church? If so, quietness and submission will not be a problem. If you can trust the Lord, if you think he's worthy for you to submit to him, you can trust him in this area too. Indeed, this heart attitude of a quiet, calm, and submission, Peter writes about in 1 Peter. 1 Peter 3, he says, your adornment must not merely be external, braiding the hair, wearing gold jewelry, or putting on dresses, but let it be the hidden person of the heart. with the imperishable quality of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is precious in the sight of God. For in this way, in former times the holy women also who hoped in God used to adorn themselves being submissive to their own husbands, just as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. And you have become her children if you do what is right without being frightened by any fear. Sarah, that's your part of the message for the sermon on a wedding. But obviously this is talking about husband and wife relationships. But do not miss the hard attitude that is being addressed for us outside of a marital relationship. Peter says, a gentle and quiet spirit, right, is precious in the sight of God. David writes in Psalm 31, I have quieted my soul like a nursing child at a mother's breast. I'm at peace, right? We all want that chill child that just relaxes its whole body. That's what David says. I've quieted my soul And the holy women of old who hoped in God. They were submissive. Sarah obeyed Abraham. If you do what is right without being frightened by any fear. This is about a heart, an attitude of the heart, and it motivates your actions to obedience. and to quietness, right? Our hearts are not fearful. We're quiet and submissive. So with this heart attitude in mind, we should learn from our elders, our pastors and teachers, in a way that is quiet and submissive in our hearts. Not looking to reject their instruction or counter with a point or pushing off their authority in our lives, but just seeking simply to apply their instruction as they teach. This submissive heart also leads us to submit to the authority framework that God has put in place for his church, which Paul writes that women must not preach or exercise elder rule. This is an incredibly important topic for us ladies to understand and embrace because our culture has been so permeated with the demonic influence of feminism. And as women who long to bring every area of our lives into submission to the Lord Jesus Christ, we must give this our full attention. And because of that Barbara actually had in her book uh a description of it. I just want to read Barbara's word. There was no offense rewriting. She did a great job. So I'm going to read what she said here. Alright, pull up my page, and I am thankful for my HUDSBENS that brought this to me a few minutes ago because I left it at home All right, these instructions do not, this is important, do not prohibit a woman teaching or having authority in the marketplace or the academy or the public square. They are about order in the church. Neither do these directives allow any man within the church, by virtue of just his gender, to exercise authority over any other woman in the church. So just because he's man doesn't mean he just can exercise authority over any woman, okay? Such more generally explicit authority only exists within the sacred covenant of marriage. That's why women submit to their own husbands, right? Not her husband. Then it's only to be exercised, and even in that marriage, only to be exercised with a self-giving spirit that Christ did. The husband exercises that authority in the way he loved the church He he died for the church, right? So that's amazing self-giving. Note also that Paul's instructions have nothing to say about male and female equality, right? Such equality has already been established from the beginning of Genesis 127, by virtue of man and woman both being created in the image of God. And the mutual spiritual equality of status of men and women in Christ was given spectacular expression by Paul himself, earlier in Galatians 3. 28, when it says we're joint heirs. No female, no male, we're equal. So now, how is Paul's prohibition of women teaching and exercising authority over man to be understood? Especially since the words to teach and to have authority contain no negative connotation, like I do not permit a woman to dominate or domineer The answer is that the word to teach and its noun forms, teaching, teacher, are used in the New Testament to describe careful, authoritative, public doctrinal instruction. Put simply, what is being prohibited here is preaching. Such as enjoined in Paul's charge to Timothy when he said, preach the word Be prepared in season, out of season, correct, rebuke, and encourage with great patience and careful instruction, as in 2 Timothy Also prohibited is the teaching elder role of authoritatively defining and expositing the apostolic doctrine. This is the realm of male elders who, 1 Timothy writes, are able to teach. Again, the text is also very clear that attitude is of paramount importance. Submissiveness to leadership, a woman should learn in quietness and full submission. Thus, a critical argumentative attitude is excluded. Bottom line, women must not preach or exercise elder-like rule. The God-given reason behind Paul's prohibition is found in Genesis. And Adam was not the one deceived, it was the woman who was deceived and became a sinner. Paul grounded the ordering of authority in the church upon the order of creation before the fall, not after the fall. This isn't a punishment. This is a order of creation before the fall. But listen to this. All attempts to get rid of Paul's teaching on headship on the grounds that it's mistaken, confusing, culture-bound, or culture-specific must be pronounced unsuccessful. And it remains stubbornly there. It is rooted in divine revelation, not human opinion, not human culture. Therefore it must be preserved as having permanent and universal authority no matter the time. Also, but then I can't dismiss the masculine headship in the cavalier way in which some evangelical feminists do. This is something in the Pauline teaching about headship that cannot be ignored as a purely cultural phenomenon. Because he roots it in creation. We may find his exegesis of Genesis 2 difficult, that women were made after men, out of men, and for men, but he does root this argument in creation. We have to have a very high view of apostolic authority. And so we cannot reject Paul's teachings on this. Okay? So Key points to pick up there. Not every man is over every woman, right? You submit to your own husbands, not her husband, and just because a man comes up to you in church and says, do this That is not what Paul is teaching about. He's talking about preaching in the general worship service and teaching doctrine, having authority doctrine over men. Alright? So this has application to all of us. Um and in one of the ways, because who are we listening to? Do we listen to women that are teaching in authority over men? Some do this accidentally. Some women teach accidentally. They don't realize that they're going against God's commandment for women and his created order for the household. They just teach. They just want to teach God's word and everyone's teach you know reading in them and it's great But I would say if someone's theology is so weak that they miss this obvious point, I would be hesitant to read anything from them. Okay? She's not worthy of you sitting under her teacher Some women brazenly defy this order and they teach men. And I will say Beth Moore is an example of a woman who knows what Scripture says and defies God's instruction on this In April of last year, she publicly apologized for her role in supporting this doctrine of complementarianism and God's designed order of male headship. This is no small thing. Understand Eve's sin in the garden was not that she was more gullible than Adam. That wasn't her sin. Her sin was a willful attempt to overthrow the creation order She hoped in eating from the tree her eyes would be opened and that she would be like God. And that's not where God put her, right? Eve's sin involved overturning this order of creation and then therefore teaching her husband. Women can serve in the body of Christ literally everywhere, anywhere you want There's just one place you can't, okay? Just one area of service. Don't let that be a hang up for you. Okay? If it's still hard to understand, come to me But don't be counted among those who destroyed the church because you're unable to submit to the framework that God has established for the body of Christ Alright, in Exodus 3. 5, he said to them, This is holy, this is the point. Remember God's church is holy. Do not come near here. Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place on which you're standing is holy ground. In Psalm 93, he writes, your testimonies are fully confirmed. Holiness befits your house, O Lord, forevermore. We put on holiness because that befits God's house. The church's holy ground, a holy house, and you don't want to do anything to her to mar her holiness. We are the temple of God's Holy Spirit. So wrapping up real quick, back in verse 17, it says, if any man destroys the temple of God, mars her holiness What's the consequence? This is a strong warning. God will destroy them. Terrible ruin of some kind awaits those who destroys the church. And this is not just a physical chastisement. This is God's destruction. When you read this, do you get a sense of God's attitude towards the church to defend her It's his bride, his holy temple. Do you feel the intensity, his guardian jealousy that he has for the church? The Old Testament punishment for defiling the church was clear. Leviticus fifteen thirty three says, Thus you shall keep the sons of Israel separated from their uncleanliness, so they will not die in their uncleanliness by their defiling my tabernacle, right? If you defile God's tabernacle, you die. And then in Numbers you have to remove be removed from the midst of the assembly because he defiled the sanctuary of God. Be cut off, it says. And if God feels this way about the tabernacle, the temple, which is a picture of the church of c to come. What must you feel about his people who are the temple? Jesus had zeal for God's temple. Remember in Matthew 21, he entered the temple and he drove all of those out. You have turned my father's house in a place of prayer and you're making it a robber's den. Paul taught holy separation from God's people from false religion. Separate from false religion. Second Corinthians he says, what agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God. God said, I will dwell with them, right? I will be the father to you. God has zeal for his church Zeal is a close cousin to godly jealousy, one who is jealous of another in a good sense, and he seeks to protect her from defilement. If you have love for God, you must have a zeal for his church and his worship Ezra 723 says, Whatever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be done with zeal for the house of God at heaven, so that there will not be wrath against the kingdom of the king and his sons. Numbers 25 says Phineas, the son of Eliezer, the son of Aaron the priest, has turned away my wrath from the sons of Israel, and that he was jealous with my jealousy among them, so that I did not destroy the sons of Israel in my jealousy. The nation of Israel was preserved because of the zeal that Phineas had for the temple in the Lord. Right? 2 Kings 23, Josiah also removed all the houses of the high places, which were in the cities of Samaria, these idle places of worship that had been made to provoke the Lord. And he did to them just as he had done in Bethel, all the priests of the high places who were there. He slaughtered. Josiah slaughtered the high priests to the false god on the altars, and he burned human bones on them. Then he returned to Jerusalem. That's holy zeal for God's church. That's violence. That's hatred to anything that mars the holiness of God. See, God warns he will destroy those who attempt to harm his temple. And this must have particularly made Paul think of the grace that God had shown to him. Like I said, I was going through Acts this week and thinking of Saul standing there holding the robes as they stoned Stephen. It says Paul Saul looked on in hearty approval. And then he went out and he captured the Christians. He tried to destroy the church. He tried to stamp it out. Galatians 1. 13, he writes For you have heard of my former manner of life in Judaism, how I used to persecute the Church of God beyond measure and try to destroy it? But he was shown mercy. Isn't that amazing? Psalm 9423. He has brought back their wickedness upon them, and he will destroy them in their evil. The Lord our God will destroy them. This is a warning to us, ladies, in 1 Corinthians 3. It is similar to God's warning of tampering with In other words, don't tamper with the things of God, right? For the punishment will fit the greatness of the cross. So I ask you today, as we come and we think about the church, Christ, we celebrated his death last night And tomorrow we celebrate his resurrection. And he died on that altar where he went and met God for us. Now he's our mediator. And we are his temple and collectively we house him. Do you love the church? Do you love this corporate gathering of women and men, brothers and sisters and children? You are the stones that God is using to build his temple and the Holy Spirit resides in us collectively. When we come together, the Holy Spirit is there the same way the cloud was over the tabernacle. The fire was on the altar, the fire was in the temple. Holy Spirit is the same in you. God wants us to treasure Hope Bible Church He wants us to treasure this visible church. And I just encourage all of us here today, do not be apart. of tearing down Hope Bible Church. And may our zeal for the church, may we live according to this mandate of zealously guarding, jealously guarding. the the purity of Hope Bible Church so that we confess in in our own lives for these petty disputes that we have and and whatever is being you know the world is affecting us that we We repent and we change and we purify our hearts so that we come and gather together. And may our passion for the church cause us to live in such a way that that w it it raises the bar for all the churches in the area that they see Hope Bible Church is a different church. We love the local church. We sacrifice for the local church. And may that then spread like wildfire to the other local churches as we encourage and show them our zeal that we have for Hope Bible Church. Ladies, I'm going to pray. We have some questions to discuss. And I'll give you about 10 minutes for that. 10 to 15 minutes Heavenly Father, oh how you love your bride and how greatly, Father, we have sinned. What a privilege that you always want to dwell with us. No matter how sinful we have been all throughout history, we had perfection, we had the presence of God in the garden, and we still rejected it. And yet you still gave a way for us to come You destroyed the whole world, but still gave a way for us to come. The nation of Israel continually left you and complained and sinned against you. We still had a they still had a way to come And then you gave your son with us, and we killed him. And you still made a way for us to come through his resurrection and through the pouring out of his spirit on us. us. Oh Father, thank you for wanting to dwell with us. God, I pray that we would think on your holiness and your glory and we would see Hope Bible Church. Not as just a church to go to on Sunday, but that this is where the Holy Spirit resides. When we sit in that worship center tomorrow, we collectively make the bride of Christ and the Holy Spirit is in that room, manifested in a way that is different from when we live stream at home or when when we just meet two together, when we gather all together as a church. Something is different and you have said it, and may we pray, Father, for the holiness and the preservation of Hope Bible Church. May we not tear it down to our disputes, our bad doctrine and our manner of living in an ungodly way and not being in submission. to what you have said. Thank you, God, for Hope Bible Church. Thank you for our leaders. Thank you for the sacrifices that have been made to establish Hope Bible Church. Father, we pray for your protection. May we be a part of the Defender. But we pray you protect her, Father, especially with this time that we are in. You are the defender, but Lord, we are the living stones, and may we guard her and treasure her holiness, Father. And we lift this up in your name. Amen.