And it's not growing fruit. Is it is it getting enough nutrients, etc. Maybe it's not a fruit tree. I want to take a moment and deviate a little bit from what Barbara did, or maybe just amplify what Barbara did. I don't think you look half as bad as you think you do. Ephesians 1, 3 through 6 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. Why did he choose Abraham? First Corinthians two fourteen says, but a natural person, natural meaning, us been our unredeemed. So Barbara Hughes makes the point in her book, first we're going to back up that Christ is the central figure of the gospel. You get three chapters in, boom, there it is. What they did for our benefit so that we might recognize the Messiah. If you've ever been wronged, whether it was a kid and someone took your toy and the parent didn't make them give it back to you, or whatever it is, the wrong, you want it to be made right. He loves everyone equally. And this response must enlist the heart, the mind, and the will of one who calls. But as grace reaches down to the lowest depths of our needs and affects a change so radical, so pervasive, it cannot be explained in terms other than it's a new creation. Without his resurrection, we would not have the justification and the adoption, and without his ascension into heaven, we wouldn't have the Holy Spirit inside of us with the works. But one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind, reaching forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. And this Bible passage puts to rest any misuse of the doctrine found in popular belief systems such as quietism, which is simply let go and let God. Barbara Wright says as women who understand and embrace the gospel, we find God's word so dynamic that at once it defines us, it satisfies us, and it motivates us. Why do I exist? That's why I get offended. So when someone's coming to you and saying, no, no, no, no, but, but, but, be at peace. And he and he's been seen by others. I prayed prayer, I walk an aisle, I I helped people. So if we think No no I'm it's okay, I can choose you are a slave to sin. Right? So that through perseverance and the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. Pastor Plumler says is God has sinners reconciled. Do not be amazed that I said to you, you must be born again. Because he spoke to them. Does it shape where what you do from day to day when you get up in the morning, when you work throughout the day, how you interact with people? You have to have these first four before it that that shows what the entrance into the kingdom is mourning over your sin. 'Cause it is his word. Have some higher religious form of of existence or being, whether it be a heaven or a paradise And there's the steps to get there, right? It's total depravity, sovereign election, um how did I word it? lived a perfect life, died on the cross for our sins, and rose again. So I want to start with total depravity, radical depravity. Our bodies, our wills, our minds, our affections, our choices are not oriented in a Godward direction, nor are they neutral. As it is written, there is no righteous person, not even one, there's no one who understands, there's no one who seeks out God That's that neutral, oh I can look for him. With their tongues they keep deceiving. 'Cause she was trying to s prove a point from scripture and I said, No, it says dead in your sins. Dead, dead. So maybe yeah, dead death. What in the rules? and made opposite to all good and wholly inclined to evil. who has ever existed on this earth will experience either the second death or the second birth. Because of humankind's corruption and spiritual innerbility, God graciously elects and calls certain ones to be his own. We don't. Because men are dead in their sins, they can do nothing. He predestined us to adoption as sons and daughters through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace with which he favored us in the beloved. So some people need their doctrine corrected and and their struggle is they're not believing man is totally depraved. And so when someone comes, they're like, well, I think, you know, we can choose, they they maybe are saying that because they don't want God to seem unfair, but we need to correct their doctrine and say, no, no you know, what Anne is teaching in precepts, how you study the Bible, how you interpret the Bible. You know, God works together all things for good, to those who love the Lord, to those who are called, for the you know, for those whom he foreknew. that he uses it in past tense. We have examples all throughout Scripture of God selecting people. In Matthew 22, 14 it says, Many are called, but few are chosen. And the despised God has chosen, the things that are not, so he may nullify the things that are, so that no human may boast. First Corinthians one twenty-seven through twenty-nine says, But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise, and he's chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong. If you need help with your identity, you're foolish, you're weak, you're insignificant, uh despised but according to his own purpose and grace which was granted to us in Christ Jesus from all eternity. Now I make known to you, brothers and sisters, the gospel which I preach to you, which you also received, and which you also stand, by which you also are saved, if you hold firmly to the word which I preach to you, unless you believed in vain. For I handed down to you as of first importance what I also received, that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures. And that he was buried and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. with the disciples and they don't know who he is? I I you know. Now back to the atonement. In the Old Testament, God set up the law to teach the Israelites, you've done wrong. And it was a picture, right? The pinnacle of Leviticus is the Day of Atonement, when the high priest goes into the Holy of Holies, which he's only allowed to do on the one day, and he has to do sacrifices. We can't do the reconciling, which is why Pastor Flemley, I remember when we were young, changed the words of Hark the Herald Angel Sing as a kid, and now it's in my mind. He says, the only way you can be reconciled to me, the only way your sins can be washed, is for Christ's perfect righteousness to cover and satisfy my wrath. He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all. Christ's death was directed towards and actually saved a definite particular group of people. Who will bring a charge against God's elect? You see, when a person really says Christ died for the whole world, what he's saying is that Christ died for every human being. The work of Christ on the cross actually accomplished the goal of bringing two estranged parties together by affecting the salvation of the elect. When you see the word the word world, right, in the New Testament, we have to understand what that meant to them, right? to redeem the people for himself. I am no longer going to be in the world. While I was with them, I was keeping them in your name, which you have given me, and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, except the son of destruction, Judas, and we're going to talk about him, so that scripture would be fulfilled. I think I'm on three. We have the calling, regeneration, justification, adoption, and sanctification. Because quite frankly, when God calls you, can you resist him? With our new life, our new spiritual heart, we're able to respond to his call with faith and repentance. You're still guilty. Now we've gone through all of that. Now we are declared righteous. So we, I mean we know what adoption is, but it's giving us the ability to call God Abba Father. They could flip away. And then once you're justified, you're adopted. To those who believe on his name who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God, born of regeneration. Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? And he cannot continually he cannot sin continually because he's been born of God. And it's in contradiction to the image that we bear. We need the Holy Spirit and its dependence upon the death and the resurrection of Christ in its initiation, and then dependent upon his death and resurrection in its continuation. The only way we'll be sanctified is the gospel. Philippians two, twelve through thirteen says, So then my beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not in my presence not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Scripture is full of verses reminding us that our whole being is to be intensely active in the process of sanctification for the purpose of being conformed to the image of Son. But it is the one who has endured to the end who will be saved. Someone can be in the act of sin. and regeneration and then lose all interest and become hostile to the gospel. as I consider my life and my position before Christ, sobering as I look at young people in our church that have been raised up in the truth. They have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit, have tasted the good word of God and the powers of age to come. For ground that drinks the rain which often falls on it and produces vegetation useful to those for whose sake it was tilled receives a blessing from God. how we keep ourselves away from the world. To turn away from the holy commandment, hand it on to them. says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope. through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to obtain an inheritance which is imperishable, undefiled, and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you who are protected by the power of God through faith for salvation. God will reveal that to you as well. Let's have a different let's have this attitude. Point one, predestination, God's election of his people. If we're called, we will be perse we will persevere to the end. That of everything that He has given me, I will lose nothing. So the question that Barbara had for us is your identity defined by the gospel? We're not like the animals, right? with all the saints for the sake of the gospel. And I only remember the names of my great-grandparents because they were alive at the time. And it extends beyond my 70, 80, 90 years here on the earth. Colossians 1, 10 through 12, so that you will walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, increasing in the knowledge of God. And that is, we have Christ. Many are called in that s in that sense. So that's that calling, right? And that's a great one. It has to be all together. I can be mean, but I can't be, you know, persuasive and, you know, woefully encouraging or what's the word? that when people say that God's not fair, I'm like, yeah, God is not fair. There's no regret. Let's go back to God's character. Getting older, that happens naturally. It requires discipline. If you want to grow, run a marathon, grow a muscle, or anything, improve anything in your life, it requires discipline. And so it has a very negative connotation. I heard someone say, uh those maybe laugh, that donut doesn't taste as good as skinny feels. I need to grow in patience. Today we're going to focus on the gospel. You can't have those fruits without the source. And uh I heard it as like, you know, it's a ba when you take the first four Beatitudes, it's like first base, second base, third base. It is the gospel of Jesus Christ is unrelenting and wanting to seek every area of your life and convert every little area from tops of your head to the bottoms of your toes. And it's the only source of godliness. The glory of the gospel. People often say, well, I prayed a prayer, right? Christianity says, have a seat, there's nothing you can do. This is amazing news about what this is amazing news uh about God's son and what he accomplished on the cross. I think I copied art. to flesh those out. All of your hearts, your passions, your desires, completely full of sin. But I I could choose one or the other. You're as bad as you're possibly going to be. It offends him in every way. Romans 3, 9 through 18. There is no fear of God before their eyes. And by the way, that shouldn't need any qualifications to be dead. Dead dead person? This sin is imputed to all of their children, who inherit the same death and sin and corrupted nature. And so is this horrible picture, the picture you have, apart from Christ, this is who I am. So all persons are bound over to the wrath of God and made subject to death with all miseries, spiritual, temporal, and eternal the perfect marriage, the perfect food, the perfect temperature always, and they had God walking with them. So number three, sovereign election. BLOOT THE THEN MO So I JUST IN TO BIT AND MOOER. prior to the time when God determined he would elect. So that's how I in my mind have defined them out. predetermined certain people to save. And the people that believe this, I think they just have a hard time thinking that God would just be selective. God is sovereign. And there's no scriptural support for the CU. By not believing man is totally depraved and thinking man has a part in their salvation, they're devaluing the power of God. They know that and a gentle reminder of I I don't think your your practice is in agreement with your theology because you believe God is all powerful and you believe man is full of sin Then you must believe God just chose some and didn't choose others. Alright, what about Romans 8, 28, and 29? He also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters. God all throughout Scripture is making these distinguishing, determining selections because he's God. What are these as many as the promises of God are? He used the Old Testament to explain himself to them. The Old Testament was written for us so that we might have instruction and perseverance and encouragement of Scripture. All of Leviticus is pointing to chapter 17, and then 17 it continues to show like these are the sacrifices that you need. For his sin, cleanse himself from his sin, and then he enters into the Holy of Holies to make atonement for the sin of the nation of Israel. He has to atone. Far away from the camp. The curtain was torn from top to bottom to the Holy of Holies. all along that Christ would satisfy God's justice by his suffering and dying in our place. through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation, namely that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself, not counting their wrongdoings against them, and he hath submitted to us the word of reconciliation Therefore, we are ambassadors for Christ, just through God. You are still an enemy of God and he died for you. When someone has upset us, we're like, mm-hmm. for you. Atonement is Christ's death, him atoning the work, the satisfying the covering, but particularly, he died particularly for those whom God called. Here is I have my here's my debt. or to turn general atonement into a particular atonement. to other people groups, not just Jews, but the Gentiles. That's a redeemable, atonable position. I do not ask on behalf of the world, but on the behalf of those whom you have given me, because they are yours, and all things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I have been glorified in them He says, I have revealed, this is to God, Christ is saying, I have revealed your name to the men whom you gave me out of the world. Now they have come to know that everything which you have given me is from you. It should not bother us. Right? Calling is God's Spirit working into a person who is dead, into his life, and calling them from their deadness. The person has changed and then he responds to repentance and faith. The stone, you're dead. that it sh immediately affects the consciousness of every person. So it logically follows that if you have not been regenerated, you should not have the expectation that you will have victory over sin. W and we're completely passive, right? 1 John 3. The seed that remains in us is the Holy Spirit. So then now you can follow the decrees of the Lord. Every regenerate person that's been delivered have been delivered from the power of sin. the uh the sacrifice has come and atoned for him. It exemplifies the freeness and the richness of the gospel of grace. says that, nevertheless, knowing that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ, not by the works of the law. For we know without God giving us the faith we would never have any hope to defeat sin otherwise. Uh John Murray, I love this book. uh co that are consonant with such a status. through adoption. Therefore, we've been buried with him through baptism into death, so that, just as Christ was raised from the dead, through the glory of the Father, Knowing this, our old self was crucified with him in order that our body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be slaves to sin. Not potential, not gradual. First John 1 8, it also says if we claim that we have no sin, we're deceiving ourselves. He writes that because he does not want Christians to be content with a status quo, to indulge sin in our lives, to turn grace uh to turn the grace of God into lasciviousness, freedom to just So while we are constantly dependent upon the Holy Spirit to be the agent of change in our hearts, though, we cannot remove ourselves from our parts, our responsibility to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who is at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. keep living as I want, 'cause its grace covers it. So let's talk what it does not mean. John 8, 31 through 32 says, So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed him, If you continue in my word, then you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. How do we distinguish who is really a Christian and who just looks like a Christian? and then have fallen away. That even the disciples when Jesus said, Tonight one of you will deceive and and give me over, they're all is it me? That's the truth. Not that they will be saved regardless of their perseverance or continuous in the faith, but that they will assuredly persevere. ready to be revealed in the last time. It's kept. sinful lusts by abusing this doctrine of the perseverance of the saints. Philippians 3, 12 through 16. if I may also take hold of that for which I ha was even taken hold of by Christ Jesus. Therefore, all who are mature, let's have this attitude. Let's live like this. towards the goal. I'm just gonna let God do it. uh explanation of this in his sermon maybe a month ago now. So any work I do, I'm just, you know, m not saying God's, you know, cr Christ's atonement on the cross was, you know, was enough. towards holiness so that, you know, because it's all Christ, I'm not going to work towards holiness. horrible sin revealed in their life and disqualify them for ministry. Christ Jesus our Lord. Where he talks about that unbreakable chain. and no one will snatch them out of my hand. The gospel is everything. We're made in the image of God. not only brings dignity and value to our humanity, being image bearers, but it brings purpose and meaning to gender distinction. giving thanks to Him, to God the Father. And it's there in the gospel. strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for the attaining of all perseverance and patience, joyously giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints of life. or any response that they would want to give, I apologize for going pretty long. about the the call. utter their speech and night into night they show knowledge. you know, and t through the world to the end of the world. Yes, there's uh loudspeaker. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. Because God is a just God and His character is many faceted, right? You know, it's it's there's many facets of God and yes, all all are under the command to repent. Even uh first I'm gonna challenge you on your definition and then say, uh, I see. respond in defiance. You just have to know God's sovereign and what's happening, they're having a problem with God's sovereignty. And the book, the first chapter is a very short introduction. And oftentimes from childhood we hear the word discipline and we groan inwardly whether we know it or not. um is worth the jewel, the rare prize on the other side. Barbara breaks up the book into four categories. Godliness in your soul, godliness in your character, godliness in your relationships, and godliness in your ministry So as we go through the year, we're going to be talking about how we grow in godliness in our soul, our character, our relationships, and our ministry. Today, I am specifically going to be talking about the source of godliness. Let's work on being godly. want to be brave enough and tell me what is the gospel? You understood the gospel. Mourning over our sin, I remember that moment. And it's beautiful, Christianity is the only religion in which salvation cannot be earned. Uh, I serve the poor, I help people, you know, these are all things that are not the gospel, but that's what we put as, well, I know I'm saved because John 1930, Christ says, it is finished. Because all sinned. If you want to say dead, dead, fine. And one life and two lives to die. So the Westminster Confession highlights that our first parents' rebellion meant that they became dead in sin. I was this ass in my list and and and um on my on my tongue and and death in my throat, totally corrupted. So the good news can't happen until we understand how horrible the news really is. is that we're neutral, we have the ability to choose Christ. We think we could choose something different. He predetermined, predestined, to choose them for salvation. Just as he chose us in him, before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before him So before the earth was even formed, God knew you and chose you. God knew you and chose you. is the actual choice. some to save in order to bring glory to himself and his son to his son. But some people, they just struggle to assent to the truth that God can make those choices. cannot tell upon her has really killed. That he would choose some and not others. Or is he not? This verse is a beautiful if you think of it as a golden chain, right? God loved his own from eternity. God sovereignly chose to chain to save some for no other reason than his own will, and we have nothing to do except rebel or resist. And the ones that he called, believed, he justified, and their eternal standing with him is so secure, he speaks of the eternal glorification, Paul writes, in past sense, he glorified. Pagan gods. So there's no reason he chose us accept his good pleasure to the praise of his glory and his grace. And you are seeing yourself not. God's sovereign choice explains why some respond to the gospel and some do not. from the beginning of the foundation. So I'm excited to get to this. Have fellowship with sin. He's talking about the Old Testament. What does he do with these now dirty people that he selected, right? Christ's gospel. I heard people go to the Old Testament and reveal Christ. There had to be a payment for the debt, a punishment for our crime. We are no longer, we no longer need to make the sacrifice for our sin because Christ's blood perfectly covers all of our sin and satisfies God's wrath. In this way, Christ has become the propitiation for our sin. He has become appeasing. and made us able to be reconciled to God. And Christ has atoned us and made that reconciliation able and available to us. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf so that we might become the righteousness of God. And he did not. So I think you should hopefully already be getting to see atonement is only for those God elected. And it was for everybody, but nobody in particular, writes, writes in his book, Christ's death on the cross paid all the debt that God's people owed for their sins. all of us on the earth. He's not praying that all the whole world. Because Jews were a people set apart. The question we're asking here is what does atonement and redemption mean? I ask on their behalf. As the same way to those who do choose Jesus and are the heirs of eternal life, this means we have to devalue the work of Christ on the cross. He's still dead. Lazarus, come forth, right? This is what regeneration is. stone from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh. It's twofold. 2 Corinthians 5. So adoption isn't the as the bestowal of our status and our standing. We this order reaches its full progression when we are glorified and transformed. Sanctification is a work of God in us. Sin is dethroned from the heart of every person who is effectually called and regenerated, and then Christ is put on the throne, and the Spirit has dominion over him. Everyone who is called by God and regenerated by the Holy Spirit has secured actual victory over sin. so we too may walk in newness of life. Positionally, we have complete victory over sin. The more closely we gaze and enter into the holiness of God, the more we see our own sin, and we cry out to God to free us from the sin. It's important that Christians know sin does not have mastery over us, but that we are being ruled by the Holy Spirit. to do that which is well pleasing to him. Pleasing him. We are to respond in belief and have the right gospel and the right Jesus and the only path this is this is the only way we will be godly is through him. those who continue in my word. For it is impossible in the case of those who have once been enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift. How can it be? After they have escaped the defilements of the world by the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And the possibility of never falling into sin, right? And he cannot be guilty of certain kinds of sin and unfaithfulness. But the Lord has brought them back. As the prodigal son was, we say, I don't want to be here anymore. Means saints will persevere to the end. So it is wrong to say that a believer is secure regardless of his subsequent life of sin and unfaithfulness. Here's my progression. So if only saints persevere, then who is the saint? And believes in him will have eternal life. They should animate and exhilarate your life for Christ, not just that sounds good, close that textbook up, move on. Alright? I will not be remembered in a hundred years. So the gospel defines us, it motivates us, and it satisfies us. satisfy satisfy you. Peace from your trial, love from your family. The simple gospel has everything we need and more to satisfy us. close by just giving a an exhortation to never lose the wonder of the gospel. And and I pray that uh what you heard here today. He should have bowed the knee, and he will bow the knee. It doesn't seem fair that God would create the world and and give me salvation. But only those that have been from eternity past without any influence belessed by God will be the ones that are able to have the ears to hear and to respond. You know. It's because I'm um I'm not fun in this way. You have a wrong definition of fair. He is fair. I'm determining what's fair. Any other thoughts? You also have a problem with God's sovereignty. few months and years as a believer, but now it's just what we memorize to tell others as we evangelize. You um like I said from the tops of your head to the bottoms of your toe, you not an inch of you is free from sin. There's not one bit of good in us, not even a drop. Depravity. Bottom line. Uh-huh. That this decision to determine who he's going to call was made in eternity past. Great man who loves the Lord, why David and not Jonathan? However, you can Christ, if you want to see him, the Old Testament was like, here's where you see him, to prepare him. So if you were to ask anyone, most would answer, he died for the world, for God loves the world, for all he loves. Secondly, regeneration. Calling, regeneration, it happens. changes everything. I have members, um, uh extended members of my family that uh are very frustrated that I believe this doctrine because they believe It even it goes. it has not bloomed, it has not produced fruit, and when the sun comes, it is scorched and killed off. It is possible for them to be close to all of these Christian beauties and truths and to fall away. refined out of you. All of you here. Thing about that is, you know, it gives me hope to evangelize. Um, you know, Paul talks about disciplining yourself for godliness. And, you know, if you want to be a godly woman, uh you have to start at the gospel. So is your Jesus defined by Scripture? Yes, you if you are saved, you were that bad. to restrain his power, he can only choose those that have only chose him. Nice little chain. does not accept the things of the Spirit, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they're spiritually discerned What is interesting, this phrase he writes, according to the scriptures. Christ is both the sacrificial lamb and the scapegoat. If he died for everyone, it was a general death, and it wasn't complete Christ and John 17 and his high priestly prayer, when you read this, it's interesting. It is because of Christ's atoning work procured and secured, redemption, that he is an all-sufficient and suitable savior. Life is the difference. So I would encourage all of us, if we are not experiencing victory over our sin, are we regenerated? disciplined on the prize of the high calling of Christ Jesus. The perseverance of the saints is the last part that I want to touch on today before we move back into the book with Barbara. These people have tasted the beauty of the Lord. They are again entangled in the world and are overcome. So we should realize not everyone who looks like a Christian is a Christian. So, you know, um, you may fall away. So a Christian can't say, or a person can't say, I am acclaiming the assurance of salvation, and then continue in a life of prostitution or drugs or whatever. Although this is a wonderful promise, we must fight against the temptation to be comfortable or a lazy Christian in a lazy walk or to encourage Um no no I do. But only few have this effectual calling, the which the atonement uh um is the one that redeems. So that helps. Some are gonna respond. Like we all deserve rest. Ah, that would be a good point to end, don't you think, Sue? The next step is to submit. But first, you know you need help. Can the pot say to the potter, I don't want to be this vessel. Are you glorified today? to prepare the Jews to recognize the Messiah. Which makes Christ's statement on the cross, it is finished, somewhat inaccurate. That this is a spiritual impossibility on part of one who is dead and trespasses in their sin. The prevailing character of the redeemed is holiness. The relationship here is that because God works, we work. You will never fall into patterns of unfaithfulness. Men also need to learn submission. That might work. Dr. In this natural state of sin, you are an enemy of God. Have you come to the realization that this is who you are? completely pervasive. Doesn't this doctrine make you grateful and humble that he chose you? It wasn't enough to fully save everyone. Regeneration. So, on what basis do I declare this person saved? The goal of sanctification is eliminating all sin and complete confirmation into the image of God's own Son, to be holy as God is holy. Thank you, you must know what God shows. So, as we're working and as we're striving towards pleasing God with the Holy Spirit enabling us, the perseverance of the saints becomes a precious, precious doctrine. The most terrifying thing is that it is possible that someone could give all the outward signs of repentance But a believer cannot abandon himself to sin. This is the doctrine of the perseverance of saints. So, Genesis three. I've been called with my purpose. Because he is. Yeah. We're dead. they are not made in the image of God, right? A got a a promotion in your job, uh higher salary, a husband, children, better friends Which gives us hope. Election, not the political kind, election simply means the definition that God, uninfluenced before creation, predetermined certain people to save. The people may even reach amazing heights of Christianity and still not be saved. is not mundane. But now I know. So point number two in your outline, I just just to let you know, I put all the Bible verses on there because I feel like if you remember nothing from me and you just have the outline and Bible verses, the Holy Spirit will work Romans five eight, God demonstrates his own love towards us in this, that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Sanctification involves the concentration of thought, concentration of interest. He didn't speak to the animals, he didn't speak to the plants, the stars, and the moons. I was thinking of like the princess bride. The offense that we have done to God. I like that you know, I like that word. Wright in his book, here I've got resources at your top. There's no inscription. Predestination was the act of electing. Mine are different. So that means however uncomfortable it is, we must believe that God's blood on the cross was only for the people that He chose. And he's just Abraham, I am choosing you out of that pagan society. Morag loves the Old Testament and I love that she loves the Old Testament. 9. Hey, anyone want to get a testimony to that? All sin in the believer. So it it here here's how it defines us. So even though he was a great theologian, but Paul I could say Paul is them, 'cause it's in Paul or Jesus is them. So thank you Lise for coming and we'll close us in prayer. So ladies, today we are going to talk about the disciplines of a godly woman Absolutely. Right there. This takes effort and active involvement. So they're in God's hands and they cannot be snatched out. There's only hate against God. I love these conversations, ladies. We're horrible. He cannot simply choose and excuse sin. Now this we have to ask the question, for whom did Christ die? Your heart is stone, it's not alive. But it's his works, I trust in his works, they cannot be cannot be taken away. You when you know who you are, you know what you're gonna do. Because yes, the gospel is believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. And then he puts it puts his hand on the goat, right? And you want to keep they put all the sins on the goat. No one who has been born of God practices sin because his seed remains in him, and he cannot sin continually because he's been born of God. Who is it? So that's the idea. Same thing as the world. You are not fair. And I also have heard hell is not people down there going, I wish I had chosen God. So that is the most important part of the message. Second Corinthians 1 20 says, For as many as the promises of God are, in him they are yes. And so we need to test ourselves. Let's have this attitude. The call. That's why I cry over the trial I'm going through. Or do you just be a dead person? Remember, Abraham was not a Jew. He wants everyone to be saved, and he waits for the sinner to turn a potential atonement into an actual atonement. It negates the past, it takes out that heart of stone, and it reconstitutes, recreates your future, and it gives you life. You've been cleaned, but we now have to be justified. Now we're innocent. Alright, after we are adopted, first recalled, then regenerated, then justified, then adopted, and now So, this also does not mean that there's just security of the believer. Well, you know, we can't always see that perfectly or understand it because it doesn't seem fair that God would choose some and not choose others Ugh, it won't it won't produce the fruit. Oh that was right. And all who have sinned, the wages of sin is death. It's the doctrine. We are nothing. So Christ did all of this while we were still dead in our sins. The atonement has not yet given us new life. Romans 1. At that point, we'll actually listen. In other words, election is the choice. Recreating new life in us. 17 says, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. No, no, no, you you need to press on. Great question. Every man, elect or unelect, they should repent. Only those of you that have the spirit will be able to hear this. It's and let's first think about if our gospel is defined by Scripture. He can only choose those that he that he sees at one point will make a choice. It's you don't this this part of the chain is not broken. It should encourage us and exhilarate our faith to Him. Number five. And because God has done that, we have the ability and the promise that we will reach victory over sin. This is how they've heard perseverance of saint. So let's all just keep living according to the same standard. It might work, particularly with that character quality, because you'll be so frustrated. Before creation, without any influence, I'm going to peek into creation and see into the future who's going to choose me with absolutely zero influence He foreknew. They are kept. We bear his image. I'm already working on it. Sorry to cut you off. Alright, let me get all the books on patience. What then? Dead dead. So you've got the calling for regeneration and then actually the regenerative part. Okay? It's now. It's not just like, you know, I I kill plants. Although you can see the shame on your dog when you tell him, Shame on you, there's the dog's face And I read stories of whales that are s like carrying their dead young hundreds of miles that, you know, grieve and mourn the loss of their youth. So there's this like so the I didn't so I I didn't give like I said there's a a long word to go into. All winsome, thank you, that's where I was heading. Yes. No, there's no one even looking for him. Did you have a question? It seems unfair. Um and so because of his it's a loving chain of his love placed on us for the image of Christ. So I'm taking your dead heart, that is a stone, and I'm giving you a live heart. And hence it away. Let's keep living by that same standard to which we have attained. So I was wondering like other people are called the RC or obviously there are, but yeah. Yeah, a sexual calling, sovereign regeneration, and then sanctification. Rom Psalm 53, 1 says, The fool says in his heart, there is no God. We must have the declaration. It is impossible, he writes, to restore them again to repentance, since they again crucify to themselves the Son of God and put him to open shame. Judas. Let's define fair. Barbara's chapter was short. You could find out mostly it's in the roots. I asked how I put that in there, because Jamie, he overheard me and John talking on the way home from church. We've we there's just from beginning of Adam. I don't feel glorified. It's for all of you. No, he desires both Jews and Gentiles be saved. It wasn't, here's the ticket, now you have the opportunity to play. And yet they themselves are in the world. Ezekiel 36, 26-27 says, Moreover, I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. When God adopts men and women into his family, he ensures that not only may they have the rights and privileges of his sons and daughters, but also the nature or disposition So it doesn't look anything like a woman sitting in the chair. That's who we are. We have it's a manual, the Bible's a manual for bringing our life under the discipline of the gospel. It is tragic indeed for those who claim faith in the gospel to then search anywhere else for satisfaction. All we have is Christ. Yes, Sarah? We're not going to go from bars. It's not just one more thing to schedule into your busy day. Here's my purpose. There's the there's the gospel in there. In the same way, let's be honest, losing weight does not happen on its own Amen. The venom of asps is under their list. He's praying only for those who he elected that the Father gave him. They were already separate. Clearly that saved people. It's all happening very quickly. This isn't sanctification. Kept. 6. I have hopes. Um I call that fruit pasting, and I learned that in um my biblical counseling days at Masters. ? If you try to put these fruit on in any other way other than the gospel, you're just going to be a fruit paster. And Jamie goes, actually mom, she's talking about the second death. Like, oh have you have they asked him, Have you heard the news? And it was his obedient and sacrificial death on the cross that appeased that. A sexual calling. Excuse me, I just misspoke. Right? The believer must continue in his word. The mark of a believer isn't that we don't sin. These are the ones that are called. There is this general call that's gone out to all of the all of the world. Can't hear, and they won't hear. So when people say like, oh well God is God isn't fair, I'm like, no, he's just that's a different story. I want you just to think on that for a moment. And I remember when I first understood the gospel. Romans 6. The entire world is told, Submit to God. You're not neutral. Okay? He's holy, and so alright, he's chosen them, but his choosing doesn't cleanse them. Right? God is the one who justifies. So we're called, we're regenerated, and then justified. We bear God's image. That means because of the great work God has done to call, redeem, atone, regenerate, sanctify, glorify, we want to live our lives in grateful servitude to Him There is no speech and no tongue that hath not heard. And if you were to choose all of this stuff, you would do a horrible job. I was gonna say some people say God is free. And and and that's the thing, like when someone comes to you and they're a like and they're well what about this and what about that and what about this? Or you could take a piece of fruit, go over to the branch and staple it on. Are we better than they, Paul writes? Election is the choosing. There was one day, we actually the Jews just celebrated it on Wednesday, Yom Kippur. Peter writes that these saints are protected in this passage. No, you don't. Because if you're dead you can't do anything. And as you will see, it it gives you comfort. If you've been regenerated, you've been given a completely new heart and a new life But but as we're thinking about sanctification, the reason why we're progressing towards holiness is because sin in the believer is in contradiction to God's holiness. They are kept through the faith and they are kept until the final consummation. And if you have a different attitude, I'm going to pray that God will reveal that to you. So we persevere by abiding. First, Genesis 1, we're created image of God, we're created distinct. Under regeneration. This is goes back to the same thing with the with the words world and all. So and their works to the end of the world. Um I accepted him into my heart. It means in totality you are completely stained. We can't choose him. He loved you from eternity past. What are these promises? So because God has called and regenerated and atoned and justified and adopted, we are able to work in sanctification towards Judas is an example of this. Which gives us hope in evangelizing because that's what everyone wants to say. No, no, there's dead and mostly dead. So when we are dead in our sins, we will live this one life here on earth, and we will die from this life, and then we will die again, the second death. We don't have anything perfect. Yeah, could you say one of the differences between election and we just Yeah, yeah. Paul is saying, read your Bible, Jews. Romans 15, 4, for whatever was written in earlier times was written for our instruction. The wind blows where it wishes, you hear the sound of it, but you do not know where it is coming from and where it is going. Now you are brought into the family of God. Far from it! Not, he writes, Paul writes, not that I have already grasped it all, or I've already become perfect. It is not something you just believe and move on from. Um so does anyone have any responses? I know you believe God is God. John 8. But when we stand in the mirror and we look at our soul, we often always think we look better than we do. It's just not the same as Christ revealing himself in the Old Testament. Is God's death and resurrection. What is it you're searching for? I have a problem with God's sovereignty. Whether it be nirvana or reincarnation, there's always something you should do to get to that higher religious form. Yes, the P word, predestination. Can't go very far. When Christ shed his blood, it was not to put men in a redeemable position, but it was to secure their salvation of the elect. So only those who have been given life can answer the call. First, it does not mean that everyone who professes Christ is truly saved. They are kept through the face. This is heresy. This is the doctrine of submission is for all. How hard is it to love someone and to be kind to someone who has offended you? When you hear all, same thing. It only started the work. 14, for sin shall not be master over you, for you are not under the law, but under grace. This is Jesus. We are precious. And as women, we need to learn submission because it's confused. We don't like it, and we're already rushing against it like, okay, here it comes, we're bracing for it. No, don't have a seat. You know, and if you do, you know you need help because God punishes We have to be rescued out of this depravity. So election is the doctrine. Predestination simply identifies this as something that happened preliminary to the foundation of time. Right? That's what God chose. John is imploring the believers purify themselves from all that is in this world. So we need to say, what is this doctrine? I'm I'm gonna see success in my evangelism at some point in my life. Amen. Dead, dead, dead, you're dead. It reminds me of illustration of pot It wasn't like, here's the Jewish people and then pluck Abraham out of the Jewish people. He knew. So we're totally depraved. The heart of flesh, now when we think of the flesh, we think of the defiled flesh, but in Zekiel what he's saying is, what is the difference between a rock and a heart of flesh? Now the judge must justify and declare him righteous. This he does by regeneration. It is specifically the work of the indwelling and the directing of the Holy Spirit. The ones who are called is what it says, among whom you also are the called of Christ Jesus. So your identity is in those gospel truths we talked about. So I just put those verses there. So like I said, God in his infinite wisdom, he looked down into this step pool of total depravity and he chose some to be called. Some people, that's their problem, right? They will endure. Let's press on. I don't know, but it's fantastic. Be conform to the image of God's Son. You know, everyone in the room can hear, but only the people that have like that specific, like they've already had like Exactly what Anne said. Why Mary and not another woman? He's a holy God and a just God. We don't need that anymore. We're making an appeal through us. Past progressive. And instead of off you go, I'll just let you die. It's not like you're saying pinpoint, I was called, then I was regenerated. It's not that now you're saved, you're n you will never fall into sin, right? It does not mean that. You can't let go. And I myself will raise him up on the last day. I I won't be. In this state, we are completely dead in our sins. They have actual transgressions, so your sins flow from this corrupted nature that's within. Election is the doctrine. It's the call for verdict. If they had someone in front of them, what would you what would you say this is the gospel? And the source is Christ. 34, it writes, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin. In a state of total depravity, we are opposite of God. His his atoning works made us innocent, made us righteous, his spirit called and is regenerating us. But yes, we war with this body of flesh. It has happened to them according to the true proverb: a dog returns to its own vomit, and a fowl, after washing, returns to wallowing in the mire, a pig. Well, the ones who are called. Most people are born with ears. Falling apart happens naturally. They've all turned aside. Far away from the camp. I hope you all receive it. Sovereign regeneration. And the Lord says you will. For if we become united with him in the likeness of his death, certainly we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. We're not going to do this or that. There was adoption, there was justification, salvation. So anyway, I'm getting into more things. I won't read it. You're depraved. When you say God has predestined, yes, in he elected and then he predestined. Everyone always says, oh. This means engagement of our most intense concentrated devotion like we talked about. Thank you. Um recently there was a visitor at church that when I said we're dead in our sins, she responded well. And they thought all these blessings are for us. We must persevere in our faith, in our holiness, all the way to the end. And if anything in you, uh sorry, and if in anything you have a different attitude That's the promise that God has. Because see you get you're over there standing in your pride saying you get to determine what's fair. If you've been saved by God's gospel, do you, in his grace, do you look back and say, yeah, that is who I was There's the foreknowledge, then there's the predestination, then there's the calling, then there's the justification, then there's the glorification. Then he predestined, they would say. Why Adam and Eve? And the sinner can do that by accepting and asking Jesus into his heart. And I will put my spirit within you and bring it about with you that you will walk in my statutes and are careful to follow my ordinances. This happens like that. How shall we who have died still live in sin? The crucial test of faith is not falling away, but enduring to the end, abiding in Christ, the continuance of his word. They are in the middle of sin, middle of shooting the person, middle of robbing them, and Christ calls his church and they're rapture to salvation. Both are heresy. If they're the the saints are the ones that are called. I love this. He was called to submit and recognize that God is his creator and to put his life When we think of the gospel, Jesus is I washed the aisle. So when someone comes up with that, be gracious and gentle to them because they need they may need help and and understanding these truths and understanding the Bible. This is interesting. So we need to bear his image properly. I do think of our use as in our church. Test our children, if you have children, and pray for the youth of our church. That's not with the perseverance of the saint. That's sourcing. You can't separate God's love and his mercy from also His holiness and His justice. Because next month, Sue's going to be talking about submission. Romans five twelve. But it's okay to use it's not a bad word. I want to be a different vessel. They're the Old Testament. Because we're atoned. I have people in my life I love very dearly, years of sin, shipwrecked faith, I would even say. Only we can hear the word of God and respond to it. And g and that's and that's to glorify God I'm gonna knock on all these doors and it's dependent upon me to be very persuasive to beg their hearts to come to call to Christ. God determines what's fair. And I'm gonna be a patient person and I'm gonna work on patience and I'm gonna grow in patience. All right, let's run over. And if you're not saved, you are that bad. That that is God choose making the choice. It does not mean the possibility to be redeemed, the possibility to be atoned or being put in the position And we're women. He spoke to us. For we have the knowledge of God and his gracious provisions for us and the treasure troves of Scripture. Amen. Huh. Well, but that doesn't mean dead dead what is It's in the beginning. The Old Testament scriptures were written so that we would recognize him Who is the one who condemns? Unsaved people can't understand the words. It enlists all of who they are. The old has passed away. It's not just like a tiny little like whoop, there's a little sprout. It's that it who we are. Or uh actually Linda, would you mind closing us in prayer? Well, you have a couple options. There's four parts. This is the 40 questions book. That's total depravity. So if you're depraved, totally depraved, you're dead. There's a a lot of truth in the New Testament and w we really as Christians on this side of Pentecost need to plant ourselves in the New Testament and make sure we're appro properly applying applying the doctrine. The last state has become worse than the first, for it would be better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than having known it And he cannot come under the dominion of sin I return to God. Die. Propitiation is a big word, and it just means it appeases and pacifies God's wrath God doesn't need to restore reconcile to us. This call has been titled Irresistible. Um that's my prayer. Yes, he beat his body and made it a slave, but the effort is joyful because of the reward, right? We're dead. That means there's nothing special in you or me that we bring to the table that contributed to the reason why he chose us. I am coming to you, Holy Father. Regeneration gives us new life. We overcome this world by faith in Christ. The truth is not in us. What's happening in the soil? And now your work begins, my children. That is the gospel. That's the only way he's a just God. That's the other thing. For the words which you gave me I have given to them. Those are the five things I'm going to try and fly over. Let's leave that sin behind. You need to press on. My life is not meaningless. Um now I know I'm gonna go out, I'm gonna sew my seeds. That's why I'm anxious. So I'm just gonna do a real shot tell you what the table of contents are, what we're gonna be talking about in the women's ministry this year My lesson isn't. Not at all. And if you understand this, you know you need help. I have a couple aches and pains I'm carrying with me today. But if this part's broken, well wait a second. All of the sin of the nation of Israel is put on that goat, and then somebody comes and what do they do? That's where we get the word scapegoat. Okay. I mean it it's that simple. They will continue. But we'll raise it up on the last day. So but my life is not meaningless. I promise not to do that when I teach in November. So this call is, you know, and and the Apostle Paul says, God is now calling all men everywhere, repent That's not fair either. He's all powerful. That's what you must believe. There's nothing good in me. So see, Anne wasn't making it up. You're in a courtroom. Let's have a standard and let's all attain to it together. 1 Corinthians 1. So these are the five doctrines of grace that are beautiful. In your search for what you lack, oftentimes we can diminish or even dismiss entirely what we constantly take for granted It seems sad, but that's only sad because they've chosen to You know, God is free. Well who is Jesus Christ? Being justified by our works would be no gospel at all. He walked with Christ. That song, take this world and give me Jesus, does the gospel Yeah. Actually make the choices. Their mouth is full of cursing and bitterness. He did not look into the future, see who was going to choose him, and then choose them choose those people. The Day of Atonement was to prepare us for we need an atonement. It wasn't hopefully one day. First John 5. So after we've been given a new heart, we are justified by faith in the works of Christ. By my faith, not in me, but in Christ's works, right? Anyway, sorry Colossians 3. And then predestination is just the time. The non-elect sinner cannot believe Christ in on his or home, her own effort. Paul is now saying what Peter said. We beg you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God. How would he not also with him freely give us all things He renews the master his image and knowledge, righteousness and holiness. We bear the image of God. We we protect ourselves. There are certain kinds of sin and unfaithfulness that a true believer will never do, blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. Because uh Jamie will die and his children will die and then they won't remember me either. Um, but it talks about becoming godly isn't something that happens naturally. Adam and Eve had it perfect. So predestination simply identifies the point So it's a supernatural work, and we are now super supernatural beings, able to enter his kingdom. Obviously, there is still indwelling sin in the believer. Without his death, we would not be atoned Believers do sin, sometimes grievously, and sometimes for long times. It's that when we're flat on our face and in the pit He made us women. Only those with the spiritual ears will hear. It's his gospel. Because all that you think and love and pursue and do, desire, hope, and create is in rebellion and conflict with God. Together they've become corrupt. Mostly dead's not the same as dead. God chose. And he destined you for salvation. He has perfectly atoned. I'll get that for you, honey. John 1, 12 through 13. Hello. You know, that that type of thing. Because if we skip over the gospel, and let's just say Um, you know, and the Beatitudes say, Blessed are those who mourn for they shall be comforted, and that's talking about our mourn mourning over our sin Why didn't he make Joseph and Mary from the beginning? It says, He died, he was buried, and he was raised according to the scriptures. And he was like, Okay, you guys just don't get it, don't you? But Christ talks about that in the parable of the sower, where the seeds fall on the rocky soil. They are kept and oh sorry, there's my I mean not same thing, but grammarly-wise. I try in the word, like honoring in this way. Do you treasure the gospel? Therefore, just as through one man center sin entered into the world and death through sin, so death spread to all mankind. And I'm gonna I'm actually just gonna eviscerate that the rest of this lesson He can make those selections. Justification is our standing before God. It brings us peace as we entrust ourselves to the Savior, whose righteousness is undefiled and undefiable. So what what what must we do? Our souls have a moral sense that can respond to his word. Feel free to write all around it Maybe it would be better to call it pervasive depravity, because sin has pervaded every part of us Alright, so now we know what it isn't. It is the belief that God has saved me and if I work, you know, it's not works righteousness I have yet to meet an antinomianism that doesn't a few years later have some So if all so we faith persevere, right? It all goes back to that calling. They should. The gospel is about what God has done, not us. Uh sovereign election, particular atonement, uh, and then um a sexual calling Predestination is that point. Christ died for all. It put men in a savable state, but it didn't actually save them. Well, it says right here by Christ But Jesus preserves us and protects us. Okay. Christ died, he was buried, he rose again, and he lives You have to start. That's the only thing you can do. For we have already charged that both Jews and Greeks are all under sin. In this case, you have uh you have um one life to live. The eternity passed, God made this election. Again, these truths, we've heard them. So if the atonement applies to those who ultimately never choose Jesus and finally perish Yes, we're dead in our sins. Behold, the new has come. We will be glorified. Is who you are defined by these truths? I also have a problem with God's sovereignty. Okay, it's a fruit tree, but there's no fruit. And I want to talk about what are known as the five doctrines of the gospel or the five doctrines of grace. But how do we understand how that is applied? So, such were some of us, and we need help. And it it they might not realize this, but it is blaspheming the character of God. It says Romans 8, 28, and 29 He cannot excuse even the tiniest In order to get to me, this is what you have to do to make it right. So the definition of regeneration simply is just re-re-creating of new life in us. Matthew 10, 22, he says, and you will be hated by all because of my name. If you can think about godliness in four categories. I'm sorry, smash back play, start over, you know? So it really is that simple. And it's so radically pervasive and efficacious in its transformation. Forgive me, and we confess, right? Brothers and sisters, I do not regard myself as having taken hold of it yet I I love that. Glorify him. Because God is fair. That's why I worry. Genesis 3. 18. They will remain. We're distinct. 17. Their their line, their call has gone out through all the earth. You Calvinists don't you don't do evangelism. If he's not free, he's not God. He's the Son of God incarnated. And that's the second death. But that doesn't sound fair, and we'll get to that. And that's what this one of the women's trying to say. Why Jacob and not Esau? They need to be atoned because God cannot What? So now these are Christians that have escaped defilements. 9. Genesis 3, we're sinners, as we talked about. Even the most unregenerate, wicked Hitler person you could think of Repent and believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. There's a special place for it for us though, and I say special because it's special. Um the definition of total depravity is that Why is one family member saved when the rest of their family is not saved? 1 Corinthians 15, 1 through 4 says So I'm not gonna I'm not going to ascend to your definition of fairness and join you in saying, yeah, you know, you know God's not fair That's why they're wrestling and angering. And instead of addressing all of their little popcorn points, you know, exactly what you know, like Linda was saying here, God is God Christ Jesus is he who died. This call comes to an individual with the life-giving power of the Holy Spirit. Okay? And now this man, he's righteous, he's innocent because this the You know, it's not one thing you did years ago. We have this identity in Christ. Does anyone have any questions that they would I sinned against him. I'm not woeful, I don't know what the word is. If he was fair, we would none of us would make it You could try and figure out what's going on Predestination. Luke 24, verses 24 through 27. It was, no, there's my blood, thank you, I get that person. They like to people like to confuse things. So this effective, irresistible call must carry along with it the appropriate response on the part of the person called. The gospel tells us that not only does Christ's blood atone for our sins He is spiritual and delights, she, I should she say she is spiritual and delights in the law of the Lord. And antinomianism. There in Colossians, sanctification, perseverance, all right there. And so, ladies, I just want to Um so he doesn't mean It is all-encompassing Um and just We cannot do it for ourselves. Predestined is the moment that he did the choosing. That's he that's what he chose. God makes a selection, uninfluenced from eternity past. We know that no one who has been born of God sins, but he who is born of God keeps him, and the evil one does not touch him Don't worry, God will put a hedge of protection around you and you'll never have any sin come into your life. I was like, dead dead First Timothy one nine says, He saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works So Christ is in the Old Testament. There's our scapegoat So, regeneration is the basis for all the change in our heart. This process getting us to glory is called sanctification. It seems like a contradiction. And the KJV says God is faithful, through whom you were called into fellowship with his son. Whatever you do, in word or in deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus. Oh, if only I had chosen. All of the other religions So there's no scriptural support for it. Paul wrote it. That is a Bible study. The third one It's concerning our relationship. We need to look like God. All these people come, taste and see that the Lord is good. This could be a legalist, right? And when someone falls away, they all they lost their salvation. Let's press on to the goal. They are called, they will be justified by faith, and then if they're justified, they'll be glorified. So let's take that theology and put it into practice and submit to Him All right, now you can enter the kingdom That is so significant. Look at the Old Testament. His blood was shed so that ours would not be shed. Mm-hmm. They don't understand Jesus is from God. What are they what are they tasting here? He had such outward appearance of fruit. But it's just pacing. He can't just, uh, I'll let you go God's wrath is satisfied. That's what Paul says. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who sees the Son I've accepted Jesus into my heart So that first link is way beyond, and it's in the decision of an omnipotent God We are supernatural. Who is he praying for? So now you've been regenerated. This is sobering to us, please sobering to me personally They will abide Yeah. Therefore, all persons are utterly indisposed, disabled Is God all powerful or is he? We need to be reconciled. Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death Alright? So Jesus again, John 10, my sheep listen to my voice and I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they will never perish I love these doctrines of grace. And so we're going to take a little bit In his book, he says, sin affects everything we are as human beings. They had the perfect bodies. Christ says that in the New Testament. 15 is the first example in the Old Testament when God promises that the seed of the woman would crush the head of the serpent. Not just what did it mean to me, because to me it means the world. I think of Picasso, woman sitting in a chair. And also the thorny soil, when the trials come, it is crushed and moved out Second Peter two, twenty through twenty-two. Mm-hmm. So we're going to talk about. This does not mean They are corrupt and vile in their ways. So absolutely. This has been God's plan. He died only for the elect And like in 1 Timothy 2, 3 through 4, Christ desires all people be saved. It should have been, now it is possible. But as many as received him to them, he gave the right, the authority, to become children of God And this working of God is directed with the goal of enabling us The salvation should be revealed at the last time. People that aren't saved, they don't mourn over their sin. We look in the picture and as much as we pick on our own, I realize the worst critic of your appearance is you And the reason why I'm total depravity is because there's people out there that teach, like this woman who was saying, dead dead It's beautiful I just I that doesn't that escapes me from understanding And God was saying, No, no, no, it's for you. Okay? You know, this is all happening. So justification by faith alone lies at the very heart of the gospel That's why I snap someone's head off Um but becoming godly does not happen just by going to bed and waking up the next day There is no one who does good. And I was like, actually she wasn't. Um I have started to remove that word from my vocabulary because so many people just viscerally respond to it with a And to the truth that we're totally depraved and we can't have anything to do with Keep them in your name, the name which you have given me, so that they may be one just as we are Calling, very simple. What is it? Um Rebecca, right? But we're talking world the the calling Ah, it's a fruit tree. You're sinful, unclean, full of evil. She knows her Bible. 2 Corinthians 5, 18-21 says, Now all these things are from God who reconciled us to himself. I'm sure you've also heard people say that Jesus paid the debt on the cross for everyone's sin, and he paid the debt in full There's a lot more you could go into it, but it's it's it's that simple. So only those who have been atoned can answer the call. We have to start John 6, 39 through 40, and this is the will of Him who sent me No other created being other than angels can hear God's word and respond. It's not mundane. The cross Someone's gonna come to Christ. Fairest, Lord Jesus. Oh, this is gonna be hard. Ah, there I have now predestined them. And those whom he predestined, he also called, and he called, and he justified, and justified, and glorified Ask ourselves these questions. Therefore, the gospel Um so you know disciplining yourself, the hard work that it takes to discipline for godliness If you have yes Ann. And I I said here it means that God uninfluenced before creation Not potential one day I'll have victory. It's our heart, our mind, the will, and the purpose, all focused. On one hand, the work is not ours to do, right? And that that'll be, you know, con um So that should motivate us It is it is life. Grammarly. And it's eternal, and there's no escaping, and it's torture. Don't let them settle in the yep, check, heard that. Yep. Romans eight thirty-two through thirty-four, he did not We must also remember it is not us who sanctifies ourselves. I wish I could just let's say that, ladies like, come on, ladies It's not mundane. Is the gospel something that was really important that first First, it's not about what you've done. So as we think about what God has done, Their feet are swift to shed blood. We don't walk around better than anybody else. God needed to make a way for his chosen ones to fellowship with him It was the Day of Atonement. We need to reconcile to him, but we can't do it without atonement No, I will sacrifice my only son. This is where we get the word particular atonement. And they received them and truly understood that I came forth from you, and they believed that you sent me. You might have heard an irresistible calling. Because of this, this is the reason we should not, and the cause of why we don't sin. This is a plant that has sprouted up. You know, we need to check what's going on, because the true believer is not abandoned into sin and sin has not dominion over his life. If you think of uh Psalm nineteen says the heavens declare the glory of God, the permanent shows his handiwork. Because once you understand the gospel Is it a fixed point in time? We are secure in our salvation because it's based not on what we do or can do, but on what God alone has done. This is not glorified, but Paul is so certain. The all the other chains break as well. The Old Testament was written for Christians on this side of the cross John 3, 7 through 8 says, Do not be amazed that I said to you, this is Jesus talking to Nicodemus Well it's the perseverance of saints. Total depravity, sovereign election, particular atonement, effectual calling, and the perseverance of the saints. So let's let's get on with that, right? No, I'm just kidding. Alright, well then what's happening underground? First John 1 8 says, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us And he gets to choose whomever he wants to. Otherwise We can exercise self-control. Who will free me from this body of flesh? Uh Pastor Gabe had a really wonderful Um but because it like this first it says that those who are safe were called but then there's Wooing, wooing. And then let God work. Like what is that? Adam and Eve became dead in sin. And they still chose not God. Cause stealing a little bit of the center, but you know the end of the story anyway, if he chose you, that means you can't un choose him. I wish I could have been that. And God wants you to receive that gift of his death personally on your behalf. Is that regeneration is a big concept, so I'm going to break it down into five parts I would like to determine how this happens, please. And That is. And In time, then, called them to himself by his spirit to the gospel 1 Peter 1, 10 through 12. They were yours. All right? 1 Peter 1, 4 through 5 And so uh you don't determine what God is Abraham wasn't a nation of pagans This is how desperately God wanted us in relationship to him He chose the dead man. Who is it? Let's press on. So It's people down there still defiant. So it's not just, all right I wish it wouldn't need qualification. Why David and not Jonathan? There's no boasting It prophesies and points to this. We don't have an identity crisis. Amen. Such were some of you. Jesus' blood made us clean. It's the mystical work of the spirit. Adoption is now the relationship that we have with God. This is on us The goal is conformity to the image of Christ And and don't get too high and mighty You are totally sinful. They need to be atoned They're parallel like that. Not at all. I have actual victory over sin, but if I say I don't have sin, it's you know, I'm not telling the truth. Listen to Hebrews 6, 4 through 8. And the resource that I labeled on the front of your student notes by Dr. Okay We are the unredeemed are natural. Therefore, through him also is our amen to the glory of God through us We're women. This is a banquet at Hope Bible Church. So I'm not gonna work Election, so We need a Messiah that will perfectly do all of this, which is why when Christ died on the cross Sin doesn't look like God. First I want to talk about what this doctrine does not mean. The genuine believer is not secure I guess it wasn't a factual call. Do not let that gospel thought be too familiar. They're devaluing God's deity. It's not God and sinner reconciled No, we progress on We can be saved from God's wrath. I'm I'm gonna have joy. No, you're dead and you're sins. We need someone to do it for us. Who is it? I press on. I that's why I'm sorry I went super long. But I just give you Jonah as case in point. It's our acceptance with God because of Christ's righteousness. Regeneration is the prerequisite for adoption. We need to understand that. Spread the good news, being part of the family of God, nurturing others, serving the poor 'Cause somebody is going to be called out there 'cause God told me it. Let's flesh that out. Yes, rather who was raised, who is at the right hand of God and intercedes for us. Clearly, this is the elect. Or otherwise he's not a suitable savior for us. It is the calling of a dead person. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life. I have a gospel purpose on this earth, and so do you There is not even one. It's bad hermeneutics. First John 3. But if it yields thorns and thistles, it is worthless and close to being cursed, and it ends up being burned up. Yes. That's that's not correct. So is everyone who has been born of the Spirit. It's an instantaneous process. Bring them into your life. It says he explains to them all what was said in the scriptures about himself You gave them to me, and they have followed your word. You might be sitting here thinking, Well then, Laura, why do why do I still sin Even more so, I think about Godliness in your soul. Um do you remember the moment All of Leviticus, the beginning of Leviticus, is that Leviticus is a mountain It motivates, it defines, it satisfies. If you have a tree Right? Yeah, when he chose. We are justified justified by faith, and that puts hope in our hearts For the one who has died is freed from sin They didn't know. We persevere to the end. We will not be lost. It shapes every bit of who you are Yeah. I also don't use the word Calvinist anymore We get our toes stuffed on easily, right? Is God selective? Because we tell our child our children, no, we're gonna discipline you, or this is about discipline This is an amazing promise, right? Also I wouldn't Also I would encourage when someone says God's not fair I want you, I'm going to open it up for another question. It's about what God has done. But the first link of that chain is eternity past Why did he sovereignly just choose Adam and Eve? And all of them too. Jesus calling to Lazarus It might be tall. Here they're tasting. So I guess You know. He chose and then he predetermined. It all falls apart. That's how Leviticus is structured. Philippians 1, 9 through 11 is one, and 2 Peter 1, 5 through 8. Well, let's first define those words. And no, absolutely. The prophets wrote that they now in the New Testament, the prophets wrote that they did They take that goat that goat and that goat gets The dead man is dirty and needs to be clean. You're either dead or alive. And very wholly defiled in all the parts and faculties of soul and body. Those the those are only two options. But to them it meant and Gentiles For if And back to Romans 8, 28 through 30 I just have a question. And the gospel helps us see and oh, you know, our sin But you make a good choice. 9, no one has been born of God practices sin because his seed remains in him. First John 2 1. There is no one who does good. Destruction and misery are in their paths, and they have not known the way of peace. I will remove the heart of spirit. And you know what? That's ridiculous. What value, you know, have you placed on the gospel? Christ is walking on the road to Emmaus We were declared It's Judas. God tells us who we are. What are you searching for that you lack? I will not choose God. I mean The prince, the son. We are no longer a slave of sin. Because I'll tell you what, this heart is totally redeemed. So what I'm gonna have peace. That does not bear the image of a woman sitting in the chair. God does the work. Their throat is an open grave This victory is secured. No! We can become children of God, members in his family, and we are partners. Father, we thank you. And briefly, right? We're just as wicked apart from the selection of Christ So it and and it constitutes that And these five doctrines of grace really help us do that. They still chose themselves. Hermeneutics is What scriptures? Evil in totality He doesn't need to explain. The election is the choosing It sprouts up So I won't take foods under anymore. Christ says, I ask on their behalf. Romans 6, 1 through 6. So, um You just cannot choose God. And if you take away God choosing, it also falls apart Even if they really look like it It might have, you know, leaves on it. The Bible shows us how we fit into God's plan But He's been bad all along. Have you ever seen a The rest of the world. Yes, we must believe that and rejoice in that They were never saved Don't let them get away with smiling nicely. Believe me, I cut a lot. We will reach pleasing him. Amazing promise of perseverance. Genesis 1. Jonathan was a priest And the insignificant things of the world Transformation means effective in its transformation This change of heart My little children, these things I write to you in order that you will not sin. You'll never deal with any, you know, befetting sins. We can believe that He doesn't have Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John God is a just God. We are helpless to do the sanctification. Romans 10, 9 through 11 is a verse you can read for that. And they're like, How? I am angry at this man. But that's what we do. And so I think And you see them there in your notes. All of your being, all of your soul, all of your mind. So now we have the same status as Jesus Christ. I'm gonna have kindness. The chips on our shoulder are typically quite large Obviously, perseverance You know? I'm not that persuasive You're right. Our heart is totally changed 27, we're made in the image of God You don't have to write this down. Sorry, Kara, what were you going to say? You don't have to know all these points very well It's the act of election. Okay, this doctrine has been used and abused. No one can be lost. And the first thing that God did after creating Adam Can anyone succinctly She doesn't even realize she's gonna be dead dead. It's for them. Again, same thing. That, you know, that doesn't happen You cannot resist God's call. What shall we say then? That's it. Make me a couple sentences. It doesn't have to make sense We are a slave of righteousness. He never really got it. So this is a mystical work. Galatians 2 16 You're dead We will get to the second birth. The blood of Christ has cleaned the dead man. Day unto day the other You need to open up I don't remember the names of my great great grandparents. There's no regret in hell. That's what we do Lawson is this sick. It's not in your notes. I'm gonna have love It must be made right If it were our works Free me from this body of flesh. I I just don't believe that. Not They didn't know. The gospel I'm not going to read those. But it He atones for us.