As we turn our attention to the study of God's Word, I'd like to invite you to turn in your Bibles to 1 John 4 if you haven't already. We are going to pick up with John's epistle here and these wonderful words that he gives us. sobering words in the text for today. But this morning we're going to look at verses 1 through 6. Verses 1 through 6 As always, it is such a joy to open up God's Word to you. And especially as we return to John's epistle. I have been loving going through the Gospel of John. It has been such a rich, insightful study. But coming back to this little epistle, which is a perfect complement to the Gospel of John, it's like coming back to an old friend It is such a reassurance to me, given especially the world in which we live in. We live in difficult times. And nothing is more profitable and reassuring to us than to be grounded in God's Word. Amen. It is one of the reasons why this letter is so critical for our Christian faith. As I've said from the beginning, this book is all about what it means to live the Christian life. It helps us to navigate a sinful world as we seek to live authentically before our risen Savior What I love about this letter is that it tells us how to have assurance when we don't have that assurance. And it tells us how to know that our sins are truly forgiven and that we have eternal life. In Jesus Christ. Well, John's concern in this letter is that we know the truth. That we know the truth about the Christian faith And specifically that we know the truth about Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone. This is especially insightful in light of all of the false claims about Christ and the lies that are then per uh perpetrated about him in the name of God himself. As we come to chapter 4, we return once again to this subject about false teaching and false teachers that John first introduced to us back in chapter 2. This is an important issue because clearly, this is one of the reasons why John wrote this epistle in the first place. Based on a very simple and obvious reading of this epistle, John was concerned about the false teachers and their destructive heresies. That would infiltrate the church and begin to corrupt the church from within. And especially those that would undermine the Christian gospel. Well, it's here at the beginning of chapter 4 that he once again confronts this issue head on. Now the Bible is full of warnings Against error and corruption and the corruption of God's Word. The reason for this is because Satan and his demons have been busy throughout the history of mankind. perverting God's truth, propagating error, and trying to deceive the Christian faithful. And as you know, this deception is nothing new In fact, it all began back in the Garden of Eden when Satan first deceived Eve with these words. Indeed, has God said But when it comes to the Gospels, we see this vividly taking place with the religious leaders of Jesus' day. We've been walking through that through the Gospel of John, and it is so evident. One of the classic illustrations of this comes to us in John chapter 8, when Jesus then confronts this issue himself. Now, I'd like to invite you to turn to John 8. You don't have to, but I'm just going to walk through that chapter as an illustration or example of how these lies are perpetuated. Before we jump into chapter 4 of 1 John, I want you to consider the interaction that took place between Jesus and the Pharisees. as John himself bore witness of the truth concerning who Jesus claimed to be. Jesus said in John chapter 8, verse 12, He said, I am the light of the world, and he who follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Well, when Jesus said those words, like the Pharisees, John knew exactly who Jesus was claiming to be. He was claiming to be Israel's long-awaited Messiah, who was sent by God as a light into the nations of the world. We see this in Isaiah chapter 42, verse 6, and we see it in chapter 49, verse 6, and Malachi verses 4, verse 2. As God's long-awaited light, John knew that he was also claiming to be the incarnation of God himself. The word incarnation simply means in the flesh. And so as God incarnate, Jesus would be the one who would ultimately bring the light of God's salvation into a sin-cursed world. As one commentator put it, to the darkness of falsehood, he would be the light of God's truth. To the darkness of ignorance, he would be the light of God's wisdom. To the darkness of sin, he would be the light of holiness. To the darkness of sorrow, he would be the light of joy. And to the darkness of death, he would also be ultimately the light of God's life himself. Well, making the claim that he did in John 8, verse 12, it was obvious that the religious leaders were enraged at what Jesus said. Verse 13 says, the Pharisees said to him, You are bearing witness about yourself, and your witness is not true. In response, Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I bear witness about myself, my witness is true. For I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I'm going. He said, You judge according to the flesh. I am not judging anyone. But even if I do judge, my judgment is true. And why is that? Jesus says, for I am not alone in it, but I am the Father who sent me. So then in verses 17 and 18, Jesus then quotes directly from the law of Moses. He says, Even in your law it has been written that the witness of two men is true. I am he who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me. Basically, Jesus says: you have no idea what you're talking about. Because even the scriptures bear witness of me. The reason your judgment is wrong is because your sin has blinded you. And it's blinded you to the truth that God has already told you what you need to believe about me. And the point is this the Pharisees who were blinded by their own sin, their own pride, their own hard-heartedness, not only Thought about Jesus in human terms, but they refused to believe the truth about what God had already said about him. So then they say this to Jesus in verse 19. Where's your father? Where is he? Most likely they were referring here to Jesus' own human father, Joseph, adopted father, I might say. But again, they missed the point of Jesus' argument altogether. Jesus answered and said, You know neither me nor my father. If you knew me, you would know my father also. So at that very moment, Jesus made it perfectly clear regarding the truth concerning his own identity. Because they rejected his claim to deity, Jesus said, no matter how religious you think you are, you do not know the truth. And so therefore you do not know my Father. As amazing as that confrontation was, based on Jesus' own testimony, verse 30 says: many believed in him. So then Jesus said to those Jews who had believed in him, If you abide in my word, then you are truly my disciples. And I love this. And you will know the truth, and the truth will what? Will set you free. The Jews went on to say, We are Abraham's seed, and have never yet been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say we will become free? In other words, as God's chosen people, we are already spiritually free. Jesus said to them and said to them, Truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin is a slave to sin. You're a slave and you don't even know it. So here's the truth, Jesus said. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The son does remain forever. So if the Son makes you free, you will be free indeed. He goes on to say, I know that you are Abraham's descendants, and yet you seek to kill me Why is that? Because my word has no place in you. And that's the point here. I speak the things which I have seen with my father, therefore, you also do the things which you heard from your father. And so here is where in John 8 this becomes the confrontation of all confrontations. John 8, verses 39 and following The Jews answered and said to him, Abraham is our father. So basically, what do you say to that? Jesus said this. If you're Abraham's children, you would do the deeds of Abraham. But as it is, you are seeking to kill me. A man who has told you the truth. Which I heard from God. This Abraham did not do. He did not seek to kill the prophet The Messiah. Jesus said, You are doing the deeds of your Father. And so they said to him, Well, we're not born of fornication. We have one Father. And that person is God Himself. At this point, they were so infuriated at Jesus' words that they lashed out at him with this vicious insult. By saying that we are not born of fornication, they were indirectly accusing Jesus as not being a legitimate child of Israel. Verses 42 and 43 say, So Jesus said to them, if God were your father, you would love me. For I proceeded forth and have come from God, for I have not even come on my own initiative, but He sent me. Why do you not understand what I'm saying? Well, here's the reason. It's because you cannot even hear my word. And this is the point that Jesus is making to them. Not only did they not want to hear it, the truth is you can't hear it, Jesus said. And so then he makes this profound and devastating statement in verses 44 through 46. This is why you stand condemned. This is why you are a slave to sin. You are of your father the devil, and you want to do the desires of your father He was a murderer from the beginning, and he does not stand in the truth. Why? Because there is no truth in him Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I speak the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I speak the truth Why do you not believe me? And then he says this in verse forty-seven. He who is of God Hears the words of God. For this reason you do not hear them, because you are not of God And that's the crux of the matter. In other words, your profession of faith is meaningless And the shocking truth is that you don't even know how deceived you really are. But then the confrontation escalates. Jesus says this to them in verse 56. Your father, Abraham, rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. That you said to him. Let me give a little uh liberty here in the translation. Whoa. You're not yet fifty years old. And you have seen Abraham? No way. Jesus then said to them, and I love this, he begins again with this the words, truly, truly. Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am Those are words of deity. Those are shocking words of sovereignty. Of manifest glory and greatness. And at that point, Jesus absolutely cemented his claim to them He was eternal God. Did you see exactly what he meant? And how do we know this? Because verse 59 says, They picked up stones to stone him. Well, the point of this example is this. The claim that Jesus made was nothing less than a claim to absolute deity. This is why the Christian faith is all about Christ. This is why the gospel is all about Jesus Christ. And the Jews missed it. The reason they missed it is because they rejected Christ Himself. Keep in mind they understood his words perfectly. Anybody can understand those words perfectly But they rejected him. And yet, because of their self-righteous sin and their blatant lies against Christ They betrayed themselves for who they really were. They were not true priests of God Himself. They were false priests. False Christs. They were anti-Christ. And the absolute stunning truth is that they did it in the name of God Himself. Jesus conveyed not only the truth of his pre-existence prior to Abraham, he claimed to be of the very same nature as God Himself. The Jews understood his words perfectly. The reason they picked up stones to stone him is because they knew exactly what the Old Testament law demanded when someone made a profession of faith like that. Claiming to be God, which according to the law was absolute blasphemy. But the reality here is Jesus never once blasphemed He never once claimed something other than what was true about him. He told them the absolute truth of who he was. And let me say to you this morning or this afternoon, he was and he still is God incarnate We celebrate the birth of Christ because it is all about God becoming flesh. It is all about Jesus being the Savior of the world. Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He is God. He is Savior. He is Redeemer. And He has told the truth about Himself This is the reason why we not only celebrate Christmas, but we celebrate the resurrection of Christ And now here is the reason why this account is so relevant for us today. It is because Satan is trying to do everything he can to deceive God's people concerning the truth about Jesus Christ. And so clearly, the Bible is absolutely clear, he is God in human flesh And Satan's demons are waging this persistent and endless counter-campaign to keep people ignorant of God's truth. He wants us to be ignorant of the salvation that comes through Jesus Christ alone. But as Scripture reminds us, we must look to God alone as the source of divine truth. It is because throughout the pages of Scripture, God reminds us time and time again what is true, what is dignified, what is right, what is pure, what is lovely, what is commendable, what is excellent, what is worthy of praise. And all of that is wrapped up in the person of Jesus Christ Himself. Jesus Christ is God. He is the only Savior. And it's Him and Him alone. This is the truth that we must be reminded of each and every day. In Deuteronomy 9. Moses exhorted Israel to serve the Lord and to never forget his precepts. Why? Because they spoke of the coming Messiah. In 1 Chronicles 28, David gave them the same exhortation to Israel and his son Solomon. Believe what God has said in his word. The prophets warned God's people to never compromise their commitment to the truth of God's word. And it's because God predicted that there would be many false prophets and many false Christs who would come into the world. By the time we get to the New Testament, though, it is then that an all-out attack on the person of Christ takes place, just as we have in John chapter 8. By the time we get to Acts chapter 20, the Apostle Paul warns the Ephesian elders that ravenous wolves would then come into the church and speak perverse things about Christ. In 2 Peter 2, the Apostle Peter likewise warns about apostates who are bent on teaching false doctrine. And false teachers and false doctrine, then, is something that the church must look out for because they will become constantly confronted with the very things. that are untrue about Christ and his and God's word. Let me tell you, this continues on for into our day as well Every day, God's people are being bombarded with opinions, with declarations that undermine the truth about Christ These deceitful declarations are nothing less than Satan's most basic attack against the truth concerning Christ. That Jesus is not who he claims to be, that the Bible is not what it says, which it is the very word of God Well, John here in 1 John 4 lays all of that on its back And this morning in 1 John chapter 4, John is going to join the chorus of God's chosen people to warn us once again to be aware to be aware of these relentless attacks. That our responsibility is not only to listen intently to what God says, but not the world. To evaluate whether we believe in Christ and whether we are, in fact, a true believer, a true child of God. Here's the bottom line, as Christ said it to the Jews in John 8, verses 31 and 32. If you continue in my word, Then you are truly my disciples of mine, and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free Now I know that was a long introduction. But with that as our backdrop, let's turn now to 1 John 4 and read verses 1 through 6. John writes this, Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God. Because many false prophets have gone out into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. And every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God This is the spirit of the Antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming, and now it is already in the world. You are from God, little children, and have overcome them, because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world They are from the world. Therefore they speak as from the world. And the world hears them. We are from God. The one who knows God hears us. The one who is not from God does not hear us. For from this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error Now that's pretty straightforward, isn't it? Let's dig into the details. The reason I introdu the reason why I introduced This message with the story of John chapter 8 is because every false teaching concerning the Christian truth or the Christian faith has something to do with rejecting the person of Jesus Christ Himself. When it comes to false teaching, 1 Timothy 6, verse 3 tells us that the primary mark of a false teacher is that he advocates a different doctrine. and does not agree with sound words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, which we saw in John chapter eight, and with the doctrine conforming to godliness. It is this departure from God's Word, especially concerning Christ, that points us to those who teach strange doctrines, a different gospel, another Jesus, and a gospel that is contrary to that which the apostles have already preached and given to us. Well, by the end of the first century, false teaching had become this major focus of John's apostolic ministry. To protect the church from those who would deny the true apostolic teaching concerning Jesus Christ. Like the Jewish leaders who had rejected Jesus' claim to deity back in John 8, the main heresy during the end of the first century was that of saying that Jesus was not truly God incarnate, that he was not the God man Well, first John was written to unmask that heretical teaching. So at the beginning of chapter 4. John not only warns the church of this horrific error, but he also unmasks the demonic influence behind the false teachers that would make this claim. And let me tell you, I love the clarity and simplicity of this passage because it's here that John gives us the command, the confession, and the conviction that we need to understand this lie. and therefore resist the incessant threat made against the Christian faith. How does a Christian identify a false teacher who teaches these kinds of lies about the Christian faith. We do it by taking that person directly to the words of Jesus Himself and to the pages of Scripture Well, the first thing that John wants us to know this morning in verse 1 is the command that we need to test the spirits of those who would teach others about the person of Christ. Let's look at verse one again. John writes, Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. Here, the Bible tells us not to believe every spirit. The command is to test the spirits to see whether they are from God. And the reason for this is because many false prophets have gone out into the world. We live in a day that is saturated with false teaching and false prophets. And we need to know who they are and why they are wrong. We need to be on the alert. We need to be discerning about what people teach concerning the truth about God, about Christ, about the Bible, about the Christian faith. Right here in verse 1, John links everyone who is a false teacher to the demonic influence that also lies behind their lies. When a spiritual or religious teacher opens up their mouth, John says, they're either going to represent the spirit of truth or the spirit of error. Period. The spirit of truth represents the teachings of the Holy Spirit, and the spirit of error represents the teachings of Satan and his demons. And that's what believers need to be on the alert for. John is lovingly concerned about this with his children, his spiritual children. It's because notice the first word that John begins as he opens up this chapter. It is the word beloved. The word reminds us that not only is he writing to true believers, but he is writing only to God's people who have the spiritual resources necessary to evaluate the truth and to test the spirits. How do we know this? Because 1 John 3, verse 24, as we studied last time, told us this. 1 John 3:24 says, The one who keeps his commandments abides in him, and he in him. We know by this that he abides in us. How? By the Spirit, whom he gave us. Believers have the Holy Spirit dwelling within them. But there are other spirits active in the world around us. In verse 1, John warns believers that any teaching about God comes from one of two sources. It either comes from the Holy Spirit or it originates from some other spirit. And John says you need to stop continually believing every other spirit. In contrast to this, what you need to do is start continually testing the spirits. And that's the present tense, the present active tense of the verbs that he's using here. This should be a continual testing, a continual believing, a continual examination of the difference between what is true and what is error. Rather than believing every teaching about Christ that is out there, what you need to do as a child of God is to start testing what spirit they come from. And that's the responsibility of every true believer in Christ. The reason is because there are many false prophets who have gone out into the world. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 21, Paul tells us to examine all things. And how you do that is by holding fast to that which is good. This word examine is the same Greek word from which we get to test. And it's what John is saying here. First Thessalonians 5. 20 tells us that examining all things is in the context where we are to examine everything carefully in the area of prophetic utterances, that is truly Spiritual teaching. The reason we put every spiritual teaching to the test is because Satan is both clever and he's subtle Believers ought to be extremely careful about what they are taking in, what they are hearing, because it could be coming from Satan himself. But how do we know that what is good and what is bad spiritual teaching? How do we know what is the truth and what is an error? But we need to answer two basic questions. Does it affirm the incarnation of Christ and the truth about Jesus Christ, or does it deny it? That's how basic it gets. That's how the test is so fundamental for the believer who is in Christ. And that then brings us to the confession in verses 2 and 3. The confession. As I mentioned it before, Jesus uses the present tense for many of his verbs, or John uses the present tense for many of his verbs in 1 John. He does this because he's concerned about the believer's present spiritual condition He's concerned about every believer who presently professes faith in Jesus Christ. And it's because as a believer to confess means to say the same thing right now that God has said Everyone who continually says the same thing about Jesus that God said about him is from God, John says. If you affirm the truth that is written in this book concerning the person of Jesus Christ, then you are from God, John says. And likewise, to confess our sins means to say the same thing that God says about our sin. And that's back in 1 John 1:9. Well, those who are authentic teachers of God's truth, they will always say the same thing that God says about Christ. They will always affirm the scriptures. They will always affirm the truth. And they do this because they give affirmation concerning Christ's incarnation. Look at verse 2. John says, by this you know the Spirit of God. How do we know the Spirit of God? It's always a basic question when John lays it out so s so directly this way. Because every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. Notice that John says every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh The issue for true faith is whether or not Jesus as the Christ has come in the in the flesh It is why we, again, devote so much of our worship to exalting Christ when he came as a little baby. Because this is what the Old Testament has led us to believe. And it is what the Gospels affirm so significantly. The incarnation is so important to our faith. Again, the point being that the human Jesus and the divine Son are one in the same person. However, it is one thing to make a statement about Jesus Christ, John says. It is quite another to embrace that truth in one's life Are you willing to stake your life on it, in a sense, John says? When we test the spirits, we're not just examining the claim that someone makes about Christ. We are actually trying to find out whether or not that person truly confesses with their whole life Jesus as Christ. That's the point of what it means to believe and be from God. And that's the test of true saving faith. Romans 10, 9 and 10 tells us that salvation comes only by confessing Jesus as Lord of one's life In other words, John says here that those who confess Jesus as come in the flesh, they are the ones who confess Jesus as Lord of their life. They are the true believers. They are truly one of God's children. Those who do not agree with God's revelation about his son Their source is ultimately demonic. They are what John referred to earlier in his epistle. They are spiritually a child of the devil. And as a result, they deny Jesus not only with their words, but they deny him with their life. And they prove that they are not from God. Because look at verse 3. Here's the denial. We saw the affirmation, now the denial. John writes: and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, of which you have heard that is coming, and now it is already in the world. The incarnation of Jesus Christ is one of the most important fundamental truths of the Christian faith. You cannot be a child of God without believing and confessing Christ's incarnation. When someone says he is a teacher sent from God, the first thing that we need to know is whether he confesses Jesus as God incarnate, and whether they acknowledge him as Lord of their life There must be a commitment to the deity, the full deity, the true deity of Jesus Christ. To claim him as divine implies submission to his lordship In other words, Jesus cannot be your Savior without Him also being your Lord. If you think that's the case, then you have bought into the lie concerning the Christian faith. He cannot be your savior without being your Lord. And the fact that he is your Lord implies very overtly that he is your Savior. If he is not Lord of your life, then he is not Savior of your life. John says the spirit of the Antichrist is not just a person who falsely claims to be a Christian. But it's also a system of evil that is also at work in opposition to Christ. And it's that system of evil that is bred into what they confess. Many times Satan openly opposes Christ, but there are other things when he just tries to give you another version of Christ, slightly different. False religions, worldly lusts, idols of the heart, these are all manifestations of Satan's evil system in the world John says in 1 John 2, verses 6 verse 16, he says, For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, it is from the world. John says, you heard that the Spirit of Antichrist is coming. He is. And he will be here soon. But let me tell you that every spirit that is a false and that is an Antichrist is already present in the world. Everyone, everything that tries to take the place of Christ in your life originates from the spirit of the Antichrist. And yet there will be a final Antichrist who will appear in this world, and he will be the father of lies. For now, John says the spirit of the Antichrist is already at work in the world. Those who are opposed to the true teachings of Christ They are of this deceitful spirit. And again, if believers believe this, this is how fast we become discouraged and defeated in our Christian life. Because we don't know what is true and what is error. How does one counter these lies? We counter them By again affirming the conviction that is gained through a true knowledge of Jesus Christ Here is the great comfort that we have from God, that those who confess the truth about Christ have the conviction that they are truly one of His. Look at verse 4. This brings us to the conviction. The conviction. John writes, You are from God, little children, and have overcome them. Who's the them here? The them is the spirit of the Antichrist. the one who would breathe lies and spread lies, propagate lies concerning Christ. You have overcome that spirit. Why? Because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. The Holy Spirit is greater and more powerful than the devil himself, John says. And as a child of God, he says, You are from God, and you have overcome them. I love that word overcome. That is such a beautiful word, and you ought to trace it out in the New Testament because it is such a tremendous word that by the time you get to the book of Revelation It makes absolute sense, and it is a victorious call to all believers that we are the ones who overcome the devil and death itself. As a child of God, you are from God, John says. You have overcome them. Overcome who? Overcome the demonic influences that are present in this world. As God's children, we have complete security from God to keep us from being seduced by Satan and his demonic influences. Galatians chapter 2, verse 20 tells us that we no longer walk according to our old way of life, but that Christ lives in us and he lives through us. 2 Peter 1, verse 4, tells us that we have become partakers of the divine nature, not as though we were to become a God, but we become part Again, of that chorus of the church proclaiming the victorious gospel of Jesus Christ because we have his Spirit living within us. And 1 John 2, verses 20 and 21 remind us that we have an anointing, and that anointing is, in fact, the very Holy Spirit of God. And we know the truth. We know the truth about God. In 1 John 2, verse 27, it tells us that that anointing teaches us the truth about God. That's how we know it. The reason we have this conviction is because the Holy Spirit is dwelling in us, and he will take from God's word and teach us. And he will then impress upon our hearts the very truth concerning the Scriptures Let me put it this way. The Holy Spirit to you and me is the ultimate truth or law or truth detector Put it another way, he's the ultimate lie detector because he then tells us what is a lie. Therefore, as a Christian Who continues to abide in Christ, who continues to stay steadfast in his word, through the power of the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit, we can never Be seduced by false doctrine so long as we again abide, make our home with Christ, and do it by staying faithful to his word We overcome them because the Holy Spirit overcomes anything that Satan might try to bring against us. 1 John 4, verse 4 implies that if A man is a true teacher of God, and his life will be transformed by the Holy Spirit, and he will have an affinity for God's truth, telling it, shouting it, proclaiming it, singing it. False teaching will never overcome the true believer because the Holy Spirit will set us straight concerning the truth about Christ. And I don't know if you've ever been in those situations where you've heard something that somebody's either said or watched something as if to depict the life of Christ, and all of a sudden that light goes off and you start thinking There's something not right about this. Let me tell you that happens more often than not. And it's because of the world in which we live in Verses 5 and 6 then tell us that the difference between the overcomer and the false teacher is that an unbeliever speaks on behalf of the world. A true believer speaks on behalf of God. Look at verses five and six. First verse five. And the beginning of s well and six John writes, these are from God. They are from God. Therefore they speak as I'm sorry, let me back up. They are from the world. Therefore they speak as from the world. And the world listens to them. We are from God, John says. The one who knows God hears us. The one who is not from God does not hear us. From this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. The word they refers to the false prophets and their false teachings back in verse 1. False teachers are part of the world. They are part of the devil's satanic evil system. False teachers speak on behalf of the world. And it's because they are part of that system. And the world hears them. They hear him because his lies, and here's the key, they appeal to the masses You wonder why false teachers draw together such large cr large crowds. It's because of the appeal. Satan and his demons always accommodate their teaching to the fleshly sensations of this world They aim at what is popular, what is trendy, what is stylish, what is self-focused, what is non-offensive, or feeling-oriented They appeal to the fleshly cravings of this world. And it's because that part of the system appeals to our sense of self-worth Our own evil desires, and ultimately to self-pride. It's that part of the system that plants doubts in our mind, asking us, has God really said? That we shouldn't do that? That we shouldn't touch that? That we shouldn't want that? It is what then leads us to contradict what God has said in his word. The world wants deception. Lie to us. We'll take it. On the other hand, those who speak truthfully from God attract the authentic child of God, like a magnet attracting metal The true teacher from God appeals to the true believer because the Spirit is at work in that person to be drawn to God. And the true believer ultimately hears and obeys God's truth. Look at verse 6 again. John says, we are from God. He who knows God hears us, and he who is not from God does not hear us. The pronoun we hear in verse 6 is a direct reference to the apostles. John says that the true believer will listen and respond to the apostolic teaching concerning Christ, that has been passed down by Christ to his disciples, and of which we are to then be staunch defenders of. It is specifically to those who wrote the New Testament. And the issue is this: if you want to know if someone is a true teacher, examine what they say. And what they do with their life according to the Bible, that is your, again, grid by which you are to examine and to hold fast to that which is good. Absolutely. His word will never change. Again, God's people will listen to what that person says because they speak the truth. A false teacher will teach his own opinions. He will use the Word of God to accommodate his own preferences, tailored to his own message. And man, we hear so much of that today in the world. Isaiah chapter 8, verse 20 says, To the law and to the testimony, if they do not speak according to this word, it is because there is no light in them. And I tell you, it is a dark world. A dark world. But not so with the true believer of God. Not only does the true believer have God's light. But he walks in that light, just as God himself is that light. God's teachers speak God's word, and God's people then hear them. Well, John brings his comments to a close by reminding us that by this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error The reason we need to test the spirits is because we need to know the difference between the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Everything that God stands for represents the truth concerning Jesus Christ. Those who embrace God's truth demonstrate the reality of it by the way in which they live their life And they also demonstrate the reality of it by the way in which they listen to those who preach and teach the truth concerning Christ. Again, it is the truth, the Bible, that is the source of their teaching. Those who do not affirm Jesus as the Christ wander aimlessly in their professed faith As Paul says in Ephesians 4, verse 14, they're like children tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine. by the trickery of men, by craftiness, in deceitful scheming. The only defense that we have against false teachers and false teaching is to hold on to Jesus' words in John chapter 8, verses 31 and 32. If you continue in my word Then you are truly disciples of mine, and you will know the truth, and the truth will what? Set you free Well, as I close, let me offer to you just one point of application As we enter into a new year of study and again the application of God's Word, as you think about the lies, That are perpetuated by the world concerning Christ and the Christian faith. Here is one way we can encourage each other to hold on to the truth. Commit yourself to daily reading God's Word. And take every opportunity that you have to tell others what you've read Read the scriptures daily. Commit the scriptures to memory. Share what you've read with others And don't forget the great privilege that we have to read, to study, and to apply God's Word each and every day of our life. Because only when we are equipped with God's Word can we effectively discern the truth in a world of deception. May God give us, whole Bible Church, and beyond, the strength to endure this wicked world. And let's remember You are from God, children. You've overcome the world Greater is He who is in you than what? He is in the world. Amen? Let's pray. Father, we thank you. We thank you for your word. We thank you for your truth. We thank you for the gospel, because articulated in the good news. Is the truth concerning Jesus Christ? He alone is the Savior of the world. He alone is our Redeemer, our rock, and our salvation. We need only to confess him, but to confess him with our whole life is what is required to be born again from above. Father, if there is somebody sitting here this morning, and they are confused about the lies that have been told them, they are struggling with doubt and insecurity. I pray that you would open their eyes to Christ. That they would see the loveliness of Christ, the beauty of Christ, the glory of Christ, the absolute perfections of Christ. That they would come in faith and bow the knee, that they would confess him with their whole heart, soul, mind, and strength, that he is Lord of their life And Father, when it comes to the doubts and the insecurities for those of us who may know you, I pray that you would deepen our desire to dig into your word. To study and show ourselves approved, workmen who do not need to be ashamed and handling accurately the word of truth Or do we want to know the truth because we believe what Jesus said that the truth would set us free? We want to know the truth because we want to know What it means to have our sins forgiven, to be given the promise of eternal life, to live forever with you, and to enjoy the glories that belong to Christ I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be so fixed on heaven, we would then be earthly good. I pray that we would set our mind on the things above, not on the things that are on this earth. Because this heaven is where we live. It is our position. One day it will be Our practice for all eternity. Lord, we give you praise and we give you thanks, and we thank you once again for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Amen.