Well, as we continue our worship, would you take out your Bible and turn with me to John 7 for a message today? John 7, verses 1 To thirteen is our text. And in this passage, we will see that while his own brothers and the people and the Jewish leaders have no idea what time it is. Jesus lived according to divine savings time. Well hang on. Hang on. At least it's not next week. When it will be daylight savings time. Pastor Mike was reminding me of that earlier. I'll be honest, it was a tough message to come up with a a title for. But that's about as close to spirit inspired as you can get, I think. So you disagree? Alright. Well, maybe we should pray before we continue. I didn't think it would cause that much of a ruckus. All right, let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for for humor, for laughter, for joy. Lord, your word is rich, it's deep, it's powerful. It is the sword of the spirit on which we stand, because it contains for us the promises that you have made to us. And Lord, even though the thought of divine savings time has humor in it, Lord, there is a reality that we will see today. That if we are not getting on your timetable, that we will enter eternity and be lost forever. And there will be no time. So would you use your word this morning to encourage us? And if there is anyone here who needs to take advantage of the time, And give their life to Christ, would you do that work in them? We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, whenever we come to the Gospel of John, we need to remind ourselves of the purpose for which this particular Gospel is written. And that purpose is given to us in John chapter 20, verses 30 and 31, and that is John is trying to convince us that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, so that we would believe in him and in believing in him have life in his name. Now John could have written many things about the life and ministry of Jesus. He could have followed the example of Matthew, Mark, and Luke in giving us a fourth account of the many things that those men recorded. in similar ways as they all uh many uh of them overlapped with each other. But he didn't. Most of what John wrote is not in any of the other gospels. Because his purpose is more narrow than theirs. For example, whereas the other gospels give us a great many number of miracles and signs that Jesus performed, John only gives us seven And whereas the other gospels uh present to us a lot of the public teaching that Jesus gave, especially about uh life in the kingdom of God, even the end times, John gives us virtually none of that, at least not in the first twelve chapters. But he does give us conversations that Jesus had either with individuals or with a group of people where he identified who he is. He defended who he is, and he exposed the unbelief of the people. In John 3, Jesus revealed the truth. Of eternal life to the Pharisee Nicodemus, who had come to him in the night. In John 4, Jesus spoke to the Samaritan woman whom society had cast out. In John 5, Jesus spoke to the Pharisees and the leaders of Israel who were seeking to kill him, defending his claim to be the Messiah and to be equal with God. And in John 6, as we've seen, Jesus spoke with the crowd there in Capernaum, who only wanted food from him. And so now in John 7 and 8, John records conversations that Jesus had with his half-brothers, with the people in Jerusalem, and with the Jewish leaders. Now at first glance, it seems like an unusual way to make the case that Jesus is the Christ The apostle expends significant effort to show that Jesus did not experience ever-growing popularity. And he even reveals and doesn't hide the fact that his own brothers did not believe in him One might think that a better strategy would be to point out all the people who did believe in him and say, well, because they believed in him, you should believe in him too. But that's the opposite of John's strategy. He's trying to show you how many people didn't believe in him. Why is that his strategy? Because even though the Messiah that the Jews expected was one who, out of necessity, would have to be popular in order to drum up the people together and exercise victory over their enemies. That was not the Messiah promised in the Old Testament. If John made Jesus out to be a victorious king, he would have made Jesus out to be a false Messiah. A right understanding of prophecy shows that when the Messiah would come The people would treat him, get this, they would treat him in the same way that they treated God. They would treat the Messiah the same way they treated God. How did the people of Israel treat or respond to God throughout the history of that nation? Well, simply with shallow faith, unbelief, and rejection. If you know anything about Israel's history, you know that they went through these repeated cycles where they would worship God, which led to apathy, which led to idolatry, which led to judgment Which would then cause them to worship him once again. And that cycle repeated itself over and over and over again. And so it's no surprise that when speaking of the Messiah, Isaiah 53 says, He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one with whom or from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Just as the people of Israel rejected the Lord, the fountain of living waters, they rejected Jesus, who offered them living water. This week, as I read Luke 1 from our reading plan, I was struck by the unbelief of the people in the wake of John the Baptist's ministry. Remember, he was sent to prepare the way for the Lord. And you know, he was successful in his work. At the height of John's ministry, the people were feverishly ready to receive the Messiah. And we saw in John 2 that it wasn't long before the ministry, or rather the popularity of Jesus, overshadowed that of John. The problem is that just like Israel, who saw the power of God deliver them from Egypt, but within a matter of months they refused to believe the promise of God that He would Give them uh the promised land and conquer the Canaanites. In the same way the Jews of Jesus' day were in awe of his power, but they didn't believe his words. Now of course the Jews are not unique in this. All people are born in sin, and so we all respond in our natural sinful condition the same way to God the Father and God the Son. And so this is why Jesus didn't come to win a popularity contest, and he certainly didn't come to experience victory over Israel's enemies. Had he only come to deal with the problems that were on the outside of us, we would be forever struck in, or rather stuck in unbelief. So he came not to fix our circumstances, but rather to conquer the sin that's inside of us, which is at the root of our unbelief. And the only way to do that was to be rejected by the people and put to death so that he could pay the penalty that you and I deserve, satisfying the wrath of God and therefore reconciling us to God. And so having removed the barrier between us and God, he would then send the Holy Spirit to dwell within us and change us, empowering us to believe and live a life of worship and service. to God. No other Messiah would do And so this is why John spends so much time showing us that the people refused to believe in him. The people operated on a different clock than Jesus. They thought it was time for political and military victory. But again, Jesus operated on divine savings time. This was the time to save people from their sin. Well, with that in mind, let's read John 1, or rather, John 7, 1 through 13. Follow along. It says, after this Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea because the Jews were seeking to kill him. Now the feast of Booths was at hand. So his brothers said to him, Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples may also see the works you are doing. For no one that works in secret, if he seeks to be known openly, if you do these things, show yourself to the world. For not even his brothers believed in him. Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feast. I'm not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. After saying this, he remained in Galilee. But after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but in private. The Jews were looking for him at the feast and saying, Where is he? And there was much muttering about him among the people. While some said he is a good man, others said no, he is leading the people astray. Yet for fear of the Jews, no one spoke openly of him. Recall that John 6, verse 4 told us that the Passover was at hand. And so the events of that chapter took place in Galilee while people were making their pilgrimage down to Jerusalem for that great feast which commemorated the deliverance of God for his people out of Egypt. John doesn't explicitly say that Jesus went to the feast or that he didn't go to the feast, but he does say that Jesus would not go about in Judea. Literally, he wouldn't walk around in Judea Which is to say that Jesus didn't spend time ministering and teaching in Judea, which is the region where Jerusalem is It's possible that Jesus actually did go to the feast, but chose to do so quietly, and he would have in some ways had to go to fulfill the law. It was required by all or to all Jews by the Mosaic Law to go to the Passover. But then perhaps he quickly returned to Galilee without drawing any attention to himself. Whether he went or not, John explains to us at the end of verse one here why Jesus didn't want to spend any time drawing attention to himself and ministering in Judea, namely, because the Jews were seeking to kill him These Jews that John refers to are the religious leaders and primarily the Pharisees. And this sends back to John 5, verse 18 as We study where it says that the Jews were persecuting and seeking to kill Jesus for two reasons. First, because he had healed a man on the Sabbath, and that was breaking their law. And second, because in defense of that act, he declared himself to be the Son of God, which in their minds made him equal with God, and they considered that to be blasphemy. And so nothing Jesus could do or say would back them off of their desire to put him to death. In fact, the only way to take death off the table for them was for them to actually believe in Jesus and declare him to be the Son of God. But no matter how many miracles he performed, no matter how clearly he taught the Word of God, they simply would never embrace him as the Messiah. And so because he's not ready to subject himself to their murderous intent, between John 6, verse 71 and John 7, verse 1, Jesus spent his time ministering throughout Galilee. Now John says here in verse 2 that the Jews' feast of Booths was at hand. Passover takes place in the first month of the Jewish calendar, and the Feast of Booths takes place in the seventh month of the Jewish calendar. Both feasts are described in Leviticus 23, and together with the feast of weeks, which is also known as Pentecost, those are the three major feasts that all Jews are required by the law to go to wherever the tabernacle or later the temple would be for the celebration of those feasts. And so with The Passover being at hand at the beginning of John 6, and now the Feast of Booth being at hand here at the beginning of John 7, John has fast-forwarded us six months in the life of Jesus. And to put this in a broader context, there's six months left before Jesus will hang on a cross in Jerusalem at the next Passover. Now we'll get into more details of the Peace of Booths next time, but for now, John gives us that time marker, not only to indicate how much time has passed, but to really set the context. for everything that's going to happen between John chapters 7 and John chapters or rather in chapter 10. So about three chapters all take place within about a week or so of the feast of Booth. Now, to help us organize our thoughts as we work through the rest of these 13 verses, we'll divide this into three parts. In verses 3 to 5, we'll see the contempt of Jesus' brothers. In verses 6 to 8, we'll see the clarity of Christ, and in verses 9 to 13, we'll see the confusion. among the people, contempt, clarity, and confusion Let's begin by considering the contempt of Jesus' brothers. Look again at verses 3 and 5, or 3 to 5. So his brothers said to him, Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works you are doing. For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world, for not even his brothers believed in him. We see here the contempt of Jesus' brothers. The key to understanding the advice that his brothers give to him is right there in verse 5, the fact that they did not believe in him. If they believed in Jesus, they could say almost the exact same thing Out of the desire to see their Lord believed on by many more people. Strategically, in their minds Ministering in Galilee for six months makes no sense. It would be like a politician spending all this time campaigning among small rural towns, never doing an event in any major cities. It just it doesn't make sense And for one, again in their minds, who claims to be the Messiah, who is to be the king and and uh achieve victory among Israel's enemies, it doesn't make sense for Jesus only to stay on the outskirts of the nation. And so one could understand if one believed in Jesus but was naive, and so they urged him to go to Jerusalem to advance his cause. That would be the positive way if they believed in him. But his brothers are not devoted followers. They do not believe in Jesus. So their suggestion doesn't come out of a desire to see Jesus' ministry grow and succeed. Instead, their advice really rises out of contempt for their older brother. They could either be mocking Jesus for what they consider to be a foolish strategy, or perhaps they're trying to put distance between themselves and Jesus so that they don't have to keep having conversations with people hearing news about him and being asked questions about their brother. I mean think about that. If your brother claims to be the Messiah And you think he's crazy, wouldn't you get tired of having those conversations? This is a tragedy. How is it possible that his brothers don't believe in him? Of all people, they could attest to how different Jesus is. I mean they grew up with him. In some ways he was like everybody else in the sense that he had to grow and mature, he had to learn things. But in the most significant sense, he was very much unlike everybody else. He was sinless. So he wasn't like them at all. And so his sinlessness made him completely different, and they would have known that. And now add to that the miracles that he performed, which they saw. And the fact that he could teach the Word of God with great knowledge and skill, having never taken any formal training, you would think that they would put all of that information together and conclude, okay, he must be the Son of God. How could they deny it? I mean, is it possible that Joseph and Mary kept the birth of Jesus, the miraculous birth of Jesus, a secret from them? With relatives like Zechariah and Elizabeth and John the Baptist, the whole extended family would have had to know the claim at least that Mary had been conceived by the Holy Spirit. Or the wrath of Jesus was conceived in Mary. Surely that couldn't have been kept a secret from his own siblings as they grew into adulthood. And yet with as much knowledge as they had, Mark 3 verse 21 says, when his family heard of his popularity, they went out to seize him, for they were saying, he is out of his mind. So it's with that attitude that his brothers mock Jesus by saying, Leave here and go to Judea that your disciples may also See the works that you are doing. For no one ever works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world It's as if they're saying to Jesus, Jesus, if you claim to be to be the Messiah, and he does If you call on people to believe in you, and he does, and your success in their minds is dependent on people believing in you, then why would you avoid going to the very place where your popularity could explode? They don't believe in him. They think he's crazy. They don't understand his strategy. And so their words show nothing but contempt. Note the word that they use, disciples. By this point in Jesus' ministry, the news about him as Spread far and wide. There's still many people who haven't seen him with their own eyes or heard him with their own ears. But there's great interest among the people, and as we'll see later in this passage Uh people are talking about him wherever they are. He doesn't even have to be there and they're still talking about him. And so the brothers use this word disciples not to refer to those who actually believe in Jesus, but more in a sarcastic way to refer to those who generally have interest in Jesus. And so they mockingly advise Jesus to step out of the shadows and put himself in front of everyone to see and believe. And what better opportunity is there than the Feast of Booze? The stories would tell us that the Feast of Booze was of the three required feasts the most popular for the people to attend. And their logic is reasonable on the surface. When they say no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly, they're not wrong about that. But just as Jesus was once rebuked by Peter, who said to him, Get behind me, Satan, you are a hindrance to me, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man. The brothers were doing the exact same thing. Peter had contradicted Jesus' purposes, which were to go to the cross. Peter contradicted that mostly out of love as well as misunderstanding, the mission of Jesus. The brothers here contradicted Jesus out of contempt. Look at how Jesus responds in verses six to eight. Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come. But your time is always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify about it that its works are evil. You go up to the feast. I'm not going to this feast. For my time is not yet fully come. Here we see the clarity of Christ. Jesus is clear about their heart. He's clear about his mission, and he's clear about the situation. Jesus, of course, knows the condition of their heart. He knows that he doesn't believe in them. He knows that their words are more out of contemptuousness rather than seriousness. But take note of the fact that he does not respond to his brothers with frustration or anger. He doesn't do what brothers typically do and return tit for tat. He doesn't mock them in return. Instead, he extends grace to them. He speaks the truth in love. to his brothers. He says here, my time has not yet come. You may recall that when Jesus' mother told Jesus about the lack of one at the wedding back in John chapter 2, that Jesus responded, My hour has not yet come. There's debate about whether there's any meaningful difference between those two ideas of my hour has not yet come or my time has not yet come. The two phrases seem to mean it pretty much the same thing, with perhaps the difference only being the A difference of specificity. At the wedding, Jesus meant that the moment of his launched ministry, or that rather the moment to launch his ministry, hadn't yet arrived. That was a specific moment on the divine clock, the moment that he brought himself into the public eye as a miracle worker, that would then open the door to the rest of his ministry. If you look down in verse thirty of chapter seven, Jesus is in Jerusalem and it says they were seeking to kill him, or rather to arrest him, but no one laid a hand on him because his hour had not yet come. It was not time yet for him to be arrested, which would then open the doorway to the rest of his suffering and ultimate death. So our in those two instances at least seems to refer to a particular moment on the divine clock. Whereas when Jesus says here in verse 6 that his time had not yet come, and in the verse 8, my time has not yet fully come. He seems to be saying that the general time frame of his open ministry among the Jews in Jerusalem has not yet arrived. The next public stage of his ministry has not yet come. What is clear here is that Jesus operated on a schedule. As we saw in chapter 5 and chapter 6, Jesus never did anything on his own. He always did the will of the Father And because all things are decreed by the Father in eternity past, it's as if Jesus knew and had memorized in his mind the checkpoint of his mission so that he knew that if he went to the Feast of Booth too early, he would preempt the Father's plan. And Jesus did not want to do anything that would jeopardize the plan of redemption that he and the Father had agreed on. Jesus operated on a schedule. Now you can ask, is there a lesson for us in this if we are to Be like Christ if we're to look at his life and consider how we can imitate him, is there a lesson for us? And the answer of course is yes One difference, of course, is that you and I don't have access to the secret will of God and therefore know the precise timing for every decision and every action that you and I need to make. You know, we often ask questions like should I go to school this year or wait a year? Should I buy a home now or wait for the market to settle down? Should I look for a job now or see how things shake out There are all kinds of situations in life where we have to make time-based decisions. And depending on the decision that we have to make, we're either tempted to rush into it or procrastinate. Sometimes we rush into a financial decision and find ourselves overwhelmed by crushing debt. Sometimes we rush into a relationship and later realize there's things we didn't know which are now leading to conflict. Sometimes we procrastinate, study, or work, and therefore produce less than ideal work. Sometimes we prioritize the wrong things, leading to missed opportunities that even have lifelong consequences. We live in a culture that encourages that we rush into some decisions and we procrastinate other decisions Our culture doesn't promote wise living according to God's timing. But Jesus here models for us that efficiency and outward success should not be our priority. Proverbs thirteen eleven says, wealth gained hastily will dwindle, but whoever gathers little by little will increase it. The brothers of Jesus scoffingly advised Jesus on how he could experience more success much faster than he was. But they thought in the same terms as the devil who tempted Jesus by saying, Jesus, you don't have to go through this whole life in ultimate suffering. Just bow down to me and I'll give you all the kingdoms of the earth. Now, Jesus lived out of the principle of Proverbs 20, verse 20, which says, A faithful man will abound with blessings, but whoever hastens to be rich will not go unpunished. Jesus faithfully worshipped God alone, and he made it his highest will to submit to the Father's plan and walk by the Spirit. And so, even though you and I, again, don't know the secret will of God like Jesus did, you and I can make it our aim to walk by the Spirit. Submit to God's providence and make decisions based on wisdom rather than trying to hastily achieve the results that we desire. Now for Jesus, living according to God's timing was critical because the salvation of souls was at stake It was only by doing the Father's will in the Father's way at the Father's time that Jesus could fulfill Scripture and accomplish the plan of redemption. The stakes might not be as high for you and me. But that doesn't mean it's any less important for us to live according to the Father's time. And Jesus indicates as much when he says there in John 7 verse 6, your time is always here. Your time is always here. Some take that to mean that Jesus is simply saying to his brothers, you can go to the feast anytime. There's no significance to when you go to the feast, nobody's trying to kill you, so you can just go anytime that you want The evidence for this is verse 7, where Jesus says, The world cannot hate you, but it hates me. In other words, no one's a feast is trying to kill you, so you just go whenever you want. Me, on the other hand, I have to be careful about when I go. Now that understanding of Jesus' words makes sense. It certainly fits the context, but It doesn't quite explain why Jesus says your time is always here. He could have said, you can go anytime. But he didn't. He said, Your time is always here. If Jesus is thinking about the divine timetable for his life when he says, My time is not yet come, Then contextually he's thinking about the divine timetable for his brothers' lives when he says your time is always here. And if that's true, what he means to say is their time to believe is always here. It is now. It's always now. And it's always here. The scripture says today is the day of salvation. Don't wait for tomorrow. You know, it's been said tomorrow is the devil's day. Today is God's day Yesterday is past. Tomorrow isn't guaranteed. Today is all you have. The world would encourage you to think, you know, you only live once. So just enjoy it. The flesh would encourage you to think, you lived for yourself yesterday, why not one more day? The devil would encourage you to think you always have tomorrow. Enjoy today. The world, the flesh, and the devil are dead set against you believing in Christ and living for Christ today. Jesus says your time is always here. And that's an open invitation. To believe and live for Christ according to divine savings time. And align your will and your life with the purposes of God. Look again in verse 7. He says, The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that its works are evil. In their current state of unbelief, they were in no danger from the rest of the world. The world of unbelievers didn't care that they were Jesus' brothers, as long as they were aligned with the world against Jesus, they had nothing to fear. But Jesus, on the other hand, is the object of their hatred. His teachings were set in direct opposition to mankind who hates being told what to do. And though religion is a way for mankind to feign submission to some higher being, because religion is man-made, it's really a submission that man can control. People are glad, we know, in all of life, to submit to an authority that they believe they can control. As long as the authorities do what they want, sure, I'll obey you. But it's when the authority does anything outside the circle of my desires that we see where their loyalties truly lie. And so as it is in the case of the workplace, human government, it is that way with God. When God speaks, hearts are revealed. This is what we've been seeing for the last two chapters. Jesus has revealed the truth about who he is. He has exposed the unbelief of the people, the Pharisees. And he has revealed the evil nature of their unbelief when they hated Christ with murderous intent. And so he says in verse 8, you go up to the feast. I am not going up to this feast, for my time has not yet fully come. Now some of you have a translation that says, I am not yet going up to this feast. The ESV here says not going to the feast. Other translations say not yet going to this feast. Why would some translations prefer not instead of not yet? Well, it's because some ancient manuscripts that we have simply say not, and many others say not yet. And in truth, there are good arguments for both being what was originally intended. And so we need to ask, which is it? Not? Or not yet? Because one definitely sounds like Jesus is lying, doesn't it? Well, if we take the not yet reading, there's no interpretive problem. We know that he will go down to the feast later, and so he's simply telling his brothers, I'm not going right now, you go on your own, I'll follow after you. There's no problem with that interpretation or or that reading of the passage. But if we accept the not reading, what do we do? How do we understand what Jesus is trying to say here? Well, there's two options at least Where we can understand Jesus and not charge him with lying. One option is to take the not in a uh a linguistic and an idiomatic way, which of course every language has, and and Understand that when he says not, he really means not yet. And that's entirely possible. Every language, including English, has ways of saying things with that sound one way, but because we all understand what we're saying idiomatically, we understand we're saying something else. So it's possible that he says not, but what it actually means if we were to delve deeply into the Greek and linguistics of the time that he meant not yet. Frankly, that's not a very strong argument. No one really holds on to that tightly. So here would be a second more likely way to understand what he means if he says not. In saying he is not going to the feast, Jesus is simply saying he's not going for the purpose that his brothers suggest. Right, gee his brothers say, Jesus, go to the feast publicly, show your works that your disciples may believe in you. And he says, I'm not I'm not going to do that He's not going to this feast to make himself a public spectacle. He's not going to perform miracles. He's not going to drum up as many, uh as much attention as he can. Instead, he's gonna go quietly without any fanfare, without anybody expecting him, or at least uh knowing that he's coming. Now he doesn't tell that to them explicitly, at least it's not recorded that he tells them he's actually going to go later. And there's probably good reason for that. He wouldn't want them to be telling people, okay, he's not coming at the beginning, but he'll be here later. But we know that that's exactly what Jesus did. He did go to the feast, but he didn't go the way his brothers suggested. Look at verses 9 and 10. It says, After saying this, he remained in Galilee, but after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but in private. If Jesus is to fulfill the law, he actually has to go to the feast. Again, it's commanded in Leviticus 23 that all Jews must go to the feast of Booths. And so he does. But because the time for his death has not yet arrived and won't arrive for another six months, he goes privately so as not to draw undue attention to himself and antagonize the Jews to the breaking point. Now, as we'll see next time, midway through the feast, he actually does go to the temple and teach in the temple. But even the way that John explains that is not what he's He's doing is not creating a ruckus among the masses of Jews in Jerusalem. And so in all of this we have The clarity of Christ. Again, he's clear about his mission. He's clear about the hearts of his brothers, and he's clear about the situation and how he must act. I know that often in life you and I often lack clarity. Even when we're doing our best to honor the Lord and we're seeking wisdom, we don't always know what's the best decision to make. Or what's the right timing for the steps we need to take. But even if we don't have the the level of clarity that Jesus has, we can be clear on some things. Namely, our goal, our mission, and that is to live for Christ and to glorify God in all things. That is always or ought to always be our mission and our goal, no matter what decision we make. Yesterday I received a text from our beloved brother Stephen Brown, and when I asked, he graciously gave me permission to share what he had sent me. Some of you know that the circumstances of his life have put him in a position where he needs to make a difficult decision. And it's hard to know what is the right path to take and when is the right time to take that path. And so it's a difficult decision, and out of that difficulty, he wrote this poem, and I asked him to if I could read it because I know it will be an encouragement to you. Here at the crossroads I faced my hardest test. Life's decisions weigh heavy upon my chest. I stand uncertain, not knowing which way to choose, while others make it seem so simple. If I were you, here's what I'd do I have reasons to go left and reasons to go right, but which path will lead me into the light? How do I know? How do I decide? The answers I seek aren't to swell my pride. I don't want another misstep, another mistake. Like the time I stumbled, stepped on a rake. I struck my foot, then hit my head, if only I'd known what lay ahead So here I stand at the crossroads unsure, waiting for God's voice, steady and pure. Oh my God, I long to hear you speak, to know your will, the path I seek. The choices I make aren't for my glory, but that my life may tell your story. That you are wise and you are great, that your love surpasses every fate. So here I sit, my head bowed low, my knees to my chest, my spirit low. At the crossroads, I choose to wait Trusting your voice to determine my fate. Thank you, brother. If, like most people in the world, our life's decisions, our goals, are defined by self-oriented desires. By culture-informed goals, we will be enslaved to ever-changing desires and values and priorities But if, like Christ, our goals are defined by God and his word, and if our desires are informed by the truth, And our values and priorities are what are on God's heart, we can live by faith, knowing that God will accomplish his good and perfect will even through our uncertain decisions. Well consider now the confusion of the people. The confusion of the people. Look at verses 11 to 13. It says the Jews were looking for him at the feast and saying, Where is he? And there was much muttering about him among the people. While some said he is a good man, others said, no, he is leading the people astray. Yet for fear of the Jews, no one spoke openly of him. Here we see the confusion of the people. The phrase the Jews refers to the antagonistic Jewish leaders specifically. From what the other gospels tell us, we know that the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the lawyers, the scribes, and every other category of leader in Israel was set against Christ They despised him. And though they were often at odds with one another, they banded together to find a way to kill Jesus. And since the law required that every Jew attend the Feast of Booths, they expected Jesus to be there. Now, given his popularity, they assumed he would be easy to find. Normally, if you're trying to find one other Jew in Jerusalem at the Feast of Booths, it's going to be very difficult because there will be millions of Jews coming from all over the world And so it would be very difficult to find a particular individual. But Jesus is no normal Jew. Whenever he was recognized, the c the crowds would flock to him. And so their expect expectation that he he would be easy to find is certainly understandable. But of course he it wasn't easy to find because he purposefully kept his identity hidden. He didn't perform any miracles, and until the middle of the feast, he didn't do any teaching. He remained incognito, as we would say, which confused the Jews. The people, for their part, debated amongst themselves about Jesus. But as it says here, they did it quietly. Why would they fear the Jews, their own leaders? Well, John chapter nine, verse twenty two, which is only just a matter of days away from chapter seven gives us the reason that the people were afraid to say anything that could be interpreted as belief in Jesus. It says, they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone should confess Jesus to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. To be put out of the synagogue would would be to be cut off from worship, education, community involvement, business opportunities. It was a modern way of putting someone outside the camp where they lost access to the blessings that God provided among his people. So no one wanted to risk that some positive statement that they might make openly and loudly would be construed by the Jews, some leader walking by. That it would be construed as an affirmation or even belief that Jesus was the Messiah. And so some whispered to others, He's a good man. And why would they think that? Because Jesus extends grace and compassion and mercy and kindness and love. And he meets people's needs. He delivers people from death and from maladies. He delivers them from demonic oppression. Of course he is good. But others said he's leading people astray. Sure, he he does a lot of good things, but His teaching doesn't align with the tradition of the elders. In fact, none of the leaders believe in him, so surely his teaching can't be speaking the truth. He he must be leading people away from what we know to be right. There were many people who had personal direct contact with Jesus. They saw him heal. They heard him teach. Then there were many others who only heard of Jesus secondhand. And some of the stories that they heard were too fantastic to believe. Others defied their expectations of what the Messiah could or would do. And so confusion reigned among the people there in Jerusalem. Now what does that have to do with divine savings time? The Jews and the crowds were missing it They were stuck in their own time zone with wrong expectations and wrong desires. They saw the sign of the time, but they misread it. We see an example of this in Matthew 16, where we read, or rather, and the Pharisees and Sadducees came to test Jesus. They asked him to show them a sign from heaven. And he answered them, When it is evening, you say it will be fair weather, for the sky is red. And in the morning you say it will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening. You know how to interpret the appearance of the sky, but you cannot interpret the signs of the times. An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given it but the sign of Jonah. Again, they could interpret the signs of the weather, but they could not interpret the signs of the Messiah. They saw miracles and they concluded demonic power They heard his teaching directly from Scripture and they concluded heresy. They saw a life that reflected the heart of God, and they called it debauchery. Their time to believe in the Messiah was right then. But because of pride and selfishness and blindness, they refused to receive him. And then as for the people, they did not revolt against their own leaders, who never taught with authority and clarity like Jesus did, and they never performed the works that Jesus did. And yet the people cowered in fear of their own leaders. Now here at the Feast of Booze, their fear simply led them to whisper among one another. But six months from this moment, the fear among the people would lead them to cry out, crucify him. They missed the time. Well as we as we draw near to a close, if if you were to guess what's the most procrastinated decision in the world, what do you think it would be? Based on some basic searching, I don't couldn't find anybody who has actually studied that particular question. But I have a high degree of confidence that the most procrastinated decision in the history of the world is the decision to believe in Christ. My friend, if you have not believed in Christ, what's holding you back? Is it fear? Are you afraid of what your family and friends might think? Are you afraid of the sacrifices you might have to give? Are you afraid that God would expect something of you that you don't want to do? Are you afraid that you'll miss out on some life experience that you desperately want to have? Well Jesus would say to you what he said in Matthew chapter 10, verse 28, do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, fear him who, after killing the body, can destroy the soul in hell. Now his point was not that you need to be terrified of God, but rather if you're going to be driven by fear, at least fear what is most terrifying. But then he goes on immediately and says, Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your father? But even the hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not, then. You are of more value than many sparrows. So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. Before men, I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven. In other words, don't be driven by fear. Know that God loves you and He cares for you and He knows you and if you would but Confess Jesus Christ. If you would believe in Him and bow your knee to Him as your Lord and your Savior, He will save you. He will forgive you and He will give you eternal life. Well, if you have believed in Jesus, I can ask you, what clock are you living by? I'll close with Romans 13, where Paul urges believers to know what time it is and to live in light of God's glory. Paul writes, Besides this, you know the time that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed The night is far gone. The day is at hand, so let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies or drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling or jealousy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. Let's live according to God's time. Let's pray. And as I pray, the men can come to serve the Lord's Supper. Lord, we do thank you for this reminder. That our lives are in your hands, and you have set the time for our lives. In your perfect Time you have given life to those who have believed, and you have called us to live not for ourselves, but for you. To know that our time here on this earth is limited. And one day we will enter into eternity and enjoy the glories of heaven forever and ever. Let us live in light of eternity. And for those who are living for themselves Who have given themselves over to the desires of the flesh. Lord, would you cause them to recognize that it is well past time for them to submit themselves to Christ? Would you open their eyes to see that right now, even in this very moment They can believe in Christ and experience eternal life. And even as we celebrate the Lord's Supper and we remember what He has done for us 2,000 years ago. May this be an opportunity for us to recommit ourselves once again to live for his glory. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.