Alright, so we're in Ecclesiastes chapter 8 today. Ecclesiastes chapter 8. This has been noted by some to be the hardest chapter in the book of Ecclesiastes in terms of interpretation. The English translations hide a lot of the problems that that are there. But because of what we believe to be what What's called the perspicuity of scripture, which means the clarity of scripture. It's always a funny thing when you use a an obscure word to mean clear. But perspicuity excuse me, perspicuity means the clarity of scripture. We can get the meaning out of out of the scripture here. There is plenty of clarity for us to gain wisdom. But some of the some of the challenges are really linguistic in terms of words that uh that are a little bit uh uncertain. For example, if you just, we'll read the chapter in a second, but verse 2, if you have the NAS, it says, it starts with I say. Some other translations move that to another part of the verse, but in the Hebrew it just starts with the personal pronoun I. There's no verb there. Just I Keep the command of the king. He's not saying I keep the command of the king because the command is an imperative. So interpreters uh I think legitimately add the verb I say Or for example in verse 10, which I don't think we're going to get to today, in the middle of the verse it says, they are soon, well let me read the whole verse. So then I I so then I have seen the wicked buried, those who used to go in and out from the holy place, and they are soon forgotten. in the city where they did thus. The word forgotten is in some translations translated as praise. And that's not because the word can mean forgotten or phrase, but because there's a linguistic issue where some say it should actually be a different Hebrew word And so some translations and and some of the more f even faithful interpreters would affirm that. So there's just those kinds of things throughout. Um but I say all that and then I say, don't worry about it. We can get sufficient wisdom. But I'll point out a couple things in the section that we do plan to cover today. Another unique aspect of this chapter is that whereas in many chapters as you've known, Solomon is just lamenting the futility of life, right? He's just walking through this is futile, this is vain, this is empty. and you know just not really being all that encouraging to us. Here there's a mix of expressing futility, but also giving wisdom So we can read through the chapter, and even as we will spend our time in the first few verses, he gives us counsel that we can embrace, that we can accept. He does it in a sense Still with that under the sun perspective, though that changes a little bit uh about halfway through. Uh in fact he kind of breaks out in verses 10 to 13 And uh he says basically, okay, I can't stand being all negative. It's true that even if you don't see the benefits of it, just fear God, because that's that things will still work out better for you if you fear God. So he brings in that above the sun perspective, uh even while he's talking for the most part with the under-the-sun perspective. So just keep that in mind that he has both the balance of feudal thinking as well as counsel in light of that. So Let me just tell you how this passage or how this chapter really breaks down. There's kind of four sections and I think four ideas for principles. We're only going to talk about one of them today. The other ones have some measure of repetition in other portions of of the book, but this one is is a new element that he brings out. In verses 1 through 9, he basically declares the futility of rebellion against government. Or maybe put another way, the futility of putting your hope in government and in leaders. And so the wisdom is don't put your hope. in the government. Don't think that life is going to get better if you just change who your leaders are. So that's verses 1 through 9. We'll spend the whole time this morning walking through that. as well as other portions of scripture that affirm that. In verses 10 to 13, he talks about the futility of human justice. Kind of put it that way, he doesn't use those terms, but I think that's a a good summary. The futility of human justice. In other words, don't think that justice in this world will correct society Don't look to the justice system or temporal justice for the purpose of improving society because it's not gonna work. In verses 14 to 15, he talks about the futility of righteous living. And by that, he means don't think that righteous living is going to prevent suffering in your life. But if you just do everything right, life is gonna be easy. Don't think that. And then finally, verses 16 and many say that chapter 9, verse 1 should really be part of this So whether you want to say 16 to 17 or 16 to chapter 9, verse 1, he talks again about the futility of seeking wisdom. Don't think that you can figure life out. So those are the four sections. So now let's read through the chapter, and then we'll spend the rest of our time in verses 1 through 9, most likely. Solomon writes, Who is like the wise man, and who knows the interpretation of a matter? A man's wisdom illumines him and causes his stern face to beam. I say, keep the command of the king because of the oath before God. Do not be in a hurry to leave him. Do not join in an evil matter, for he will do whatever he pleases. Since the word of the king is authoritative, who will say to him, What are you doing? He who keeps a royal command experiences no trouble, for a wise heart knows the proper time and procedure. For there is a proper time and procedure for every delight, or you could say matter, though a man's trouble is heavy upon him. If no one knows what will happen, who can tell him when it will happen? No man has authority to restrain the wind with the wind. Or authority over the day of death. And there is no discharge in the time of war, and evil will not deliver those who practice it. All this I have seen and applied my mind to every deed that has been done under the sun, wherein a man has exercised authority over another man to his hurt. So then I have seen the wicked buried, those who used to go in and out from the holy place, and they are soon forgotten in the city where they did thus. This too is futility. Because the sentence against an evil deed is not executed quickly, therefore the hearts of the sons of men among them are given fully to do evil. Although a sinner does evil a hundred times and may lengthen his life, still I know that it will be well for those who fear God, who fear him openly. But it will not be well for the evil man, and he will not lengthen his days like a shadow, because he does not fear God. This is futility which is done on the earth. That is, there are righteous men to whom it happens according to the deeds of the wicked. On the other hand, there are evil men to whom it happens according to the deeds of the righteous I say that this too is futility. So I commended pleasure. For there is nothing good for a man except Excuse me, for there's nothing good for a man under the sun except to eat and drink and to be merry, and this will stand by him in his toils throughout the days of his life which God has given him under the sun. When I gave my heart to know wisdom and to seek the task which has been done on the earth, even though one should never sleep day or night. And I saw every work of God, I concluded that man cannot discover the work which has been done under the sun. Even though man should seek laborusly, he will not discover. And though the wise man should say, I know, he cannot discover. For I have taken all this to my heart and explain it that righteous men, wise men, and their deeds are in the hands of God. of God. Man does not know whether it will be love or hatred. Anything awaits him. Alright, so hopefully you can see those different sections there, the emphases that Solomon gives in those aspects of utility. So we're going to focus probably all of our time on verses 1 through 9, and really it's 2 through 9. Verse 1 is is introductory. In fact, so I'm going again say that that should even go back to chapter 7 But for our time today, I think it's most helpful for us if we consider Solomon's wisdom in verses two through nine. In this section, Solomon really gives us nine reasons that we should submit to the king, or if you want to put it more gen generically, submit to the government. Submit to the governing authorities, as it says in the New Testament. And he does this not on the basis of God's command to us, hey, this is divine revelation, this is why you should submit, but on pragmatic wisdom. Because there are you know bad things can happen. There's there's there's common knowledge, common sense, truth as as to why we should obey the government. So let's just walk through the principles that he outlines here The first reason he tells us that we should obey the command of the king is, I'll phrase it this way, because we have consented, we have agreed. to live under their authority. Now you can see the way he phrases it there. He says, keep the command of the king because of the oath before God. Because of the oath before God. There's a question here. Is this an oath that God has made? It doesn't really seem to It makes sense. Uh is this an oath that the king has made to God? Um possibly, but still not sure exactly what that would mean. But the third option which I think makes the most sense is because of your oath before God. Your oath before God. We should keep the command of the king, we should submit to our authorities because we have in some way, and again this is under the sun thinking, we we have in some way consented or agreed or committed ourselves to submitting to the king. This makes the most sense because we see a variety of examples in Scripture of this taking place uh where the people consent to follow the king. So let me just give you a couple of those examples just So you see why I think this makes the most sense. In 2 Samuel chapter 5, 2 Samuel chapter 5 is when David becomes king over all of Israel. It says this in the beginning of 2 Samuel 5. Then all of the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, Behold, we are your bone and your flesh. Previously, when Saul was king over us, You were the one who led Israel out and in. And the Lord said to you, You will be my shepherd over Israel, and you will be a ruler over Israel. So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and King David made a covenant with them before the Lord at Hebron. And then they anointed David king over Israel. So right there you have explicit language that the people and David made a covenant together before the Lord Mirroring the language of Ecclesiastes 8 to submit to David and follow him as king. A few chapters later in chapter 16 When Absalom is uh trying to accomplish his coup to take over the throne from David. uh one of David's faithful uh advisors, Hushai, uh stays behind. Uh David uh was concerned about him staying behind because of what could come upon him, but Hushai decided, no, I want to I want to continue to serve David by kind of being an inside man and get get information out to David uh about what's going on in Absalom's kingdom And when Absalom encounters Hushai, he's naturally suspicious. So in chapter 16, verses 15 to 19, we read this. Then Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, entered Jerusalem and Ahithophel, which is his personal advisor, with him. Now it came about when Hushai the Architect, David's friend, came to Absalom But Hushai said to Absalom, Long live the king! Long live the king! Right? We see that in old movies of the of those times. Which is by the way just an expression of loyalty, affirmation, I want to submit to you. Verse uh seventeen, then Abalon said to Hishai Is this your loyalty to your friend? Why did you not go with your friend? Then Hishai said to Absalom, No! For whom the Lord this people and all the men of Israel have chosen, his I will be, and with him I will remain. Besides whom? Besides whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of his son, as I have served in your father's presence, so I will be in your presence. So obviously that's an individual making that kind of a commitment to submit to the king, but again, he is he's being explicit in that. And then just one more example in 1 Kings chapter 12, after the death of Solomon, remember his son Rehoboam took the throne. And the people came to Rehoboam and wanted to express to him kind of the conditions under which they would serve him. They would submit to his authority and his leadership. In 1 Kings chapter 12, verse 4, they said, Your father, Solomon, made our yoke hard. Now therefore, lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke which he put on us And we will serve you. Right? And you probably know what happened. Uh he got foolish advice from one of his peers instead of and ignored the the wisdom of the older uh men and uh rejected their counsel and said he was going to treat them more harshly, uh place heavier burdens on them, and so they said, Well forget you and that's what split the kingdom between the northern tribes in the southern tribes. So again, in in the history of Israel, there's this sense that, yes, the king has a divine right, if you will, to rule, but there's also a commitment that the people have to make to submit to this king. Yes, we will follow you. Uh and so uh that's why I think Solomon uh is meaning more when he refers to the the oath before God, the oath that the people make before God Granted, this is obviously very different in in our society. It might be similar in some ways. You know, someone who uh becomes a citizen pledges allegiance to the their new nation when they uh become a citizen. But for most of us, well for most of you, I wasn't born here. Most of you who were born in the States, you know, you didn't have to make that kind of an agreement. But still it's true that when we consent to live in a particular place, we're almost de facto saying, I will abide by the laws, I will submit to the government. And so Solomon says, hey, you've consented to Obey the king, so keep that command. So that's that's his first reason for submitting to the king. Again, it's a very just pragmatic, uh, common sense reason. His second reason for why we should keep the command of the king is because the king will punish evildoers. Look at verse 3. He says, do not be in a hurry to leave him. Do not join in an evil matter, for he will do whatever he pleases. There's a variety of thoughts of what does this mean, but I think as written it makes the most sense and we can easily understand it to simply mean this. Don't leave your allegiance. Don't depart from your commitment and go off and join others in their desire to overturn the king. That's right You you just want to listen to scripture, I I know. That's okay. That's a New American Standard Audio Bible. I know that voice anywhere. Um Uh you know, don't don't leave your loyalty to the king and join with others who want to uh uh to do away with the king to replace him. And so why why shouldn't we do that? And the the answer is simply because he will do whatever he pleases More than likely he's going to have the resources, he's going to have the loyalties of others that will bring this to his attention, and he will do with you whatever he wants, right? He's going to catch you if you if you pursue uh some uh plan, some attempt to uh remove him, and he is going to punish you. Now again, as we look at the history of scripture, we we see examples of this. We're not going to walk through specific ones, but uh you know this. There are many times where coups are successful. Uh Absalom's goo was temporarily successful. Um and but many others, uh the king was killed and the next guy got on the throne. It's interesting though that even in many of the cases where there was that change in in a king on the basis of of murder, uh the people who committed the murder were actually killed because it was Yeah, they they broke the law, they murdered the king, and so even though the king's dead and now there's a new guy in place, uh the murderers would be punished. And then of course there are many times where the cues would fail. You know, the plans and the plotting would be found out, and everything would fall to the ground without having accomplished anything One of the examples of that, just for the sake of saying it, pointing it out, is Esther chapter 3, verses 21 to 23. This obviously is not the nation of Israel, but uh we read this in Esther 3, verses Esther 3. That's not the right chapter. Oh, chapter two, sorry, chapter two. Verse 21 to 23. In those days, while Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate, Bigthan and Teresh, two of the king's officials. From those who guarded the door became angry and sought to lay hands on King Ahazuerus. But the plot became known to Mordecai, and he told Queen Esther, and Esther informed the king In Mordecai's name. Now when the plot was investigated and found to be so, they were both hanged on the gallows, and it was written in the book of the Chronicles in the king's presence. So, you know, there here are these two guys who are standing at the gate and you know, as you know from the rest of uh Esther that Uh Mordecai would hang out at the gate and he would always be checking in on how's Esther doing and trying to get word uh from her inside the uh inside the palace. And so there are these two doorkeepers at the gate and they're plotting and planning, thinking nobody around here cares about what we're talking about, but sure enough Mordecai hears it and passes it on and uh and they end up getting put to death. So very simply, again, Solomon is just saying, listen, don't think that the king that you can hide things from the king. Don't think that he's going to be ignorant of your plans very pragmatically why would you put your life in danger? Just go ahead and submit to the king. A third reason he identifies is uh we can put it this way, because the king is sovereign. That's why we should submit to the king. Look at verse 4. He says, since the word of the king is authoritative, powerful, weighty. Influential, that's kind of what authoritative means there, who will say to him, What are you doing? What are you doing? We know that in a monarchy the king has ultimate power, right? There's nobody above the king. Uh you know, we we have a saying in our country, nobody's above the law. Well the king says, I am the law. Right? So whatever he says goes. Nobody can question him, nobody can hold him accountable. Uh if he goes against what he had said before, then that's because he changed his mind and you have to go with his change of mind. So the king's word is weighty. Nobody can question him. Nobody can challenge him in the sense of obviously he has advisors and whatnot, but once he makes a decision, nobody can challenge that. Uh and even today, even though that's not true today in that full extent, you know, we know that those who are in authority have a a heavier influence. That the things that they say are weavier, right? Uh whenever the president speaks Uh it carries weight and whether it's in front of a camera or whether it's secretly recorded, you know, in some other context, uh, whatever the president says, that's a big deal And that that uh either cannot be challenged or if it's challenged uh uh things tend to to move around. You know, the lives of of whistleblowers don't tend to get better Uh so instead of challenging the king, instead of going against him and and uh trying to to undermine him, uh recognize that his that he is sovereign and it just isn't gonna be uh it's not gonna work out well for you if you don't submit to him So that's reason number three. And then reason number four is submission will keep you free from punishment. Submission to the king will keep you free from punishment. We see this in verses 5 to 6 where he says, He who keeps a royal command experiences no trouble, for a wise heart knows the proper time and procedure. Where there's a proper time and procedure for every matter, I think, is a better translation. The word is actually translated matter earlier in Ecclesiastes Uh though a man's trouble is heavy upon him. So let's talk about a couple of linguistic things here. It simply means a point in time or a season or an occasion. And then the word procedure is usually the word that's referring to a judge's determination, a judge's decision. And so it can mean a decision or a command, a determination. And so as I was thinking about, okay, what what is Solomon really getting at here? What seems to make the most sense is is kind of two two things here. One is our common idiom that we would say there's a there's a time and a place for things, right? This is not the time and the place to have this conversation or to to engage in this activity. There is a time and a place, but this is not it. So there's that idea combined with uh the the proper ordering of things. You know, for you in the military there's the chain of command. Or for any of us who work in a you know pl in a company where there's multiple levers levels of management supervision, uh there's processes in place to uh make complaints. If your boss isn't going to listen to you, then you know there's ways to get around them. So there's a time and a place, if you will, and then there's also a proper procedure, uh a process to handle uh times when the the people in authority aren't doing what's right. And so the idea here that he's getting across is listen It may be that the king is asking you to do something that you don't want to do. It may be that the king is making a foolish decision that you think is going to lead to harmful results in the nation or you know whatever else, or that he's causing difficulty into your life But that doesn't mean that you just instinctively rebel and reject and and and try and overturn what he's doing. Uh recognize that there there is a time and a place, there is a way to go about responding to those circumstances. And so start with the base mindset and disposition to obey and submit And then follow whatever process is, whenever is the appropriate time to try and overturn and undo whatever is being required of you. It's the unwise person that makes rash decisions and doesn't think that about the consequences of their actions, right? We hear about these people uh in the news. They're the people who get kicked off a plane, uh who get uh arrested by force because they don't submit to the authorities. Um just a few weeks ago or a couple of weeks ago I was with Noah at the MBA to do his driver's test and we're waiting in line as as you do there. And uh I s I was hearing um somebody raise their voice, this this young lady, uh, you know, off in another part of the building. uh which tells you that it was really boisterous. And I was looking trying to see is she arguing with one of the counter people? No, I don't see anybody there. There was something obstructing my view so I I couldn't see the person I was just getting louder and louder, and then all of a sudden uh another fella who was pretty far from her but closer to me He's like, hey, you know, quiet down No, he was trying to tell her to to calm down. And so she starts lacing you know, cuss words at him and just cussing him out and it was it was like, okay, something's out somebody's gotta do something here. And so finally the security guy comes and sh and the whole way out, she's she's just Insane. She said, I'm gonna take his gun and I'm gonna come over and shoot you to this guy who's trying to get her caught. It was just crazy. And it's like, do you not think about the consequences of your actions right now? Um but that's that's how you know sometimes a person can get when they um when they're rash and they're not thinking about uh uh about things in in a wise way. I don't know what her original problem was, I don't know what was going on, so You know, who knows? But uh there is there is a time and a place to deal with uh problems and difficulties uh in your life. And so if you follow that approach that wit that Solomon gives us, hey just wait for the right time, follow the right process, that's gonna keep you out of trouble, generally. You know, we'll see what happens later on when you when when you try and circumvent things. But it will keep you out of trouble if you follow that process. So again, just a very pragmatic approach to submitting to the government. And then the fifth reason that he gives us is you don't know what's going to happen in the future. Why should you submit to the king? Because you don't know what's going to happen in the future. We see this in verse 7. If no one knows what will happen, who can tell him when it will happen? And I think what Solomon is really getting at here is the reality that we might think that the way things are is the way things will always be. That's kind of a natural tendency that that we have generally in life. Whether it's you know difficulties you're having at work or or the fact that you're having to buy diapers, you know, every week and man, this is gonna last forever. I mean just anything in life. our are because of our finiteness, we just tend to think this is gonna be the way it's always gonna be. Or if we know you know something like diapers is going to end eventually. Uh you know, we we just think, oh, this is gonna take forever. You know, I remember when we were in California and uh one of our kids had to be a little bit longer uh in a certain uh nursery room because they weren't fully potty trained yet and so you had to be you know potty trained before you could move up. And uh one of my coworkers who was also very involved in the children's ministry there he was just encouraging us uh about that not to be discouraged and uh he's like you know do you see any adults you know walking around with diapers? He'll figure it out eventually. It's okay. They do. They do. And if you're curious, Costco has them on sale right now. So I was just looking at the salesheet yesterday. Um but normally there's an in-between time, right? Where you have things figured out. Well we tell our kids, you know, be thankful that we change your divers, because one of these days you're gonna have to change ours. So Anyway, we experience life in such a way that right now it seems like it's gonna last forever, right? Uh that w especially when you're in a difficult uh season Uh when family relationships are hard or when you're having a physical a problem, it's just like when is this gonna end? And we forget how life works, really. We forget that things always change. Uh it's not going to be like this forever. The circumstances will be different. Um the future will be different than it is today. I mean when you think about government, right? Leaders die Or in our form of government, leaders get out of office, depending on what office they're in. Public sentiment changes You know, so you know, what is popular, you know, a person who's popular immediately when they get elected doesn't always say popular It might feel like all is lost today because of what's going on in society. You know, things are just getting worse, prices are going higher, you know, this is getting worse, that's getting worse, and all is lost. But it's going to change. It will change. Sooner or later things will change. And therefore, change in government, a change in government is not dependent on you. It's not dependent on the actions that you take, you know, whether you do uh something or you don't do something. And so it's better, Solomon says effectively, uh to just wait on God's providence. He doesn't insert that part. But it's better just to wait for things to change rather than to find yourself as the attempted agent of change and be in trouble for it. Right? Because life is going to get difficult if you try and overturn the king. So that's that's his main idea there. You don't know the future. And so rather than feel like the only way things are going to change is for me to do something. You know, for me to to vote or for me to get engaged or for me to spend all this money or give money, you know, in order for things to change, I have to be the one to make things change. Don't think that way because it's not true things will change. Doesn't mean things will always change for the better, but things will change. It will not always be the same So that's his fifth reason for why we should submit to the king, his fifth pragmatic reason. And then his final reason that we can discern here is You don't have the ability to control your life. Or maybe even shorter, you don't have any control. About anything, let alone your life. And this we see in verses 8 and 9. As you look at your Bible there in verse 8, some of you, actually let's just get a raise of hands here. Who has a translation like the NAS? uh that translates the word wind. That has the word wind in there. You can't restrain the wind with the wind Wow, I expected more hands. Okay. Alright, it's kind of cropping up. Who has spirit? Are you all ESV readers? Oh my goodness, I didn't realize uh how imbalanced we were. You got eight thousand. Yeah. Unbound. I I figured it would be higher on the NAS range. That's fine. Uh I'm gonna say something about the ESV in the sermon and I'm gonna affirm my appreciation for the ESV. But uh anyway. Um so you so right there, you know you see s uh some of you have wind and some of you have spirit. The reason for that is because the Hebrew word ruach, which is underneath those words, is translated or can be translated wind, or it can be translated spirit. And it's the context that determines what's being talked about here. And so as translators look at this verse, they're trying to figure out, okay, what is Solomon saying? Is he making a statement about weather? Or is he making a statement about people? That's usually the two questions whenever you come across the word ruach in scripture. And so because of what he's saying here, you can actually take it either way and get the same ultimate meaning from it. If he's talking about wind What he's saying there is you don't have the right to rule, which is what authority means. It's a different word than the second word authority in the same verse So this first word authority means kind of the right to rule or the the to be in a position of power. We don't have the right to rule the wind. Right? We don't have commanding power over the weather. And we we understand that. Though I was reading this week that in Dubai they're making it rain by shooting lasers in the sky. Isn't that crazy? Those people are amazingly intelligent. Um makes you wonder if they figure that out, why don't they do that in other places of the world where, you know, there's a lot of uh drought like California? But anyway, um, you know the the point is simple. You don't have the uh the right to rule the weather, right? You can't just say, hey, wind, I want you to go that way, or I want you to stop whenever there's a tornado like there was this last week or you know whatever it is. We just don't have that right. We don't have control over the web. Or if he's thinking about uh a person Which I think makes more sense in the context. What he's saying is we don't have the right to rule somebody else's spirit. We don't have Excuse me, the ability to change somebody else's heart. I say this to people all the time in counseling. I can't change you. You know, I remind spouses, you you know you can't change each other. And if you can't change each other, I can't change you. So let's just kind of get that off the table that that's not what we're trying to do here. We don't have the right over each other's spirit. We don't have that control. And if you want to then put that in the context of government, you and I don't have the right to rule over the king. That's just not our position. We don't have that divine authority. So that's the first aspect that he mentions. No man has authority to restrain the wind with the spirit or to restrain the spirit. with the Spirit. And then the second illustration of the fact that we don't have control is, he says, or we don't have authority over the day of death. And this word authority has more the implication of might or power, capability, ability. And, you know, kind of setting aside the exception of suicide, what he's saying here is you don't have the ability to change the day that you're going to die. Right? I mean we read even in Psalm 139 that God has all the days numbered for us. I don't know I don't think it was uh I don't remember if David David wrote that Psalm or not, but That's probably something that Solomon understood. That God has our days numbered. He knows the day that we're going to die, and we don't have the ability to change that. Of course, Jesus taught the same thing, right? There's nothing we can do to extend the length excuse me, the length of our life. So we don't have authority over the day of our death. We don't have control of when we're going to die. And frankly, neither does the king. So don't don't think that that's something that you need to be concerned about The next illustration he gives in terms of a lacking control, he says there is no discharge in the time of war. He's simply saying that when you're in the midst of a battle, uh you can't go to your commanding officer and say, hey, can I take a leave of absence here? Can I can I go on vacation? Can I go visit my family? No, there's you can you can't be discharged. You maybe before battle, right? uh but not during the battle. You you just don't don't have control over that. And then the last illustration uh I think is really where he's getting at He's kind of been building up as far as just saying, you don't have control over this, you don't have control over this, and you especially don't have control over this. Evil will not deliver those who practice it. Evil won't deliver those who practice it. Don't think that you can practice evil in your life, that you can respond or do something evil, something that's against God's law, and be successful. In accomplishing what you desire without being overcome by evil. Now Jesus put it this way If you live by the sword, you're going to die by the sword. Right? You can't do evil to overcome evil and think that good will come to you. Those who practice evil, even if it's with apparently good intentions. Again, those who are trying to take off, take out an evil ruler. will be overcome by evil in some way. So just you know briefly stated those six principles of why we should submit to the king, pragmatic reasons. Again, not because God tells us to, that's other portions of scripture. But here Solomon is concerned with pragmatic reasons of why we should submit to government. Again, just to review those. We have effectively in some way consented to live under their authority. The king will punish evildoers. The king is sovereign. Submission will keep you free from trouble. You don't know what's going to happen in the future, and you don't have the ability to control your life. What is Solomon saying here in the context of Ecclesiastes? He's saying it's futile, it's vain to look to the government and think that your life is going to get better if either you have the government that you want or you get rid of the government that you don't want. Don't put your hope in government. Don't think that the people at the top are going to bring salvation into your life. Whatever you try and do to overcome evil rulers, it's not going to result in the things that you want. It just won't. Utopia cannot be achieved in this life. There is no perfect leader who will right all wrongs and be everything that you desire them to be. So just don't put your hope in government. It's futile to trust in the government. As it says in Psalm 146, verse 3, do not trust in princes, in mortal man in whom there is no Salvation. Don't trust government. Yeah, Erica. It was it is like the ask for a thing to begin with. And that's how they ended up with fall. Yeah. So I would It for them the idea of asking for something that's going to be fair. Yeah, yeah, that's a great point. And and relatively fresh on their minds, because Solomon was only the third king Now granted the people that lived at Solomon's time weren't probably alive when they had Solomon, Earth Saul as king. But Because it was so close to proximity there was probably stories handed down. Yeah, this is what we asked for and it wasn't exactly what we were hoping for. Right? Yeah, I would I think uh first age Also having a job ultimately is judge of the ruler. So your protest against the ruler will probably not be satisfied by you But we'll ultimately decide about it. Right. Right. So which is also quite a great something that happens Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and though I think his he moves away as he goes down through verse ten, uh he moves away from the theme of of government rulers The the principle would apply, like you're saying, that it might look like those who are evil prolong their life, it might look like they prosper and everything works out well for them But he affirms the truth in verse 12, I know it will be well for those who fear God. Who fear him openly. And then verse 13, it will not be well with the evil man, because he does not fear God. So yeah, remembering that God is the ultimate judge for sure. Let me give you a couple uh examples of this from a couple different perspectives. Uh Dietrich Bonnenhoefer, most of you know who who he is. He was born in the early 20th century in Germany. Uh he was uh a theologian and he wrote two classic works uh that are well known in in uh Evang in the Protestant Church, uh The Cost of Discipleship, uh which It talks about true discipleship following Christ, all of what that means, and life together, which is more about the community, how we live together as a community of faith. But he became convinced along the way, you know, as Hiller uh rose, so he was I think he was born in 1903 or 1906. So he was in his thirties uh when Hiller was rising to power and and and ultimately took power. And then during the World Wars, uh thirties and forties, he became convinced that it was up to him and another, you know, along with a group of people to assassinate Hitler. uh to overcome this objectively wicked evil man by assassinating him. Uh well what happened? He got found out, and so did his uh compatriots and they were put to death. He was seeking to do something right, or what he thought was right. He thought he was trying to do something good to get uh to rid the world of an evil dictator, an evil man, who was the explanation for the death of millions and millions of people. But he failed. Again, even just as we saw there in verse 3, the the king will do whatever he pleases. Or consider this example. So that's a very negative example as far as the the futility of those efforts. But here's another futile effort from another perspective. In nineteen seventy-nine The moral majority was established as an organization by Jerry Falwell Jr. And its purpose was to promote biblical family or traditional family values uh promote biblical morality and righteousness through the government, uh to try to get rid of legalized abortion uh to promote prayer in schools, you know, all of those kinds of things. That's what the mortal majority was seeking to do They wanted to preserve biblical morality in the in America and have it protected and enforced by the government. Put their hope in the government. After Reagan's two terms, the organization was officially disbanded in 1989, so ten years later. Under the banner of victory. We did it! We won! When they closed their organization, Jerry Falwell declared this: quote, our goal has been achieved The religious right is solidly in place and religious conservatives in America are now in for the duration. I don't know what his definition of duration is, but we're just over 30 years past that, and nothing of what they achieved remains. Yeah. In fact it's quite the opposite and far worse. Everything they oppose is celebrated and protected. Putting your hope in government, whether it's the current one or the hope, the one you hope will replace it, is under the sun thinking. Okay, it's under the sun thinking. It is vanity. It's futile To think that life will get better if we can only preserve the way things are or if we can uh establish new laws and and make things the way we want it to be as as Christians or uh uh uh political conservatives however you want to uh identify yourself uh governmentally speaking uh it's it's not going to happen. It or if it does happen, it's not going to last Now, obviously it's true that there are some better, some leaders who are better than others, right? There are some that that make life better for us than others in a variety of ways Some leaders try to make your life better by removing as much as possible the government's role in your life. And that tends, I'm not making a universal statement here, but that tends to benefit those in the upper levels of economic strata. And then there's others who try and make your life better by increasing the government's role in your life, and that tends to benefit those on the lower economic strata. Uh the policies of some make gas prices go up, and the policies of others make gas prices go down. The agendas of some increase immorality and crime and murder and whatever else in society, and the agenda of others restrain evil more. Those are those are all true things and you know I'm not debating here what's good, what's best, what's better. Obviously, while uh it's true that loving our neighbor, the principle of loving our neighbor, ought to make us want to promote righteousness and justice and and what's good and right uh in the world. But I truly believe that biblical Christians Not just anyone who's identified themselves as a Christian, but biblical Christians are in such a minority today that we have no influence whatsoever. We have no ability to take over what has become cemented in our government and in society. We are among the few people who are more concerned, who ought to be more concerned about eternity more than this life. The problem that a lot of us have in our own hearts is we are very concerned about this life. We're very concerned about the experience of this life. And that's not inherently and universally a bad thing But we tend to be more concerned about that than we are concerned about eternity. We tend to be more emotional, passionate about things that are under the sun. And less committed to things that are above the sun. You know, for many Christians around the world, they are not at all tempted to put their hope in government. Because their government is completely against them and they're, you know, there's no there's no alternative candidates that are promising to to help those Christians. But for us, we can be tempted, and we are constantly tempted, you know, just about every Well, when does this when is there not an election cycle? I almost said every two years, but it's probably less than that. Um we have those thoughts of if we can only win the next election. If we can only get this person elected, if only that law will pass, if only the Supreme Court will come down with the right decision on this case, then we'll be better off. Then life will get better It's amazing to me how much money is is uh raised in for political causes. There's no definitive source that I could find, but going back to the moral majority, it's estimated that they raise between $350 and $500 million a year for their cause Now if you just uh just for the sake of putting a number on it, I say, well let's let's just put it at 400 million and let's divide that by $80,000. to say what if we took that money and supported missionaries? I don't know if eighty thousand is you know depending on on the missionary high or low. But just because I know a missionary uh from a number of years ago that that's what their support was. Y y you could support five thousand missionaries with that money. Five thousand. Just i i if you put all those five thousand in the United States itself to you know To proclaim Christ within the nation, that's uh a hundred missionaries per state Now I'm not saying because I again we understand that uh salvation is is God's work, so it it it's not like a one-to-one correspondent that if you just go to door, you know, everything's gonna change. But just Still, if the gospel is being proclaimed by a hundred missionaries in our nation, more than what's already here in terms of pastors and ministries and churches and whatnot, if there's that elevation of gospel proclamation of Who knows what could happen. Or even around the world to other places where Christ has not been named. We put our money so often in things that are temporal And that don't last. Now I'm not saying, just to be clear, I'm not saying it's wrong to be involved in politics. I'm not even saying it's wrong to give your money to politicians. I'm just saying we need to check our own hearts. Where am I putting my hope? I just want to affirm what Solomon says here, and that is that putting your hope in government is futile. It's vanity. It's it's worthless. It's empty. If we look to government or to change in government to make life better, whatever we experience is going to be short-lived. Now let's go to what else God says about government, just because I think this is something that we always need to be reminding ourselves because of our temptations. Romans chapter thirteen. There are there are two primary passages uh in the New Testament, uh two main ones that talk about Our responsibility before government. One of them is Romans chapter 13. And we're not going to spend a lot of time here because we don't have a lot of time, but just to highlight the main idea. Paul writes here, every person is to be in subjection to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those which exist are established by God. Therefore, whoever resists authority has opposed the ordinance of God, and they who have opposed will receive condemnation upon themselves. He's affirming what Solomon says there. For rulers are not a cause for fear of fear for good behavior, but for evil. Do you want to have no fear of authority? Do what is good, and you will have praise From the same, for it is a minister of God to you for good. But if you do what is right, excuse me, for if you do what is evil, be afraid. For it does not bear the sword for nothing, for it is a minister of God, an avenger, who brings wrath on the one who practices evil. Therefore, it is necessary to be in subjection not only because of wrath, but also for conscience' sake For because of this you also pay taxes, for rulers are servants of God, devoting themselves to this very thing Render to all what is due to them, tax to whom tax is due, custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor So clearly we see here a blanket, uh, unnuanced command that we are to submit to government And I'm sure you know and have heard well the the historical context in which Paul gives this command. He didn't have a professing Christian uh to uh that would that was the emperor of Rome at this time. Uh and of course he's writing to Romans The people who were in authority, and especially the person who was over the empire at that time, was an exceptionally, extraordinarily wicked man. A man who took delight in using burning Christians to light up his parties. A man who was immoral, who was a murderer. And yet Paul says, Submit to the governing authorities. And if even if you step back from that individual and think about lesser authorities, the government system, the law enforcement of that day was not exactly known to be just They were not known to be moral. They were not known to be righteous. They were not known to be honest. And yet Paul says, submit to them. Is it and in the wisdom of God, he chose historically one of the most wicked times of uh of that period uh to send the Messiah and to give these the the the wisdom and instruction that we have in Scripture and we now obviously that truth is for all Christians of all times everywhere but Thinking about ourselves, we have no excuse to say, well, but you don't understand what the president is doing. You don't understand where they're sending our tax money You know, I I've heard people say, well I'm gonna you know because a certain percentage of m of taxes is used for abortions, I'm I'm I'm gonna take that percentage out of the money that I pay taxes. You can't do that. Yeah, Paul certainly didn't admonish us to do that. Yeah, Jose. Can I share a bit of that tomorrow? Sure. Why not? So you're from Washington State. familiar with this. There was a time in Washington State where you would drive down the road and I kid you not every mile there would be a highway patrol. It was so it was so intense. I think it was uh Anyways, at the time I wasn't really walking to the woods, I have to admit that. And I would um my job had me going all over the the city. So um I remember driving and and and And I would get so angry at seeing us leave because I'm trying to get to work and you just you know you just pastor me. And and I have to confess I would flip them off. Okay, when I drove by. But the spirit still lived in me, and the spirit convicted me. The spirit told me exactly uh Romans thirteen two. If if you do this to them, I put them in control. You're doing this to me. And the Spirit convicted me in that moment. And at that moment I repented and I didn't do it again and I Um I have to admit I still speed a little bit, but I don't know, you know, you know. Yeah, we won't have a raise of hands of who can admit to that. But I just want to share that again so it's uh it's so exact and spiritually Well yeah. Appreciate that that uh testimony of God's work in your life. You know what Paul says Here is uh all of it is obviously significant, but when he says in verse at the end of verse one, and those which exist, the authorities, those which exist are established by God. That is so key. It's just one of those many of many, many, many statements in Scripture that affirms the sovereignty of God over all things. You know, that things aren't unfolding to God's surprise. Uh people don't get in power because God's people or yeah, because God's people you know didn't do enough, they didn't give enough, they didn't campaign enough, they didn't go door to door or make enough phone calls. Bad things don't happen in terms of laws and and you know the progression of immorality and all of that because uh of a failure of human beings to do stuff. No, God is sovereignly in control over all things. And yes, within the uh freedoms that we have, especially in our nation, to participate and to promote righteousness, you know, it's good and right to do that But at the same time, we always have to recognize that whoever is in authority, whoever gets elected, whatever gets established, that authority, that government is established by God. And he does that to accomplish his purposes. He's doing that to move the world forward to the intended end where the world will be in complete opposition to God, save for a few people. And so, again, as much as we ought to do what we can to promote righteousness and justice and whatnot, we just have to recognize that the reason things happen the way they do is because God is in complete control. And rather than rebelling, uh rather than you know, hoarding uh guns and ammo and saying, well when they come, you know I'm You're gonna take this for over my dead body? No, we are to submit. Just one other passage real quickly. 1 Peter chapter 2. It's a shorter passage. But just to again affirm the same thing. And here, where Paul was writing to the Romans, Peter is writing to a wide swath of Christians throughout Asia And he says, Submit yourself to the for the Lord's sake to every institution. This is 1 Peter 2. 13. Submit yourself for the Lord's sake to every institution, whether to a king as the one in authority or to governors as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of those who do right. For such is the will of God, that by doing right you may silence the ignorance of foolish men. Act as free men, but do not use your freedom as a covering for evil. Use it as slaves of God. Again, he was writing in the very same period of time uh where there is the very same wickedness uh in terms of those in in other Authority. And he says, for the s for the Lord's sake is one reason to submit to every human institution. And another reason is so that our testimony would be preserved. One of my personal greatest concerns about the way Christians are perceived in this uh in this time in our nation Is that because of things like the moral majority, which I'm not saying they were sinners and you know they shouldn't have done that? I'm not I'm not here to judge them. I'm just saying because of all of that, uh Far right Christians, if you will, have a horrible testimony before the world. We're hated. Not because of Christ and our proclamation of his death for sinners. We're hated because we've made enemies of our political opposition. And that is what Peter is saying. Don't do that. Don't make yourself an enemy of another person because you're rebelling against the government If somebody's going to be your enemy, make sure that it's because of your personal faith in Christ and your faithfulness to him. Do what is right, meaning submit to the governing authorities, so that people can't falsely accuse you of being a rebel. Now granted, there will be a time when the government says, you know, you can't worship, or you can't worship this God. You can't gather as a church. And we have to say, sorry, not going to do that. Yeah, we have a higher authority. But short of those kinds of things, we we should not rebel when it comes to matters that do not pertain uh to uh to spiritual things. Now I I just you know y Jose made his confession, let me make my confession. One of the areas right now, well not right now, but in this moment moment in history that I really, really wrestle with, and you can you can pray for me because uh it may or may not impact you, is how should we as a church ha uh respond when the government says you have to wear masks? you're in church or you can only have 50% capacity in the worship center. For the last year, you know, from the moment the pandemic started, everything in me wanted to say, no, I'm not going to submit to that. And I have good friends who have taken a different position than what our church has taken and one of them spent time in jail in Canada. And so there there are a variety of of uh positions that Christians have taken. But this is where it does get tricky, right? Because persecution doesn't normally start with direct uh or being immediately motivated by your faith in Christ. They don't even normally start by saying you can't preach Christ or you can't gather to worship. There's other explanations that tend to be given. And that that was even true in the early church. Uh they accused the early Christians of being uh atheists because they only worshipped one God. Uh to them that was equivalent to atheism because they worshiped a pantheon of gods in in that culture. They accused the Christians of being cannibals. Because they took the body and the blood of Christ, as we're going to do today at the end of the service. So they falsely accused the Christians of certain things, and that was the reason that they were initially persecuted. And so these things do take wisdom, especially when when pressure against the church ramps up. But we do have to still wrestle with these principles. Fundamentally, the initial response should be: I'm going to submit to the government Even when they ask me to do things that I don't want to do, or they prevent me from doing the things that I want to do, and then we have to consider, okay, is this an appropriate time You know, because of God's commands to us as a church, is this the time to say, I'm sorry, government, we respect you, we want to obey you, but we can't submit to the this thing. We have to wrestle with those things. And I would just ask for your prayers, especially as you know the numbers for the virus go up and who knows what will happen. But again the lesson for today from Solomon in Ecclesiastes is don't put your hope in government. Don't think they're gonna save you. Don't think they're gonna make life better for you. Don't think that they're gonna right all wrongs because they're not, they can't, they don't have that power, you don't have the power to set things right. Instead, we are to put our trust in the Lord. Any final thoughts before I pray? Questions? Eric or uh Brian? The next time you sit there and listen to the action and present. It's addressed to us. Yeah. Well sure, if he's commanding you to do things.