So I I have a a bunch of notes today and I'm I've literally blocked off I don't know if you can all see it, but I've blocked off sections of it to say, hey, say these things and skip the rest. But I wanted to be complete in my notes and so when I post these, feel free to go back. There's whole sections of my notes that I'm I'm going to allude to but not not be able to teach And so I'm not even going to try. By way of context, it's important to keep some context here. I think it really helps to flesh out what the meaning of the passage is. It it's a difficult passage, heavily argued in the commentaries, even the verse 16 that um Pastor Gabe wanted me to te teach is be not overly righteous and do not make yourself too wise. Why should you be destroy yourself, right? It's like, what does that even mean? But I think when we get it in context, it's actually not that difficult at all. And so by way of introduction, I want to remind you that starting in Chapter 4 through the really mid to end of Chapter 10 Solomon is elaborating on the actual experiment that he explained in the first three chapters of the book. I set my heart to understand the things that happen under the sun. And uh he he gives some high points of that in those first three chapters, but in these uh six or seven chapters, um he's really digging town uh to explain all that is done under heaven, all that is done under the sun. And um And so we need to limit the scope by and large. It's a little tricky sometimes, but we need to limit our scope to what's occurring under the sun, him describing that experiment that is separate from God and the the domain of man alone. Since chapter four he's particularizing his experiment, if you will, and I've got a whole list of these in my notes, but I'm going to jump right down to what's most recent and what really is the springboard into chapter seven. And that's really the beginning of a lengthy section that's describing the vanity of man under the sun, the vanity vanity of all that man does and is under the sun in terms of wealth. And he picks this up in First in chapter five, verses ten through seventeen. It occurred extensively in chapter six, verses one through nine, and was even introduced back in chapter four. verses four through eight, and they all talk about the pursuit of wealth. And wealth seems to be one of those things that for Solomon is especially representative of the vanity. His wisdom can help him accrue wealth. But it can't help him keep it. And it can't help him designate what's done with that wealth after he passes away. And and there's just so much about wealth that is the manifestation of the futility that is our lives under the sun. And yet it's it's the thing that we all toil for Further, he even says all toil and all skill is specifically inclined toward the accumulation of wealth. That happened in the previous chapters twice. And so he really, he really Emphasizes how much of the vanity, how extensive the vanity of our lives is as a result of this uh universal pursuit of wealth and and that's uh wealth in various categories, well either the honor that wealth brings or the money itself or the the deeds that wealth allows or Um so he's he's pretty extensive in that. I'm using wealth as kind of a summary term there. Um But it's in that context in chapter six um That he asks two questions, and these two questions almost seem to be a peak of frustration for him as he analyzes these And in verse 8, chapter 6, verse 8, he says, For what advantage has the wise man over the fool? And it's worth noting here, this must have been a particularly poignant frustration to Solomon. You don't have to turn there, but it might be useful to you to turn back to 2 Chronicles 1. Verses seven through twelve actually explain how it is that Solomon got this wisdom. And the the context in the passage here is that Solomon has just finished inaugurating this temple. And in verse 6, he went up there to the bronze altar before the Lord, which was at the tent of meeting, and he offered a thousand burnt offerings on it. And in that night God appeared to Solomon and said to him, Ask what I shall give you. I'm in verse 8 now. And Solomon said to God, You have shown great and steadfast love to David my father, and have made me king in his place. O Lord God, let your word to David my father be now fulfilled, for you have made me king over a people as numerous as the dust of the earth. Give me now wisdom and knowledge to go out and come in before this people. For who can govern this people of yours, which is so great? And God answered Solomon, because this was in your heart. And you have not asked for possessions. wealth, honor, or the life of those who hate you, revenge, if you will, and have not even asked long life But have asked wisdom and knowledge for yourself, that you may govern my people over whom I have made you king. Wisdom and knowledge are granted to you So I say it must have been particularly poignant for Solomon to understand the futility of even his wisdom because he didn't go after the wealth, he didn't go after the honor, he didn't go after revenge or superiority over his enemy, he didn't go after any of those things. He said, I have to lead your people. I have to be a good steward and a good shepherd of the thing that you have given me. And I understand that to do that honorably, to do that well, I need wisdom And then in this experiment that he's running in Ecclesiastes, he finds that this thing wisdom that he surrendered all the earthly pursuits for, all the pursuits under the sun for. It's still not sufficient as an answer by itself is what we need to add there. Solomon doesn't say by itself. He just says, Under the sun, my wisdom is futility. What advantage has the wise man over the fool? And I I just see him like, uh I hope you won't miss the point here. Solomon in 2 Chronicles understood that he had a commissioning by God to do. And that he needed to execute it well, that it was demanded of him that he execute it well. And so he asked for that thing that he needed from the Lord to be able to do it. Now I want to be careful how this plays out, so I'm not going to make a lot of commentary about this part. I would hope that you would apply it surgically to your own heart. But do you see the frustration here? Lord, I I went to church. I learned your word. I studied your stuff, right? I did my best to raise my children that way, to live my life that way, to maintain my vessel that way, to spread your gospel that way. I did my best to do all the things that I thought were wise in life. Why is it? That I still feel the stain of the vanity of my life, the mundaneity, the frustration, the boredom Fill in the blank, right? All of those things encompassed under those word that word vanity, nothingness, vapor So that's the first question. For what advantage has the wise man over the fool? And that really came that frustration was piqued by this idea of uh The vanity of wealth. I'm not saying that's singularly there. I'm just saying that's that's the soil in which this frustrating question popped up in chapter 68. Verse 8. And then in chapter 6, verse 12, which is really uh I'll say the foundation of what's being responded to in chapter seven, it says Uh in verse 12, for who knows what is good for man while he lives the few days of his vain life Is is there any good at all? Right. What's the point What's the point of all my wisdom? What's the point of all my skill? What's the point of all my accumulation? What's the point of all my discipline? What's the point of all my My knowledge, what's the point of my kinship? What's the point of the covenant What's the point of any of these things? There is no lasting goodness to be had, and I am frustrated by it. And so that is ultimately what launches us into chapter seven. It's important to note that this frustration over is there any good, by the way, good, I I'm um is is this Hebrew word and it's pronounced like this All right, and it's going to be important because it's going to appear a bunch in chapter seven. And that's why I am so confident that what's being responded to in chapter seven is this verse. In chapter 6, verse 12. What good is there to be had? Well, let me talk to you about some earthly wisdom, and that's what he's going to represent here. Some earthly goodness Okay? So I'll come back to that, but I want to just see it rooted in verse uh chapter six verse twelve. But even even chapter six verse twelve, we know a little bit about how Solomon is going to respond Under the sun. We see that he's limiting himself under the sun because of what we see. Again, and it's a shame I'm not there. The end of chapter six. In verse ten. Okay, so six twelve obviously follows six ten. In six ten Psalm says, whatever has come to be has already been named, and it is known what man is, and that he is not able to dispute with one stronger than he is. And Pastor Gabe used a great quote out of Job last week, so I'll just reference it for you. It's that passage in Job 23, 1 through 7. Uh it it would be good to look that up. Uh Job is arguing with the Lord. Give me my chance to stand before the Lord, and I will be judged in the right. And then of course at the end of Job he thinks better of that position. This idea of being named, particularly in uh the Jewish context or the Jewish uh mindset, bears the implication of having a defined character. Your name defined who you were, who you really were. The name was important. And the nature of man and his experiences exemplified by his name, so much so that dramatic experiences in one's life would change the name. Can you think of an example of that? Peter. Peter. I was thinking Old Testament, but that's a good one. Jacob. Jacob. Yeah. Abram. Yeah. There's a number, right? Where the Lord transformed a life and the name had to be changed. The nature of the thing, the nature of the man became different. But here it's not so positive, right? Whatever has come has already been named. There's doesn't matter what I do and how I struggle. What I am, what I am capable of, what I will experience under the sun has already been named. And we know what it is from Genesis 3. We know what it is from Ecclesiastes 1 when he says God has made all things crooked so that man cannot fix it or figure it out. And and you'll see it again in in this week's uh notes if I forget there. Um but you know that crookedness doesn't have as much to do with evil, it's just brokenness. It will remain broken And so the Lord comes again. But that's frustrating. I got dimed out as an engineer last week by Certain person in the back of the room there, right? She's like, oh I can tell you were an electrical engineer. Well let me tell you I hate broken things. They drive me nuts. I would rather stay up all night and fix the broken thing than go to sleep and and have it be broken. I think my wife just mocks me for it quietly so that you know I don't see her do it, but right? You know, like, yeah, look, you know It's like a dog and a bone. I s you got this thing is broken. Oh look, he's occupied for the next six hours. It's the curse. Genesis 3. There it is. And worse, we'd love to go dispute this with God. No God, I'm better. No God, I got it figured out. No God, this is a better pattern. You can't dispute with God. And here's a great lesson. I I'm going to say it now lest I run out of time and and fail to get it. Do you understand that we live in brokenness? You swim in brokenness. I am not dismissing the totality of the value of our redemption in Christ and our transformation into the kingdom of light. The new creature that we are becoming or uh have become we aren't becoming we have become a new creature in Christ past tense I am not diminishing that or qualifying that in any degree. But until Christ comes again, you will continue to live in the brokenness of this life. You have not been restored yet in the fullness. It is the hope that we have in Christ. It is why we look forward to the end. It is why we suffer through what we experience here. It is the joy of our hearts knowing that this temporal frustration will pass. And every fear in it will be addressed before the Lord to our Superlative satisfaction. If, as Colossians says, by the way, these are not my words, and I'm not paraphrasing, if You continue in the faith. Not making good progress here. I have a whole section in here on the extreme danger of wealth. I would love it if you would download the notes and take a look at it. We are not going to to discuss it. I just don't have the time. But it is amazing. And if we take Solomon's words to heart, there are none of us here that are free. from the toil after wealth to satisfy our mouths and we will never be satisfied by it. It is a dissatisfaction that is in each one of us, even as it was with Eve. There must be some goodness I can capture that God is keeping me out of. And so I will pursue it. I will reach my hand for it. And so many of us define it in so many different ways. Even those of us that do it through uh Parsimony is the word that comes to mind, but that may not be useful to you. Um what's another word for parsimony? Crugality, um cheapness, uh aesthetic living, right? When we when we draw it all in, you're still trying to do something. You're still trying to achieve something through the exchange of value. Right? All of it, all of it is extremely dangerous to us You say, well, Scott, I don't think we're subject to that as Christians. Galatians 3. 22 It says, but the scripture, by the way, a lot of commentators, a lot of pastors, like to change scripture to law They like it to say, the law imprisoned everything under sin. That is not what the Greek says. Don't let them lie to you. The word is the writing, the graphi, the scriptures, which include the law. But in any other sermon or lesson or text that you would hear that same preacher teach on the canonicity of scripture, He would hunker down on that word and tell you how it means the totality of the Old Testament. But then when we come to this passage about being in prison, we like to blame it on the law. Okay, that's true. And the prophets, and the Psalms, and all the rest of it. The scripture imprisons everything under sin. So that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Do you see how close that is to what Solomon is saying in Ecclesiastes? Imprisoned in this circumstance that we live in under the sun. And we are imprisoned in it. And if we believe ecclesiastes, then we are all struggling with this exchange of value and what it does to us. And we should share in Solomon's frustration as we realize that imprisonment. Now I've got to take a little side leg here. One of the texts That I use in my section on wealth that I'm not going to go over is from 1 Timothy 6. But right just prior to that There's a passage that says, in pursuing riches, men even imagine that godliness is a means of gain. That's 1 Timothy 6. 5. In pursuing riches, men even imagine that godliness is a means of gain. And so when we get uh the cheater here is that when we get to verse 16, uh be not overly righteous. And do not make yourself too wise. I think you're getting a hint to it here in 1 Timothy. He's not talking about righteously before the Lord. He's talking about a system of living. with an established set of rules, at least in this whoever this individual's mind is, that gets him the game that he wants to get. That's the whole context of the passage, the pursuit of wealth, the pursuit of gain. What goodness can I get for myself? Later on, he says in verse 20, surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins. So we know that he's not talking about that kind of righteousness. And, again a little bit of a cheater, he's in a whole section here which are like ten rules for great living. Right? Rules for success. As a matter of fact, I even I even titled this A Convict's Guide to Better Living. He's a convict because he's imprisoned under the sun. And in that imprisonment, he's trying to find the value of wisdom, and he's trying to find a way to give even his vain days some good. Some good. All right. Let's jump in. This word is our link, as I said, to verse seven or chapter seven, rather. Um it can also be used in a comparative sense, and it is It's used that way to say this one thing is better than this other thing. And you see that in verses 1 through 3, 5, 8, and 10. And they're called the better proverbs. Kind of a roadmap of this section would be verses one through six. They don't really answer the question in 6. 12. For who knows what is good for man while he lives the few days of his vain life. But they more say, how do you get some good out of it? And he's gonna he's gonna say be wise ultimately. And he's gonna tell us how that looks, what that looks like. In 7 through 22, he's going to provide a collection of lessons for finding good that come from wisdom. Alright? And you're going to find there's a really strong disclaimer in those verses. So I want you to picture Solomon sitting down in front of uh habits, you know, seven habits of a successful imprisoned person. Right? That's the book he's writing here in chapter 7. And he's gonna say you're gonna you can find these lessons by being wise in the way I tell you in verses 1 through 7. Here are the lessons in verses, well excuse me, 1 through 6. And in 7 through 22, he's going to say, and here are those lessons that I have learned. But boy, is there a problem with these lessons. Something, and uh hopefully I'll get there, but something you would never expect to be in a self-help book, he has to put in here in order to be honest. In 23 and 24, he asserts that wisdom sought through reflection and right thinking is a means. Uh excuse me. In the first part he he talks about wisdom, um sought through reflection and right thinking as a means of good, but in verses twenty-three and twenty-four he shows that it it was not to be grasped. or obtained, but pursued. In other words, you are never going to get to the place where you have the wisdom that you need to do those lessons that I told you about in that first part. You're going to have to pursue them all of your life, and it's going to frustrate you. And it frustrated him. And then ultimately he falls back on the reason this is a problem is because of the sinfulness of man. It is the fundamental problem. We are imprisoned fundamentally because we are sinful people. We are broken people. And verses 27 and 28 really summarize Solomon's frustration to find the scheme of things which my soul has sought repeatedly. But I have not found. I have not found. Can you imagine how annoying that must be for somebody like Solomon? I have sought it and I have sought it repeatedly. And even after all these things that I've explained to you that are true enough I have not found the real answer. I have not been able to fix the problem in my own life. And then verse 29, the summary of the whole matter, see this alone I found. That God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes. Right? It goes back to that brokenness. I can't find the ultimate answer to why wisdom is better than folly. I can't find the ultimate answer to how to capture good. Live in good the few vain days of my life. I can't fix the problem But I understand that the problem is God ordained. One. And two, I understand that God didn't make man broken like this. He made us upright. But we have sought out many schemes. No please. Um verse twenty-seven, it seems like the way that he's using schemes is kind of like a schematic or Print. Like he's trying to find like the overriding principle over what's going on. Yep, that's actually a a great way to describe it. He actually compares it to math or physics. If you look at the way he talks about adding one thing to another, there's like a a mathematical framework to that. Um is that also the way that he's using Is that the same word as twenty nine or is that not the same word? It is the same word. Um hard to tell. We get the cast f uh about like this systematic, uh scientific, mathematical approach from it. We get that cast from the words that precede it. Here it's not preceded like that, but I don't see any reason to dismiss that. And what I would argue there is, and I think this is consistent with the rest of the passage. We spend a lot of time trying to come up with a framework for how we think things should be done down here, that we can make them good, that we can derive meaning from the frustration of our days. And they're exotic schemes. And if we're honest while we sit here, we have them. I think if I do this Then this is what should follow. Do you realize that the most honest posture before the Lord is, this is what is in my hand right now, and this is what is in my mind to do, Lord. Direct my step. I I see I get you. Uh this direct my step as I go Help my fingers to close over the things in my life that you want me to hold dearly and grasp strongly and peel from my hands those things which I should not have. I don't remember where I got I am coming. I don't remember where I got this, but I started praying this sometime in college after listening to a pastor that particularly convicted my heart The idea of taking all of my plans, even the ones that I think are good and noble and right, and for all these glorious spiritual reasons and stuff, right? And take them and put them on the altar before the Lord. Lord, consume those things that are not honoring to you, that are not the best, that are not part of your plan, even if they're good and fine and whatever, right? Maybe ah moral. I don't know if you can have an a-moral thing. I'd have to think about that harder, but nonetheless, consume those things and only let me take back what you would have. I I you know I I can't help but think about how we come to worship. Lord, we're gonna do worship like this I'm not necessarily filing a registering a complaint here or anything else, but you know how I wish we would start worship? With confession. Just confession, not psalms, not prayers, not anything else, with confession. That is the most appropriate way to come to the world. Lord, I am broken, and I know that I come with your schemes, because I am imprisoned under the sun for the time being. I know As a Christian, that you have freed me from the absoluteness of that bondage. And there will be a day when this prison is thrown open. There will be a day when this brokenness is not imprisoning me. But for now I'm in prison. How is the most appropriate response to God? Not confession first. I'll go a little further Confession that grieves the heart. You say, now you're now you're making it up. No, I'm not. I'm actually pulling that right out of the text here today. These first better passages are going to tell you to go seek wisdom by first going to the house of mourning. Stop feasting. Stop being merry or having mirth. This is actually a word that's in the Today, by the way. I'm trying to stick close here. Right? Stop doing those things. Let your heart be turned to the reality of the fact that your lives are steamed toward wealth and value and honor that you demand of life. And it may be completely outside of what God's bringing. I wish we would come with confession. Have I lost already or no no I just was I I was stricken with this idea, you know we have reams and reams and books and books of philosophers trying to approach this very same question Like you have, I mean you can go as far back as Socrates or even as early as Nietzsche or Sartre and you see them essentially approaching this existential argument, right? What is the meaning of existence You know, the the postmodern dilemma, if you want to apply it to the practical day, you know, these people that run around with I create my own meaning, I make my own value, is because they're unable to see God. And the existence of God as being the purpose for their existence. So they're looking for something else to fill that void. And that's the depression and the depravity that that that I think Solomon is really focusing here is that if there's no God, it's empty. You know, there there's a movie though the fault among our stars. I think it was called The Fault in Our Stars about this kid that he's a atheist and he's dying of cancer and he can't find any reason why he's dying. You know, other than it's just this fault in life. You know, you can't it's the most depressing movie you'll ever see. Because you just you you walk away. Utterly depressed because these kids have no purpose or no sense of meaning in what they're going through. It's it's uh yeah, and that's exactly the depression and depravity and that it's all I don't think is addressing. The only exception I took to what you just said is you said unable. to find their ultimate meaning in God. And I say unwilling. Unwilling is fine. That would be the only calibration I would make to that statement. Otherwise I say amen. Alright, back to verse 1. Verse 1 through 6 form a unit that reveal wise living is better than folly. One commentator said he summarized this as a better a funeral than a party. And this is not new. It was said in Ecclesiastes 2. 13 as well. So these verses form this unit, and wisdom is best obtained in a serious mind of reflection rather than in folly and mirth. Verse 1 sets the stage for this section and reveals some of Solomon's philosophy about death being a rest. You know, good name is better than precious wintman in the day of death than the day of birth. Now he certainly Primarily talking about this need that, you know, and I think any of you that have been to funerals will have this sense of what will be said of me What will be the sum of my life when I get here, right? Well what will be the course of my life as summarized by the people that knew me best at the end You know, and there's this honest reflection, have I done anything of value, really? Or are people going to stand up and say things like, well, you you ran a successful company. Their net profit at the end of the year was Right? We have a bunch of things on our website for my company, fastest, you know, fifty fastest growing top fifty fastest I can't even remember, that's how much I care about them. Um, you know, fifty fastest growing companies in the in the government sector in this area in 2020 and 2000. nineteen and we might hit it again this year, right? Best places to work in Baltimore in I don't know six or eight years running or something. I don't know. Nobody's gonna care. I don't even know why we do those to tell you the truth. So he's primarily reflecting or g you know he's primarily referring to this opportunity to honestly reflect. On the value of what we're doing. When you cut away all the other stuff and get it down to life and death What what does it matter? But there is also some aspect here of Solomon, and this is how we know he's again talking under the sun, his his repeated conviction that death is a rest. In Ecclesiastes 3, 19 through 20, he says, There's really no difference between our death and the deaths of beasts. We're just going to die and go back to the soil. In Ecclesiastes 6. 5, he says it would be better if we were a stillborn child. Because a stillborn child finds rest, but a man toiling in his labor does not. And so there's there's there's not a a sanctified way of translating what he says. He wasn't talking about man dying and being cast into eternity and being judged before the Lord and then found And by the work of Christ on the cross, you know, being redeemed and forgiven and set up as uh an adopted heir. He's not talking about that. He just means it it's better to die and get the rest. Mostly the idea of honest reflection. And you can see that because he says a good name is better than precious ointment. And we already discussed that name, right? A good character, right? What I actually am and how I am defined ultimately is better than wealth. Better than beauty. Ointment's got kind of the a fullness of it. It was expensive and it and it it equated to a lot of wealth, but it also was that thing that was beauteous, that thing that was preservative, that that thing that it it had a dimensionality upon just, you know, filthy lucre, if you will Right? Here's a pile of gold. There you go. Right? That that has one set of value. But Winkman was different. It had all that value and more It pleased aesthetically, it pleased aromatically, it filled up and was noticed by others. It was conspicuous in what it was He broke a jar of Waitman open, and everybody understood that you were a possessor of that great wealth. Right? It just permeated all that was around it. So it's a really full kind of wealth that's being described here. But he says, better than that. Is it good character? And that good character is only going to sneak through all the scheming of our lives if we reflect. If we stop and consider. Again, I hope you are not isolating yourself in this New Testament era because you're sitting in a church wearing nice looking clothes with mostly dignified people in the room. Excluding myself because it seems arrogant, right? Uh uh please hear the same thing. Mostly because it's also in the New Testament. It's spoken to you as well In verses 2 through 4, mourning is better than feasting. It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, right? What good is there in life? Well, it is better. It is good. Here is a way of capturing some good. It is good to go to the house of mourning. It is better that to go there than to go to the house of feasting, for this is the end of all mankind. morning. And the living will lay it to heart. Take a quick aside on this idea of the heart. In in in this context, the heart was the center of man's attention, thought, understanding, and memory. And I've got scripture passages for that in my notes. So if you want to look, you need to get out of here and be into here. Right? This idea of you will lay it to heart is you will ponder it with careful conviction. You will scrape through this to get rid of everything that is a scheme, that is vanity, and you will settle in the deepness of this The lessons that are about to be taught here. You will lay it to heart, and you'll see that repeated here. Sorrow is better than laughter, for by sadness of face the heart is made glad. The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. Psalm 90, verse 12 says something similar. It says, teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. That reflects directly on that Second verse there when it says, you know, we should go to the house of mourning, um, because that's the end of all mankind, and the living will lay it to heart. I have a number of days That the Lord has given me or that I have been allotted in order to accomplish what needs to be accomplished. And I will build my name I will define my name. I will evidence my name in what I do during those days. And they are short days. But that perspective on dying and having your life summed up by your name or by your character is key to this passage. What is better? Well the house of mourning is better than the house of feasting. What is better? Sorrow is better than laughter. What is that's verse three? What is better? Well, the house of mourning again than the house of mirth. Verse 4. Solomon is indicating that the sober reflection and self-evaluation activities of the mind are the means by which wisdom is attained, it yields to a good name, a good character. And now a quick uh aside, it this this passage, I struggled with this. I spent a long time on this. It really bothers me. Two weeks ago I asked the room, and Dawn was frustrated that she wasn't here to answer the question correctly because she knew the answer, so here's your shot. What is the most common command that we are given in all of Scripture? To to be joyful. I didn't actually just throw that in there for you. It was just a good chance to give it to you after what I am firmly convinced of that. But here's a here's a priority on mourning, on soberness of heart of a downcast spirit to at least in some regards. Sure. So what when I read this this passage What it and and the he never talks about it here and I don't know if I'm right thinking about it. That's why I'm asking. I always think of expectation. Like the first thing that comes to my mind is what do I expect out of life? Right? I expect comfort, stability, and um Like a lot of good things. And then what what I notice is that he says, in the day of prosperity be joyful. But then, you know You are he also makes the path crooked. On those days when he makes the path crooked, I can't I know that I ha my expectations have led me the wrong direction. You know, so like it is the opposite of being joyful, expecting the wrong things Is the opposite of being joyful, expecting the wrong things. Because I I you know I think uh I I think that easy to expect Expect to have children that are smart and to have all these good things and then I don't have them and I'm like, you know, this isn't where I thought my life was supposed to be. And then you know and then I say, okay, well what you said in the beginning is is, you know, maybe you don't have those things, but do you have a good name? Do you live with integrity? You know? Um and those kind of things. Yeah. Well th that's definitely in here. In verse thirteen and fourteen, and you picked up one thirteen, consider the work of God, who can make straight what he has made crooked And it goes on to say, in the day of prosperity, be joyful, and in the day of adversity, consider. And the affront to that is, is that we expect, if we do what's in the verses between seven and twenty-two, if we follow these right rules We expect or even even so yes, there's definitely an ask But I don't want to throw it all under the bus. There's an aspect to it here where Solomon is saying these are actually just wise words to live by between seven and twenty-two But even then, because things are fundamentally broken, they are not like the books in the in the bookstores tell you, the seven habits of successful people Absolutely. Right? No no they're not. There's seven wise habits that you should endeavor upon and maybe I I actually haven't read the book because frankly a book like that just seems silly to me. But If you expect those seven habits to always yield the fruit that you desire, then you are going to be frustrated. So there's certainly an aspect of it. I will just say in verses one through six here, he hasn't even gotten as far as your expectations. He's just saying, if you want good You should be mournful in heart and consider what's real, what's wise. You you should sit back and get a hold of of what's actually real under the sun. That's as far as he's gotten so far in one through six. You had your hand up? I'm thinking when he's talking about um Um about the house of mourning. And and bec as I go into prayer I start thinking about my expectations. But then Like David sometimes doing in songs he'll start out What was me but then but then he gets through that and he and then he comes back to um to the confession. And then even in my prayers is I strive to go back to my confession. It then makes it easier to get to that joyful part. Because when the trial's hard, it's like God, how can I find joy in it? I know you tell me to But then when I start the confession, then the joy part comes. So Yes. And as a matter of fact, I'm going to completely interact with what you said and what I'm doing. So it no it's going to seem like I'm ignoring you, but I'm not. I'm actually going to springboard off of what you said in these passages that come. Alright, so I shared with you my frustration about this. I see the truth of this morning thing, and as a matter of fact, I'm going to amplify it a little bit here in in a similar way. I shared with you If I can find my place. I shared with you from Malachi uh last week or the last time I taught about worthless worship. But the particular indictment is, you have said it is vain to serve God. What is the profit of our keeping his charge? or of walking as in mourning before the Lord of hosts. Do you understand that the people of God knew that the expectation for them was that they should walk in mourning before the Lord of hosts? And as a matter of fact, God's indictment against them is that you're not happy, you're not content, you're not obedient in walking before me in mourning. This is more than just the vanity of life under the sun. When God is interacting with his people, he says, you don't want to do it. But you should. A response of penitence to the Lord in Job 42, 5 and 6, it says, I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you. And this is getting closer to what you said. Therefore I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes I'm running around, busy with my own life, busy with my own expectations down here, busy with my own schemes, busy with my own pursuit of wealth. Right? Life is what it is. There's good, there's bad, it is what it is Right? And I I probably even feel as self-righteous as Job did when he challenged the Lord in what was it, 23, 26? I think it was 20, chapter 23. But then he gets to see God. He gets to hear, not just hear about God, but experience God. I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eyes see you. And I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes. I think you begin to get an insight into why God's people should be mourning people. Now I'm not done. The story's not over. Right? But do you see the foundation? Do you see now why I said I think the beginning of every piece of worship should be confession There is no joy offered anyone when you skip the mourning, when you skip the confession. None of us have experienced the Lord in the way that I did as I did and as it is. I know I keep coming back to it, but it's because I long for that experience. To see God high and lift it up. To see all of my schemes to see all of my schemes and doubts, right? All of my fears and wants. All of the the things that I planned and that I'm holding, that I'm trying, to see all of that Just melt away the confusion of my life drowned out by the sinfulness of God. And the response to that is always mourning. It's always repentance. It's always, oh look, Lord, I pursued a lesser value. Even when I was trying to do it rightly, I pursued a lesser value. I am coming to you. But I want to finish that thought. James 4, 4 through 10. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn. It's in the New Testament, too, isn't it? As a command, by the way, imperative This is not a suggestion. This is not a cute thing. It's not a nice to have. It's not optional. Be wretched and mourn and weep Well, that that doesn't mean what you think. Well, I think it does. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to bloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and then here's the great part. And He will exalt you. Amplified in 1 Peter 5 through 6, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. I was just gonna say everything you're saying is also reminding me of um 46 where it says better is a handful of quietness continue hands full of soil and a styling after wind. And that morning I think there was a sense of quietness. Um the thought quietness is the opposite Um and what you're saying about wisdom being obtained through serious minds of reflection and mourning. I think when I initially read Ecclesiastic years ago, I really struggled with mourning. Like does that mean we have to Yes, same struggle. So I there is a Sabbath in the confession sense, and I think that just being able to be quiet and to stop striving, even spiritually in church, you know, all the things that do in a church service. It's important to just be quiet in your soul so that you can be serious, see reality for what it is, and I think there's a certain rest that we can have in peace. in acknowledging reality, the reality of our brokenness and our sinfulness. And when you're at rest and at peace, then you can have joy in the things that you see the Lord has given you. Yeah. That I mean I'm gonna go off script here a little bit, which is gonna shoot my timeline, whatever that looked like in the first place, but D do you see this this is so important. D do you see the remedy Do you see the remedy of understanding the futility of your best? Even as a Christian. Do you do you see the remedy of understanding the insufficiency of you in your totality. I I I I'm a highly f functioning broken person. But I know me. I know, and I'm not telling you by the way, it's too shameful. I know how broken I am. And as highly functioning as I am, or at least I hear other people tell me they think I am, I know the reality of it. And it drives me nuts. It makes me afraid and it makes me angry. And it makes me all sorts of other responses that I have to that honest, deepest, truest reality. That my best is still broken and I am insufficient for what I want the most. Do you understand the remedy of being able to bring that to the Lord and lay it down? And have him call it what it is. But also understand that he didn't do what he did to destroy you. He did what he did that he might seek. you and finds you. Right in Ecclesiastes, right? That he might redeem you and forgive you. Move forward into the New Testament. That he might reconcile you to himself. That he might establish you and his glory on this earth a messenger for him And that not of yourself, but his power is made perfect in weakness, just like you said. Thank you so much. Do you do you I mean And when you actually I I see you. When you actually get a hold of that And you understand the fullness that he calls you to live in. And you begin to wrap your brain around this most frequent of commands to live joyfully. You begin to get a sense of what God is attempting to do in your lives for as long as you are imprisoned under the sun. And it is better. It's better. Ultimate freedom, ultimate truth, ultimate peace, ultimate joy. Ultimate victory. It's keep going. I I'm running out of words. I'm off script. Uh somebody had a question. Ma'am? No, I was just gonna comment. Um about um the attitude and I do five. Yes Um four of this aren't those who mourn they shall be covered. It's always connection to all the mourning pressure to be added. Yes. This is what all Christians need to experience. Because if we if we don't find our best behavior filthy, you know what this the death and resurrection of Christ is right? Yeah. I mean if if we if if we cannot find that what is the gospel What is the gospel every day? That's the only right. I just get so afraid when people I must say you meant it, but I get so afraid when people talk about the gospel, they mean that thing that happened once that transferred. No, no, no The gospel is the good news today, because you are insufficient today, because you are in the midst of the brokenness today. That was great. Thank you. After a week, I mean come on. Yeah, please ask the settlers of two weeks. Well sorry, you're not getting you can read my notes, but you ain't getting it. Um Are you allowed to like say there's another quarter? now and you guys just say anything. I I am here at the discretion of Pastor Diggs. And I'll sit down at his discretion, so Um just to to I wanna drive this theme. I don't want to get all ramped up about words. I get all excited. I'm a you know a uh I should know I'm a red hair person at at heart, a red haired Irish person at heart, without the red hair I admire. Me getting excited and being persuasive isn't helpful to us. We want to draw out what God has for us in the scriptures and this morning part that we've been talking about so fully here is I I'm not making this up. And you see it being drawn to a point in verses 5 and 6. Better is rebuke. Well, what's rebuke? Rebuke is wrong. You you did that wrongly. Or you didn't do that as well as you could have. There was a better way. There was a better approach There was a healthier way to do that, a more peaceful way to do that, a more joy-filled way to do that. Better is rebuke. It is better for a man to hear the rebuke of the wise than to hear the song of fools I am on dangerous ground right here, but I'm going to take a stab at it and then just pray for your mercy. In my mind. So you can dismiss it readily. In my mind, what characterizes the modern church, and I'm being very general here, I'm not specifying ours or any particular one. In my mind, what defines the modern church Is music and sunshine. What do I mean by sunshine? Positive. Right. Successful people are positive people. Redeemed people are positive people. We're cheerful. I'm not saying those things are wrong. But if you said that a modern church was characterized by confession and song and sunshine, then I might agree with you. But if it doesn't start with mourning, we love to hear the song of fools. Let me tell you, Lord, how much I love you. Let me tell you how good you are. Obviously there is a place for those kinds of songs. Please don't go too far with what I just said. But will you consider Rebuke. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for Reproof is the word. It's a close cousin of rebuke, isn't it? It literally means Let him pick on you. Let him pick on you. Let me show you how you just step one. That's reproof. Not with anger, not with hostility. That's not what the scriptures. That's not the God we serve. But you went wrong. Let's go back and do it right. And let me walk with you closely. By the way, there's probably some trial in there so you can learn along the way, some correction in there. But let me walk with you for a while and see you get this right Rebuke is better. Proverbs 3, 11 through 12, my son, do not despise the Lord's discipline or be weary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves him whom he loves. Do you know that we should be people that desire the Lord's rebuke and correction? W which in my mind means that we should be people that expect to be in confession more often than anybody else on the call And yet most of us don't talk to me. I'm free from the law. I don't know anybody that actually stands like this at some point, right? I've I've been going through counseling with Pastor Gain for about a year and working through some things. And there have been times when um things have happened and then I reacted in a way that I thought was for the betterment of me and then we're being counseling and then He would take that breath and then he would review. And then it would be a point where I was one to just really get up and leave. And I told him I was Call them back and say, I was mad at you. But the time between going from counseling to home and the next day, I will ponder on it. And and it would it would it would it would make me happy but I would it it would make me joyful but then like when you work out when your muscle is so but then tomorrow And I can't explain it, but I I don't know when I see that how the rebuke is better because then other people will come to me in the situation wonder wow you did that and you shouldn't have to go through that or whatever and they would build in with But it had no substance. What if a review did? Yeah, the bet uh you guys gotta stop. I got like four minutes, okay. Uh I'll get you after class. Uh but your comment uh is this very personal and so I want to comment on that real quick. I I learned it wasn't until I was in my twenties that I saw church discipline for the first time. first time worked out correctly. And I was married and uh but we were we were young. Um and I remember I mean I grew up I have a lot of regret. It's not set. Answood maybe does too, but she grew up in a very different setting, uh church and Christian school and all that. Uh not my experience. But I finally saw church discipline acted out in the right way. And I still to this day will never forget how much rejoicing there was. at the end of that service, when the person had gotten up and been reproved by the elders of the church and confessed to the congregation what the Lord had been doing in their life. Life in an appropriate way. Not not not a soap opera like let me drag you through all the garbage of my life because it's an accident and you all you know none nobody can bear not to look at an accident It wasn't like that. It was all about what God had been doing to redeem a sinner. And it was the most joyous thing And I I think that poor sucker had to stand at the front of the congregation for three hours after the service because there wasn't a person there that didn't want to go up and hug him or shake his hand. Just to go up and say a kind word, to encourage him, to thank him for his testimony, to thank him for his confession, to thank him for doing what none of the rest of us figured we had the guts to do. It was a beautiful thing. And you say, what? I don't know. I don't know what made it different. I mean I I could go through and list some things. That's not my point, but those things do not amount to the goodness that was derived from that experience. So I I can't explain it either, but I know what you mean. And And that's that's what happens when we do it in God's way and not our way. I have one minute. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, Hebrews 12, 6, and he chastises every son whom he receives. And that's contrasted with the fleeting sensation of foolish laughter. We are a people that are drowning in our entertainment and in our amusement. He gives a series, told you this already, in seven through uh twenty-two. series of ways to live wisely. And you should read them and you should understand that while Solomon is saying, under this sun, if you live With a heart of wisdom that mourns and thinks carefully about your life, and here are rules for capturing good. During your imprisonment under the sun, but I want you to see, because I don't have time for any of those, I want you to see the strangest entry in this self-help book The rules don't work all the time. In my vain life I have seen everything. There is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness. In other words, he he did do the right thing But he died early. And there is a wicked man who prolongs his life in his evil doing. Be not overly righteous and do not make yourself too wise. What Before you exhorted people to be righteous, and you said that wisdom is the way that we capture good. And in verse 20, I think, you said that being wise makes you stronger than ten other men. But what he's saying is these rules are not axiomatic. If you walk out of this room and say, I heard a great lesson, here are the seven things I'm going to do. They may be good things, but do be clear that they are not axiomatic for your expectations of goodness. God will never leave you With the disadvantage of believing that you have a system of actions, thinking, beliefs, all that stuff that is sufficient in and of itself He wants you to come and mourn and see the insufficiency of yourself, the emptiness of yourself, so that he can fill it all with what is most efficacious. Matter-of-fact, only efficacious. And I mean that in that his stuff is only efficacious and that there is nothing efficacious outside of him. Effective toward the end that we intend, that we want, that we most desire That is the imprisonment. We're right back to the first time I talked to you. That is the imprisonment that we are held under for this time. Because we would be self-satisfied and we would bow at the altar of our own form. And so he will not leave us with that. And the only remedy I know for that is to return to the house of mourning, return to the place of confession, return to the place where I see it, Lord. This is my best, and I know it's not good enough. But you you told me to run. He told me to strengthen weak knees and weak hands and fight and run and teach and burn and be persecuted With joy for the glory of the Lord and for my ultimate satisfaction. And that's where we have to stop.