We are gonna do something super weird. I gotta talk super fast to do it and and still spit everything in. We are gonna do a real big trip through redemptive history. Old Testament. Um I'm I'm literally gonna put my head down and read it or I'll never finish it. Okay? I I don't mean like reading the Old Testament. That's not gonna happen. Um, but uh I have uh about two pages of notes, two and a bit pages of notes that I'm pretty much going to read to you. These notes will be posted. I thought about putting them on slides, but that would have taken me more time, so it don't worry about So I gave you a little bit of a personal testimony about why Ecclesiastes is important to me. I alluded to the fact that There are a lot of specific disciplines in my life and in the life of my family now that I have directly drawn out of my study of Ecclesiastes. If time permits, I'll touch on some of those specific applications at the end. I now want to ground Ecclesiastes really In Genesis, largely. And the basis for that is that just about any other study that you can do, or any study you can pick up of Ecclesiastes, is going to make it sound peculiar We don't understand, we're not quite sure, we're really not sure what Solomon was doing. He seems like he was ungodly and how he pursued these things or desperate or fatalistic or secular or pessimistic or there's all these words that are used and what it ends up doing is making Ecclesiastes this feel like uh Some sort of odd appendix to the scriptures that we're not really sure what to do with stuck in there in a funny place. And I don't see that at all. As a matter of fact, I read the philosophy of Ecclesiastes to every word of Scripture starting in Genesis 1. And I want to try to share that with you because I think it speaks a little bit to how much Ecclesiastes speaks into our experience as people under the sun. You were born, you will live your life out, and you will die under the sun. This is your experience. And although we have Spoiler. Although we have Christ, and that will change our experience under the sun, we are not yet transferred. To what will be made whole. Not yet. You will live out your days here under the sun. And the wisdom of Ecclesiastes is exactly that wisdom. So I want you to see that God set it up like that. This is not some experiment that Ecclesiastics that Solomon did and framed in acute ways so that he could go down in the annals of history. Heavily argumented. God framed the structure that Solomon was given the wisdom to go explore. And so I'm going to go back to Genesis. In six days, God speaks an undying creation that functions in a symphony of harmony and perfection into existence. Genesis 1, 1 through 31. God saw everything that he had made and this perfect, unsurpassed God. said it was very good. Genesis 131. God gave satisfying work to man and an abundance of every sort that was good to eat. Genesis 2, 15 through 16. So far everything's really good. By the way, this is a world without vanity. There's no vanity in the world that I'm describing, not as Solomon describes it. In this work, man exercised complete dominion over God's created order. leading the song and dance of God's very good harmony. Genesis 2, 26 and 28. Adam worked, right? Man, Pastor Dave touched on that earlier Worked in harmony with God and enjoyed abundant blessings without death. Genesis 2. 17, 1 Corinthians 15, 25 through 26. No death. Eve was made for and given to Adam as an excellent completion to God's plan for man. This at last is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. One flesh. Genesis 2, 23. And that That symphony of life and creation was played out with ultimate joy and ultimate purpose Folness. Sorry, that word's bigger than I intended. No vanity. That's a world without the vanity that we read about in Ecclesiastes right there. And then as seemingly a rude interruption to that, we meet this serpent who is more crafty than any other beast. And he pulls out his favorite phrase, which he has never ceased using, did God actually say in Genesis 3. 1? The evil one hasn't changed his tomb. Read the temptation of Christ in Matthew 4, 1 through 11. You know, he hasn't needed to change his tomb. It still works. Wherever you are in your life, whatever predicament you're in, whatever real trial that you're in, and some of you I know. Some of you are unfortunate enough to have to live listening on Thursday nights in my small group as well. I'm sorry for you. Um wherever you are at, I promise you that you could be fresh refreshed by God's word in a way that would directly work against Hey, did God really say that? Did God really promise? Did God really write that he would be all Fullness and joy for you in your life, in your predicament. Well, Scott, you don't know what my body feels like. No, I don't. But I did a study on that Do you know God claims credit for every deformity, every sickness, every blindness, every deafness, every uh I think the the the thing where you fell apart scripture you thank you. Every leprosy I was thinking cancer, kind of a modern equivalent. I know that leprosy still exists, not my point God is in control. And our problem is we keep listening to did God actually say So even one hasn't needed to change his tactic with us. The symphony of harmony disintegrates into a disorder of wickedness. The wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Genesis 6. 5. By the way, this now is a world with vanity. This now is a world under the sun. Death entered the Psalm with its ultimate discordance. Genesis 3:21, Ecclesiastes 12, 6 and 7, Romans 5, 14, Hebrews 9, 27 And I love the way Ecclesiastes puts this because it somehow brings death, it brings death into picture focus for me in a real way. What God did was good and it was great and it was beautiful and it was valuable and it gets shattered by death. And that's exactly the way Ecclesiastes frames it in 12, chapter 12. Before the silver cord is snapped. Or the golden bowl is broken, or the pitcher is shattered at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern, and the dust returns to the earth as it was. Vanity of vanities, says the preacher, all is vanity. What a great definition of death. All those things that are beautiful and valuable are cut short or shattered or broken or unable to perform the function for which they were ultimately created because of the insult of death Guilt and shame also enter the world and fracture every harmony of relationship that God intended. Man and woman, Genesis 3:7 and 16. Man and God, Genesis 3, 8-10 Constant tension between man and woman, constant tension between Satan and men, Genesis 3. 15, constant tension in the continuation of the species, childbearing. Genesis three sixteen constant tension between man and creation, disharmony in the God given toil we had previously delighted in. Genesis three seventeen B through nineteen constant tension to survive, obtain the bread of existence. All of this tension and all this disharmony will continue every day until we reach Turn to the dust. A time, God, a time God immediately limited in His mercy, in His mercy, lest we continue in this feudal state forever. That's right out of Genesis three seventeen B, nineteen B, and six three, Scott's own version. Right. Who consigned us? Call that tension? Who did that No no, it's an honest question. Well, kind of. I'm actually looking for the easy like grade school answer here, people. God did it. Adam did the sin. Eve did the sin. Who consigned us to shorter lives? Who truncated the cord of our life? The silver strand of our life Who consigned us to toil that would cause us dissatisfaction? Who brought thorns forth from the earth that our toils would constantly be impeded, and it would be by blood and sweat and tears that we would earn the sustenance of our life? Who did that? God did that. And if you don't accept that, own that fully for just a moment, if you don't appreciate that, then you can't get ecclesiastes There is a mercy. There is a mercy in what God is doing here. And you must see it like that. You must see it like that because each of you, even if today is a good day, Or this week is a good week, or this year is a good year, have, had, and will have suffering And if you cannot look at your suffering in terms of the mercy of God, then you will constantly be stuck with God's saying You will be unable to avail yourself of the redemption that was earned for you on the cross through Christ. You will be s did Stilted? I think stilted is the word I want. In your growth in Christ and the joy and the peace and the satisfaction and the thanksgiving that that brings you. You must see The curse as an active mercy of the Lord. Not because I made it up, but because it's right there in the scriptures. Where did I leave all feudal statements? This shouldn't get dynamic. I should stay behind the lectern. I should speak to my notes. Um continue If you will stay forever, sorry. Vanity of vanities, says the preacher, vanity of vanities. All is vanity. What does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun? Well Only what he can gain because God assigned him to a certain role in that toil, didn't he? So it's not so strange to hear Solomon talk about life under the sun in the way that he does, when we put it in its proper context out of Genesis. That was Ecclesiastes 1, 2 through 3. Ecclesiastes 1. 15 says, what is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be counted. Sounds fatalistic But we're not done. And you've already got a good perspective on where man is going as a result of those first sins. As a result of believing those first words out of Satan's mouth, did God really say So God drove Adam out of the garden, out of the place that w had no vanity. Out of the place of life, out of the place of abundance, out of the place where toil could happen and be a pleasure to mansoul. God drove Adam out of the garden and set a guard there that would forever prohibit reentrance. Genesis 3, 23 and 24. The first thing we are told after the curse of all created order, Romans 8, 20, and 25, meaning that all created things were cursed. Again, by God. First thing we are told after that curse, in the expulsion from God's presence, is that Eve for Cain Who required a special mark from God, lest judgment for the murder of his brother destroyed him? Genesis 4, 1 through 16. Behold, you have driven, this is Cain's words. Behold, you have driven me today away from the ground. I thought that was interesting, and from your face I shall be hidden And I thought it was interesting because what you find is that King goes off and he begins to build cities, and although I hadn't appreciated it previously in doing some of this background study, it's the first time we hear about men kind of setting up this location like this is mine and I'm I'm gonna construct it and I'm gonna achieve it and I'm gonna make it and build it and name it and protect myself through it and I y y it's it's all of a sudden it's not me enjoying the purposefulness I have in Christ, it's it's me trying to do something for myself. And that will lead somewhat to a crescendo, although I feel like we're re-crocendoing crescendoing here in in modern era, but that will lead to this great crescendo, which is probably the largest architectural structure ever built, the most massive one called what Tower of Babel, Tower of Babel, however you want to say that, right? Right? Where God will do a little bit more cursing, if you will. So, King, driven me out from the ground and from your face, I shall be hidden. If there's one great or greatest tragedy, it's that one right there, that we no longer were able to enjoy the presence of the Lord. I'm not even going to bother to qualify that. We no longer were able to enjoy the expression of God to man in that way. I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth. Then Cain went away from the presence of the Lord. Genesis 4, 14, 16. And the next son or next man to come is named Abel, which is the word Havel. And why should that ring a bell to you? I took a note. Pastor Gabe mentioned this. So it's a text. Did you listen to Pastor Gabe? It's the same word that's used over and over and over again in Ecclesiastes. It's the word vanity. Now it doesn't have to mean that, and we don't think Eve was intending to ascribe that meaning to our son A. But I do think it's interesting that the second son in Hebrew has the same name as this thing we're studying in Ecclesiastes. The situation doesn't get better, it gets worse, and a pattern of God frustrating the wickedness of man quickly becomes the prevailing tenor of history. And we don't have time to do all of those, but think through what you know of those Old Testament scriptures. Man tries to accomplish something, realizes some success down some road in some way, and God frustrates it. He says, no, you will not go there. You will not accomplish what you intend in that direction. You will experience vanity. As you pursue that end. As you pursue satisfaction in that way, I will frustrate you Man begins to multiply as well as their wickedness, and God sets 120 years as the border of man's life. Genesis 6, 1 through 3. And later We I don't know when, but later in uh because of uh Psalm ninety verse ten, he then sets it to seventy years. So he immediately truncates the span of man's life from Potentially a thousand years if you look at some of those timelines down to 120. What a radical departure, right? We don't mind when a 90-year-old man dies so much. But when a ten-year-old child dies, that that that just that's objectionable, right? That's abhorrent. And the Lord in his mercy is truncating the vanity of our lives. Because they're that pointless under the sun, without him, separated from him, cast out of his presence, under the curse Do you see why I call it a mercy? Are you are you starting to to get a feel for that a little bit? I'm not trying to play stupid word stupid games with with words. I'm I'm trying to get you to understand what I think is is a horribly important horribly is probably not the right word there, but you get the idea, right? An awesomely important aspect of God's redemptive history as it fully supports and magnifies the message that we're trying to study in Ecclesiastes. Keep losing my place, sorry people. The Lord destroys the world by flood And literally reconfigures the face of the earth. Genesis 6. 9 through 724. And that the Lord was sorry. Excuse me. And the Lord was sorry. That he had made man on the earth. And it grieved him to his heart. Genesis 6. 6. God fractures the people of the earth when they use their unity. That's a road of endeavor for satisfaction, right? God fractures the people of the earth when they use their unity to attempt to compete with God. That's the Tower of Babel or Babel. Um Genesis 11, 5 through 9. We have never recovered from what the Lord did to us there. Parentheses, see current news articles. Since that time, the stage for ecclesiastes has been set. And actors from every generation have taken their turn to try and reclaim the music of that first creation that was so very good. See the Enlightenment era, knowledge, see romanticism, passion, heart, courage, nobility, see Marxism and its Necessary conclusion in humanism. See rationalism, see existentialism See modernism in uh the world philosophy or the worldview that I'll say most of us, but I'm probably alienating half the room, um grew up in, which was postmodernism. See the modern education system. See the way we do family. See the way we do art. See the way we do science, technology, government. Religion, and by that I mean man's exercise of religion. I don't mean that which we receive from God through his revelation. Religion, and it's So closely related, brother, philosophy, that in many schools there is no difference. You take religion classes in the school of philosophy. Which just offends me for some reason. And then I had to look this up. I I've I've now forgotten. We've so ungirded our lives from any anchor of truth I stopped paying attention to what we call it currently. But we apparently call it Pseudo-modernism. Does anybody know what pseudon pseudo-modernism is? I didn't need it by the way, I just didn't know I had to look it up Pseudo-modernism is the most stupid thing in the world. I know I'm supposed to not be biased, but if you know me, I don't have a prayer at that. So um It's just dumb. It effectively says that nothing has any meaning at all until you interact with it. Not you read it, not you think about it, not you assess what an author meant or what somebody intended or what life meant by that thing Come in cheap, right? That that that's irrelevant. Until you've clicked on it. Until you've sat down and watched it and criticized it, until you've interacted with it, until you've commented on it. And so you posted it, modified it, memeed it, tweaked it, tweeted it. Don't tweet ever, so I'm not good at that grammar. You know, until you have interacted with it, it has no meaning. And the only meaning it then has is your meaning. Like, how does it make you feel? What do you want to do with it? It doesn't matter that this screwdriver was intended for a Phillips head, one of those little T-shaped screws. I can use it for whatever I want. As a matter of fact, it does not have a purpose outside of that purpose that I intend. That's what pseudo-modernism is. And we're teaching that to people. that it's correct philosophy, an enlightened philosophy. I'm totally off my lesson, but uh I was so outraged by that I just wanted to share my outrage with you. Okay I'm back. Um It's an un Ecclesiastes summarizes all that nonsense that I just shared with you. Thank you for hanging in there with me. Ecclesiastes summarizes all that with, it is an unhappy business that God has given. God has given. Did you hear that? It is an unhappy business that God has given to the children of man, Adam, to be busy with what is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be counted. Ecclesiastes one, thirteen, B, and fifteen. I want to convey two things and I'm not going to be able to do either of them well in time that I have, which means I I'm going to just say them and I'm going to Uh trust you to come up to me afterwards. I prefer you not slug me, but that's what needs to happen. She's looking at me like crazy. Um How many of you in the room know know what it feels like to be dissatisfied? And I mean in one way that causes you to go home and get on your knees with a Bible and a prayer book or maybe a prayer partner How many of you have had the experience of that kind of dissatisfaction? Never taken a drug for depression? Never tried to get addicted to anything. Don't never tried smoking. Don't know why. People smoke around me all the time. I'm just not a personality that goes to like fix my problem with a thing. But I can tell you I know what it feels like to be on my knees and say, Lord, I thought I was capable. I thought you had done a lot of work in my life to enable me and strengthen me for the things that I need to do, but I am undone There is no piece here that I know to pick up and make this situation better. Now, ultimately, and I am glossing over so many important things that need to be said I just don't have the time for. Ultimately, that thinking is thinking that is under the sun. I am experiencing what I was Before I came to know Christ. And what I need is to be refreshed in Him so that I can be what I am in Christ. That doesn't mean that we walk around and never feel the gravity of hurt. That's not that's not my point But in every instance where that gravity is even appropriate, we should be on guard to remember that we have been transferred as Christians. from an existence entirely circumscribed as under the sun in exactly the way that Ecclesiastes defined it. to that which is in heaven. And while we have not yet realized that physically, we will, and that is our great hope, and we will turn, God willing, to some passages in the New Testament that describe that in a radical way. It's why Christ can demand of every one of you in every day that the sun comes up on your life that you should be overwhelmed with thanksgiving. That's not lunacy. It's the reality of what you have been transferred from in Christ. And Ecclesiastes is going to help us point that out. And our sorrows and trials in life remind us of it. And that's why I love Ecclesiastes. Because I have a lot of miserable days. So much more that my my wife has made a rule with my children. Don't ask Dad how his day went when he comes in. Right? We don't want to We don't want him to go nut cells, right? Up on some diet with that to go marry again, right? Just sleep and calm. Put him in his jacket, straight jacket, and the courtyard. Every one of those days reminds me. I don't live for this. And it won't matter how much effort I put into my pursue these things, but it won't matter how much effort I put into my children or or my work or my you know, all this stuff, right? I have a purpose to bow the knee and be quiet before an all-sovereign, all-generous God. And to receive from him that which I need to face the particular trial that I am in. And I am equipped. Even with all those pieces, and I can't figure out where to start with. And so are you. And any one of you that doubts those words, you're just wrong. You're just believing the lie. Did God say it? Yes, he said. And again, some of you I know well enough and I look at your trials and I'm so humbled by them and I wish I could do anything to come alongside you and help relieve those particular burdens or trials. I would do anything. We talk about it at home. How can we come alongside these people How can we relieve the burdens? I'm not making a little of that. As a matter of fact, I'm thinking about you. I'm thinking about the refreshment I wish you could find in Scripture as you deal with those trials, as you see those trials as what they are. The curse under the sun, which if you're in Christ, are no longer singularly subject to. You are the only one that has hope in this world, under this sun. Because of Christ, if that's not clear, right? I think that's clear, but because of Christ. So Solomon sets out on this journey. I don't think so, he says. He disagrees with me and he stands up in the back of the room, right, and says, You're wrong. And I am infinitely resourced to prove you wrong. I am the wisest, richest, richest, most powerful person that has ever and will ever walk this earth And I will explore roads that you couldn't possibly imagine. And I will go further than you could possibly manage. And then he comes back and in chapter two writes some conclusions. He first tells us what is what roads he experimented with at a high level. And then he comes back and he sends us some conclusions. You want to know what those conclusions are? Somebody tell me what the conclusions are. Sorry to hear both mumbling, but I think I got vanity basically, right? The search for understanding as a means of satisfaction. Solomon says in Ecclesiastes 1 13a, he says And I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom all that is done under heaven. The experiment began last week with Pastor Gave in chapter 1. He snuck into my chapter, I'm sneaking back into his The richest, wisest, most powerful man in all the world has applied himself to seek out the scope of all the borders of our cursed existence separated from God. He is the richest. I didn't just make it up. I want to prove it to you. The weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents, 1 Kings 10, 14. As news I can tell that's approximately 25 tons of gold, assuming a talent weighs 75 pounds. Arguments would range it from 40 to 110. I pick 75. I'm trying to be pseudo-conservative. Not pseudo-modern. The spot price of a gold gram on the eleventh of this month, when I apparently wrote this note, was $61. 12. Which equates to one billion three hundred and eighty seven thousand dollars per year, not counting amazing gifts Taxes from his own cities were adjusted for inflation. 1,387,000 per year just in gold. He's rich. He's gotten eighty. Wisest. Wisdom surpassing all who were over Jerusalem before me. Ecclesiastes 1 16 Wisdom and understanding beyond measure, wiser than all other men. First Kings 4, 29 through 30. The most powerful Thus King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth. Here we find the richness of Ecclesiastes. Solomon was able to pursue all the best things available under the sun. Under the sun, right? That key phrase for what happened there in Genesis 3. We are all stuck with that situation that God put us in after Genesis 3. And he's exploring that to the fullest extent possible. Solomon was able to pursue all the best things available under the sun in a way that we can barely imagine He walked the extent of every path of satisfaction under the sun to its fullest extent, with wisdom surpassing all other men, and he gained nothing by his own estimation. And he lost himself in the process by God's estimation. And I'll share that verse with you later. The instruction for us is quite clear. Don't pursue things under the sun, under heaven, or on earth. And if your head just went, well, of course not, Scott, we would never do that. Be careful. You live an existence that's under the sun. The air that you breathe, the sky that you see, the ground that you walk on. Everything that you are in the midst of. You are surrounded by the vanity under the sun. I I'm an arrogant person. People love to tell me that. And not even I think that I can exist in that environment and not constantly have to struggle against its influences on my life. Will you please just consider that humbly for a minute? Don't pursue things under the sun, or in the way that people living under the sun pursue them. Solomon engages people on the road, they are walking without God. He gets on the road with them and walks with them. There's a great book. Um I know I always recommend books. You don't always have to buy the books I recommend by the way. I know some of you seem to go out and buy those books and then I feel guilty if you don't like them. So don't don't buy every book, right? Just I like to tell you about what I said, but you don't have to buy it Is a great book, really little book called the Persuasions by uh an author and pastor named uh Douglas Wilson And if some of you just got upset because you know Douglas Wilson, I didn't tell you to read every book he ever wrote. I just said that book was a good book. And that's where I got this idea of engaging people on the road that they're walking on. Because in that book is a series of little vignettes, and there's a Christian engaging uh the the feminist and the liberal and the academic and the atheist and the agnostic and the homosexual and the you know and he's engaging them in their walk, as they walk. And it's just a really interesting little Look, I I bought a case of them and I was handing them out at one point in time in my life because I just thought they were it was such a great way to engage people where they were at And that's what Ecclesiastes does. He comes alongside these people that, all of us, that live under the sun, and he's like, hey, I can tell you what's down this road. What what road are you walking on? You're coming to an intersection. Where are you gonna go? This crisis in your life is motivating a decision, right? A decision point in your life. Which one are you gonna take? Hear God, obey God, trust God, believe every word that God live in the truth that God gave you, the reality that He is good immeasurably Is that the road you take? Great! You said, wait, the other road? Some satisfaction? Other than that one that I just mentioned? I tell you where that road goes And it's not part good or a little good or mostly good or a little bit of this. There's no real decision to be made. There is nothing down that road but vanity and death. Solomon's book is in fact an author named uh Derek Kittner. Is it Derek? And we wrote the last names. Solomon's book is in fact a critique of secularism, meaning life without God. Life as God structured it when he cast us out of the garden, if he had not also then planned for Christ. And secularized religion, by the way, Kidner puts in there. So both critique of secularism and secularized religion. It gives us insight into the impact of secularization on our thinking. Secularization, just you know, that under-the-sun thinking. That's all I want you to hear there, right? It's not a code word for something else, or at least I'm not trying to use it like that, right? Just Hey, life under the sun. I gotta decide what I'm gonna do under the sun, and God's not here, and he's not influencing things, or he's kind of there, but he's not interested, or he's not anything other than God infinitely involved in every second of your life, in every way that is important and good. for you to be able to live a life pouring out with joy. I don't know how that works for Paul when he's getting a rod across his back. I only know what the man's testimony is, and you have no right to argue with that man's testimony He praised the Lord while a rod was applied to his back. And I don't think he was a lunatic. I just think he knew something about God that I haven't quite figured out yet. Gives us insight into the impact of secularization on our thinking as Christians. Your best life now, prosperity gospel, socially relevant gospel. I can think of a lot of other examples of places where we try to sneak some of today's wisdom, the world's wisdom, into the sufficiency of Christ. So that's his search. I set up the the search. He's gonna search uh a number of roads here in Ecclesiastes. So we're finally getting to Ecclesiastes too. A real quick, helpful outline is the failure of meaning in the created order, or the failure of satisfaction in the created order. He searched that road. The failure of satisfaction or meaning in wisdom, even ultimate wisdom, he searched that road all the way to its end like no man has ever done and no man ever will. And here in Ecclesiastes 2 he picks up with, so those were the two experiments or two searches he did in chapter 1, here he picks up in chapter 2 with the failure of pleasure-seeking, verses 1 through 11. He searches that road all the way to its end. Life's ultimate certainty? What's life's ultimate certainty? What's the only thing you're guaranteed of in life? Other than maybe taxes? Taxes. Life's ultimate certainty and evaluation of the roads that he searched. The end of every road. And then it's contrasted with a conclusion. And it's a life of faith. It's a life we have in Christ, in God. I don't know if I'm gonna make it. Here we go. Failure of pleasure seeking. I will test you with pleasure. Enjoy yourself. Ecclesiastes 2. 1 I am dissatisfied in my heart, and I wish to evaluate different means of alleviating that dissatisfaction. Notice the first lie here. I have a hole in my heart and I am going to try to figure out how to solve my problem And I'm going to do it with entertainment and amusement. I don't have time to touch on that. But for just a second, will you feel the shame of the amount of time you spend entertaining yourself or amusing yourself with good and bad types of entertainment and amusement versus the amount of time You spend with God and God's people. What else needs to be said, right? A fair evaluation there is a keep of shame for all of us. And let it be that. Let it be that. Two particular forms of pleasure that he mentions here, right up front, are laughter and mirth, or pleasure is the word that he uses. In these first couple of verses. Right? I said of laughter it is mad, and of pleasure, what use is it? Madness in Ecclesiastes 2. 2 and folly, which is used later in the chapter, seem to imply some moral perversity rather than mental oddity, according to Kidner. uh this this commentator Terry Kidner and then all the other commentaries quote him when they want to say the same thing. So I'll just share that with you. Apparently madness and folly imply moral perversity rather than mental oddity. Meaning there's not something disadvantaged about the brain, right? That that there's a corruption of the heart And that's what he's talking about when he talks about laughter. Superficial gaiety and the fun of a game is how it's used in Proverbs 10. 23, a party in Ecclesiastes 10. 23 as well. That can't be right. I clearly screwed up one of those. They can't both have been 1023. I'll figure that out. Um Here we are brought very near, one author says, um, to our own times with their cult of the irrational in its various forms, from romanticism down to the addict's craving for strange states of consciousness. A guy named Herbert Gans, total, totally lost person, by the way. Herbert Gans wrote a book called Popular Culture and High Culture on Analysis and Evaluation of Taste. really interesting book and by a guy that doesn't know Christ makes Solomon's point to a T and then says, doesn't matter, you should do it anyway, because it's the best you can get out of this life. That's actually what the author says. He talks about high culture and low culture. He says everything about high culture is better for society, for individuals, and everything else. Low culture is not good, but it's fun And so you should just enjoy it. You should have the liberty to enjoy it all you want. Because I mean let's face it, what else is there? Neil Postman wrote a book called Amusing Ourselves to Death, Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business. He basically nails this addiction that we have to be entertained. Totally lost. But boy does he come down hard on the subject. I go back and reread the book every few years just to remind myself that even a lost person can see how desperate we are in our amusement and entertainment and our addiction to it. And by the way, Christians, we are not amused. Immune. We are amused. We're not immune. I'm I'm no better in this than anybody else, but it grieves my soul when my sons get together with a a couple other boys or whatever, you know, various people, right? And the first thing they talk about is the list of movies that they recently saw. I'm like, is your life so insignificant? And I happen to know that my sons are I just are not that insignificant because I won't let them be. And it just grieves my heart. If you don't want to buy a book, go home and Google. In quotes, truth and beauty. We live in a mad age, obsessed with laughter Rather than face life as it is, the Merrymaker drowns the hard facts in a sea of frivolity. Often his last name is Eaton. Difficult book to read. Pleasure is a little bit more of a high culture, a little bit more highbrow. It's thoughtful. It's the joy of a religious festival. Again, not necessarily one in God, but it it is used. This word mirth or pleasure is used in Numbers 1010 and Judges 1623 for a religious festival. In Deuteronomy 28. 47, it's actually used of gratitude in serving the Lord. Again, not necessarily the context here, but it is used like that. So this is kind of thoughtful, highbrow, high society kind of pleasure versus that madness that we discussed uh earlier. Solomon's exploring the full range of uh amusement and pleasures that can be uh brought to bear. Where the proclam can be also used as the proclamation of a king, right? The rejoicing over a significant event Of laughter, Solomon says it's madness, it's it's perversity, it's it's It's a cancer of the soul and of pleasure. He says, What use is it? That's a sum total expression of it. What use is it? What significance does it have He then turns to cheer his body with wine. We're not sure whether that means he because he qualifies it with, but I did it still with wisdom. I still kept uh Wisdom as my guide in verse three there. My heart's still guiding me with wisdom. Uh but he does say that he used wine to uh to affect his body, to cheer his body. So again, we don't know whether that means he just you know used it like m Motrin, uh or uh we don't know if he actually went the other way and and and took on extreme temperance of some sort. So we're we're really not sure what he did. But he he then turns to how do I physically feel? Forget about ha ha. Forget about significant events. Forget about enjoyments that come from kind of external things and as you experience them. And now turn to what physically How do I feel? Right? And he and he wine was his tool, as we're given here, for trying to figure out if somehow changing himself physically could bring him satisfaction. Again, nothing. Folly. Some suggest this is an extreme the word folly. Some suggest this is an extreme frivolity, and others uh that it's the pursuit of entertainment and distraction with deliberate perversion, a sample of the good and bad pleasures, right? It could be could be all of them. In either case, Solomon sampled all pleasures that can be found on the road to seeking satisfaction. And he and he's not got a good report. He then turns in verse four to the pleasure of creation and occupation and accomplishment. He made great works and houses and vineyards, Ecclesiastes 2. 4, gardens and parks with all kinds of fruit trees, Ecclesiastes 2. 5, pools, and apparently forests, because it says the pools watered the forests. Ecclesiastes 2. 6. He had male and female slaves, apparently enough to start an entire community. Ecclesiastes 2. 7. That's his occupation, his toil, his work, what he was able to create, what he was able to design, what he was able to engineer. I argue that he did those things in a superlative manner beyond which we are able to, right? One of the w one or more. Of the seven wonders of the world, he did it. He had great possessions on top of all that, so the fruit of his toil and labor were herds and flocks more than any Ecclesiastes two seven And in 2 Chronicles 7. 5, it says that he offered 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep at the inauguration of the temple out of his own store. That's uh I mean I'm not a a herdsman or farmer or any of those other things. I don't know what that costs, but that seems like a lot. Gold and treasure from kings and provinces, Ecclesiastes 2. 8. Silver wasn't even worth anything in Solomon's kingdom, 1 Kings 10, 21. He was so wealthy, and the flow of gold was so abundant. They didn't use silver for anything. It was worthless. Then he turns to pleasure in people. Male and female singers. Doesn't seem bad. Concubines described as the delight of the children of men You don't have to think about this one too hard. I harp on it because it's a cancer that bothers me so badly, even in our church. But men trying to satisfy themselves In the dealings, I guess I'll keep it as G-rated as I can. In the dealings of women that are not theirs Are choking our society and choking our church. And here, Solomon tells you, I went as far down there as I could go, and by the way, I handpicked the best that the world could offer. Nada. Ecclesiastes two, nine through eleven, all that can be gained by toil, by work of man, Solomon achieved, and he found some temporary enjoyment in it. He was able to numb himself from the dissatisfaction that caused this experiment for some period of time. Just like we do when we turn on our entertainment and we take too much of that drink. Or we take one extra of that pill, or whatever the case would be. His conclusion, vanity and a striving after wind, and there was nothing to be gained. Under the sun. Life's ultimate certainty is death. That's where he ends up. So he he's done the experiments, he searched the roads, and now he looks back over his experiment and he makes an evaluation and he said, I'm gonna die And any enjoyment I got from it is completely eclipsed by the fact that I'm going to die. Solomon turns to examine his search of all the roads of pleasure, Ecclesiastes 2. 12. Wisdom, I'm I want to get to my New Testament passages, so I'm racing here Wisdom is better than folly. Ecclesiastes 2, 13 through 14. That is true. Wisdom is better than folly. It's not that everything that Solomon did over the course of his life was long and corrupt and perverse and horrible and fruitless and pointless. There were good things in it But they were short and temporary because of the mercy of the Lord who will not have you be satisfied with anything less than Himself. And so He puts a bound on our enjoyment He made sure that we can never use as an excuse, will you let me be satisfied with He says no I put in your heart a dissatisfaction for all things. And although I gave you some reprieves out of my mercy to rest and to find enjoyment. To have peace, to be amused, to laud the miracle of creation. Although I gave you moments of that for rest because you're weak. And you needed it. And because I'm great and generous and I love you and I wanted to share those things with you, I will never allow them to be permanent. I will never allow them to unseat me as the necessary satisfaction in your life. And by the way, often good things sit in that throne seat. Our children, our wives, our needful work, our ministries. Our desire to be honorable above all things becomes an idol of satisfaction in our lives. I must be honorable. But then we usually weigh that according to how people look at us and how they think about us. You're not honorable. Wisdom is better than folly. 2. 13 through 14. But everybody dies. Ecclesiastes two fifteen. Wisdom is good, but ultimately if we're all going to die, wisdom is going to bring you vexation. That was in chapter 1, verse 18. The more you know, the more you're vexed. No one will remember you. Ecclesiastes 2, 16 through 17. You will die And and Pastor Gabe did a great experiment, I think that was last week, right? How many of you know your great grandparents? I think there were two in the room. How many of you know your great great grandparents? I don't Under the sun, life ends, and that's all that there is. Mark 8. 36. Christ said the same thing, by the way, and that was my point in this passage. But what does it profit a man to gain the whole world? And forfeit his life. Solomon's not out on a limb here. He's right there with Christ. Kinda. What does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his life? A description and evaluation of toil is found in eighteen through twenty-three. He hates all the toil now as he looks at it and understands its purposelessness. He hates that he has to leave his wealth to somebody who didn't earn it and probably won't care for it and may not be wise. He hates the toil. It stinks to him as he realizes the futility of it. And he finally gets to verse 24. And he contrasts all of the emptiness of every pursuit of pleasure that he ever took. with with what it is to stand in Christ. And he says, there is nothing better for a person than that he should eat and drink and find enjoyment in his toil. And I I was like, you know, okay, that's that's good. That's a slight comfort. And actually I I've adopted that verse as somewhat of a theme statement for how I run my week, actually. And I don't have time, but I could explain it to you later if I get a chance. For apart from God, or excuse me, this I saw is from the hand of God. For apart from him, we can who can eat or who can have enjoyment? The answer is no one. For to the one who pleases him, God has given wisdom and knowledge and joy. But to the sinner, he has given the business of gathering and collecting. You hear the futility? Just keep gathering and keep collecting. Only to give to one who pleases God. Alright, everybody, flip over to Hebrews 12. I got five minutes. And I am gonna fill them up. We're all gonna drop over fatigue when I'm done this lesson. I know I will I'm going to read fast, starting in verse 18. I'm going to read 29. I'm going to go back and read from 3 to 17, and then I'm going to flip you over to Colossians. You ready? Take a deep breath Don't laugh, just take a deep breath. Laughing takes too much breath. For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and the tempest and the sound of a trumpet And a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them. For they could not endure the order that was given. If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I tremble with fear. Right? That is the same as what I read you out of Genesis 3. That is the separation that we have ultimately from God. That is the brokenness of this world that will not be fully fixed, not be fully undone, not be fully repaired or restored or redeemed until Christ comes again. But you have come to Mount Zion into the city of the living God. That's us today in the New Testament, right? The heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festival gathering. We, as Christians, have been transferred from the futility under the sun to this new thing And we just hit the cuff of it in Hebrews. And I wanted to bring you to a New Testament passage so that you could see it in the New Testament language. You can take all that religious gurbly vocabulary in your head and actually apply it to where you live today. Through the eyes of Solomon and through the testimony of Ecclesiastes. That's what you were. Unclean, fully separated, fully afraid, fully undone, fully unfit. But you have been transferred to Mount Zion in the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels and festival gatherings, and to the assembly of the firstborn. who are enrolled in heaven and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. I love that. You want to talk about purpose? Look up the word perfect So very word means you accomplish that for which you were intended, and it's so satisfying. And to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of who? Yeah. Havel. See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. And please hear this as, you know, this is this is the message. This is the call. This this is it. This is the point. See that you do not refuse him who is speaking to you right here today For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warms from heaven. At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, yet once more, I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. This phrase, yet once more, indicates the removal of things that are shaken from the earth All that was cursed under Genesis 3 will be removed, and we will go back to that symphony of harmony. We will go back to that which was very good. Where there is no vanity in any way on any road So what? Therefore, verse 12, lift your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees, and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is laying may not be put out of joint, but rather be healed. Strive for peace with everyone and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. See to it that no one fails to obtain God's strength in you. Grace is one of those words your eyes go right over You are a Christian and Christ is in you and Grace according to his power is the phrase used in Colossians. That should boggle your mind. Picture the power of God. Good luck. Let's get the idea, right? He gives you his strength according to that power, not according to you, or what you can contain or do or what value you have. I'm over-conflating this argument a little bit He gives you strength according to his power. That no one fails to obtain the grace of God, and that no root of business springs up and causes trouble, and by it many become defiled. that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau. You know what Esau did? We don't know that he was sexually immoral. We weren't told that. You know why I think they use this phrase here? Because his appetite dictated the course of his life. I'm hungry and I'll sell anything to get it I'm unhappy. Fix it now. What's it cost me? Isn't that what Ecclesiastes is talking about? Isn't that the experiment? Don't be like him Mostly because so many of you have such real needs. And because God promises such good things. And I say you, like I'm not part of you, but I'm I have such real needs. And I don't want to be unfit for them. I don't want to disqualify from them. I don't want to play around in the mud, as C. S. Lewis says, when God offers me so much better. For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears. I don't have time for Colossus. I want to read it to you. Read Colossians 1. Take a note. Read Colossians 1, 9 through 13 as the capital on what I was trying to get at there. Thank you for being patient with me. I know I spoke and spoke and spoke until your ears are bleeding. I hope that I can say a a little bit of what's in my heart, and if I didn't, I apologize I hope that you walk out of here feeling very convicted. But I hope that you also know that as I want you to feel that conviction, it's because I want to see you relieved and refreshed. I long to see the strength of God beaming from your life. And for those of you I don't know, I'm sorry. I don't mean to be a hypocrite when I say those things. That's not my intention. But I know enough of you in this room to know I can say those words with every sincerity. And so if I butchered it, I hope you'll just read Ecclesiastes and read Colossians and let God fill up the rest. Pastor Gabe, would you close us in prayer, please?