So obviously I'm teaching today, and then I'm going to teach again next week on 11. Now one of the things uh Solomon does is he talks about uh the relative value of wisdom uh over against foolishness. So they forgot the poor man, they didn't praise the poor man, they didn't honor him, they didn't reward him, and then over time uh they ignored the value of his wisdom in the future Sometimes wisdom is valuable, but it can be difficult to actually have an impact on on a group of people and it's not as weighty, it's not as impactful uh as foolishness And those are just two of a host of passages. Uh folly is set in many exalted places, meaning foolish foolish leaders are put uh in places of authority, while rich men sit in humble places. I don't I don't think it's part of this problem. And we say something like, I think I'll stop digging a hole for myself. And he says, I was confused until I came to the house of the Lord, and I saw that their end will come swiftly. uh Jonathan's wisdom, right? So that that's how just a little bit of foolishness, if we can call it that, uh kind of outweighs the general wisdom of of you know that we're all sitting in class listing being Hang hang on a second. Now you wonder how can our society be at a place where we promote such evil and such wickedness and immorality? You're gonna feel the effects of that of that foolish king because his uh folly, his poor stewardship of his uh responsibilities uh will have an impact on you. uh uh Jacob's wife, that it says when she died, her spirit departed from her. We we get those hints in shadows. That first scene to say that they didn't have uh the full understanding that that we would have through later revelation. and confident of things we don't see. kind of thing. And the person of Jesus Christ, how much more should we believe God and live for Him in this life? uh from that or or what Scott said last week. until my change comes. uh around uh uh uh a thousand AD and so uh Solomon had no concept in his mind of well I'm gonna spend a chapter on this subject and a chapter on that subject and and whatnot to make it easy for us. this week and next week. And again, like the Proverbs, you know, and it's not really clear how does this fit in the context of Ecclesiastes. You know, what's the point of being wise when you know you're just gonna die like the foolish man? And all it takes is one person to make a foolish statement to cause those talks to fall apart and all of a sudden now the weapons of war come into place, right? um i it it fails. He's like, Dad, wh why are you so angry at David? Yeah, that that certainly comes into play later when he when Solomon is talking about the excessive speech of the fool. Things that you know you look at it and you're like, oh that's a rock. Uh and sometimes it's not even stand up and shouting. So let's start with the first section here, Foolishness in the Heart. If the ruler's temper rises against you, do not abandon your position because composure allays great offenses. Foolishness going to the left is they have that they are going in opposite directions. Because they're hidden off in the corners trying not to gain the attention of the masses. If his temper arises against you, if he gets angry at you, he starts yelling at you, he gets in your face, don't abandon your position, don't walk away, don't There is an evil I have seen under the sun, like an error which goes forth from the ruler. You know, God, of course, has established governments to maintain order, to punish evildoers, to reward the righteousness we read in Romans 13. Uh when you read the book of Proverbs and it's you know many sayings about the fool, most of the the consequences of foolish living are very personal. uh just affect you. Solomon has said elsewhere, again, because this is under the sun thinking, uh time and chance are just uh realities of life. And a serpent may bite him who breaks through a wall, he who quarries stones may be hurt by them, and he who splits logs may be endangered by them Uh providing for your needs is necessary, but all it takes is just a simple mistake, not not foolishness per se, but just a simple mistake for harm to come upon you. uh unexpectedly. and sweet potatoes. uses something that's efficient. And why use a shovel when you can use a plow? We if if we saw someone out in some field today, you know, just digging a shovel and they got this massive five acre field, you know, it's like, come on man. It says the beginning of his talking is folly and the end of it is wicked madness, or you could say insanity. Uh and with correction and time they kind of learn and figure out, yeah, this isn't the best way to to interact with other people. has said, this is wrong. with some tricky Hebrew here, but uh again just thinking about the context, what seems to be communicated here from Solomon is that the fool just talks about things he has no idea about, right? Um the fool doesn't have any idea about. the the princesses of many other nations, and so he likely observed these things in others. W what is Solomon saying here? So he's probably observed in some other land a a young ruler who, you know, maybe the death of his father brought him into uh kingship at a young age. And so he just, hey, let's get up in the morning, let's start partying. Solomon pronounces a woe to that nation. For a bird of the heavens will carry the sound, and a winged creature, the winged creature will make the matter known. Uh you know, however the Bible doesn't tell us how he found out about the plot. And so if you are having that kind of thinking, if you are uh recognizing this reality and you're not thinking about God, this reality is devastating. Clearing whatever might confusion might be there. And I was like, what is is that really true? uh go over a couple basic things. at the beginning of class in terms of how do we understand Ecclesiastes is the principle of progressive revelation. uh and whatever portion of the old testament and we can uh easily and legitimately import it into our understanding of of That is that over the course of time God revealed more and more and more to his people than he had in the past. And Moses had less revelation than Isaiah. uh of the earlier passages because everything that was true or that is true later on was true before. All the way to Isaiah, you basically had no teaching, no revelation, no explanation from God to his people of what happens after you die. There was this understanding that people live somewhere other than this earth. It's a complicated passage in Hebrew, and so there's debate over is Job actually declaring something about a resurrection? Makes me comfortable to say that Job understood something about a life after this life. They just didn't have the revelation that we have of uh the clarity uh of what that meant, you know, of the the r the exact judgment of the righteous and the wicked. uh understood through divine revelation that the ancient saints were actually looking for some kind of heavenly city. that e even though they weren't sure, they were confident that they were still in God's hands, whether it was in the grave or life. uh today. Came to it, surrounded it, and constructed large siege works against it. Yet the fool multiplies words. Through indolence the rafters sag, and through slackness the house leaks. found no help to be honest with you in the sense not in the sense of understanding you know individual phrases and and verses but in the sense of understanding the whole. Easily going to be defeated by a great king who has an army and and the weapons of war. And so somehow he communicates that to the city leaders and you know whether it's through actual fighting or whether it's through negotiation, diplomatic efforts, whatever it is the the wisdom of the poor man ends up winning the day and protecting the city from utter defeat and destruction. But if you could put it this way, it's it's fragile. That's the illustration, and then there's another kind of metaphorical illustration in chapter 10, verse 1. uh immediately everything gets awkward, right? And then they get recorded off mic, you know, saying something and it gets out and all of a sudden their career is over. He laments how no matter how much one might want to live wisely, foolishness is pervasive in society. Kind of what's the point in being wise if everybody around you isn't? You're gonna be affected by foolishness, whether your own foolishness or the foolishness of others. But that's kind of the the impact that you get is you just can't escape foolishness in the world. Now, this is not a modern political statement, okay? Uh it I should I should hold my right hand. Uh Proverbs 3. that he is a fool. And this is simple enough to understand. uh to be calm and respond in a calm way. But some foolish ruler puts someone over you who uh who is foolish and now you're at their mercy But instead he listened to the younger foolish counselors and said, no, I'm going to press even harder. uh drop down, your investments can go away, uh things you know totally outside of your control, having nothing to do with how much wisdom you exhibit, but because there's a foolish leader uh it it can all change. Uh or as you're working to tear down a building and you're breaking through a wall, you you had no idea there was a snake there. this phrase all the time uh to refer to the fact that you know we needed sometimes to stop working in order to sharpen the axe, we would say. and uh just give you better creative creativity and awareness. I think most of us would question the wisdom of being a snake charmer to begin with, right? Uh wisdom goes out the window and you're done. Right? But left in himself, the fool, will eventually become insane. And blessed are you, O land, whose king is of nobility, and whose princes eat at the proper time for strength, and not for drunkenness It's just recognizing that just as a house requires maintenance to keep it from falling apart, so a nation requires constant vigilance to stay prosperous and peaceful and protected from enemies But again, the foolish immature king doesn't know what they're doing. statement is because they treat the whole chapter as just independent statements and so they don't ha see any context at all. and and righteous leaders, it seems to me the b what seems to make sense is Solomon is rehearsing the mindset of this parting king, right? Uh that fool is er the meal is for enjoyment and wife uh uh wine makes life merry. Uh this is their way of thinking. I actually thought of you, David and Laura. Well, how do how do you do something that facing you behind your back and you know you don't even have a door? Yeah, that that's pretty common. What he's saying is you cannot escape foolishness. A foolish leader might be placed over us. Well, I wanted to start uh by maybe bring some clarification um or uh uh how the Old Testament talks about uh death and life after death, then it w the things that he was expressing, communicating, teaching might have been a bit of a shock. 'Cause he put wrote the book of Revelation. You know, there's no revelation of uh what is heaven? Enoch, uh, you know, in the in Genesis five, he walked with God and then he was not because God took him. uh in the Bible uh where Job says, uh I know that my Redeemer lives, and in the end I will stand on the earth. But um and you know I'm I'm no Hebrew scholar, but I think there's sufficient uh there's there's enough uh Bible-believing Hebrew scholars that affirm the traditional uh interpretation or translation that you would have in your Bible that Well what did David understand by that? seems to make uh more sense as something after this life. how these men and women of old had such faith in God despite the lack of revelation that they have. one to recognize that if we have this great cloud of witnesses who despite their limited revelation had faith in God. Uh that that that he had some understanding but what we're not sure. There there's sufficient evidence in the Old Testament to recognize that there is a resurrection. kind of start by backing up into chapter nine. Dead flies make a perfumer's oil stink. Even when the fool walks alongside along the road, his sense is lacking, and he demonstrates to everyone that he is a fool. If the ruler's temper rises against you, do not abandon your position, because composure allays great offenses. I have seen slaves riding on horses and princes walking like slaves on the land. He who quarries stones may be hurt by them, and he who splits logs may be endangered by them. Wisdom has the advantage of giving success. The toil of a fool so wearies him that he does not even know how to go to a city. Blessed are you, O land, whose king is of nobility and whose princes eat at the proper time, for strength and not for drunkenness. Furthermore, in your bedchamber do not curse a king, and in your sleeping rooms do not curse a rich man. for understanding the chapter. And so he he gives an example here in chapter 9, verses uh 14 to 16 or so of this small city, and the example is clear to understand a small city that Is that even though his wisdom was effective in protecting that city in that instance, the city didn't learn ultimately from the wisdom of that wise man? All it takes is for one person to leak that information of, hey, we're gonna be ambushing you, you know, to to uh become a traitor, and all of a sudden that wise plan of of war becomes ineffective and And he was very, very angry. To undo it all. And somebody all of a sudden jumps up and starts shouting something you know nonsense or you know, they start challenging you know what's being taught or something Uh even the wisdom of a teacher trying to get people together is is really hard to get people to listen, right? But foolishness is pervasive in society, and so you cannot escape the impact of foolishness in your life. So you see there in verse 2 to start with, he indicates that there is this distinction between wisdom and the right and folly on the left. Just interesting. Don't think that you can engage with a fool and be going the same direction. Whether it's through his words, you know, he makes it clear, like he tells people, I'm a fool, I'm a fool, explicitly, or just you know, people can hear that he's a fool, or even by the manner or disposition of of his behavior, they they observe is respond in like kind or excuse me respond in a kind and gentle way and turn away their wrath So again, this section depicts the situation where the rulers put the wrong people in positions of authority. But when fools get in positions of authority, their destructive thinking affects all of society They're uh they don't get the crops from their garden or their field, and so the result of that is that they become poor. But when that fool, whether he's a drunkard or he's lazy, gets in positions of authority, that fool can ruin communities and nations. All the time, right? All the productivity, the growth, the economic success, the peace and prosperity that that a wise leader can bring into a nation is just undone From that point on, Israel began to fall very, very quickly. folly in terms of someone's uh practical foolishness, their lack of wisdom. Someone else isn't, uh, or just something happens, you know, there's ice on the road, or you know, something where you get in an accident. So I'm just curious, who here in their in their life has split wood? And sometimes that meant getting training specific to our job so we can improve uh our understanding of you know what whatever it is we're doing for me was technology and for others it would have been other things. Sometimes we used it to talk about doing things that wouldn't necessarily be related to your daily tasks, but would expand your awareness of your field and maybe just expand your thinking, your horizons, as it were. Scripture commends hard work for a variety of reasons. And then verse 11 kind of moves us into the idea that sometimes wisdom just becomes useless. The the truth is it doesn't matter how much you've learned or how much you've practiced or how many times you've been successful at it in the past, the instant that snake bites you devoting their themselves, giving all of their energy for all of these years so that they could get to the point of professional football. I mean that that happens uh frequently. And they died before they can even get out of the boats, you know, on um at Omaha. So again, the point here is no matter how much wisdom you have, it can all be cut short without notice. For the wise man here, the idea is that his words win him favor. On the other hand, the fool, not so much. This is why the fool needs to be corrected. Period. is through correction, and apart from that, they will end up going insane. to a city. He doesn't know how to go to the city. They have no idea what it takes to be a king. Those who understand that they can enjoy food, and they can enjoy wine, and they can enjoy prosperity, but within reason, and for a purpose, right? A lot of interpreters. Uh perhaps they thought everybody hates the king and nobody's gonna warn him anyway, but they didn't realize that there was a man who was a relative of the queen who obviously had the king's ear Uh that's that's a devastating reality. We recognize that even if these things are true, our hope is not in this world. And of course today with technology it's kind of the same thing, right? Uh lest anybody ruin that, I'm gonna pray real quick. Um but we can get hints that they did in fact believe that there was some kind of life after death. somewhere where, you know, I don't know, we don't the scripture doesn't reveal hadn't revealed it to them. uh w what you know d does the uh the resurrection of the body that was a a key a factor that Scott talked about last week there's just no explicit revelation uh in uh up until Isaiah about any of those things. Right, well even if it's in this life, I'm gonna have to send it through Isaac. The Old Testament believers would if if they would have interpreted the uh this saying the same way Jesus did, but remember how Jesus defended the resurrection And that's what you see being played out in Ecclesiastes. about that the grammatical point that uh God defined himself as I am the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, meaning they're still alive, they're they're just with me, they're not on the earth anymore So did the Old Testament saints get that? Alright, well we are in uh Ecclesiastes chapter 10 today, and we're going to end out the class. You know, what was helpful in how this other pastor uh put things together was that he was able to identify chapter 10, verse 1, as kind of the rubric And so what he he does here in starting in chapter 9 and into chapter 10 is he identifies the reality that wisdom is valuable saved the king by making the plot known. And you know, I was thinking how how do we how how do we think about this? Yeah. of what is significant about the right hand, the left hand is is kind of if the right hand is good, the left hand is is bad. Uh or if you respond in light kind, what's it gonna do? You're accomplishing the tasks assigned to you, but now this fool this foolish ruler is angry at you. So verses 8 and 9 tell us that the wisdom of work is not without danger. If the axe is dull and he does not sharpen its edge, then he must exert more strength. Well that that assumes you have a split thing. They want to be around him. You know, he he is so consumed with himself that he actually consumes himself is is kind of the idea here. Right? So Solomon is not promoting these ideas, he's not affirming, but he's just saying that the immature kings who only think of pleasure and lack wisdom, that this is their Well that's that's kind of the pride of sin, right? Uh but our hope is not in this world. And so there must be some other place other than this earth where people dwell. I will see him with my eyes. And the establishment of God's kingdom on the earth. Now you can't go back to an Old Testament passage and identify, oh yeah, that this is where Abraham's looking for, a heavenly city. But the Jews were unique. So just so you know what's what's coming up ahead. The substance of Ecclesiastes 10 really gets launched into in chapter 9, starting in verse How how do we put all of this together? So wisdom had value in that moment when it was utilized, but it was overcome, it was defeated in the end eventually by foolishness. The people didn't learn uh from the wisdom and add that to their collective understanding. You know, you can be in a meeting, and I've never been in one of these meetings with heads of state, but you can be in a meeting where you know you're trying to figure out how do we avoid uh killing uh our people and killing your people and how do we just make peace with each other Where there is folly, perhaps wisdom can be helpful in bringing peace or maintaining peace, protecting, winning a battle. Um it's better to be thought of fool than to open your mouth and remove all that. When he uses the word weightier there, it's an interesting word. Or how good their reputation is, it can all be undone by their own foolishness or the foolishness of others. Wisdom and folly are headed in different directions, and they're headed in a different destination. provides an illustration of the ability of wisdom or folly to alter the outcome of a situation. They get angry and yell back at him and all of that. So if if you're in the face of someone who's angry, or if they're in your face, the best thing you can do Or again in our day on the media or online or whatever, or you're going to be on the receiving end of foolishness no matter how hard you try to live a wise life. meaning those who have the wisdom to have accumulated wealth. And then his immediate son, who took over the throne from him, listened not to the wise older men who said, Hey, back off, you know, don't treat the people as harshly as Solomon did, don't make them work as hard That uh it doesn't matter how hard you work or or what you do wisely, uh accidents happen. Anyway, I'm just gonna go with home. But that's that's the idea here. or uh a particularly tragic thing in in my mind, it just it it boggles my mind whenever I think about it, which is more often than you might think, but D-Day, you know, there were soldiers, thousands of soldiers, who prepared for weeks and weeks and weeks. While the lips of a fool consumes him. Or just time and chance can render wisdom pointless. Uh in this section Solomon reflects likely what he's observed in his interaction with other nations, you know, as as a prosperous king, uh he interacted with a lot of nations. But uh you know thinking about that, uh reading this verse just you know you make the immediate connection as I did earlier about Mordecai and how like uh shows that have to do with uh old Roman times, you know. There's no guarantee in this life, but we are called to be faithful, we're called to be good stewards, knowing that the only guarantee we have is eternity. And you know, this is where there's kind of mystery in terms of how did they know what they know? Um Psalm 1, at the end of Psalm 1, which we we actually don't know when Psalm 1 was written or exactly who wrote it, but there's this sense of uh the judgment of the wicked and the assembly of the righteous, which So I said, Wisdom is better than strength, but the wisdom of the poor man is despised, and his words are not heeded. The words of the wise heard in quietness are better than the shouting of a ruler among fools. Exactly. So he's not so much saying that your own foolishness is a problem. Foolishness in words and foolishness in immature leaders or kings. of majesty. Don't be begin to be rebellious. in in a short amount of time by a fool. a f uh folly. Again, the problem is not the foolishness in the worker, but in the mystery of life, bad things can and do happen to those who are otherwise doing everything right. At first, the the fool just seems silly, you know, perhaps immature, maybe even a little bit funny if if it's not a little awkward And he saw that young king uh enjoy the the newfound freedom and power and authority and I can do whatever I want and all this money is mine. The people tend to complain and speak against the king in their homes, right? And so you never know who might be listening. Um so I I think what you're saying is true. Yeah, that's the only reason that it um and maybe my art would kind of look or what do you have? and they would do stuff behind the thinking that they were in secret. about uh the whole issue of the Old Testament view of death. You could even say to some degree Paul had less revelation than John, because John lived longer and he had more revelation. And he he says, I was really confused about why this dynamic is taking place. What does that mean? In fact, it says in Hebrews chapter 11, regarding Abraham and others, that they were looking for a city not of this world, but a heavenly city. There is an evil I have seen under the sun, like an error which goes forth from the ruler. All right, is that clear it everybody? But all it takes is just a little bit of foolishness for that wisdom to be overcome. So, in the same way, a little foolishness is weightier than wisdom and honor. I mean we can just think in our own modern context how many careers have been undone by uh just one foolish decision uh or one foolish word You know, someone who maybe in the media has built up a career of of uh success and they've gotten to a high position. How many churches have been split by just one divisive person? Psalm 89, verse 13, you have a strong arm. So the wise man's heart directs him toward the right, but the foolish man's heart directs him toward the left. You know, there's no like the left hand is wicked and the left hand is there there's no no teaching like that necessarily, but it seems to be that because Verse 3 says that you never have to wonder who the foolish person is, right? Fuel the fire of the ruler's anger. And the next section, verses five to seven, he focuses on leaders. Even silver was virtually worthless because there was so much gold in a land. You know, football's on my mind 'cause it's a preseason right now and so, you know, how how many football players have spent, you know, their eighteen, nineteen, twenty plus years He identifies how foolishness ruins life. Or we might say, oh, I just stuck my foot in my mouth. are. You always want to think about what's gone before and what comes after and w what is the context of this statement. But whoever was plotting had no thought of who might be listening and who might have connections directly to the king to warn him, right? So they didn't know who was walking by or who was standing outside, and so watch what you say, because your your words are not as private as you think they are You may have built up wealth and prosperity for yourself, but a foolish king can cause an economy to fall or another nation allow them to attack. have everything that that you desire. Uh and so just remember wisdom is not going to be the answer to life. And so as Scott will teach on the last week, we are to fear God, obey his commandments, and from the New Testament's perspective, worship, worship the Lord and serve him. Whew, we did it. So I think it'd be helpful for us to just back up a little bit and get a good start into chapter 10. Words from the mouth of a wise man are gracious, while the lips of a fool consume him. difference just put it that way between this chapter and preceding chapters. being kind to one another and whatnot. On the other hand, the the left hand, the most significant thing about the left hand is that it's not the right hand. If the right hand is poor or prosperous, the left hand is poor. But anyway, I I think that really if you boil it down, what Solomon is getting out here with w white wisdom going to the right and and Well speaking of work, that's the next section in verses eight to eleven. And then finally, looks like we'll be able to finish up here. They didn't gain collected knowledge and use that over time. Or if you're in the midst of engaging in a war with someone, and let's say you set up an ambush for your enemy. You might want to do your work well, you might want to engage in relationships well, you wanna might wanna uh live uh peacefully in uh minding your own business. Or when uh Jacob was blessing um Joseph's sons, uh he blessed the older son with the right hand and the younger son, though he actually swapped them, right? Because there was a significance between the right and the left hand. So again, the the the idea here very general is that foolishness in the heart, either your own heart or the heart of a fool, you can't really escape it. by this supposed ruler uh from verse four who shouldn't be in those positions. And then verse 10 moves in the direction of actual foolishness can make life harder. Um well nowadays we can use duct tape. He just doesn't know when to stop. to allow those words that put on your lips to infect your heart it becomes something that is part of your heart because God also So for verse twenty? So, uh if you really uh think carefully about what God actually revealed to the Old Testament saints, um from and this is a the point that that Scott was making from Adam Now, having said that, that doesn't mean that they didn't have any sense of life after death. Alright, anything else on on that point? And this is a way we can lay it out. And all of it taken together just kind of leads to the conclusion of, man, no matter how much you want to live a wise life, no matter how much you want to prosper in life Growing up uh a sharp act doesn't split whippers. There is a difference between immaturity and foolishness. No man knows what will happen, of course is the NAS. This week our family went to Queen Esther, the show at Site and Sound in Pennsylvania. Also, this I came to see as wisdom under the sun, and it impressed me. So we we've seen in previous chapters. That's really the ruling principle that guides what Solomon says in the rest of the chapter. But this is easy to understand, right? Now verses 14 and 15 in this section here are a little uh tricky. It sounds more like Proverbs. What Solomon is getting at, and we'll walk through the chapter here in different sections, is it doesn't matter how much wisdom a person has. There's no virtue in working harder than than necessary. What verse 14 seem seems to be indicating. You know, in the ancient times they had very thin walls. And then verse sixteen, but the wisdom of the poor man is despised, and his words are not heeded. Just in case anyone was wondering. Even when positive things are in both hands, the most positive thing is in the right hand, and the kind of second level, second best is on the left hand. We've seen that throughout history. So again, in thinking about uh foolishness and speech, uh the world is is full of those who ruin their lives and the lives of others through their words. Um and if not, that's okay because chapter eleven is very short, just ten verses. Wisdom, of course, can keep you out of war. Uh you know, whatever. You can have two choices when you receive or when you're on the receiving end of anger of a ruler. But notice he he doesn't say they're angry at you because of what you've done. There's some who would uh identify some alternative meanings, but I think the the plain and simple meaning is is the clearest there. You know that strength matters, right? And so this chapter really ends with a warning, verse 20. Well let me just start by reading Ecclesiastes 9, 13 all the way through the end of chapter 10. Wisdom in rulers is good and beneficial, but it is fragile. Kitchen knives and sweet potatoes. Verse uh eighteen, I think, is uh what what that's saying there, through indolence the rafters sag, and through slackness the house leaks. But if you ever wondered where the phrase the little bird told me came from, well here you go. So that reality is there. 16. You know the fool is the one who's is drunk all day long or or they're just lazy in bed all day long. Well, I think that's a true statement. And it's it clearly communicates that there is a resurrection, and in fact, even a bodily resurrection. But they they make themselves obvious, they make themselves known. Oh, yeah. Uh you see the word men there if you have the NAS in italics, which means sun, the original. So we're not going to get there quite yet. Saul just raged even more. And so again, you wisdom is good, but you can't escape folly and the effects of folly. They don't take social cues. This is foolishness. Is he promoting these ideas? And you see some indications of this and it's just really hints and shadows as it were, where um You know, in our day and age it's often the fools that you see on TV. They like him. Great that you brought that up because a lot of people will say that the Jews adopted the pagan you know, a lot of the religious offices of the pagan nations are That's not a biblical argument, but um my apologies to my wife and others who are left-handed. He doesn't know where he is. Yahweh was the God of the living and the dead, and they were each disposed in his hand, in his hand alone. Just a couple verses, Exodus 15, verse 6. You know, uh Scott alluded uh to uh David and the baby that when the baby that Bathsheba had died, David said, um, you know, uh the baby can't come to me, but I will go to him. What did he think that meant? Long life is in her that is wisdom's right hand, and in her left hand are riches and honor. And you and I, you know, the the common people have no control over that. You know, we were in your in your neighborhood. It's not making any bold statement, kind of asking the question and then he referred to some change. Yeah, and you see, you know, commentators and others say that kind of thing all the time. You know, if you if a ruler, and a ruler here is not the king, it's uh someone of lesser authority, but someone who certainly has authority over you You know, we also have the common phrase, work smarter, not not harder, right? Well and that's the uh that's the uh that's the um time reference. What where did David think uh he was going to go? And oh well that's uh that's heavy. If you just do a concordant search for the word right, you'll find all kinds of verses that refer to the right hand as a hand of influence, of power, of ability, of accomplishment. And when you have a king like that, it doesn't matter how wise you are, you're gonna feel the effects of that in in your life, right? Good job, everybody. However, when I split wood growing up in Washington, you know that's what we do. Uh if these believers could have faith in God and against all odds trust God for things that they just couldn't comprehend, how much more should we, who have the fullness of revelation Yeah, you know it's interesting. Have have ever been in a situation like that? Sometimes it's, you know, you you they speak to a little bit too loud to their neighbor and it's like, okay, this is awkward. Being more efficient, sure. Uh but he talks and he talks and he talks and he talks about the future, he talks about things he has no knowledge of. But then you take passages like that, and if you look at the nations around them, those pagan religions say there were gods of the living and there were gods of the dead So all I know is that when I was eight or nine years old, I don't think my dad gave much thought I don't think my dad gave much thought to how sharp the axe was, uh or how strong I was. On the other hand, he blesses the nation who has noble kings, wise, mature kings. He consumes himself with his words. And so uh I thought uh just as as we were talking that it would be helpful just uh And the most um I think one of the most helpful principles to keep in mind, and we even mentioned this On the other hand, if everybody's talking at the same time, like before class starts Instead, be uh keep your composure because that allays great offenses Even if you haven't done this yourself, tried to exert that strength to sharpen your facts, you know that uh Um but th that principle is is really important. The only thing I thought about that because I was thinking about all right who's used a knife before was it just doesn't take all that much energy to that's why I said sweet potato. And why pull a plow or push a plow when you can use a horse? They're favorable toward that wise man because of how he speaks. So in closing, um even though Solomon, as I mentioned earlier, doesn't use vanity in this chapter, um he doesn't say that it's it's vain to pursue wisdom And he wasn't rewarded. And so you want to learn and grow in your particular craft so that you can work more effectively and productively. It's gonna exacerbate the problem, right? You never know who might be standing around. Now of course all of this is under the sun thinking, right? Steve? Foolishness in the heart, foolishness in rulers, foolishness in work. Right? You know, it's better to trust in the Lord and not in princes, better to trust in the Lord and not in forces. Certainly no understanding of the new heavens and the new earth that we receive in Isaiah. It's easily overcome. But there's no virtue in working harder than necessary. They don't know how to lead. It's all around us. I'm like man that is completely different Never know who's listening. Last week, Scott and I had some interactions this this week and he received a lot of questions. What what what makes you so jealous of him? You know, Proverbs 22, 15, foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline will drive it far from him. They have no idea what it takes to lead a nation, what it takes to preserve peace and promote prosperity, and so as a result of their foolishness and their immaturity, the kingdom goes to ruins. Wisdom can't protect you from accidents that that just happen. So as we consider Ecclesiastes chapter 10, I want to Uh you know when Jesus separates the sheep and the goats, the sheep are on the right and the goats are on the left. This is the principle of Proverbs 15:1. A two-year-old can't uh split a piece of wood no matter how sharp the axe is, but the sharpness of the axe does actually make a difference. I just don't think that that's what he's saying here, uh, because his emphasis is on the fact that a bird will carry what you're saying to you know to the king Walk in the way in the ways of your heart and the sight of your eyes. We don't know. If the serpent bites before being charmed, there is no profit for the charmer. Predominantly it refers to precious jewels and metals Wisdom becomes useless to you. He just gets worse and worse. This isn't true. And then verse nineteen uh is is one that kind of throws off As as you know, the verses and the chapter numbers were not inspired. Both positive, you know, both received blessings, but one was lesser than the other. All the development that a a wise man can bring to a nation Right? And Isaiah had less revelation than the disciples. Anything else? So a little foolishness is weightier than wisdom and honor. And Jonathan, his son, David's best friend, thought he would use wisdom to try and uh calm his father down and They don't perceive when they've crossed the lines. He doesn't know how to get back to where he needs to be. I was going to text you saying, hey, we're hanging out with your neighbors. No, that's a good thing. We want to start in in chapter 9, verses 13 and following. And we can put this within verses 2 to 4. That's what Solomon is getting at here. Or you can respond in the footsteps of the ruler and just imitate him in his foolishness. Yeah. Of course we don't necessarily know how um The path of the wise will tend to have the result of, as it's saying here, to settle down, that's what a lays mean, to settle down to calm down the ruler Yeah. Is he affirming that you know money is the answer to everything and and whatnot? That it kinda blinds you to the realities around you. And that just I think strengthens the call in Hebrews 11, excuse me, 12. I don't know, there's no indication that they did, there's no indication that they didn't, but uh but Jesus makes that very point that it's Your hand is mighty. He's a party animal. Uh, and then we're going to be out of town the last week of August, so Scott's going to finish up the class uh covering Ecclesiastes 12. In 1 Samuel 20 we read about how uh Saul was angry at David, right? That's great. Um I was just looking and just mentioned Job if you want to deal with the books in Job 1414. You know, he was just kind of brushed off. That's why nations tend to try to use diplomatic efforts, right, to avoid war. That's maybe another way to say it. And who can tell him what will come after him? Before anybody has a question. You actually want to fill with Wait, wait, wait, what? Look at verse 12. They can sound the same sometimes, but they are different. If we haven't covered it in class, hopefully you've read it as you've read Ecclesiastes. And uh and then sometimes sharpening the axe just meant resting. So he's comparing the effect of the words of the wise and the words of the foolish. Uh in in one sense, um, you know, if we were all uh as you are, just quiet and and listening. Again, the point is it doesn't take all that much folly to ruin all of the benefits and the accumulated prosperity that wisdom Everybody sees them. So we would say accidents happen, you know, it doesn't matter how wise you are, you know, you can be driving along following all the roads, the the rules of the road, and The final section is on the foolishness of immature leaders, verses 16 to 20. They weren't exactly soundproof. And so uh if you're not really familiar with um kind of the particulars of Did he actually overhear it as they portray it in the play? You know, watch your words because it will infect your heart and you know it um have an impact on your attitude. No one knows what will happen, and who can tell him what will come after him? Or how about a race car driver, you know, who you've been working to prepare for a race and all of a sudden in the first few laps you get in an accident. I have to be honest with you, uh I I read this over and over and over again and I'm thinking, oh Lord help me. Uh on the other hand, he sometimes says that uh there actually is a benefit to wisdom Well, in in the chapter, what Solomon does here is he basically laments, that's a word I would put to it. That's really the the key here. Feel like I've been doing this a lot lately. It's harder to think of a better example of this than Solomon and Rehoboam. Use an axe to split wood? He becomes more and more foolish over time. Of course there's no punctuation in Hebrew, and so the translators are are doing their best with It's easily set aside. And so again, this this example of war and and uh protection uh of a city is just used kind of as an introductory example of the fact that Well the fool, he just swallows it and just keeps on going. Yeah. It doesn't sound like what he's been saying. It's gonna turn a little little fire into uh uh a barn fire. The fool, he keeps digging and digging and digging, and then he jumps right on in. Anybody want to ask me questions about uh coronavirus or anything? And somehow there's this poor wise man who understands that, you know, there's a way out of this for us. Anyway, you get the idea, right? But there was found in it a poor, wise man, and he delivered the city by his wisdom. That must mean it's valuable, you know, that kind of idea. Literally it says the fool's lips swallow him. And so uh ru not recognizing the evil in man's heart that requires governance, they they cause the nation to go to ruin. I know none of us have ever done anything like that before And I'm just amazed that like you never really see doors in the bedroom chambers. And he says, at the very end of that psalm, I know that you will receive me into glory. But again, there's just these multiple hints that they understood there was life after death. Uh it's just awful. I think the best way to understand that phrase is this ruler commits an error by appointing these leaders. We are called to work hard. You know, we we don't know because God didn't reveal in the pages of Scripture at least uh what that looked like I have seen slaves riding on horses and princes walking like slaves on the land. That's great. Many, many people have been allowed to continue in false thinking. Highly recommended it. Erica? There's no guarantees, you know, that you're gonna be able to to live prosperous prosperously and and um And uh as as I felt desperate, you know, I looked at commentaries and So you might be trying to live a wise life, but that doesn't mean you're going to be able to avoid the anger of a ruler. Men prepare a meal for enjoyment, and wine makes life merry, and money is the answer to everything But he got serpents and people were walking by. Uh who is there? Your right hand is exalted It's more the emphasis of their their um the the the mystery of life, the time and chances That's right, that's why we have uh that's why we have faith. He's only served you, he's only done good for you. So verse 18, uh the second half of verse eighteen, you know wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroys much good In Scripture, the the right hand has significance. Your right hand, O Lord, is majestic in power. In fact, I learned this, the word sinister, you know, our word for sinister, in Latin it means the left side It's already chopped up at seven eleven. You never know what connections people might have that would kind of betray your confidence because they are more loyal to someone else that you're talking about. Woe to you, O land, whose king is a lad, and whose princes feast in the morning. Okay, thanks for saving the king until later on, of course. A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. Right? I'm sorry. Uh Psalm seventy three, which uh is a psalm that uh expresses the confusion of the prosperity of the wicked over the suffering of the righteous. Uh there's many times in life when you devote yourself to something and before you can even get started, it becomes pointless. You know, something like the confusion that Solomon had. It says, yet the fool multiplies words. They didn't have uh soundproof windows. Where he went, what was he doing? He who digs a pit may fall into it, and a serpent may bite him who breaks through a wall. They forgot that man, you know, kind of like Mordecai, who was forgotten when he Words from the mouth of a wise man are gracious. And then verse 13 shows that there's a progression with this. A stranger's foolishness might harm us. And so again, what he's saying here is that Wisdom has the advantage of giving success. But once you've you've chosen that as your profession So somehow the author of Hebrews As you know, we've been going back and forth, Scott and I, but we're going to end out a little bit out of order And my hope, we'll see, I'm not a terrible predictor of these things, but my hope is that we'll actually get through all of chapter 10 Folly is set in many exalted places, while rich men sit in humble places So in the heart, in rulers, in work, in words, and in immature leaders. You're just fulfilling your responsibility. Working hard is a virtue. And snake charming isn't the only hazardous occupation. Do you think that it may also be that you can run and not allow yourself to follow the How did they know what they knew The beginning of his talking is folly, and the end of it is wicked madness. And so what he does here in chapter 10 is he he talks about this in kind of five different categories They are not walking down the same road. But again, foolishness can can cause you to work harder than necessary. Um But the problem is Furthermore, in your bedchamber do not curse a king, and in your sleeping rooms do not curse a rich man. We loved it. I'm touching one now. Again, whether or not they they fully understood it is a different issue. And uh he just goes from apparently one thing to another thing. What Solomon seems to be indicating here You can either choose the path of wisdom to maintain your composure. Right? People listen to what the wise man says and they want to hear more from him. He's not at all again considering God and God's providence and God's purposes and all of that They weren't uh annihilationists, as it were, that you know once you die your soul and body uh go to the grave and and So I just wanted to explain that. It only takes one leader, one foolish leader, to undo a lifetime. And so as you as you swing that sledgehammer and you break through the wall, the snake comes out and gets you I guess this pr principle would apply in terms of the sharpness The only way a fool would change their ways No, feel free to ask the question, but let me pray. So that that passage is unique in that way, that God has the authority not only over both, but to transition between them as you It's insane to think about how prosperous Israel was at that time And of course, that's when the the nation was split in two, the northern and the southern tribes. And why use a horse when you can use a tractor, right? But it says, Men prepare a meal for enjoyment, and wine makes life merry, and money is the answer to everything. They're from Lancaster. Um you know we of course have the whole Bible and so we can we can take all of the understanding that we have from the New Testament You see this when Rachel uh dies. For a bird of the heavens will carry the sound, and the winged creature will make the matter known. Yeah, which of course preaching for an hour is does not count uh as part of that. So th this that's I don't know, in my mind that was just a an illustration of how So let me read that again It doesn't matter how wise you are, doesn't matter how well you take care of your property, you know, your property values can Yeah. And they just think, hey, money is the answer to everything. So one obvious implication of that is if you're seeking to live a wise life, And so as a result of that He says here, Woe to you, O land, whose king is a lad, and whose princes feast in the morning It was fantastic What what is heaven like Again, even when the fool walks down the road, his sense is lacking, and he demonstrates to everyone that he is a fool. And this is an interesting section because it's it's not I mean the the first two verses, verses eight and nine, are not so much Well, it's because no one in the lives of many, many, many people And the reason many interpreters have a problem with this Right. So hopefully we'll be able to get all of that. There was a small city with a few men in it, and a great king All it takes is one person Okay Uh the wise people have enough sense to say, I want to stay out of the limelight here. I mean why why dig a field with your bare hands when you can use a shovel Now the toil of a fool so wearies him that he does not even know how to go Uh but the fool has lost the ability or they just don't have the ability to understand where those boundaries There's a debated passage in Job, which as you know is is considered to be the oldest book Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroys much good And so I confess to you that there was another pastor whose material I looked at who kind of helped helped me uh orient it. Even when the fool walks along the road, his sense is lacking, and he demonstrates to everyone that he is a fool. And so he says here, he who digs a pit may fall into it. It's not your fault. Wisdom is fragile and foolishness. And of course, over the course of the that New Testament period we received the fullness of the revelation. Um but it is remarkable in light of that reality If the axe is dull and he does not sharpen its edge, then he must exert more strength We don't use the star pack because it stinks into the wood. If if the tool is sharper, if it's if it's working properly, it's gonna make work easier. That's what he means by gracious. And that's what we see today. Yeah, that's right. If if the right hand is lucky, the bad the left hand is unlucky You know, it's a very personal effect of being a fool for the most part in in Proverbs You know, you're you maybe you're just an unlucky person Or you know how did he actually find out about it? Whatever benefit, whatever profit wisdom brings, it can be undone and overcome by folly. So That's an extraordinary Dead flies make a perfumer's oil stink. It's weightier and has greater influence It's you live in a world of foolishness and It's the right it's the the hand of power, it's the it's the hand of influence, it's the the hand of capability. To do what? Now resting never sharpened any axe, but it does sharpen the mind if if you're overworked Alright, in the next section, he focuses on foolishness in words. We are called to uh you know honor our authorities and and whatnot. How does this how does it all fit together? And he doesn't actually say, oh, it's all vanity, so forget it. You might be trying to live a wise life. So it there's a clear distinction between the body goes to the grave, but the spirit departs uh and ascends uh Verse 18 says here that wisdom is better than a weapon of war. Sure. It's just not going to work. Okay You know, m most of us we kind of recognize when we've crossed the boundary and we've said something foolish You never know who might be listening If they had you know sometimes it was just a cloth over the over the window or just a wood shutter or something Right? And this is a vivid picture that we can generally understand, if not by personal experience. And when he says in um at the end of verse 15 that no one remembered that poor man Lank Lancaster? So right there at a very early stage Well, if Foolishness in the Heart. But when you think about the context of foolish On the one hand, sometimes he says And he identifies leaders who are put in position You didn't do anything wrong. I mean hard work is good If the serpent bites before being charmed, there is no profit for the charmer. For us who have that above the sun thinking, who look at life from God's perspective What? Progressive revelation. How many companies have been crashed by just one foolish investment decision? And then verse 4 And then they're in training camp and they have an injury that ends their career. With immaturity, usually They didn't come until But it will hopefully all kind of come together with with some measure of sense Oddly enough. Um Yeah, Steve. The only difference is the people back then just didn't have that knowledge and information That actually seems very firm in the Old Testament A man's heart directs him toward the right, but the foolish man's heart directs him toward the left. That's a good thing we read that in Scripture. When you have foolish leaders, You mean there's nothing I can do to control my life? Duct tape. Yeah. No. You're just going about your business. They Oh, okay. Oh sure. Now riches and honor are great, but in the Old Testament economy of things, long life is better. Uh the there's no uh Father, thank you for So you know Adam had less revelation than Moses And in his excessive talking, verse 15, he gets so tired that he l gets lost. That's the idea there. That's not the most efficient way to do that And it's it's actually a Hopefully that's helpful. Just thought that was curious. You know, no one starts out in life becoming the full-fledged destructive fool. Lancaster. So I hope that helps, that it's it's not quite as shocking a reality as it might be But initially Let me just reread that section. You know, Solomon reigned during the most prosperous time in Israel. Well, as with anything in biblical interpretation, I think context is Just throw money at the problems and they'll get fixed I I I watch a lot of um And that wisdom was met with folly, which overcame uh For to to use example of um There's no revelation of that, but he went somewhere. He's favorable. Lan Lancaster. We don't know You know, faith of course defined in Hebrews 11, 1, being certain of what we hope for. Your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy. They are are not traveling companions It just said um Please don't Are you contradicting scripture here? It says, Man dies till he live again. Wisdom can be helpful, but it just takes a little bit of foolishness To gain strength, and not for the purpose of being drunk. Because th there is a uh uh You're gonna be confronted with it. But harm can come to you You use the balls, uh you use the split ball Any particular questions? Uh I just don't know that that's the emphasis there You know, you're just not watching where you're going Yeah. You just can't escape it He was jealous of David, he wanted to kill David Don, here we go. He says that of God. Or wisdom can help you win a war very quickly. And of course the future is the ultimate thing that We don't have to all be killed There's nothing I can do to control the outcome He married the And of course we see that. Sweet potatoes, okay. Yeah again that that would just be another hint. Remember that? Either you're gonna see these people walking down the street And so be careful how you respond. Right Uh Ephraim and Manasseh But the fools are the ones who want all the attention. Kitchen knives Yet no one remembered that poor man. All the days of my struggle I have a week Foolishness in words. And You will receive me into glory. What what are you saying? That's done for you That's the idea there. God took him to himself. So He still made me do it. So I mean when I worked at Grace T we used Verses 12 to 15. And so