Alright, so let's just start by reading Ecclesiastes chapter 1. Follow along as I read. I'm reading from the NASB. The words of the preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. Vanity of vanities, says the preacher, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What advantage does man have in all his work which he does under the sun? A generation goes and a generation comes, but the earth remains forever. Also the sun rises and the sun sets, and hastening to its place again, uh hastening to its place, it rises there again. Blowing toward the south and then turning toward the north, the wind continues swirling along. And on its circular courses, the wind returns. All the rivers flow into the sea, yet the sea is not full. To the place where the rivers flow, there they flow again. All things are wearisome. Man is not able to tell it, the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor is the ear filled with hearing. That which has been is that which will be, and that which has been done is that which will be done. So there is nothing new under the sun. Is there anything of which one might say, see, this is new? Already it has existed for ages, which were before us. There is no remembrance of earlier things, and also of the later things which will occur There will be for them no remembrance among those who will come later still. I, the preacher, have been king over Jerusal over Israel in Jerusalem, and I Set my mind to seek and explore by wisdom concerning all that has been done under the under heaven. It is a grievous task which God has given to the sons of men to be afflicted with I have seen all the works which have been done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and striving after wind. What is crooked cannot be straightened, and what is lacking cannot be counted. I said to myself, Behold, I have magnified and increased wisdom more than all who were over Jerusalem before me. And my mind has observed a wealth of wisdom and knowledge. And I set my mind to know wisdom and to know madness and folly. I realize that this also is striving after wind. Because in much wisdom there is much grief, and increasing knowledge results in increasing pain. I'm going to say this now. It's not the best time to say it, but I'm going to forget it if I don't say it now. If uh you came in and you hit didn't sign in at the beginning of class, make sure you do that after class. That helps us keep attendance in If especially if today's your first uh day in class will add you to the whole bookroom. So don't forget to do that afterward if you haven't already. So Solomon begins this book by giving us the spoiler alert. Chapter 1, verse 2. Vanity of vanities, says a preacher. Vanity of vanities. All is vanity. He gives us his conclusion. As the result, which is a result of his endeavor to look for intrinsic meaning on this earth. Meaning that is embedded into this world without respect to Uh special revelation from God. Again, as we said last week, he's not denying God's existence. He's not fundamentally denying the truth that God has revealed up to that point in history, that's just not what he's thinking about. He's focused more on this secular endeavor of trying to find meaning and purpose and significance in the things of this life. And so as we'll see in the weeks to come he he adds to his examining table pleasure Pleasures of the body, pleasures of the mind, pleasures of the soul. He looks to work, the exertion of work, the accomplishments that mankind can make. Uh he looks at relationships and all that is in life and he puts it all together on the table and it's as if it just puffs out right in front of him. You know, it just disappears. There's nothing that lasts. Remember last time we talked about various nuances to the meaning of Hevel, which is what is translated as vanity. And we saw that one of the meanings is that it is mysterious, that life is mysterious. You look at the confusing things of life and you're like, I can't figure out What is going on here? What is God up to? What's the purpose of this? It's mysterious. I I don't understand. Why why do my kids do what they do? Why do I do what I do Uh why does God allow uh these things to happen in society, in culture, in the world? Life is just mysterious. He also uses the term to refer to the temporary nature of life, right? That uh life is short Uh even if someone were to live up to a hundred or more years old, I saw a picture yesterday of a hundred year old uh woman who had planted uh uh was anybody else see that side shaking head, rhododendrons or hydrangeas. Rhododendron. Rhododendron, thank you. Somebody who knows plants. And uh so you know, this woman lived for a very long time. She had planted this thing, it was beautiful. But more than likely if she's not already dead, she's gonna pass away soon. Life is short. And of course many of us understand that life can be much, much too short when we lose a child in or outside the womb. But everything is temporary. Riches are temporary. Success is temporary. And we'll see through uh a little bit later and and then in subsequent weeks, just how easily things uh disappear and dissipate. He he also identifies vanity as meaning uh lacking substance. Uh it's like when you eat a uh a bunch of popcorn. I mean we love popcorn in our home. We have it fairly often. You know, it's one of those things you can eat bags and bags and still not really be full, right uh or cheese puffs. You know, it's just mostly made of air. Uh the things of this world uh just lack substance. They're not weighty. They don't fill you up. He uses The uh phrase in verse 8, the eye is not satisfying with seeing, nor is the ear filled with hearing Just the things of this life, as as much as they come at you, they don't fill you up because they just lack substance. There's not meaning to it. And then that's the fourth nuance, pointlessness. Okay, we can have fun, we can be successful, we can build big buildings, we can advance technology, but what's the point? What's the net effect? What's the change that's going to occur after uh after all of this is done? So with those four different nuances combined, he just looks at all of life and says It's vanity. It's pointless. Again, without reference to God, without considering eternity, without thinking about the the meaning that we get from God, if you only look at life For its own intrinsic meaning under the sun, you're going to find it's pointless, it's lacking substance, it's temporary, and it's mysterious. Now again, because this is just introductory, we're let's just kind of walk through uh portions of the book to see what he identifies as vanity. Chapter 1, verse 3, he says there, what advantage does man have in all his work? This comes up again in chapter 2, verse 11. when he says, Thus I considered all my activities which my hands had done, and the labor which I had exerted, and behold all was vanity, and strifing striving after the wind, and there was no prophet under the sun. Verse 19 there of chapter 2 he says, And who knows whether he, that is the man who comes after one who has labored, whether he will be a wise man or a fool Yet he will have control over the fruit of my labor for which I have labored and b by acting wisely under the sun. This too is vanity. He's talking about, you know, we could think of a CEO who builds up a company dies or s retires or whatever, next guy comes in, he's a fool and tears down the company. What's the point? Chapter four verse eight. He says, there was a certain man without a dependent, having neither a son nor a brother, yet there was no end to all his labor. Indeed, his eyes were not satisfied with riches, and he never asked, And for whom am I laboring and depriving myself of pleasure? This too is vanity, and it is a grievous task So, you know, you think you give the a single guy, a guy who's not married, doesn't have any kids, doesn't have any family, and he's working and working and working, building up riches and And possessions and the guy never asks, what on earth am I doing this for? Why am I not just enjoying life? It's it's a vain thing to give yourself to work in that way. So so work and labor is vanity It's pointless, it's it's meaningless, it's temporary, it will all fade away. He also identifies pleasure as Something that is vain. In chapter 2, verse 1, he says, I said to myself, Come now, I will test you with pleasure. So enjoy yourself and behold it too was futility. I don't want to steal uh Scott's Thunder, but he s stimulates himself with wine to see what's the effect of wine on the body. Uh so as he's drinking wine, he's thinking, okay, what am I feeling? What am I thinking? What what's this experience like? He uh lo uh builds things for himself. He gains possessions, he gains com concubines in verse eight. He just allows himself to enjoy all the pleasures of this life. Chapter 2 verse 10, he says, all that my eyes desired, I did not refuse them. I did not withhold my heart from any pleasure. For my heart was pleased because of all my labor, and this was my reward for all my labor. But then he goes on to say, it's it was all pointless. It's all vain. So labor or work is vanity, pleasure is vanity. In chapter 2, verse 15, he identifies wisdom as vanity Then I said to myself, as is the fate of the fool, it will also befall me. Why then have I been extremely wise? So I said to myself, This too is vanity. Now he'll go on in other places of the book to talk about the benefits of wisdom, but in the end he says, we're both going to die. So what's the ultimate purpose? Right? Why why should I uh allow myself to be so devoted to wisdom to learn and to live according to wisdom when I'm just gonna die just like the fool? Nothing is really gonna be ultimately different. Or chapter 4, verse 4, where he talks about this is related to work, but kind of self-improvement. He says, I have seen that every labor and every skill which is done is the result of rivalry between a man and his neighbor. This too is vanity and striving after the wind. So it's kinda capitalism, right? You know? Yeah, or keeping up with where the Jones is, but not just keeping up but trying to better, you know. Uh so you know, you're you're uh Competing business has some technology, so you try and outmatch their technology and people just advance and advance to get more and more education, they get more and more technology. And what's the point We're just competing against each other for no ultimate purpose. In chapter five, verse ten, he identifies money. as vanity. He who loves money will not be satisfied with money. Or he who loves abundance with its income. This too is vanity I mean the modern fascination with wealth and riches, you know, get rich quick schemes, uh it's funny, there used to be all this uh all the all these different uh ads and promotions for, you know, work at home, you know, make lots of money at home. It's like everybody's at home now. But In America we have this fascination with riches. You know, if we can only have that new car, if we can only have uh that vacation home, if we only have this or that or the other, then life will be good, right? Then life will be satisfying and fulfilling. If we can only enjoy the benefits of the money that money brings, then life will be good. But then you uh e experience those things and you realize it's still just a home, it's still just a car, it's still just a piece of clothing, you know, whether it's five dollars from the thrift store or five thousand dollars from you know, whatever store. Um there's nothing to it. It it's it's meaningless, it's pointless. It's empty. It lacks substance. And then related to that, possessions are vain. Chapter 5, verse 19. Furthermore, as for one as for every man to whom God has given riches And wealth, he has also empowered him to eat from them and to receive his reward and rejoice in his labor This is the gift of God. For he will not often consider his life because God keeps him occupied with the gladness of his heart Now there he kind of brings in a little bit of temporal gladness and joy, but ultimately he identifies possessions as as vain. Now going back to chapter two, you know, we already uh glanced over it, but he talked about the houses that he built for himself. Verse 5, I made gardens and parks for myself and planted in them all kinds of fruit trees. I made ponds of water for myself, which with which to irrigate uh a forest of growing trees, got f male and female slaves, I had flocks and herds, uh gold and silver and treasures of kings and provinces He was he had untold wealth. H has anybody ever been to uh Europe and walked around the gardens of castles and things like that? Well, I haven't. But you see pictures of it, right? And there's this, again, you see the picture and you're like, wow, that would be amazing. Not just to be there, but to own it. To walk around, to have these gardeners working and all these people who are uh making a beautiful palace and and building all of this stuff. Wouldn't that just be remarkable? Wouldn't wouldn't that be the life And Solomon was like, Yeah, I did all that. I had all those things in far abundance beyond what anybody else has experienced And it's empty. There's there's no joy in it all. There's no ultimate joy in it all. So possessions are vain. And then finally, he identifies life itself. Life itself is vain. In chapter 6. Verse 12, he says, For who knows what is good for a man during his lifetime, during the few years of his feudal life? He will spend them like a shadow, for who can tell a man what will be after him under the sun? Earlier in that chapter he talks about various stages of life and other places he talks about, you know, it's better to be a miscarried child than As someone who lives in this vain world, life itself, he says, is vain. It's temporary. It's meaningless. It's pointless. There's no lasting value. So that's his conclusion. That's what we're gonna be spending a number of weeks uh emphasizing and looking at and reminding ourselves that life from the human earthbound perspective is pointless. It's temporary. It's mysterious. It lacks substance. So let's move on to verse 3 to just kind of tease this out some more. He says What advantage does man have in all his work which he does under the sun? What advantage does man have? Your translation might have what prophet? What prophet does a man have? It's actually the only time this word is used in the Bible, but it's related to a word that means just to be left over, to remain. And so what he's asking, again, is not, you know, how do you make more money than the next guy or how do you make more money than your expenses? What he's asking is What is going to be left over when you die? What's going to be left over when you get what you get? So he's not denying the fact that hard work tends to earn you a living and provide comforts in life, feed your family and all the rest. But he's looking for something that lasts beyond the grave. And he says, there's nothing there. There is nothing there. Psalm 39, verses 5 and 6 says, Behold, you have made my days as handbreaths. Which is measuring your life just by the width of your hand. And my lifetime is as nothing in your sight. Surely every man at his best is a mere breath. Surely every man walks about as a phantom. Surely they make an uproar for nothing. He amasses riches and does not know who will gather them. So you could be the most successful person on this world, right? You can be on the at the top of the richest people in the world list, have billions and billions of dollars to your name. And then the moment you die, that's it. It's gone. We're familiar with the idea you never see a U-Haul following a hearse, right? That's exactly what Psalm 39 is saying and what Solomon declares. You can amass all the treasures of the of the world, but the moment that you die, it doesn't belong to you anymore. You can't carry it with you. There's no lasting value. There's nothing left over that brings meaning or satisfaction. Proverbs chapter twenty-three verses four and five says, Do not weary yourself to gain wealth. cease from your consideration of it. When you set your eyes on it, it is gone. For wealth certainly makes itself wings like an eagle that flies toward the heavens. That's a interesting picture. You need to th you think about it like a treasure box. That sprouts wings and just flies away. Again, he's he's declaring the the temporary nature of riches Verse four, he says, A generation goes, and a generation comes, but the earth remains forever. This is exactly what uh uh another wise man, Ethan the Ezrahite. I don't know if you remember that name, Ethan the Ezrahite. He is one of the men that 2 Kings 4 lists as one who Solomon was wiser than. Solomon was wiser than Ethan the Ezrahite. Well he wrote Psalm 89. And he said this in verses 46 to 48. How long, O Lord, will you hide yourself forever? Will your wrath burn like fire? Remember what my span of life is For what vanity you have created all the sons of men? What man can live and not see death? Can he deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Excuse me. So Solomon was not the only one who thought of life as vanity, who looked at the reality of of cursed man and and said, We are all born for vanity, again apart from special revelation. None of us can escape death. This picture of a generation goes and a generation comes is actually quite powerful when you spend time thinking about it. Let's do this. Raise your hand if you knew Your parents, the people that raised you. Raise your hand if you knew your parents. I hope every hand goes up. If somebody raised you, you should know them. Alright. Keep your hand up. Keep your hand up if you knew your grandparents. Any did any okay keep your hand up if you knew your great grandparents? Alright? Put your hand that went down. Kee keep your hands up if you knew your great great grandparents. Any anybody have a hand up? Anybody you knew your great great grandparents? How old were they? Oh well. My great grandmother, she passed away around a hundred. Did you say great grandmother or great great grandmother? Great grandm great grandmother Okay, so just one grade. Okay. So I was asking about two grades of the last one. So nobody knew their great great grandparents. On average, great great grandparents are g about a a hundred years older uh than than you are. Obviously depending on the order, you know, when when they gave birth to their great-grandparents. So let's change the question. Nobody knew their great-great-grandparents. Let's let's change the question. Instead of asking who knew your great-great-grandparents, who knew the names, or who knows the names of your great-great-grandparents? Couple? Three? Three maybe? What about great great great grandparents? Alright, there's been some faithful genealogists around. But you get the point, right? I mean in this room, I don't know, maybe seventy, eighty people here, uh with certain exceptions, nobody knows their great-great-grandparents or even their names So think about this. I know it's a sobering thought. One hundred years from now, nobody will know that you existed. It's pretty wild, isn't it? I mean somebody might have your name on a on a list. Um somebody might have uh an old record of a burial plot or something. But your descendants, your great great grandchildren won't even know anything about you, not even your name. It's as if, you know, I I uh I am loath to use uh movie references and sermons, but I'm not preaching. So uh if if you're familiar with uh Marvel And the uh uh the Avengers, um uh great I'm gonna even begin the title. You know where they all Endgame. That's terrible. It's not in my notes. But i i if you think of the planet You know, uh the m the mass of the planet and billions of people on the earth, you know, it's kinda what Solomon is saying is it's as if, you know, there's there's a people and then It's gone. And then a new set of people, you know they're gone. And then a new set of people they're gone. Now obviously it doesn't work like that. But that's what it's like. Life is a vapor and not only does it not last very long, but it doesn't leave a lasting impact. There have been, depending on how precisely you want to uh use the genealogies in Scripture, uh, but there have been somewhere in the neighborhood of three hundred generations on the planet from today till the beginning of creation. 300 generations of the human race. So 300 times the people of the world have been replaced completely. But the world, the earth, is exactly the same. Okay, maybe some changes here or there, you know, the Great Wall of China. But The world itself is exactly the same. You know, there's so much talk today about what kind of world are we going to leave our children or our grandchildren? I'm not making a political statement when when I say we're gonna leave the exact same world that was here when we got here. We just don't have that much power to change the planet In fact, I would say to you on the authority of Scripture that in order for us to have life-changing impact on the planet, we would have to be more powerful than God. I say that on the basis of Genesis chapter eight. You can turn there if you want, just for a second. Genesis chapter eight Verse uh twenty-one and twenty-two Says the Lord smelled the soothing aroma. This is uh Noah's sacrifice after coming out of the ark. The Lord smelled the soothing aroma, and the Lord said to himself, I will never again curse the ground on account of man For the intent of man's heart is evil from his youth, and I will never again destroy every living thing as I have done. Now, you could stop there and say, well, yeah, sure God's not going to do that, but you know, we could certainly destroy half the planet or something But then he says this in verse 22, while the earth remains, seed time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease. So when you hear people talk about, hey, we're going to destroy the planet, we're going to make this planet unlivable, they're talking about destroying summer and winter and heat and cold and all of those things that make life sustainable on this planet. But God has chosen, and I should say he has promised to sustain this planet until he chooses to destroy it. So what you and I do, sure, we can be poor stewards of the earth, we can do things that uh that are problematic in certain ways, but ultimately we we don't have the power to destroy this planet. Only God does When we die, whatever our descendants choose to do, they're not going to have any more impact on this planet than previous generations. Now obviously we don't know how many generations will uh there will be before Christ comes back, but it it doesn't matter. No one is going to destroy this planet apart uh from God. So going back to Ecclesiastes here, look how Solomon describes the unchanging earth. So he says, a generation comes and a generation goes, but the earth remains forever. Verse 5. Also The sun rises and the sun sets and hastening to its place it rises there again. We see the sunrise, we see the sunset. See the sunrise and then we see the sunset. And depending on your disposition on every any given day, you might say the sun comes out tomorrow, Reverend Don't worry, it'll come out tomorrow. Well, Solomon is not having a happy disposition about this. He's like, man, it comes up and it goes down and it comes up, it goes sit down, it comes up, it goes down. Isn't it tired That's that's the language he uses when he says, and hastening to its place. It's like it's panting again, again, again, again And then he says, blowing toward the south, and then toward the turning toward the north, the wind continues swirling along. Literally, it's the the wind swirls Uh swirling the wind swirls along. And on its circular courses the wind returns. So the wind of this earth is just going around and around and up and down and around. You know, I don't know if this is true, but I saw something a long time ago I didn't even try to track it down, but theoretically, apparently, it's possible that you could smell a hamburger from China. If if the wind blows, you know, across the ocean, that that those molecules, those hamburger molecules could make it to s a whiff. I don't know if that's true or not. But that's my story now sticking with it. I don't teach my kids science, don't worry, don't be concerned. But the wind just goes around and around and around without without end Or verse 7, all the rivers flow into the sea, yet the sea is not full. So the place where the river flow, where the rivers flow, there they flow again. Now we have a clear understanding of the scientific processes that uh that are at play here, but you know what Solomon knew about that as well. You may not have have had the technical terminology, but they understood, and you can read in Job and other places, that there is an understanding of evaporation and the rain and how that causes the water to go around and around and around Now you got the ocean of course making up seventy percent or so of the planet which is all salt water. And then once it goes into the atmosphere and get it comes down on land, it comes out as freshwater, and that's what we drink. You know, less than one percent of the uh earth is drinkable water. But then it just flows right back into the ocean. And it just goes again and again and again. The world, the earth remains forever. He says the first line there, verse 8, which really goes with this section: all things are wearisome. He's not looking at the sustaining of the earth through eyes of faith. He's looking at it through a secular perspective of, man, it's just over and over. These cycles are never ending. What's the point? Well, just for a second, let's think biblically because I don't like Thinking so negatively for such a long period of time. This is a sustained earth with the eyes of faith. The sustained earth is a sign of God's faithfulness, isn't it? In uh uh Psalm eighty-nine, we read these words, verses thirty-six and thirty-seven of Psalm eighty-nine. His descendants, this uh speaking of uh David and God's promise to David, the Davidic covenant, his descendants shall endure forever. And his throne is the sun before me, and it shall be established forever like the moon. And the witness in the sky is faithful. So there the Lord is comparing his faithfulness to the repetition, the faithful reality that you can guarantee the sun will come out tomorrow and the sun will come out at night, or the moon will come out at night. God looks to creation as a representation of his faithfulness. Or Psalm 119, verses 90 to 91. He says, Your faithfulness continues throughout all generations. You established the earth and it stands. They stand this day according to your ordinances, for all things are your servants. So the fact that the earth remains, the fact that everything keeps working according to God's design is a manifestation of God's faithfulness. And then finally in Jeremiah chapter 31, and this is just a sampling of passages, but uh Jeremiah chapter 31, verses 35 and 36. Jeremiah says, Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for light by day and the fixed order of the moon, and the stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name. If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the Lord, then the offspring of Israel will also cease from being a nation before me forever. That is a powerful promise. That's one of a number of reasons why at Hope we teach that God does have a future purpose for Israel. He uh cement or he grounds his commitment to the nation of Israel on the basis of the created order. And so creation, the the the constant cycles of creation, which can seem tiresome to someone who doesn't have uh the eyes of faith, who doesn't see things from God's perspective, they can be tiresome, but From God's perspective, it encourages us about God's faithfulness. Looking more at verse 8 there in the the last three lines which go together grammatically they they follow a pattern which of course we can't see in the English, but uh that they're t they're all tied together. It says, Man is not able to tell it. For uh the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor is the ear filled with hearing. That first line, man is not able to tell it, basically means man isn't is not able to explain anything The realities of this world is beyond man's comprehension and beyond man's ability to describe with accuracy. So words fail us to describe life. The word uh things uh in in uh uh verse eight um has also it has a variety of meanings, things, words. And so as as Solomon is thinking about the realities, the things of this world and the words, they just fail us. We can't describe them. Or the second line there, nothing satisfies the eyes. The eyes are not satisfying, satisfied with seeing It's this sense that you can see and see and see and get all this input, all of this information, all of this visual, and you never get satisfied. Now your eyes can get strained, right? probably experience that one time or another. You read too long or watch something too long, your eyes get tired. But they're not satisfied in the sense that you might get satisfied when you eat a good meal You know, you you you have a a good meal and and you're not overly stuffed where it hurts, but you're also not hungry, you're like, that was good. I I feel uh good about that meal. That was satisfying. I remember when I was in junior high, my grandfather, who's kind of a proper he's he's English in some ways, but he doesn't have an accent. Um and uh We we would uh as kids at a family gathering say, Oh, I'm full. Say, no, you're satisfied. No, grandpa, I'm actually full. But the eyes don't get that feeling, right? You don't get to at the end of the day and be like, I've seen everything I wanted to see. Right? You just don't you don't feel that way. You know, when you go on vacation to some beautiful place, I I you know, I love how thanks to technology we can benefit from the uh the the travels of other people. Um uh Walter Stanett, you know, a man in our church, he's an amazing photographer and I don't know if maybe if he's back yet, but he went to the uh to phot photograph the Grand Tetons, is that how you say it Uh just beautiful, beautiful scenery. But just imagine you're there, uh whether it's there or the Grand Canyon or Yellowstone or whatever it is where you're looking at the beauty of God's creation You don't like stand there for five minutes or five days and then close your eyes and like, oh, that's it. That just does it for me. No, you go home, you're like, man, I wish I could go back. I wish I could see that again Or or same thing with the ears, he says, nor is the ear filled with hearing. Now, yes, we can get annoyed, we can be I'm fed up listening to this. But it's not like, oh, that's that satisfies my ears. Uh this can also be a metaphor for learning. Uh you know, where on the one hand, yes, we could be tired of learning, you know, you've been in class, you know, if you've done uh higher education, you know, you're like, uh I'm I'm done, I'm I I'm ready to put the books away. But it's not because you're somehow satisfied, it's just you're you're exhausted There's endless things to learn and we're never ultimately satisfied So again, what advantage does man have in all his work which he does under the sun? A generation goes and a generation comes, but the earth remains forever. We can look at the cycles of this world, we can look at the things of this life and just not be satisfied. All right, verses nine to ten. He says that which has been And that which will be, and that which has been done is that which will be done. I think I read the first line wrong. That which has been is that which will be. And that which has been done is that which will be done. So there is nothing new under the sun. If there is any, is there anything of which one might say, see, this is new? Already it has existed for ages which were before us. You know, history repeats itself, right? We we know the phrase, those who don't know history are what? Doomed, bound to repeat it. Uh it's funny I was listening on the way to church this morning and just in a few minute snippet that I caught, uh the preacher quoted Mark Twain who says, History doesn't repeat itself. Well, I'll trust Solomon on this one. It may be true that those who don't know history are bound to repeat it, but the truth is knowing history doesn't really help either. Right? A lot of people know history. They're just not smart enough to learn from the lessons of history. Now this is true on the macro scales. We look at just, you know, nation rise ab against nation, raise nations rise, nations fall. We see nation after nation throughout history moving toward greater wickedness and therefore they they fall because they undo themselves due to immorality and wickedness and violence. But this is also true on the micro scale. You just think about your life as I think about my life. Why is it that we battle sin in our lives It's because we don't remember that the last time the the promises of sin failed to measure up. Right? We keep telling ourselves lies. This is going to satisfy me this time. Nope. Well then this time it really will satisfy nope. You know. We we tell our kids often, you know, um something that John MacArthur always says, time and truth go hand in hand. Given enough time the truth will come out So when they get caught in their sin, something that they were thinking they were doing secretly, we remind them, let this be a lesson to you that your sin will find you out. God is gracious in that he doesn't allow us to sin repeatedly without uh being confronted over it. But again, we lie to ourselves, nobody's gonna find out. I'm not gonna get caught. Nope, you will. History repeats itself. There's and then he goes on to say, uh nothing is new under the sun. Nothing is new. Now obviously things change, right? We have an incredible amount of technology now that we didn't have before Did you know I was reading um Undaunted Courage? Uh I don't know if you're familiar with that book by um Stephen uh last name? Somebody's shaking your hand. Stephen Ambrose uh which is about the travels of Lewis and Clark as they uh Lewis and Clark as they went across in uh the nation. And the a note was made in there that up until eighteen oh four, no one in world history had ever traveled faster than a horse. But in eighteen oh four was the first steam engine that you could go faster than a horse. It's pretty amazing when you think about it. For You know, three, four, five, six thousand years, a horse was the fastest thing that a a human could travel I guess cheetahs weren't really helpful for traveling. Only once. But as soon as that uh steam engine was invented and of course rail lines laid out, then now we could go faster. And then cars were invented. And then planes were invented. So there's new things or new ways of getting around. But by then, even by the early 1800s, the whole planet was already occupied. It's not like planes allowed us to go places we'd never been before Exception, I guess, would be the uh shuttle up to m up to the moon. Uh but the planet was was fully uh occupied. Uh we could just get there faster Right? In fact that's interesting to me is you think about this concept of there's nothing new under the sun, uh and that up to eighteen oh four nobody could travel faster than a horse, uh how do they measure engines today Horsepower. Isn't that kind of ridiculous? Like can't can they come up with something more uh descriptive? If I had a hundred horses in front of me, I could go Silly. So though technology enables enables us to do things faster, uh we have of course easier access to knowledge uh today with the internet. But life is still fundamentally the same, right? I mean it doesn't matter if you had an enviable record collection. Or if you had an iPod that could fit 2,000 songs, or if now you subscribe to a streaming service that gives you endless access to music. Still just listening to music. Nothing is dramatically new. Uh the the clothes that we wear, the homes that we live in, the way that we get around Sure, it's different from 200 years ago, but life is fundamentally the same, right? We're born, we grow up, we get educated either by our parents or by a school We work, we marry, we have kids, and then we die. Life is fundamentally the same. Life changes in the incidentals, but it's the same in its fundamentals. So whether you lived a thousand years before Christ or two thousand years after Christ, there is nothing new under the sun. Verse eleven, he says, There is no remembrance of earlier things, and also of the later things which will occur. There will be For them no remembrance among those who will come later still. And there's certainly a lot we could say about this, but I thought of books because books is one of the primary ways we remember things, right? It could be a a photo book or more likely you know some kind of biography or history book. That's how we remember the past. You and I tend to just think, yeah, books seem to be somewhat permanent. As we keep a history of things along the way, uh those things of the past will be remembered. And so we often think in terms of what will a history book say, you know, fifty years from now, hundred years from now But books fundamentally are temporary. Uh if you go back 2,000 years, uh we don't have very many books from that time, but there were a lot of books that were written Right? It was Solomon that says at the end of Ecclesiastes, of the making of books there is no end. So there was all kinds of books throughout all of history, but we just have a tiny, tiny fraction of them Which means we don't have a clue about the vast majority of history. When you think about ancient history, we have some key figures. And I I'm not I'm not like some conspiracy theory or uh this is just coming off the top of my head here, but i if you really think about it, how do we know who the main players were if we only know about certain individuals? Maybe there were other people But because they were conquered eventually, all of the history book books were lost. I mean, that's a random thought, but uh there there's just so much that we don't know You know, it's uh it's said that Egypt, whenever they would be defeated, uh they wouldn't uh keep records of those battles. That's why you can't find any ancient documents outside of scripture talking about the uh the uh um i uh uh um The plagues and exile, but that's not the right term. The exit, thank you. I did have two cups of coffee this morning. It hasn't worked yet. Um the crossing of the Red Sea where the whole Egyptian army was destroyed, you won't find anything about that? You know, cultures tend to tend to be uh self promoting, so they don't want you to know about their negative sides. So there's just so much that we don't know, but even the things that we do know are limited Matthew Henry puts it this way, here and there one person or action that was remarkable met with a kind historian who had the good hap to be recorded, or and had the good hap to be recorded. But at the same time there were others no less remarkable that were dropped. And therefore we may conclude that neither shall there be any remembrance of things to come. But that which we hope to be remembered by will be either lost or slighted. You know, one of the emphases in our culture today is uh being on the right and or the wrong side of history, right? You hear that all the time. There's a fear that the people in the future will look back at me and say, man, that decision that that person, that that man or woman business person, politician, celebrity, you know, whatever. They were on the right or the wrong side of history. That that seems to be what guides a lot of people's decisions, especially when it comes to the moral downgrade. Now, aside from the fact that what future people look back and judge us for is the wrong standard of right and wrong, the truth is most of the people in the future just won't care Because they won't even know that you existed. You know, and most of us in this room, uh I don't know if we have any famous people, but most of us just aren't famous, right? I've been in the newspaper once. Uh I I don't think anybody but my parents know about it. Yeah. Um this is many years ago. Um You know, people just don't care about us as much as we think they should care about us. The uh the vast majority of business owners or mayors or governors or even presidents. In the years to come will be long forgotten by most people. And every single one of us will be lost on the heap of the billions of people that have lived and died on this earth. So life is temporary and we won't be remembered. All right. So that's kind of that opening section. That's his introduction, his overview of much of what is in in the book to come. I want to comment. We're going to end with some biblical evaluation here, but before we do that, I want to comment on verse 18. So verses 12 to 17, again, he as you can see, he identifies what his search is. He talks about what he sought to do. And then he says in verse 18 Because in much wisdom there is much grief, and increasing knowledge results in increasing vain. That that's why setting his mind to no wisdom and madness and folly is striving after the win, increasing pain. You know, uh it is true what people say, ignorance is bliss, right? Why is it that children can be so happy? You know, they're just playing around oblivious to what's going on. You know, there could be some massive tragedy in the world and you know, it could be on the news and they just don't care. You know, w w Historically in our country we all look back to 9-11 as a day when everybody knows where they were, what they were doing, uh, when they saw the TV screens. Um but there's of course a lot of young kids at the time who were just playing around on the living room floor while their parents are just awestruck and shocked and maybe even weeping because of what they're seeing on the television screen. But the kids are oblivious. They don't understand the significance, the the implications of all of that And of course now there's uh young people, college graduates who weren't even alive at the time, and so it it bears little significance to them. The more that we know about the world, we all know this, the more that we know about the world, uh the more suffering and pain we feel in our own hearts. We have more understanding of the value of life. We have more understanding of uh just the suffering of people, you know, whether it's people in our background, ethnic background, cultural background. You know, if if you're from a a particular country and there's some natural disaster or some terrorist thing uh that will have an impact on you because you just know more about the world than others around you who who don't have that background. As well, a lot of the problems in our world stem from this increased knowledge, right? With more awareness of what is possible, people get ideas And we call them copycats a lot of times, whether it's school shootings or uh you know murderers or those kinds of things. Things that maybe would have crossed someone's mind but uh they never would have contemplated. Now they've seen not just one person, but multiple people over years doing these things, getting their names on the news, and and so now they engage in that behavior. So the more wisdom, the more knowledge that's out there, the more pain there is in the world because wickedness just uh increases and piles uh upon itself. In our own hearts we have access to information about people in situations over which we have no control or influence. So again we see massive suffering but we can't do anything about it. But there are those who say, no, wait, I can do something about it. So they'll go out and they'll protest, they'll get uh angry, they'll cause riots or they'll get into politics or get into the military thinking, I'm gonna do something about the problems in this world but then they realize, nah, I actually have no influence whatsoever. Can't change anything. So Solomon is right. Increasing in wisdom and knowledge is not necessarily um full of joy, it brings with it grief and pain. Unless that increasing knowledge includes the knowledge of God and the knowledge of the truth. So let's just evaluate some of this biblically, some of this uh thinking that Solomon uh came to, some of his conclusions. Uh in 2 Kings chapter 17, verse 9. Second Kings chapter 17 verse 9. We're just going to look at a few passages for just a few minutes here. It's my goal to get out by uh ten forty, so you have twenty minutes before the service. In chapter seventeen, verse uh nine of second kings We read about why God destroyed the nation of Israel, why the northern tribes were carried off. Verse 9 says, the sons of Israel did things secretly which were not right against the Lord their God. Moreover, they built for themselves high places in all their towns, from watchtower to fortified city. Hang on, there's a verse here that I think I got the number wrong. There it is, verse fifteen. Verse 15. They rejected his statutes and his covenant which he made with their fathers and his warnings which with which he had warned them. So remember In Deuteronomy chapter 28, God declared to Israel, if you obey me, hear all the blessings that you're going to receive. But if you disobey me, here are all the cursings you're going to receive. He said, they rejected all of that, and they followed vanity and became vain, and went after the nations which surrounded them. concerning which the Lord had commanded them not to do like them. Now his statement there, they followed vanity, is kind of a summary statement of what he has said prior, uh like in verse twelve, when when he says they served idols. In a number of other places, idols are uh equated or defined as vanity, as vain, as empty, as nothing. And so what he's saying here is, as the name as the nation of Israel rejected God's law and pursued that which is vain They became vain. That was their judgment, right? And that is confirmed in Romans chapter 1, which Most of you are familiar with, where Paul talks about the progression of sin starting in verse 18. You know, he says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth In unrighteousness, verse 20, for since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, and divine nature have been clearly seen being understood through what has been made so that they are without excuse. For they for even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks. But they became futile. It's kind of the New Testament word for vanity. They became empty, pointless in their speculations. And their foolish heart was darkened, professing to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for an image, an idol, a vain thing. In the form of corruptible man and a bird and a foot four foot in animals and crawling creatures. Therefore, God gave them over to the lust of their hearts to impurity, so that their bodies would be dishonored among them They exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshiped and served the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason, God gave them over to degrading passions, for their women exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural, and in the same way also the men abandoned their natural function of the woman and burn in their desire toward one another, men with men committing indecent acts, and receiving in their own persons the due penalty of their error. And then verse twenty eight. And just as they did not see fit to acknowledge God any longer God gave them over to a depraved mind to do the things which are not proper. In other words, when a people pursues vanity, when they pursue the empty things of this life in exchange for God, God says, okay, if that's what you want, not only that's what you can have, but that's what you will be. So the vanity of this world is a judgment from God. But we're not left simply with that. We see in Scripture that life is not entirely vain. That if we want to find satisfaction, if we want to find meaning and purpose, if we want to be fulfilled in life We must have a strong relationship, commitment, knowledge of, and be living for the Lord. Psalm seventeen, verse fifteen. David says, As for me, I shall behold your face in righteousness. I will be satisfied with your likeness when I awake. I will be satisfied with your likeness when I awake. David himself had success, right? After his many years of fleeing from Saul, he became king, but the Lord gave him immeasurable success over his enemies. He too was wealthy, not as wealthy as Solomon, but he was king and he had all the things that kings enjoyed. But he says, I have satisfaction in the Lord. Or Psalm 63. And again, this is just a a sampling. Psalm sixty-three Verses 1 to 5, I believe this was uh Pastor Leek's favorite psalm. I remember him saying that. He says O God, you are my God. I shall seek you earnestly. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh yearns for you. In a dry and weary land where there is no water. Thus I have seen you in the sanctuary to see your power and your glory. Because your loving kindness is better than life. My lips will praise you. So I will bless you as long as I live. I will lift up my hands in your name. And then this: my soul is satisfied as with marrow and fatness. And my mouth offers praises with joyful lips. David finds his satisfaction in the Lord. He finds his meaning and and purpose in the Lord. And in Psalm ninety. Verse 14. This is the Psalm of Moses. He says, Oh, satisfy us in the morning with your loving kindness. that we may sing for joy and be glad all our days. When we understand the loving kindness of the Lord, the way in which He has um been loyal and faithful and loving toward us, then we will experience the satisfaction that we were created to experience in relationship with God. And then lastly Jeremiah chapter 2, verse 13. This is a verse that I use often in counseling, in helping, trying to help people get a greater uh understanding of uh the satisfaction that they need to have in the Lord. Uh God is judging the the his the people of Israel when he says this. He says, For my people have committed two evils. Jeremiah 2. 13. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters to hew for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that can hold no water. Now when you and I look to our work As a source of joy and pleasure or identity, when we look to our relationships with the people around us, our spouse or our children to give us meaning and to satisfy us in life When we look to the pleasures of this world, whether it's possessions or experiences, looking for that ultimate sense of what life is all about, you know, that ultimate vacation that we've been wanting to take or have the opportunity to take we will come to recognize that those are broken cisterns. The broken cistern is a is a big bowl in the ground that would collect rainwater and then would be there for you to take out and and to use for drinking or whatever you need it. But a broken one would have a crack in it that would allow the water to seep through down into the ground. And what would be left would be muddy water basically. And what he says of Israel here is that they preferred the muddy water of these broken cisterns in place of himself, the one who is the fountain of living water. And so I don't think Solomon was lost on this. I think Solomon at the end of his life came to recognize all of the things of this world are muddy, empty, and meaningless. purposeless, temporary. It's only in one's relationship with God that you find meaning and purpose. That's why he ends the book as we know. The end of the matter is this fear God and keep his commandment Because it's only in the Lord that we find true satisfaction and true meaning and purpose in all the things that God would have us to find in Himself. Everything that we need. Alright, let's pray