Well, if uh you have felt any sense of frustration um over the fact that we have not been able to cover you know a lot of the content in the ecclesiastic as we go chapter by chapter Um I mean I really think that Scott you you got through chapter one or verse one last week, right? I mean um and I know the previous week uh when I was on TV, uh I didn't get, you know, halfway through my notes. Um I would just remind you that uh all is vanity. That's all I had to know. Uh the I I d when I was uh thinking about this class and think, okay, well it makes sense. We can just do one chapter a week. I honestly thought that we could more or less cover the chapter, get at least a summary, but man, there's so much in here that is uh worth thinking about. Some of it is worth thinking about because even as Ecclesiastes says, we get so busy in life that we just don't think about the deeper questions. Um in fact I came across a quote, I'm not going to get it exactly, but from one of the commentators that made the point that, you know, sometimes when you read Ecclesiastes, you're like, well, who thinks that way? You know, who bothers themselves with these kinds of questions? And he's like, uh uh somebody needs to think about that, these questions And who are we to not think about them? So uh it's good for us to think about them because certainly God has revealed them in Scripture. He inspired Solomon to write these things And so it's helpful for our lives and it points us to the further revelation we have in Christ. So anyway, I just wanted to make that comment. Also, I wanted to answer a couple of questions that have come up recently from a couple of you that I thought would be helpful to to mention to the whole group, because there might be questions that others have. One of which, as there has been discussion through the the text about wealth And enjoying wealth and whatnot. I was asked last week, um, is it right to enjoy wealth? Is it okay to be wealthy and utilize that wealth for personal enjoyment? Um is it okay to and I'm kind of going further beyond the the specific question that was asked, but the implication would be is it nice to have or is it is it okay that is it Is it a sin to have a really big house and a really nice car and really good possessions and, you know, live a kind of a a lifestyle of wealth? And I think the answer is maybe. It might be okay, right? And what's what's the key issue? Yeah, that's right. Your your heart is key. As we've been reading in Ecclesiastes and in other passages in Scripture, it's not wrong to be wealthy. In fact, in the New Testament, those who were wealthy were a great blessing to the church because they had a place big enough where the church could meet. Uh and then as we read in Acts two, a lot of the people who had properties and possessions would were selling those things to contribute to the needs of the poor. But the the issue is the heart. Am I enjoying my wealth for the p uh for the the purpose of really selfish uh pleasure Am I thinking that this is all that life encompasses? Or do I have a generous heart? Do I have an others-oriented heart? I remember a number of years ago, I was candidating at a church that had a lot of very, very wealthy people in it in Texas. And during the interview I was asked Some like do you have a problem with people enjoying their wealth? Because we have people in the church that are wealthy and they enjoy their wealth But they are significant givers and uh and so you know we shepherd them through that, but at the same time they they have enough money to to enjoy their wealth. I remember in college, uh, in one of our business classes, we talked about, is it wrong, this is a Christian college, is it wrong for a Christian to own a $10,000 watch? Anybody here own a $10? I can tell you I do not own a $10,000 watch, and I can tell you it would be wrong for me to own a $10,000 watch But if I was a billionaire I mean that's a great enough. Yeah. So context plays into it, but most important is your own heart. So uh you know think about that as as the Lord uh blesses you. There's nothing wrong with you know enjoying nice vacations and having you know your dream car or whatever. But the key is your heart. Where where is your heart? Another question that has come up uh in all the conversation about the futility of life is the the question of uh animals. Uh some of it, uh I think the original question was really Do animals have souls that pass on into eternity? And it comes out of this reality that some animals live exclusively a miserable life. Right? Some animals know nothing but starvation or know nothing but the fact that they are constantly hunted and they're trying to stay alive and eventually they get caught and eaten. Uh some animals, you know, like cicadas, I mean I know this sun they they come out and boom, that's it, you know They've been waiting seventeen years and they die right away, get hit by a car or whatever. It's a great discussion, isn't it? Um so how are we to think about that? And you know, I think the the best biblical understanding that that I have th in looking at scripture is on the one hand, no Animals don't have souls that pass on into eternity. Uh there's nothing in scripture that would indicate that. Um Yes, we are called as believers, as uh as human beings, those made in the image of God, to be caretakers of the creation and to take good care of our animals, especially our pets and and those animals that that work for us. Uh but the reality that animals suffer, and some of them all they experience is suffering until they die, is a reflection or is a reality that's based on the curse. And the truth is Tragically, there are people that that's their life. They're born into abject poverty, they only experience suffering, and then they die. Or you think about You don't have to go further than the children's hospital, where at a very young age children experience incredible suffering And then they die. So suffering is a reality of all creation. The whole creation is subjected to futility And it's only God's grace that s provides the meaning uh for us. So that's just, you know, something to think about and and to uh yeah. Okay, I have a question. Yeah, Erica. Can everybody talk about the the animal thing. The only thing that really hangs me up on is that verse in Mark chapter sixteen that says go in the world So what would be the relevance or significance of doing that if we're not talking about Well I yeah, I think uh the the the use of the if the word creation, I don't remember the specific verse you're referring to, would simply be just a reflection of uh go into everywhere. Uh like Jesus says in Acts chapter 1, uh you know, Jerusalem, Samaria, into every part of the world. He's not saying preach the gospel to animals and to trees because they don't have the capacity to understand the gospel. He's just saying go everywhere where there are people, all over creation all over the planet and proclaim the gospel. Don't stop at a certain border where you're comfortable and where it's easy, but but go everywhere. So that would be my understanding of of that term. Anybody else have a thought on that? It's a canon metaphor used in the New Testament, particularly in the Pali You'll find it a lot in Colossians where Paul actually goes so far as to say that all creation was reconciled to him. And he includes uh a list now in the previous He includes a list of four types of evil powers, evil spirit powers as opposed to the others. And so we learn from that that the idea of preaching gospel to reconciling all Creation to himself does not mean that he's redeeming them the way that he's redeeming us. Rather, that we putting them in appropriate relationship with himself. With him is the king, the judge over those that will not file the knee to end. and a redeemer over those that do. So it it's actually good point, but it's actually all through the new test and particularly following it. Yeah, and that actually reminds me of that's super helpful. That reminds me to go further with that of uh Romans chapter 8 where it says all creation was subjected to futility. And it um um suffers with the pains of childbirth until its redemption. And so in some way in the scripture in the number of places um Anthropomorphizes, if that's that's the right word, a creation, you know, in the Psalms. The trees clap their hands. That kind of thing. And so in some way the creation is saying, get rid of this sin, you know, remove this this curse of sin from me because of how it's it's destroying me. And so uh there's a there is that sense in which God is is going to accomplish that. Well, uh we're in Ecclesiastes chapter six. Uh page eight ninety seven if you have the same Bible that I have. Uh I was mentioning to Scott uh before some of you came in that uh in God's providence, uh I get the short chapters of Ecclesiastes and he gets all the long chapters. But uh anyway, just twelve verses today which we may or may not be able to get through, but we'll do our best to see uh how far we get. Let me go ahead and just read the whole chapter since it is relatively short and then uh there's there's three primary sections that we'll walk through uh in this in this chapter. Solomon writes, There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is prevalent among men. A man to whom God has given riches and wealth and honor, so that his soul lacks nothing of all that he desires. Yet God has not empowered him to eat from them, for a foreigner enjoys them. This is a vanity and a severe affliction If a man fathers a hundred children and lives many years, however many they may be, but his soul is not satisfied with good things, and he does not even have a proper burial. Then I say, Better the miscarriage than he, for it comes in futility, and goes into obscurity, and its name is covered in obscurity. It never sees the sun, and it never knows anything. It is better off than he. Even if the other man lives a thousand years twice and does not enjoy good things, do not all go to one place All a man's labor is for his mouth, and yet his soul, I'll explain why I say it that way, his soul is not satisfied. For what advantage does the wise man have over the fool? What advantage does the poor man have knowing how to walk before the living? What the eyes see is better than what the soul desires. This too is futility and striving after wind. Whatever exists has already been named, and it is known what man is, for he cannot dispute with him who is stronger than he is. For there are many words which increase futility. Excuse me, yeah, for there there are many words which increase futility. What then is the advantage to a man? For who knows what is good for a man during his lifetime, during the few years of his feudal life He will spend them like a shadow, for who can tell a man what will be after him under the sun? So just reading through that, you can see right away this is another dark chapter. There's no uplifting encouragement here. There's no, hey, God has given man the ability and joy, which we saw at the end of chapter 5 last week This is all back under the realm of under the sun. The ceiling has closed in, if you will, and all we see is darkness. You remember that in chapter 5, verse 18, which you can look at, Solomon acknowledges that when one looks above the sun, God does give enjoyment. in labor and in the fruit. He says, There here is what I have seen to be good and fitting, to eat dr and to drink, and enjoy oneself in all one's labor in which he toils under the sun This is his reward. So there is, for those who look beyond the sun, above the sun, there is enjoyment, there is satisfaction, there is goodness to some degree at least. But now he comes back under the sun and says when we ignore God and ignore God's revelation of life. Everything is futility. There in verse 1, the word prevalent, where he says it's prevalent among men That's a word that can mean a numerous, and so that's why it's translated prevalent, or it could be common. It's a common thing among men. But it can also mean a qualitative sense, meaning heavy or weighty. So it could be translated, and it is a weighty thing among men. And I think that's probably a better translation because as he describes verse two and uh and verse three as well, um He is describing a situation of uh uh extreme wealth and riches and honor, which a person does not have the ability to enjoy because someone else takes it away or it's lost in some way And as I think about the people in this room, very few of us are in that situation. That's not a common experience. Now, is it common generally speaking among those who are wealthy? Maybe. I don't know. I'll give a couple examples later. But I think he's more getting at the fact that this is a heavy reality, that there are some who uh who God does give the ability to have riches and wealth, but for a variety of reasons they don't uh have the ability to enjoy it In verse 2, he describes this scenario. Let me read it again: a man to whom God has given riches and wealth and honor. So that his soul lacks nothing of all that he desires. So this is again someone who has everything they want. Everything they could imagine, everything that they see with their eyes, they're like, I want that. Boom, they got it. They're that wealthy. Yet God has not empowered him to eat from them. He says, for a foreigner or a stranger enjoys them. This is a vanity and an extreme affliction. This is something that we have examples of in Scripture. In Luke chapter 12, Jesus tells a parable, but it's still a reflection of this kind of truth. In Luke chapter twelve, uh verse um let me see. No, don't tell me I think I think I wrote down the wrong reference. I'm looking for the the man who Uh said he was going to build bigger barns and God. Is that the parable of the rich scene? Yeah. Okay. Ah yes, there you go. Thank you. So someone says to the crowd, Jesus is teaching, someone yells out in the middle of Jesus' teaching, don't do that during the preaching on Sundays. Hey teacher, tell my brother to divide the family inheritance with me And he said to him, Man, who appointed me a judge or arbiter over you? Then he said to them, Beware, and be on your guard against every form of greed, for not even when one has an abundance Does his life consist of his possessions? I think Solomon would agree with that. Verse 16, and he told them a parable saying, The land of a rich man was very productive. And he began reasoning to himself, saying, What shall I do, since I have no place to store my crops? And he said, This is what I will do. I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones, and I will store all my grain and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years to come. Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. So again, there is that man who has everything that he desires. But God said to him, You fool, this very night your soul is required of you. And now who will own what you have prepared? So is the man who stores up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. There there are those who accumulate just incredible amounts of wealth but because of their own sinful choices or foolish choices, they lose it in an instant. In in Daniel chapter five we see another example of this kind of instantaneous loss. Belshazzar is a great king, and uh he held a great feast for a thousand of his nobles. And uh it says here he was drinking wine in the presence of a thousand. When Belshazzar tasted the wine, he gave orders to bring the gold and silver vessels which Nebuchadnezzar his father had taken out of the temple which was in Jerusalem So that the king and his nobles, his wives and his concubines might drink from them. So he has this massive party, and he's wanting to show off his wealth. So he says, Hey, let's get out all of the valuable treasures from various places and especially uh from Jerusalem and the temple, and let's enjoy our drink and our wine using those vessels, which of course are sacred vessels, the ones that came out of the temple. So they brought the gold vessel that had been taken out of the temple, the house of God which was in Jerusalem, and the king and his nobles I think I already read that. Um they drank the wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone. And then suddenly The fingers of a man's hand emerged and began writing opposite the lampstand on the plaster of the wall of the king's palace. And the king saw the back of the hand that did the writing. So you may be familiar with this situation. Again, there's this big party. I mean just imagine if we're standing here celebrating, having a great time, and then all of a sudden there You start seeing writing on the wall, that'd be pretty pretty freaky. You know the hair on your on your neck would stand up. Well let me skip down to verse twenty-five You know, nobody knows what what the writing means. Uh nobody has the ability to interpret it, so they find Daniel. Uh Daniel comes and Daniel says this starting in verse 25. Now this is the inscription that was written out. Mene, mene, tekol you farson. This is the interpretation of the message. Mene. God has numbered your kingdom and put an end to it. Tekel, you have been weighed on the scales and found deficient. Paris Your kingdom has been divided and given over to the Medes and Persians. Then Belshazzar gave orders, they clothed Daniel with purple and put a necklace of gold around his neck. Verse 30. That same night, Delshazzar the Chaldean, king, was slain. So again, a man of great wealth and great power who was having a great time and then all of a sudden it was all taken away in a moment. Now you think of the man there that Jesus talked about in his parable, and you say, wow yeah, that's a wicked man, a selfish man, you know, a materialistic man. God judged that man, that was right for God to do Or you look at Belshazzar, and you know, one of the things that Daniel had told him prior to uh to that was how uh Nebuchadnezzar humbled himself before God and God blessed him. But Belshazzar, his son, didn't humble himself. He was very prideful, arrogant, idolatrous. He didn't learn the lesson from his father, and because of that, he was being judged And so we we look at God taking away their wealth and we say, yeah, God was right to do that. That's a just thing. But you know, there is another man who was extremely wealthy, whom God took away his possessions. I've already heard you say it. It's Job. Job chapter one. There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job. And that man was blameless, upright, fearing God, and turning away from evil. Seven sons and three daughters were born to him, and his possessions Also were 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, 500 female donkeys, and very many servants. And that man was the greatest of all the men of the East. And then you know the story. Satan says, Hey God, why uh or actually God says to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? And he gives permission for Satan to take everything away from him. I don't know if Solomon had that in his mind. Um Job was written be long before Solomon existed, so Solomon very likely had the book of Job in it uh in his possession. But Solomon knew that there are times when God just doesn't give someone the ability to enjoy their wealth. inheritance that gives them the wealth that they have. God is the one who prevents them from enjoying it when when they lose it We we can look at modern examples as well. Did you know, for example, that when Michael Jackson died he was $400 million in debt? In debt. Or uh Mike Tyson, throughout his career he made four hundred million dollars, but in two thousand three he was thirty-six million dollars in debt. Um Willie Nelson. Y yes, there was an article that went through a bunch of these kinds of things. He earned so so much money that he owed the government In 1990, 1989, 16 million dollars in taxes. Now the good news for Willie is that his lawyers negotiated that down to six million. Bad news is he didn't even have enough money to pay that So the government take in and confiscated almost everything he owned, including twenty properties that he owned. Now we could go on and on. Okay. Okay, well again. Okay, they can ha you can lose your possessions. I'll mention a couple other exam examples where that's partly the case Uh thing things happen. You know someone gets incredibly wealthy and then whew, it's just gone and you don't get to enjoy it. Now as far as I know now he's doing pretty well. Michael Jackson's estate is solvent and whatever, but still the the the point is these men lost incredible amounts of money Uh sometimes again there are those who lose money through no fault of their own. Uh Ulysses Grant, one of the presidents of the United States, after he left office he worked at a law firm as a lawyer And uh, you know, it didn't come filthy rich, but he d did well for himself. And because someone embezzled money from the law firm, he had to declare personal bankruptcy Of course we all know the stock market crash in 1929. Anybody here at that time? A lot of very, very wealthy people lost everything overnight virtually. Uh just a number of years ago, 2009, when the market crashed, not as severely, but in a significant way I was working at Grace to U. We were in seminary at the time. There was a an elderly widow who also worked a Grace to U well past retirement age. And she was like, okay, I'm ready to retire. And then that happened And she couldn't retire because so much of her retirement was was lost. She had to work for several more years Maybe some of you have had that experience, you know, where you accumulated through investments or you know whatever uh a a good amount of of wealth and it was all gone in a moment The point is there are times when through hard work and smart investing one can accumulate wealth, but it can all be taken away in a moment. And Solomon says this is vanity in a severe affliction. And this is why when things like that happen, there tends to be a follow-up story. They took their life. Right. Because the weightiness of that experience is overwhelming for those who are under the sun. Now, verse 3 is another scenario, a different scenario. He says, if a man fathers a hundred children and lives many years, however many they may be, but his soul is not satisfied with good things, and he does not even have a proper burial. In ancient times, the number of children you had was a reflection of your prosperity. Alright, we know of uh Jacob having twelve sons and one daughter Uh obviously Solomon had many, many children because he had many many wives. But the number of children was sign of prosperity because not only uh does it reflect uh the that either God of the Bible or whatever God you worship is blessing you, but then because as they grow up and they work, now they add to the your wealth as you have more children to to work and uh and gain uh income. So children is a sign of wealth. Uh that's also why barrenness was such a shame uh to women in ancient times, because it led to poverty. So Solomon describes this fellow as having a hundred children and also living many years. And that also is a sign of prosperity, obviously not something that one could personally control. But a sign of external blessing that there's there's kind of an accomplishment and and blessing from a deity that has enabled one to live a long life. If your life is cut short, then that's a cursed life. If you live long And prosper, it's a blessed life. So this guy had many kids and many years, but he's miserable. He doesn't find satisfaction in anything that he has. And perhaps worst of all, Solomon says he does not even have a proper burial. I don't know what your experience has been, but uh people who don't tend to have funerals, it's because they don't tend to have Anybody who is there or knows them. Maybe all their family has passed away or they're a stranger in a foreign land and nobody knows them. To not have a funeral is a sign of great shame. You know, we know that when a president or a king or prime minister or someone who's really well known celebrity when they die, there's there's a pretty extravagant ceremony and burial process, right? It's it's on T V and you know, millions of dollars are spent uh celebrating that person's life and mourning their death. Most of us, when we die, we'll probably have a pretty modest burial compared to that. You know, we'll have family and friends that gather, church family as well. But this guy, he has no one Here's no one. I remember when we were in California how I wasn't a pastor there, but um there was a a a man who had been part of the church in the past and he had passed away recently at at this time. And uh he had a couple family members, but everybody lived far away and he hadn't been part of our church for for a number of years, so nobody really knew him anymore. So the family called the church asking if we could do his uh uh graveside service. and uh none of the pastors were available to do it and so one of the pastors who knew me called me and asked me to do it. So I drove out an hour to where the the cemetery was and there was three people that had come traveled It's basically collect his belongings and you know pay their respects as as we buried him. Uh he had been cremated and so they were just putting him in a in a slot there. Um In the what what do you call it? Is that the cremator not the crematorium? Mausoleum, yeah. Um I think the the graveside service took five ten minutes stops. But you know there was there is an honor in that, there was a respect that this person was a a man uh made in the image of God who was worthy of of memory and remembering and and honoring in his death. Again, this man who had fathered a hundred children, where were they when he died? What happened? Just an example, but uh he didn't even have a burial So though he wasn't lonely, he lived a sad life and had a miserable And so Solomon evaluates that life, and he says, better off is the mess carriage than he, for it comes in futility and goes into obscurity. And its name is covered in obscurity. It never sees the sun and it never knows anything. It is better off than he. Solomon in no way identifies miscarriages as a good thing, of course, but he does identify the reality that those who die in the womb never experience the sufferings and the difficulties of this life. Again, he says in verse 4, it comes in futility and goes into obscurity and its name is covered in obscurity. That last phrase, the name, referring to the name, it doesn't refer to the whatever name you might call a child that that you name uh if you have a miscarriage. It refers to their personality. Uh kind of how you identify someone, not uh not based on uh uh a label if you will, but based on your knowledge of them Well, because a child has never lived, y you don't know anything about them. You don't know what they look like, you don't know their personality, what what that would have been like And so you can't really say anything about them, positive or negative. You can't say, well, they were a good person or a bad person. They never did anything good and never did anything bad. They just existed for a short period of time. But because of that, they never saw the evil under the sun. They never experienced suffering of any kind. They were never exposed to wickedness and evil. And perhaps to Solomon's concerns, they never experienced the pangs of dissatisfaction. For that reason, they are better off than the man who lived a long, long time but never found satisfaction. At the end of verse 5, it says, it's better off than he. The miscarriage is better off than he. Literally, you could translate that this one, the miscarriage, has more rest Then the one then that one. Ignoring that high pitched. Oh okay. Um remarkably uh in verse six Solomon ups the ante, so to speak. So he identifies this man as having lived many years, and he says, even if it's possible that this man lived a thousand years twice. Now, you know Methuselah, he lived what? Nine hundred and sixty nine years. So Solomon I think that uh uh uh uh The proper way to understand this is not that Solomon is saying this guy lived two thousand years, but that he actually had a second opportunity and both times for his first chance and his second chance at life he lived a thousand years So even if he got that, because he'd never found satisfaction, the meaningless of life did not make life worth living. And then he asked there at the end of verse six, do not all go to one place. Now again, you have to remember that in the progress of Revelation, the Old Testament doesn't provide us the clarity of what happens when we die that the New Testament does. So the the main understanding that uh Old Testament saints had is that when you die, everybody goes to one place. Primarily it's the place of the dead. Sheol is that name. And Sheol can simply refer to the grave that everybody goes into the ground. But it can also refer to the place where the soul goes. In various places in scripture, it's used in that way. But again, the idea is it's everybody goes to the same place and it's kind of a holding place until God does something else. But it is very vague in the Old Testament. There's not very much clarity. And so that's why he can say, regardless of a person's righteousness or wickedness, regardless of whether you live long or you're short, you live a brief amount of time, no matter what you've done, everybody goes to the same place. So again, if you live two thousand two lives of a thousand years each, or if you live a few weeks or a few months in the womb, everybody goes to the same place. So it's better to just not experience all of that wickedness and evil and dissatisfaction and suffering. Just Kind of hurry it up and skip all of that, and it's better to be a miscarriage. Again, this is life under the sun thinking. We're not I'm not promoting this as a right way of thinking. This is life under the sun thinking Now Solomon is not the only one who's come to this conclusion, by the way. Before him we hear these sentiments coming out of the mouth of Job himself. In Job chapter three, verse eleven, he says, Why did I not die at birth? Come forth from the womb and expire. Why did the knees receive me, and why the breast that I should suck? For now I would have lain down and been quiet. I would have slept then. I would have been at rest with kings and with counselors of the earth who built ruins for themselves, or with princes who had gold, who were filling their houses with silver. Or like a mess carriage which is discarded, I would not be as infants that never saw a light. There the wicked cease from raging, and the weary are at rest The prisoners are at ease together. They do not hear the voice of the taskmaster. The small and the great are there. The slave is free from his master. Again, he loo he sees this place of the dead as everybody's there together. And all of the suffering, all of the oppression, all of the wickedness, all of that is gone because uh we we we experience rest in this place of the dead. And so having lost all of his possessions and having, I would think in his mind, lost his children as being the most significant thing He's thinking, I would rather have just died at birth rather to go through all of this heartache and suffering. He says the same thing, similar sentiments in chapter ten, uh verse eighteen, where he says, Why then have you brought me out of the womb. So he's saying this to God. Why have you brought me out of the womb? Would that I had died and no eye had seen me. I should have been as though I had not been carried from womb to tomb. Those who are in great anguish recognize and who don't have the hope of heaven, who don't have the fuller revelation of what God has given us. Can acknowledge that it would have been better to not die than to live and to suffer in these ways. But Job isn't the only one either. Job and Solomon are also uh matched with Jeremiah, the prophet Jeremiah, who himself complained to God. You know that Jeremiah is known as the weeping prophet, and one of the reasons he was known The main reason he was known as the weeping prophet is because as much as he preached and proclaimed and prophesied and was speaking truth to the rulers and to Jerusalem They rejected him, they abused him, they imprisoned him, they brought great suffering into his life. And so in chapter twenty, Jeremiah is again on the receiving end of persecution. Verse 2 says, Peshur had Jeremiah the prophet beaten. and put him in stocks that were in the upper Benjamin gate, which was by the house of the Lord. And so starting in verse 7 to the end of the chapter, we have recorded a complaint that Jeremiah brings to the Lord. And in verses 14 to 18 he says this, Cursed be the day when I was born. Let the day not be blessed when my mother bore me. Cursed be the man who brought the news to my father, saying, A baby boy has been born to you. And made him happy. Well let that man be like the cities which the Lord overthrew without relenting, and let him hear an outcry in the morning and a shout of alarm at the end, because he did not kill me before birth so that my mother would have been my grave, and her womb ever pregnant. Why did I ever come forth from the womb to look on trouble and sorrow, so that my days have been spent in shame? Again, there's this sentiment that life is full of suffering and sometimes you get to that point when you're only thinking about life under the sun. It just would have been better not to be born. I could have gone straight from the womb to the tomb. I could have experienced only rest in the grave rather than go through all of this Derek uh Kidner said, if we disagree with that mood of those two men, Job and Jeremiah It's because we can judge their lives by values that transcend death and outweigh a lifetime, pains, and pleasures, criteria that the secularist cannot logically use. Now if you were to talk to Job uh at the end of the book, he would be saying different things, right? He changed his tune. The Lord brought him through that suffering and then the Lord blessed him richly and uh no doubt he would say, Yeah, I don't think that way anymore. And even as you read Lamentations, as Jeremiah is being carted away after the destruction of Jerusalem, in the middle he identifies the goodness of God. And the blessing of God in the midst of all the suffering. So for those men, their sentiment was temporary. But that's because they had revelation from God. Job heard from God. He was put in his place, but he he heard from God directly. Jeremiah was a prophet, so he knew God's promises. And so they were able to see things rightly after they wrestled with those thoughts. But here in Ecclesiastes 6. Solomon is not thinking about any anything that God has revealed to be true. He's not thinking about the afterlife or heaven or hell or any of that. He's just looking at the suffering of this life And he says, it's not worth it to go through all of this. It's better to be miscarried That is the futility of the unsatisfied life under the sun. In the next section, we have what you could call the futility of advancement. The futility of advancement. In other words, what Solomon is saying is, What's the point of getting ahead? What's the point of getting ahead? In verse 7, he says there all a man's labor is for his mouth, and yet his soul is not satisfied. The idea is simply that when you work, uh that you are working to provide for yourself. You're you're getting food and provision for yourself and and so you're satisfying that basic need. Uh the word appetite uh is in Hebrew the word nephesh, which is the word for soul. And it's interesting the New King James is the only translation that translates it as soul. All the other English translations, at least the major ones uh translated or I should say interpret it as appetite, because it doesn't it doesn't mean appetite. So there's some interpretation there And I think what what the in the translators are thinking Solomon is trying to say is that uh when you eat and eat and eat you're not actually satisfying your appetite. But I that doesn't really make sense to me I don't know about you, but uh when I get hungry, I have the ability to fill my stomach and get full, right? Or uh if I have a craving You know, if if I'm uh at work and I'm thinking about some Thai food that I would really like to enjoy, uh all it takes is a phone call to Rachel to say, hey, what do you got planned for dinner? You know, sh would you mind if we went out Uh and I can satisfy that craving, you know, and go to the end of that meal and I'm like, oh, I ate too much, you know, and I I I feel good about that, I enjoy that So I think it's quite simple to recognize that we can satisfy our appetite in that basic way. So I don't think Solomon's talking about our appetite specifically Instead, I think what makes more sense is the fact that when we do day in and day out satisfy our appetite, satisfy, uh fill up our stomach That doesn't satisfy our soul. You know, we we meet our basic needs. We go to work every day. We we do the things that we do, our responsibilities. But that in and of itself does not satisfy our soul. We are made for more. And so while our stomachs may be full, our soul can be empty. So what do people do to try and deal with that? They try to advance. Okay, if this isn't satisfying me, then let me try and make more money. Let me try and get ahead in life. Let me let me look for the next job. Let me look for that promotion. You know, we try and get ahead in life to satisfy the soul because what we're experiencing is not satisfying. But that's where Solomon asks, Well where does that get you? What's the point of getting ahead? Now, next week, Scott's gonna have the opportunity to talk about the relative benefits of wisdom from chapter 7 But here it seems as though Solomon is kind of narrowly talking about when he when he when he asks the question, what's the advantage of the wise man over the fool? He's specifically thinking about the fact that in Proverbs, uh a lot of the principles of wisdom are for the benefit of personal gain. You know, foolishness leads to poverty Wisdom leads to prosperity in some measure. And so if it's true that wealth and possessions uh and you know being successful in life doesn't satisfy the soul then what's the point of living wisely because it's just not going to get you what you want in terms of soul satisfaction He brings up the poor man. What advantage does the poor man have knowing how to walk before the living? This is uh not just any poor man, but a poor man who either knows or has learned enough to be able to get himself out of poverty. He's learned wisdom principles that he can get out of his his difficult situation. And so If that poor man is able to do that, he asks, well, what's the point? Whether you're poor or whether you're not poor, you're still going to be unsatisfied And so he makes this statement in verse 9. I know we're walking a lot faster through this section, but this will help us get through everything. He says in verse 9, in summary, what the eyes see is better than what the soul desires. This too is futility in striving after the wind. Now it seems a little cryptic of a statement, but I think it's it's well understood as uh basically saying what you have Is better than what you want. Or the modern proverb would be: a bird in the hand is better than two in the bush. Right? Okay, I've I've caught one bird. And I could go for the two in the bush, but I'd have to let this one go. And so that's a risk because I might not actually get the two in the bush. So I'm going to be content with the one that I have You know, you might have an older car that you're constantly having to take to the mechanic and you have that dream car in your mind Well that older car is gonna get you from point A to point B better and faster than the dream car that you don't have. Right? You might not be satisfied in your job. You might wish for something more or something different. But the job you have is getting you more income than the job that you don't have. Right? So that that's what he's saying. The things that you dream about, the things that you desire, the things that you long for are of no benefit to you. So enjoy what you have. Or don't Don't stop appreciating what you have. Don't get caught up in what you don't have. So that's the futility of advancement. And then finally in the last section, I would call this the futility of trying to overcome futility. And there's uh as you look at various commentators and how they break down the book of Ecclesiastes. Uh this is seen by a number of them as kind of the l the hinge of the book. You know, as as you know, it's twelve chapters long, and so this is about the middle. Uh but but many see these three verses, ten to twelve, as the hinge and really the introduction to the rest of the book. So again, we'll walk through this somewhat quickly because I want to get through some Uh I want to get through this so we can talk about life above the sun so you end in some encouragement. Um So just briefly, the futility of trying to overcome futility. He says there, whatever exists has already been named. Now, what he's referring to here is the the fact that God is sovereign. And God has established all that exists. We know that when God created all things, he spoke everything into existence, right? And not only did he speak things into existence, but then he named things. He called them something and established them. And so by by referencing things that have already been named, he's saying everything's already been established and determined. God is sovereign over all of these things. And specifically he says it is known what man is. God knows our frame. He knows what we're like Similar to Psalm 103. 14 where it says, For he himself knows our frame, his mind, he is mindful that we are but dust. God has established everything. He knows us. And we have the propensity, as sinful creatures, to challenge him about things, don't we? We see that in the book of Job. We'll come back to that in a second. But even in Isaiah 29, 16, it says this. Uh you uh uh Israel is being charged here. You turn things around, you twist things. Uh and and you're saying shall the potter be considered as equal with the clay That what is made should say to its maker, he did not make me, or what is formed, say to the one to him who formed it, he has no understanding. You know, w we like rebellious teenagers talk to God and say, You don't know what it's like to be a teenager. You don't know what it's like to be a human. You don't know what life is like. We're just rebellious in that way Our problem is that we argue with God. Again, we see Job do this all throughout the book of Job. That's what he spends most of his time doing is he's arguing with his friends, you know. He's he's not so much arguing with his friends as much as he's arguing with God in front of his friends to some degree But in chapter 23, he says this. Then Job replied to one of his friends, Even today my complaint is rebellion. His hand, speaking of God, is heavy despite my groaning. Oh, that I am that I knew where I might find him, that I might come to his seat. I would present my case before him and fill my mouth with arguments. I would learn the words which he would answer and perceive what he would say to me. Would he contend with me by the greatness of his power? No, surely he would pay attention to me. Can you imagine that? There the upright would reason with him, and I would be delivered forever by my judge So Job has this incredible arrogance to say, if I could just figure out where God is Or I can figure out if I could figure out where his judgment bench is, uh bench of of uh his his court, uh I I would show up and I would argue my case and I would win. And so you know what happens. Job doesn't find God, but God finds Job. Verse or chapter 38. It starts out saying, Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, Who is this who darkens counsel? by words without knowledge. Now gird up your loins like a man, and I will ask you and you instruct me. And so God goes into his interrogation of Job, right? And he Walks through creation. Were you there? Have you done this? Have you seen that? Do you do that? And so the Lord gets about halfway through his case, his prepared arguments And in chapter 40, verses 3 to 5, it says this. Then Job answered the Lord and said, Behold, I am insignificant. What can I reply to you? I lay my hand on my mouth. Once I have spoken and I will not answer, even twice I and I will add nothing. more. And it's as if God says, Well hang on Job, I'm not done yet. Right? And he goes into a whole lot more questioning and challenging Job. And so finally Uh it ends up and it's not that Job is on the ash heap anymore, it's that he's heaping ash on himself because he recognizes his own arrogance. So this is this is just a representation historically of what mankind tends to do. God has established all that is. He has named it, he has designed it, he has ordained his purposes for us. He orchestrates our lives according to his purposes. And mankind argues with God. And Solomon says second half of verse ten, for he cannot dispute with him who is stronger than he. We just can't do that. That's a futile effort. He says in verse 11, for there are many words which increase futility. What then is the advantage to a man? So don't think that you can argue with God. Don't look at your life and the difficulties and the challenge of challenges of your life and think that you know I can overcome this if I can just get get a moment with God and argue my case. If I can just complain to him and tell him the injustices that I've experiences experienced, then he will answer. No you can't. God is way, way stronger than you and it's just gonna lead to futility. And so Job ends this chapter and this section with an expression of exasperation. For who knows what is good for a man during his lifetime, during the few years of his feudal life? He will spend them like a shadow, for who can tell a man what will be after him Under the sun. He kind of throws up his arms again in his thinking under the sun and says, How are we supposed to know what life is supposed to look like? How I'm supposed to live? What am I supposed to do When he says there he will spend them like a shadow, referring to the few years of his life. The idea there is that as the day gets Uh further along the the shadows get longer, right? But they don't just get longer. They get longer faster At noon, as the sun is shining down, you don't really have that much of a shadow. It's just right around you. But then as the sun begins to move, your shadow begins to get longer. But as the angle increases, the length of the shadow gets faster or gets longer, faster, and faster, until all of a sudden, it's gone. Because the sun isn't there anymore. And in the same way, we experience life that way, don't we? I mean when when we were kids, uh a year would take forever. You know, you you're in school and it's December and it's like, haven't it been three years already? It's like, no, it's just been three months. And then you get to the end of the year and it's like, oh man, that was the longest year of my life You get into summer and you know by the end of summer you're like, man, this has just been a long, long summer. I don't know if maybe some of you would disagree with this, but I was usually by the middle of August I was thinking, I'm ready for school to start, because it's been a long summer. We have one one child who's been thinking that way. But then you get older and the years get a little bit faster. And you're like, wow I'm just starting college. Whoa, I just graduated college. You know, then you have kids. And you're like, man, how many more diapers do I have to buy? I've been buying diapers for years and years and years. And then all of a sudden They're getting their driver's license. What in the world happened? Noah's getting supposed to be getting his pr provisional license tomorrow This is crazy. I'm too young to have a teenager with negative license. And, you know, I'm Late 30s, some of you who are a little bit more advanced in age, uh you know life just gets faster. Faster and faster and before you know it, ten years goes by. And twenty years goes by before you before you know it. That's just how life is. And so that when without a proper perspective, Solomon throws up his arms and just says, Who wa who can tell a man what will be after him under the sun? How is he supposed to know what life is all about? So this whole chapter is just aimed at rehearsing the futility of life. Even if you have wealth, it's futile, it's not going to satisfy you. You can't get out from under your situation. Advancing in life isn't going to help you. It's all pointless and worthless. That is the the real situation for those who are, as Derek Kidner called him, secularists. Those who say, well, I don't know if there is a God, but if there is a God, he has no bearing on my life. It doesn't matter If if God is not influencing my life, then then there's no meaning to life. There's no purpose. And so that's why we have to uh go elsewhere to scripture to to find hope and meaning and encouragement. How how are we to think about life? Just just a couple passages, alright, four passages Yeah, we we should be able to get be able to get through these. Just just to remind you, I trust you already are familiar with these, but just to get up above the sun a little bit and prepare our hearts for worship perhaps. Colossians chapter 3. Whereas Solomon has been talking about looking at life under the sun, thinking about life in the darkness of this realm. were commanded in Colossians chapter 3 with these words, therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above. Where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on the things that are on the earth. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. When we are saved, if we acknowledge that we have been raised with Christ, then our life is not defined by the things of this world. It doesn't matter if you are experiencing extreme wealth or extreme poverty, if you have a lot of joy in life, or if you are experiencing suffering. What defines your life Is that your life is hidden in Christ. And Christ Himself is not on this earth in the temporal sense. He is in heaven. And we will join him one day when he is revealed. So our life is not defined by the things of this world. Our life is defined by the fact that we are in Christ and we will be revealed with him in glory. So when we are wrestling with the sufferings and the challenges of this life, we um we must look to the things above. We must look to Christ and the spiritual realities that are true of us. 1 Peter 1 is another passage we can consider. 1 Peter 1, verse 3. Peter writes, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who according to his great mercy has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead To obtain an inheritance which is imperishable and undefiled and will not fade away, reserved in heaven for you, who are being protected. by the power of God through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. No matter what you experience in this life, again you have an eternity awaiting you. You have an inheritance that is going to come to you. And that inheritance is described here as imperishable. It doesn't die. There's no expiration date on it. It never gets moldy. It's undefiled, it's pure, it's clean, it's not obtained through criminal activity, it's rightly deserved and earned, and it will not fade away It doesn't doesn't get uh worn, uh it it doesn't weaken with the weather, it doesn't get faded by the sun All that is coming to us is permanent and it's reserved for us. And not only that, you know, no one can say, well, okay, it's there, but what if I die first? Uh what if something happens to me? He says, no, you are protected by the power of God. So we have a certain hope. We have a knowledge of confidence that no matter what this life holds, no matter the challenges, the suffering, the joys, the pains, the sorrows, the griefs, no matter what this life holds, we have an eternity of blessing. And so because of that, we can say with Paul in Romans 8. 18, For I consider that the sufferings of this present life are not worthy to be compared. the glory that will be revealed to us. They're not worthy to be compared. He's not saying there that if you count up all of the the glory that's to be revealed to us and you you count up all of the the sufferings of this life that you know they just don't match up. He's saying, no, you can't even do that kind of a calculation. That's how big the difference is. It's just too ridiculous. And then finally, just to close Jesus says this, we'll end with the truly the wisest man who ever lived. In Mark chapter 8, verse 34. Summoning the crowd with his disciples, he said to them, If anyone wishes to come after me, he must deny himself. And take up his cross and follow me. For whoever whoever wishes to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospels will save it. For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul? Or for what will a man give in exchange for his soul? So he asks the question that Solomon answers, what will it profit if I have all the wealth and all the riches and all the glory and honor and everything that mankind strives after? But I don't have a soul that blasts into eternity or that that is confident in eternal life with God. There's no profit in that. And so Jesus says it's better for you to lose your life To count your life as nothing. To reject everything about your life. To let go of your life. It's better for you to die. And not just once or twice, but to die every single day and follow him. Give up your desires, give up your dreams, give up everything you want out of life, and just say, Christ, what can I do to follow you today? Things happen, people treat you, mistreat you, and everything in you wants to stand up for your rights to get justice. Jesus says, you gotta die. You've got to live as though you're dead because you don't matter. Your life doesn't matter unless it's found in me. And I just have a different way of thinking about life, Jesus says. And when you live according to my standards, when you follow the path that I have set forth, then you will gain everything. So give it up. Give up your life and follow me.