So Ecclesiastes. Why? Why not? Why is there error? We all know that why is kind of an innate question in human beings, right? If you have kids or if you've been around little kids, you've heard them ask the incessant question, why Why, why, why? Why this? Why that? Why are you doing this? What's the explanation for that? Um if you want to uh use a different term for why you could ask, well for what purpose? To what end? What's the benefit? There's a variety of of kind of nuances to the why question. When we read through the book of Ecclesiastes, we come up with these questions that really resonate with us. Questions like, why do the wicked prosper and the righteous suffer, right? Why do innocent children die leaving grieving parents? Why do national leaders inflict suffering on their people? Why is the success of one man's work utterly undone by the man who follows after him Why does cancer strike a healthy individual and spare someone who's been lifelong unhealthy, made foolish choices, and and yet they live much, much longer? We could go on and on and on, and certainly Solomon himself does in the book of Ecclesiastes. Really, Ecclesiastes is the result of one man's search for the explanation of life's question. Right? Now, uh hopefully you have enough uh exposure, understanding of Ecclesiastes to at least know that much. Uh William Tyndale. Anybody know who William Tyndale is? Who is he? Somebody uh reformer. He's a reformer, okay. Translate of the Bible. What's special about that? What anybody knows specific for that that comment personally. Uh one who translated the Bible into English. Now what's even more special about that, what distinguishes him between Wycliffe, who also translated the Bible into English a couple hundred years earlier? Yeah. So Wycliffe, which this room is named after, uh he translated the Bible into English in the thirteen hundreds. From the Latin Vulgate. Okay? Tyndale translated the Bible into English from the Greek and Hebrew in the 1500s, a couple hundred years later. So Tyndale, one of his most famous sayings is this. He was at uh he was kind of a tutor, a live-in tutor for a family, and this family was entertaining a Catholic priest And so they were debating some theology, and uh William Tyndale said this to the priest, I defy the Pope and all his laws. If God spare my life ere many years, I will cause a boy that driveth the plough shall know more of the scripture than thou dost. Get that? So his desire was that an uneducated farm boy would know more of the scripture than this priest. Why do I bring up that quote now? Well, I will tell you. I don't anybody done any like deep study of Ecclesiastes? Read commentaries? One. Maybe a little bit. Okay. If you do much study at all, really in Ecclesiastes, what you will find is that there are a lot of uh what we would call liberal ideas uh in in the attitudes towards Ecclesiastes. There's a lot of unbelief toward ecclesiastes The scholarly world sees Ecclesiastes as an enigma, a mystery, something that they can't figure out. Why is this in the Bible? What is this guy trying to say? What is his purpose? Uh those who reject inerrancy, which of course is most scholars, I don't know if you know that, but most biblical scholars are actually unbelievers and And they reject inerrancy. And because they fundly don't believe the Bible, they make no attempt to reconcile uh Ecclesiastes with the rest of Scripture. They say, it doesn't make sense, doesn't fit, oh well, that's how it goes Those who affirm inerrancy, so conservative evangelical scholars, they often have a very difficult time figuring out how do we understand this in the context of the rest of the Bible. What place does this have in Scripture? And so as we just get started in this class, Uh you know, you have to understand that uh you as a believer in Christ, which I hope all of you are Um you are in a better position to understand ecclesiastes than most of the scholarly world out there. Yes, it is difficult to understand, and there's a lot of challenges along the way. But you have the Holy Spirit, and as you look at Ecclesiastes through the lens of faith and proper hermeneutics, which involves interpreting Scripture with Scripture uh having fundamental presuppositions that that uh we'll talk about in a little bit of of basic understandings that that give you insight we can understand and benefit from Ecclesiastes in ways that many people can't. So I'm really looking forward to this. I've never studied Ecclesiastes myself. That's why I was really interested in studying it uh for the purpose of this class. And uh so I'm I'm excited for what's ahead here. Now Ecclesiastes. The English word comes from the Greek word Ecclesiastes. Wow. Oh no, that's right. It just you know the noise change. Yeah, that's right. Trans generating. What what's the w Greek word you might be familiar with that you see in there Ecclesia. And what does ecclesia mean? Assembly? Okay. Anchorist is the word in the New Testament that is most predominantly translated church. as a technical term, but Daniel's right, more directly, more specifically, it means a gathering, a gathering of people. You may have heard that the word, if you break it down, X means out of. Coletno, which of course that's shaded around, but that's where it comes from. Uh Coletto means to call, so the called out ones, that's really a word fallacy, word study fallacy, so that that doesn't that's not really true Um but that's what some people say. But the word really means a gathering. Now the Greek in the Latin, which is spelled the same way here, Ecclesiastes uh is the translation of the Hebrew word. Of course I'm just writing it out in English. Kohelet. Cohelet is found in Ecclesiastes 1 verse 1. Everybody have their Bible open? What does it say? What is it? The words of the preacher. Cohelet in the New American Standard is translated preacher. So Ecclesiastes is really the preacher. So that's what the book is titled after. Now, preacher is more of an interpretation because more technically, both Ecclesiastes and the Greek and in Latin and Cohelic means One who gathers. Oh, So ecclesia means gathering. Uh ecc Ecclesiastes that's probably not the word you pronounce it in in the Greek, but whatever. And then Kohelot is one who gathers. Okay. So that's why you'll find in depending on the translation you have, uh that Ecclesiastes 1 1 will say teacher Or a preacher, one who gathers, one who draws people together, and then the interpretation part is for the purpose of teaching, for the purpose of Preaching. Those who would take more of a secular view of the purpose of Ecclesiastes would say he's a teacher. There's no religious component to it. And then those who would say, no, the the teacher is teaching spiritual truth, they would say, no, he's a preacher. Not just a teacher, but a preacher. So again, Ecclesiastes comes from Kohelet, which is translated preacher, which literally means one who gathers. So that's where that word comes from if you've ever wondered what is that word mean. Okay? Anyone learned something just now? Okay, good. Let's close in prayer. No. Now Oh, I'm probably gonna spend too much time on this uh but I want to do it anyway. Who wrote Ecclesiastes? Um The Holy Spirit. The Holy the preacher. Alright. Holy Spirit. Okay, alright. Screw it to people. What human author? Jesus. Solomon, okay. Where do we get that idea? The first verse. First verse, right? Ecclesiastes 1 verse 1. The words of the preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. Let me uh give you this quote from a commentary by a relatively conservative uh author. Actually it's the same author I learned uh uses textbook for learning Hebrew. He says this, on the basis of Ecclesiastes 1-1, Christians and Jews have traditionally believed Solomon to have been the author of Ecclesiastes. Okay? Let me start over here. So what he's saying there is from if if it was Solomon, from about nine fifty ish BC all the way to well you'll see here in a second about seventeen hundredths, give or take, uh not BC A B. Christians and Jews have believed universally that Solomon wrote Ecclesiastes. That's close to 3,000 years, right? Okay. Next sentence. This belief prevailed until the rise of historical criticism in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. When the notion of Solomonic authorship was widely challenged, by the beginning of the 20th century, G. A. Barton could call the notion of Solomonic authorship unthinkable. And the situation has changed little since. He wrote this in the nineties. So today, uh you pick up most commentaries, and I've I've read quite a bit, even borrowed some of Pastor Leakes, most of them reject the idea that Solomon wrote Ecclesiastes. One celebrated scholar, a guy who's really trumped up as being, hey, this guy's scholarly, he knows the truth, he's he's done his study and he knows what he's talking about. He said this The person who calls himself Kohelet pretends to be Solomon in order to argue that if Solomon cannot find satisfaction in life in these areas No one can. Solomon, he says, was the perfect literary foil for his argument. So in other words, the author, whoever he was pretend to be Solomon to make a point. And that point is simply that you know you can't find satisfaction in work, in pleasure, in um you know economics, in money, possessions, all of the things that Solomon talks about. The author said, I'm going to pretend to be Solomon to prove that you can't find satisfaction in all these things. Just think about that. Why is that kind of a weird argument? Why would he need to pretend to be Solomon? Why would he need to pr pretend? Again, to prove, you know, if Sol because Solomon had all those things, he had wealth, he had pleasure, he had success. How how could he somebody pretend to be somebody that you're not and then make an assumption off of that? Because if you're not that person you don't know what they're actually experiencing Did everybody hear that? If it if this author uh Doesn't if he's not Solomon, then he doesn't know whether or not Solomon ever found satisfaction. That's the other problem. Yeah, it it attacks the inerrancy of scripture, or it undermines it at the very least. But also like your blinding in this in assuming someone's identity that's kind of fundamentally against what we believe. Yeah. Now the the reason that's not a problem in the eyes of many as far as uh uh portraying a false identity is because many would say that in ancient Near Eastern literature that was a very common thing And so, hey, it's not a big deal, that's just what people did. Yeah, it's because they were called out to not be like the people around them. So they wouldn't have done that Man, you're you're too much of a Christian. You know, you've got to stop thinking like a Christian. Do these commentators ignore Hezekiah redistributing Solomon's preachings both in Proverbs and Ecclesiastes Well we don't talk about those kinds of things. I mean like but that would explain the inner like the the the manuscripts not being like It's dated ex 'cause King Hezekiah brought like most of it back after he dethroned one of the human kings. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So I mean scripture doesn't specifically say, hey, you brought back the writings of Solomon So there's an assumption that one could make of whether or not the scriptures he he had were uh inclusive of the writings of Solomon. But anyway, so there's alright already multiple points of why that that kind of argument seems to fall flat. uh should fall flat. I mean uh to expand on the inerrancy issue, that theory really impugns the character of the Holy Spirit who inspired, if you believe in inspiration, who would inspire someone to pretend to be someone else. Now, okay, we could go on and on. I could give you quote after quote of scholars who reject uh Solomonic authorship. The the problem, one of the problems is that this Syria has become so pervasive. I mean there's all kinds of crazy stuff in in s in the scholarly realms. I mean they reject the fact that Paul wrote many of his epistles and just all kinds of stuff. Scholars they're gonna do what scholars do, but uh study Bibles uh tend to be more uh more conservative. They tend to adhere to more conservative ideas of of biblical interpretation. Who has a study bible? Okay. So I had I had s I have six study bibles in my possession, either digitally or or uh uh physically. So I looked at all six of those. The NIV's undervanced study Bible says with regard to authorship, the narrator presents teacher, the teacher as Solomon But many scholars now think that the teacher was not actually Solomon, but one whom we are to imagine as like Solomon with his wisdom and power. So again, here's a very popular, you know, NIV is the most popular translation out there. The study Bible that Zonderbin, the publisher of the NIV, has produced essentially rejects Solomonic authorship. In the section where they talk about when was the book written, they say this. Ecclesiastes was most likely written in the post-exilic period, which is after 586 BC. Uh post-exilic period, probably by the fourth century B. C. At that time it would have appeared to many in what was left of Israel as if God's purposes with them had run aground, thereby giving rise to the sorts of questions the teacher struggled with. However, we cannot be sure of the date when Ecclesiastes was written. Now, if that's true, that Ecclesiastes was written after the fourth century, then we would have to say that basically most of what was written was a lie. As far as the statement of who the teacher claimed to be, statements about himself, which we'll look at here in a little bit, the endeavors that he pursued. Uh the wealth that the teacher or preacher claimed to have, uh the buildings that the teacher claimed to to build, all of those things would be lies if it was written after the fifth century. Frankly, if it was written after Solomon uh at any point. But this idea of uh how these interpreters look at Ecclesiastes is very similar to how people interpret Genesis 1 through 3, if not 1 through 11. They treat it not as the word of God inspired by the Holy Spirit Rather, they treat it as an ancient Near Eastern text that is just similar and follows the same uh uh patterns and sensibilities of other ancient Near Eastern texts. And so again, they make no attempts to see how can this be fitting in the in the inspired scriptures uh but rather they see it as an ancient text and uh don't take it very seriously at all. Now another study bible, the Gospel Transformation Study Bible, which is published by Crossway, who usually is a very uh conservative publisher. They say this in the Gospel Transformation Study Bible. The author of Ecclesiastes calls himself the preacher Some interpreters have concluded that this was Solomon, while others think he was a writer later than Solomon. Either way, the book claims that its wisdom comes from the one shepherd, which is uh from uh chapter twelve, verse eleven, uh the Lord himself. In other words, they're saying it doesn't matter what you believe. Some people believe this, some people believe that. You know, it really doesn't matter because we know it comes from The Lord. What's the problem with that? With that thing. Okay, wishy washy. How can you say something comes from God and then it's itself a lie? Yeah, and it doesn't that's inconsistent with the character of God. If if we can't believe the verses we're going to look at in a minute that point very clearly to Solomon as the author, how are we to believe anything else that's written in the book? Um it's just not very helpful at all. side book but he died in those stories. There has to be another author, right? So yeah, so that there's another area where authorship is highly debated. First of all, most scholars don't believe Moses wrote the first five books of the Bible to begin with. So again there there's another consistent uh application of secular thinking But when it comes to the end of Deuteronomy, where Moses has died, there's two conservative views that are acceptable. I had two professors in seminary, two Hebrew professors, and they each took one of the positions One view is that God inspired Moses to write the rest of Deuteronomy prior to his death. And the other view is that there was an inspired author who just finished the last portion there. We don't know. There's no way for us to know. The scripture doesn't exactly say other than the New Testament being very clear that Moses wrote Genesis to Deuteronomy. So if we take the statements by Jesus and others that the first five books are written by Moses, you know, very very literally and without any potential wiggle room, then we then we could easily take the position that Moses wrote about his death before he died. Or we could take a an equally plausible approach that says the Lord inspired someone to cap off Deuteronomy after Moses' death. Now that's not necessarily a problem because we don't know who wrote other books of the Bible, like 2 Samuel, Kings, Chronicles. We don't necessarily know who wrote those books. So not knowing who the author is is not necessarily a problem. uh with some of the historical books. It's just weird books. But when a book states who its author is, then we have to believe what it says. Now for the sake of time I'm going to skip one other study Bible that that rejects Solomon authorship, but there's three that that uh affirm it. The Nelson Study Bible, the apologetic study Bible, and of course the beloved MacArthur Study Bible. So I don't maybe if you have any other study bibles you can check, but uh out of the six that I had access to, three uh rejected it and three affirmed it. Now Let's talk about Solomon for a little bit now to understand kind of whose whose book we're reading. Solomon is the son of David, by whom? Who was Solomon's mother? Bathsheba. Which is remarkable. I mean I don't know last time you thought about that reality. We know that uh after David sinned uh against Bathsheba and Uriah Uh the Lord took David's son that Bathsheba gave birth to as a result of uh of that union. But then that Sheba had a subsequent child, along with David's other wives who had other children. And yet, in the mercy and kindness of God, and for reasons unknown to anyone, the Lord chose to appoint Solomon to be the next king of Israel. There are indications, there's a couple statements in Scripture that indicate that Solomon was a wise young man. That David noted the wisdom of Solomon even before he became king and asked for more wisdom But as you know, when Solomon became king, God came to him and said, What uh would you like me to do for you? Do you want riches? Do you want power? Do you want uh do you want you know what do you want? Give me ask anything and I will give it to you. And what does Solomon ask for? Wisdom. And the Lord said, because you've asked for wisdom, I'm going to give you everything else on top of that. Now in 1 Kings chapter 4, verse 29 to 34, we read kind of the result of Solomon's uh Wisdom. It says in verse 29 of 1 Kings chapter 4. Now God gave Solomon wisdom and very great discernment and breadth of mind, like the sand that is on the seashore. Solomon's wisdom surpassed the wisdom of all the sons of the East and all the wisdom of Egypt. For he was wiser than all men. Then Ethan the Ezrahite, Hemon, Talkul, and Dardah, the sons of Mahol, and his fame was known in all the surrounding nations. He also spoke 3,000 Proverbs, and his songs were 1,500. He spoke of trees. From the cedar that is in the Lebanon, even to the hyssop that grows on the wall. He also spoke of animals and birds and creeping things and fish. Men came from all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all the kings of the earth who had heard of his wisdom. I don't know, I didn't count it there, but there was the word all was in there quite a bit. That's pretty all encompassing. So clearly Solomon exceeded by far exponentially uh the the wisdom of any man on earth. And The New Testament would tell us, Jesus would say that there was no one greater than Solomon. Now, what are some indications uh of Solomon's authorship of Ecclesiastes. We've already noted that in chapter 1, verse 1, it identifies the author as being the son of David Uh the son of David. But that's actually not really all that much of an indication because in Hebrew to say that you're the son of someone could mean that you're the grandson of someone. In fact, if you read through 1 Kings and 2nd Kings and you know the the subsequent kings after Solomon uh generation after generation, it will often say of each king Either they did not follow the way of the Lord like their father David or his father David did, or he did follow the way of the Lord like his father David did, and by that point it's great-great-great-great-grandfather David, or something like that. So just to say the son of David doesn't necessarily mean the immediate son of David. But the next indication there in chapter 1, verse 1, is that he is king in Jerusalem. Now immediately there that narrows down who uh is is uh which of the kings uh uh qualify, because for example, I mean Saul obviously was not a son of David, but he was not king in Jerusalem. And it also disqualifies those who were in the post-exilic time who weren't kings. They were more stewards in Israel because they were a conquered nation. And even more so. In verse uh see in verse twelve of chapter one, he says, I the preacher have been king over Israel in Jerusalem. Why is over Israel significant? Because it's before the split. Which is right after his time, which is uh Jericho That's right. Right. So after Solomon's death, his son Rehoboam took over the throne And Jeroboam split off the nation so that the northern tribes, the northern ten tribes of Israel, uh had were as a separate kingdom than the tribe of Judah, which had a king in Jerusalem. So whenever you see the the kingdom of Israel, as always referring uh to the unified kingdom uh which is being ruled in Jerusalem, which would refer to either s uh Saul, David, or Jonathan. Now, uh another designation uh is in verse thirteen, where he says about himself I set my mind to seek and explore by wisdom concerning all that has been done under the heaven, under heaven. So He says about himself that he set his mind to seek and explore wisdom. That is obviously what Solomon did. We we know that explicitly, and we don't know of anyone else in scripture that sought Set their mind to seek and explore wisdom. And then in verse sixteen he says, uh I have magni magnified and increased wisdom more than all who were over Jerusalem before me. And my mind has observed a wealth of wisdom. and knowledge. Now there is no one after Solomon who had anywhere near the wisdom that he had. Most of them were wicked kings, and even those who weren't so wicked weren't exactly righteous either But scripture doesn't identify any of them as having wisdom, and certainly not anywhere near the wisdom that Solomon had. So there's another way to identify Solomon as the author Verse seventeen, he says, I set my mind to know wisdom, to know madness and folly. And again, Solomon was not just interested in wisdom, he also was interested in folly. And if you read the book of Proverbs, you find out a lot about foolishness. He makes statements positively, not positively, as far as he gives instruction on the nature of folly, the results of folly. So uh Solomon understood those things well. Uh chapter two, verse nine says, Then I became great and increased more than all who preceded me in Jerusalem. And again, that is only true of Solomon. Chapter 12, verse 9, he says that he taught people knowledge. And if you know about Solomon, as we read in 1 Kings chapter 4, people came to him. to hear about knowledge. And when the Queen of Sheba came, she said, Blessed are your maidservants, and blessed are this group of people, and blessed are that group of people, all who are in part of the nation, because they get to hear your wisdom So we know that Solomon taught people knowledge. Chapter 12, also verse 9, says that he pondered, searched, and arranged many proverbs. And that's what we just read in 1 Kings chapter 4, that Solomon had over 3,000 Proverbs. And finally, in chapter 12, verse 10, it says that he sought delightful words and wrote words of truth correctly. And again, that's descriptive of Solomon as well. So by my count, there's ten reasons within the book of Ecclesiastes to identify Solomon. as the author. No. I know I said I was going to take more time than I probably should have. It's like, yeah, i we know, we know, and just move on. But I I wanted to go through that because if you do ever come across or if you do ever do reading or studying uh commentaries on Ecclesiastes, you're going to find that that rejection. And I just want you to know and be convinced that there is no good reason to reject Solomonic authorship. There's other reasons that are given. For example, there's a couple of words that are in Ecclesiastes that are more Arabic words that aren't found in other Hebrew texts prior to the exilic period. But that's not a problem because we actually have very little tech very few texts in Hebrew to begin with. So the absence of evidence isn't evidence of absence. You may have heard that from creationism thinking. Just because we haven't found something doesn't mean it's not there to be found. And we also know, as we'll read in in Ecclesiastes, that Solomon was well acquainted with all the the nations and the languages. He had wives from many places, and so he had words, uh he had vocabulary that most people in Israel did not have. So it makes sense that he would have words in his book that other people didn't have in their books. Anyway, we we could go on and on. Solomon's the author, I'm utterly convinced. And I hope you are too Now why do people question Solomon Solomonic authorship? Why does this the the question even come up? Well If you've read Ecclesiastes lately, uh it's a tough book, right? There's a lot of things in there that like unexpected. I don't I don't expect to read this in the Bible. I think in the description for this class I included the quote, don't be overly righteous. Don't be overly wise. I mean, can you imagine Jesus saying that? I don't think so. Uh certainly the Lord doesn't say that. He says, You shall be holy as I am holy. He doesn't say, oh, just don't worry about it. You know, just relax, you know Have a couple at the bar and you know, whatever. No. So we read things and there's a variety of things in Ecclesiastes that's like that just doesn't seem right. Um so it's like, you know, could this really be the wise man speaking these truths? Now, as I as I've studied, and you know I'm certainly no scholar, but as I've studied to the best of my ability, it seems to me that there are a variety of kind of key interpretive realities that uh if we keep them in mind in mind will help us uh understand what's going on. So let me just give you a handful of them Number one, remember that there is such a thing as progressive revelation. Progressive Revelation. Now I'm gonna ask the the front table here to to give others the opportunity. What is progressive revelation? Through the course of time God has revealed more and more of his plans in the people. So early in the Old Testament that did not That's right. So just over the course of time God revealed more and more. So uh Moses had more revelation than uh uh than Adam and his early descendants and then d than Noah did. Uh you know the scriptures are uh in the oldest scriptures about thirty five hundred years old But they were written over time, and over time God revealed more and more as he sent prophets to his people, as he spoke directly to individuals, and then of course in the New Testament through Christ Himself and the Apostles. So There are things in Ecclesiastes that we would think, man, that's not true because of what we know to be true in Scripture. Well, you and I might know that, but Solomon didn't know that. So for example The Old Testament is really scarce in its understanding of what we might call the afterlife or life after death. There is an understanding that The body goes into Sheol, which is the place of the dead, or the body goes into the earth. The soul goes to Sheol, the place of the dead. But there's not really this understanding of heaven or hell, uh paradise, or a place of torment. Like everybody goes to Sheol, the place of the dead. That's kind of the Old Testament understanding of the afterlife. David knew there was an afterlife. Remember he said of the child that died I can't go to him, but or sorry, he can't come to me, but I will go to him, indicating that there was life after death and that his child would be where he would be wherever he understood that to be. Solomon had at his disposal, for sure, the first five books of the Bible, Genesis to Deuteronomy. He probably had up to 1 Samuel judges, Joshua judges, and the other books after that. He had, for sure, David's Psalms. He probably had the book of Job. He certainly had his own books that he wrote, Proverbs and whatnot. Um but that's that's about it. He didn't have the prophets. It didn't have Elijah and and Jeremiah and Ezekiel, of course. They they came much later. But we have to remember that that he had limited access to divine revelation. Now it's possible that God revealed things specifically to him But in terms of special revelation, uh things that he could study by uh book learning, like we would do with scripture, he had very limited access. So it makes sense that there would be some things that he would say that would just not be consistent with the fuller revelation of Scripture. The s a second thing to remember, um actually let me go back to that previous thing because there's a couple of key things he wouldn't have necessarily known that are helpful. He wouldn't have known about eternal rewards, which is actually a very significant motivation and explanation for the things that we go through in life. Right? Yes, there are things we don't understand why they happen, what God is up to in this life. But we know that God has promised us that we can store treasures in heaven. Uh where moth and rust do not destroy, where thieves don't break in and steal, rather than trying to store up treasures on the surf. And so even if we can't figure out what's going on, even if we're suffering unjustly We know that there is a reward awaiting us if we would honor the Lord and obey his commandments in the future. Solomon didn't have an understanding of eternal rewards. And so that didn't factor into his thinking about life. He didn't know about God's transcendent purposes for his people, or at least not to the fullness that we have. Uh it's in the New Testament that we really have the understanding that our goal in life is to glorify God, to please Him, that that's our purpose in life. Uh it's in the New Testament that we come to an understanding that Part of the purpose of suffering is to be conformed to the image of Christ. The Old Testament does have that imitation language, again, you shall be holy, for I am holy But that's mostly in the context of upholding a standard of purity and righteousness, adhering to the law. There's not as much the the aspect of character development, of of imitating Christ in suffering The following his example because of course there was no mis m Messianic example to follow in the Old Testament. Um The idea that comes out of Second Corinthians 1 3 of we when we receive the comfort of God, not only does it benefit us, but it enables us to comfort others as well that uh others oriented ministry of the purpose of suffering is not found in the Old Testament. So Solomon would look at suffering and say, it just doesn't make sense. What's the purpose of it? Well, we would have a lot more to fill in to that based on the New Testament that he just didn't have access to. All right, moving on. Another key interpretive issue to remember is that Solomon's stated approach was not to understand life from God's perspective. But to understand life from man's perspective. He wasn't seeking to go to God and say, God help me understand life. One of the key repeated phrases is life under the sun. And what he's seeking to do is look for meaning in this life and in this world without reference to special revelation. Now he's not denying God's existence. He's just not using special revelation as source material. So he's trying to find the source of satisfaction. He's trying to find meaning and purpose intrinsically in creation. So again, without reference to God, what what is the substance of life that is built into this world? That's what he's trying to look for. And so when we understand that that's his purpose, it makes sense why he comes to the conclusions that he comes to because he's not looking for ultimate meaning and purpose from God. Now ultimately he does, and those are those are statements in Scripture, but that's not the that's not the endeavor he's he's embarking on. A third thing to remember is that his search was during years of his abandoning faithfulness from God Uh I I would say his search was not a noble search. It was not in itself a wise search. Why would you, if you really know Yahweh, if you really know his standard of holiness, his expectations for us as his creatures, why would you say, okay, I'm going to ignore God for a few years, if not a few decades, and I'm going to try and live life on my own and try and find meaning apart from God? Uh that that doesn't seem like a wise thing to do in life. And in the process, he sinned against God in many ways. Right? He sought pleasure through women and possessions. Uh he violated the law of Moses in a number of ways. Uh he practiced folly to see how far can I go with this, to to see if there's any meaning and and purpose in it. So again, his stated purpose and his practice of his search was not in and of itself uh a noble search. And so it's not presented to us as a model for us to follow. It's not an example. Another key principle is that Solomon's search was not for temporal pleasures, kind of a hedonistic lifestyle. He wasn't looking for where can I find pleasure Where can I find happiness in the temporal sense? He was looking for ultimate meaning and ultimate satisfaction. So he doesn't talk about uh the love that a husband and wife might share, of course he didn't I don't know if he ever experienced that in the fullest sense, because he had so many wives and concubines But he he doesn't talk about the the human love that that one can enjoy. He doesn't talk about the joy of children and and the laughter and and all the the the true senses of of happiness that one can have Because that's just not what he's searching for. That's not his purpose. His expressions of futility do not imply that there is no pleasure or no satisfaction. or no joint life. That's not his purpose in his statements. His uh his comments are r uh related to the ultimate meaning, purpose of life. And then finally, I think it's critical to remember that Ecclesiastes is one of sixty six books in the Bible Right? And in the same way that we don't expect every book of the Bible to give us the full orbed answers to the questions that are raised in in in the books, we can't expect that of Ecclesiastes. That Solomon uh doesn't provide all the nuances that we would want him to about life, you know, is not a problem because we have the rest of Scripture. If you think about the book of Job, for example uh such a long book, way like four times longer than than Ecclesiastes almost. All about suffering, and you get really one primary truth out of it. God is God. That's it. God is God. I mean there's of course other things in there, but the in terms of the the predominant truth, you get one truth. So Ecclesiastes offers us a lot more than that, even as a shorter book, uh, but we can't be surprised that it doesn't provide everything that we would want. Alright, so those are things things that are helpful for us To understand. Gotta keep remembering the new time that we're supposed to be finished. Um The purpose of Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes, uh here's kind of a purpose statement in a long sentence. Ecclesiastes describes the failed attempt to find intrinsic meaning in life. And counsels us to abandon such attempts and seek meaning and purpose from God. Let me say that again. Ecclesiastes describes the failed attempt to find intrinsic meaning in life And counsels us to abandon such attempts and seek meaning and purpose from God. Now, this is God's design. God has designed this world to not provide us with the answers that we long for. Because He wants us to what? To go to him. In chapter three, verse eleven, it says this He has made everything appropriate in its time. This is after the passage of you know a time for this and time for that. He has made everything appropriate in its time. He has also set eternity in their heart, yet so that man will not find out the work which God has done from the beginning even to the end. So again, God has built life so that we won't find out things that we want to find out. Or in chapter 7, verse 14, it says, In the day of prosperity be happy. But in the day of adversity, consider, God has made one, the one, as well as the other, so that man will not discover anything that would be after him. I say again, he's oriented life in such a way that we can't find out the meaning of life apart from him. Verse 24 there in chapter 7 What has been the past? What has been is remote and exceedingly mysterious. Who can discover it? And then finally, chapter 8, verse 17, he says, I saw the work of God. I concluded that man cannot discover the work which has been done under the sun. Even though man should seek laborously, he will not discover it. And though the wise man should say, I know, he cannot discover. In other words, if you find someone who says they understand the mysteries of life apart from God, don't believe them. So God has has established life in this world in such a way that we cannot find out the answers to our ultimate questions in life apart from God. On the other hand, we are to go to God for those answers. In chapter 2, verse 24, he says There is nothing better for a man than to eat and drink and tell himself that his labor is good This also I have seen that it is from the hand of God. So just a statement that the only way to know this is to recognize that it comes from God Himself. In chapter 7, verse uh chapter 9, verse 7, chapter 9, verse 7, he says, Go then, eat your bread in happiness, and drink your wine with a cheerful heart. For God has already approved your works. In other words, the way the reason we can enjoy the things of life is because we know that God has already approved our works. Or chapter eleven, verse nine, rejoice, young man, during your childhood, and let your heart be pleasant during the days of young manhood, and follow the impulses of your heart and the desires of your eyes. Don't take that too literally. Yet know that God will bring you to judgment for all these things. So we're to in pursue life, we're to pursue the the things that we desire in life, knowing that God will judge, which ultimately should be the uh filter of what we actually do. So we're to find our meaning and purpose in God. And then The core of it all, of what God has designed life uh to accomplish, is that we should fear Him. God has designed life so that we should fear him. In chapter three, verse fourteen. Might have thought I was going to go to chapter twelve. But chapter three, verse fourteen He says, I know that everything God does will remain forever. There is nothing to add to it, and there is nothing to take from it. For God has so worked that men should fear him. So, if anything, that's the answer to the meaning of life. Life is the explanation for life. God does what he does so that we would fear him. And of course, you know the the last uh couple verses there of Ecclesiastes, the conclusion when all has been heard is fear God and keep his commandments because this applies to every So another way of looking at the purpose of Ecclesiastes is simply that it's an exposition of Deuteronomy 29-29. Deuteronomy twenty-nine twenty-nine says, The secret things belong to the Lord, but the things uh revealed belong to us and to our children so that we would do the works of this law. Solomon spent these span of years, however long they were, pursuing the secret things. And he couldn't figure it out. He said it's purposelessness, it's meaningless, I can't figure it out. It's an enigma, it's mysterious. And so he comes to the conclusion, I guess we just gotta be content with what God reveals so that we can obey it So here's a an even uh sh a short summary purpose statement. I got this from another pastor. Fear God and enjoy this life. This cursed life. That was the key word. Fear God and enjoy this cursed life. That's a lesson from Ecclesiastes. Alright? Alright, so there's the purpose. Fear God, enjoy this cursed life. Don't seek intrinsic meaning in life. Go to God for meaning and purpose. Alright, so that's the purpose. What are some themes? What are some themes of Ecclesiastes? Go to chapter one, verse thirteen. I know today we're going all founding all over the place. I should have said that today is kind of an introduction to the book. And then starting next week, we're going to go just chapter by chapter, one chapter per week for the remaining 12 weeks. Our purpose is not to go verse by verse because there's just not enough time in each week to cover a whole chapter Our strategy will just be to highlight uh the things that we want to highlight. Uh uh I'm gonna choose what I want to highlight from you know the chapters that I'm covering. He uh Scott's gonna choose the things he wants to highlight So we'll we'll get you know the bulk of the book, but it's not going to be a verse by verse exposition or or anything. Anyway, chapter one verse thirteen. He says, I set and I set my mind to seek and explore by wisdom concerning all that's been done under heaven. It's a grievous task which God has given sons of men, the sons of men, to be afflicted with I don't know why this is the case, but I I believe every translation uses this phrase Sons of men. And that found that that phrase is found ten times throughout the book of Ecclesiastes. So it's not superabundance, but it's a reference to mankind, right? Reference to mankind. Here's what the phrase actually is in Hebrew Sons of the man Now who knows what the word man is in Hebrew? Adam. So you could say sons of Adam. If you like Chronicles of Narnia, I I love that phrase, sons of Adam. So whenever you see sons of men in Ecclesiastes, read in your mind, sons of the man or sons of Adam. Now that, when it's used in Scripture in the Old Testament, it's actually only used a handful of times outside of Ecclesiastes. So given the the breadth of the Old Testament, Ecclesiastes has the vast majority of the times that it's used. But the few times that it's used, uh let me just For the sake of time, let me just go to one of them. Genesis chapter eleven. You don't have to turn there unless you want to. Genesis chapter eleven. Uh verse five. This is the uh Tower of Battle Tower of Babel uh debacle. And it says in verse five, the Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of the man had built. Now, NES says it's the sons of men, uh, in reference to humanity. But literally it's the sons of the man. So whenever you see this phrase, it's a reference to the fallness of humanity. Now y in the English you're never gonna f you're not gonna ever be able to distinguish when it when is it actually plural or when is it actually singular. You have to have some kind of a way to to look at the Hebrew underneath. Some of you might have an app or or Bible software that can help you with that. But every time the phrase the sons of men comes up in Ecclesiastes, it is the sons of the man. Again, as a reference to the the fallness of humanity. So that's that's kind of a theme in the sense of Solomon is looking at life, and when he thinks about humanity, he thinks about them as those who are cursed by God. Those who are cursed by God. So another theme, this won't surprise you at all, is vanity. Vanity, or the underlying Hebrew word, is used 38 times in the book. Not that the word vanity itself is used, because the underlying Hebrew word, which is uh obviously transliterated, Havel, Is translated four different ways throughout the book. Vanity is the predominant translation. Futility is another way it's translated. Emptiness and fleeting. So when you find those any of those four words, it's the same Hebrew word, Havel. One commentator describes the word this way, a wisp of vapor. A puff of wind. A mere breath. Nothing you could get your hands on. The nearest thing to zero. That is the vanity this book is about. What makes this reading of life so disturbing is that this airy nothing nothingness is not seen as a mere flicker on the surface of things. Where it might even have a certain charm, it is the sum total. So as Paul as as Solomon hope I don't do that too much. As Solomon looks at life And he tries to understand what life is all about, again, from the perspective of intrinsic meaning He concludes, and you know this already because you've read it before, that life is vanity, life is spelling here. Make it wise. Life is futile Life is empty and life is fleeting. You can tell I don't write on a board much. Okay? Now we know this about the future, right? We know that we can't know the future. The future is mysterious to us. That same commentator says about the future, or uh excuse me, he says this obviously the future is hidden What is not so obvious is that the present, which lies open to our inspection, eludes us as well It belongs just as much to to the future. Excuse me, it belongs just as much as the future to God So again, Solomon is looking at life, he's looking at the present, he's looking at work, he's looking at pleasure, he's looking at relationships, he's looking at possessions, he' He's looking at all these things to try and find intrinsic meaning, and it's all mysterious Now there are four different senses translated by these different words that this word has, four nuances. One of them is that the word Havel really means more mysterious in some contexts. For example, in chapter 7, verse 15 He says, I have seen everything during my lifetime of futility. There is a righteous man Who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who prolongs his life in his wickedness. So again, he says, I have seen everything during my lifetime of futility. I I think a a more uh a better way to understand what he's trying to say there is not so much he's not emphasizing so much the the emptiness of life but the mysteriousness of life Again, we look at the righteous suffering, we look at the wicked prospering, and we're just like, what in the world does that mean? I can't figure out my life. I think that's more the sense of what he's trying to get across there. Or in chapter 8, verse 14, he says, There is futility which is done on the earth. That is, there are righteous men to whom it happens according to the deeds of the wicked On the other hand, there are evil men to whom it happens according to the deeds of the righteous. I say that this too is futility. Again, I think The nuance there is more of a mysteriousness. I can't figure this out. Why is it that the righteous and the wicked tend to switch places in what we would expect of their outcomes? So that's one nuance that I think is helpful. Another nuance is the word temporary, which would go along with the word fleeting. And we see this in chapter 6, verse 12. Where he says, For who knows what is good for a man during his lifetime, during the few years of his feudal life? Again, I think what he's trying to get at is not so much the emptiness or or the the uh meaninglessness of life, but the temporary nature of his life. Another nuance would be the lacking substance, which is what the word vanity uh would imply. Chapter two verse one I said to myself, Come now, I will test you with pleasure. So enjoy yourself. And behold, this too was futility. So he looked at pleasure, his ability to test it, to see okay, what's this what's this made of? What's the stuff of pleasure? And it's like it's it's lacking substance. It it's empty. And then the final nuance would be pointless. The idea of pointlessness, meaninglessness Chapter 2 verse 11 Thus I considered all my activities which my hands had done and the labor which I had exerted, and behold, all was vanity and striving after wind, and there was no profit. under the sun. So I think there is clearly a nuance of what's the point. It's it's meaningless. There's no point to all of this that I have done. Especially when it's when the that word is combined with the phrase striving after a wind, which is uh repeated many times. You know, the idea of trying to chase after Wayne of was like, what's the point of that? So those are the four nuances. Mysterious, temporary, lacking substance, and pointless. So that's one of the major themes in the book. Now, God. If you would have asked me before my study of Ecclesiastes, even just a couple months ago. How many times is God mentioned in Ecclesiastes? We know it's mentioned at the end of the book, fear God and keep his commandments Probably would have said, ah, that's probably a handful of times, you know, throughout the book. God is actually mentioned forty times in Ecclesiastes Uh he's all over the place. Uh and there's only two chapters that don't mention God, chapter four and chapter eleven, but That's vanity to say that, because the chapters are not inspired, right? They were chapters and verses were added much later. So it just so happens that as as those things were divided None were found in those particular chapters. But God is all over the place. So again, Solomon is not denying God's existence. He doesn't deny God's sovereignty. He talks a whole lot about God throughout the book. So what are some positive teaching? Oh gosh, I got way too much here for today. What are some positive teaching that he includes in this book? You know, with all the emphasis that we tend to uh to feel as we read on futility, emptiness, meaninglessness, what are some positive things that Solomon teaches in this book? As we'll find out in the rest of the course, he teaches things like we're to fear God. God has oriented life in such a way that we should fear him. We've mentioned that from chapter 3, verse 14. In chapter 5, verse 7, he says that our fear of God should guide our actions and our words. In chapter 8 We read that though it may seem like sinners extend their life, like hey, if you live wickedly you might actually have a longer life, it seems that way sometimes He says it's better to fear God because evil will ultimately limit your life. And then finally, in the conclusion, he talks about fearing God. as the conclusion of everything. So there's a a significant emphasis throughout the book on fearing God. That's not just the conclusion, it's a thread that runs throughout the book. There are twenty-two imperatives, commands in the Book of Ecclesiastes as you walk throughout the book And I'm just gonna rifle off a few of them just so you get a sense of the kinds of things that Solomon uh tells us that should guide our life. He says, Guard your steps as you go to the house of God Draw near to listen. He says, don't be hasty in words or impulsive in thoughts. He says, don't be late in paying a vow. Don't let your speech cause you to sin. Don't be quick to be angry. No, uh sorry, don't think that the past days are better than the present. Don't think about those supposed golden years. There is no such thing. Um think about the work of God. Be happy in the day of prosperity. Think carefully in the day of adversity. We looked at that verse. Again, don't be excessively righteous or overly overly wise. Don't be excessively wicked and don't be a fool. Don't take everything people say personally or seriously. That has a lot of uh helpful wisdom for our lives today. Uh keep the command of the king and don't be quit to rebel. Give yourself to your work. Don't be lazy or complacent. And on and on. So there's a lot of practical wisdom throughout the book. Another kind of theme, uh thing that's repeated throughout the book is the fact that God is a giver. He is a giving God. He speaks of God as the giver in the sense that God gives mankind a task. He gives mankind work to do. Sometimes he states it in a general sense. Uh sometimes it gets more specific, like in chapter two, where he says, God gives the task of gathering and collecting to sinners. He also says in chapter 2, God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to those who are good in his sight. So God is the giver of wisdom and knowledge and joy. In chapter 2 and chapter 3, he says, God gives satisfaction So again, life isn't always pointless. God does give satisfaction. Three times throughout the book he affirms that God is the giver of life. Uh a couple times he says that God gives riches and wealth and the ability to eat from them and rejoice in your labor. Uh and then I also I mentioned God gives words of wisdom. So God is a giving God. And that's proclaimed numerous times throughout the book. There's a lot said about wisdom positively throughout the book. Wisdom is worth seeking and exploring. Wisdom can be gained and one can have wealth, can have a wealth of it. Wisdom can work in one's favor as a counselor. Wisdom can't be passed down like possessions. It really only benefits the one who learns it. Now you could say, well, I could teach this to somebody else, and that's true, but it's up to the person if they're going to receive it or not, right? Wisdom is protection. It does preserve the life of those who have it. Wisdom is a means to test other things. Wisdom enlightens a person and gives him insight. and uh and some other statements about wisdom throughout the book. Now we have five uh four minutes left. So uh one final comment and then I'll take any questions or or comments. Uh tone As you read Ecclesiastes, and I want to encourage you to read Ecclesiastes at least once a week, just to help your understanding as you go throughout this class. It takes me about 35 minutes to read and I don't read quickly. So if it it'll take about thirty minutes or so. Uh so it's not not terribly long to sit down and read it in one sitting. But as you read it, Solomon talks about some uh difficult things at times. He talks about uh life, he talks about death, uh, he talks about the death of children, uh, he talks about the death of loved ones. But he doesn't talk about it with uh compassion. He doesn't talk about it uh in a way that would just fill your soul with comfort. He's kind of dispassionate about it, as if he's an objective observer. And so as we move through the class, of course, Scott and I will try and be as as wise as as we know how to be as we talk through those things. But there is there is a uh an appropriate sense that we should be able to talk about life and death in ways that uh uh are just objective and talking about you know meaning and purpose and and whatnot. So um we're we're gonna again do our best to do that in a way that's not hurtful Uh that's not upsetting, but uh we just need to understand that that there is a tone that uh e uh Solomon is using throughout the book. Uh it's not a book of comfort, it's not a book of of uh trying to help those who are grieving uh not in not in the closest sense. So um just keep that in mind as we work through some of the more difficult subjects Uh and then as we work through the class, certainly we want to learn from the wisdom of Solomon, both his negative example and the positive things that he says. But we're going to bring in other scripture to bear. You know, we're not uh Old Testament Israelites, we're New Testament believers, so we're gonna bring the New Testament to bear uh as we study the book and uh get as much as we can out of it So, with that as an introduction, any questions or comments as we get started next week, Chapter 1. Yeah, Larry. uh the second chapter it talks about the natural man uh that uh the life is falling to him because he's not able to understand them That's right. Yeah, you have to have the spirit. to discern what it says. I mean you don't don't go to the Jewish scholars of the past. You know, the they they have uh all kinds of ways of looking at ecclesiastes that are unhelpful But uh I trust it'll be profitable, helpful, even encouraging as we go through a let me pray