And live in the only opportunity I have to garner blessing from God. I'm limiting this discussion to why is Solomon able to say the things that he's saying in Ecclesiastes 9? He doesn't see justice imparted before death, and he's got no vision of death, or no vision beyond death, and so he's frustrated Let's back up real quick. But when something shows up and you expect it to be good and it turns out bad, it's like doubly offensive somehow. And some bad people will hardly do a blessed thing and get rich and live a long life. And it doesn't look like it matters. So not only would we have an amazing hope in Christ, we're given an expectation of a being beyond what we think it could be. And we're not just waiting for a justice that will happen in this resurrection that we now know is going to happen because it's assured us in the New Testament. claim it meaning claim it garbage, right? It's a conviction, but it's one he can't get at from observational science or for observational study. Just keep up and then I'll post my notes, right? To the good and the evil to the clean and the unclean to him who sacrifices and him to who does not sacrifice. uh to dead. And if you call on him his father, who judges impartially, you notice the judgment. you will find it much more aligned with indifference. be able to stand up here and say anything useful. Uh mostly professionally, uh something I've been pursuing for seven long years with a lot of effort and an amazing amount of expense. News. burdens. It I I will hypothesize that it's better to live wisely. that that Solomon speaks to, the commentators get it wrong. In chapter 8, verse 16, I'm going to read just a little bit here, probably to about three, and then we'll have some commentary and go on. Since the same event happens to the righteous and to the wicked, to the good and the evil, to the clean and the unclean, to him who sacrifices and him who does not sacrifice. I don't think scrutable actually is in the dictionary, by the way. And and uh just some of the things I've studied about him and his own confessions and the confessions of those around him as as he went deeper and deeper and they realized they weren't the infrastructures that we have, even with all the the um categorizing and classes of patient that we do, um, and cataloging of knowledge and they can't do what we can do even now that we can do what we can do, we can't do this. Is that it it resonates with us. Look deeper, if you look further, you still didn't bother to look into your own heart. Right? Ecclesiastes better. what I just said. Solomon affirms that God will bring justice to all people. to the one who pleases God, wisdom and knowledge and joy. is that God is judging the actions of man and securing or confirming them in their actions based on the individual submission to God. And from that withhold not your hand. No activities, no planning, no knowledge, no wisdom. between um Solomon's thinking of judgment. a judgment seat, uh a heaven and hell, certainly no ability to have a formative theology about what comes next after the grave. The same thing, the same insult, the same curse happens to all the people. Uh if I ever get there will be my appeal or application to you. Just like everybody else does. Deed is not executed speedily, the heart of the children of man is fully set to do evil. But we ultimately hope in the justice that we know will happen after death. Because Solomon said, I don't know whether you love me or hate me. He had a hope without knowledge and wisdom. So let your daily ritual, daily, if I could underline that, maybe I'll repeat it one more time, just to make sure, daily ritual. Let your garments be always white, let no oil be lacking on your head. Do you know what modern man in particular maybe it is I think it's actually happened all through history, but I'm only aware of it in the context in which I live. how long our lives are, or how well they will be lived in this world under the sun. The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. And I believe you mentioned Joy, Jose, earlier. For the day, the day of judgment, for the day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one of us has done. See this? to live in today. But if that's what you're holding on to, then I hate to tell you this, you have a rebel heart. So I had uh two full weeks for whatever reason between why did I have two weeks two weeks? been able to lay my hand on it, but at least I have an opportunity now to actually lay my hand on it. You're just gonna die anyway. To describe him, who he was, what he was like, and what he demanded of people, he withheld from them some degree of satisfaction, some degree of hope, some deg hope, some degree of comfort And the curse is what is fading away because of Christ. And again, heart, right? you know, heart, what I feel is right. There's a slightly larger dimension to it. Here's the part I want you to pay attention to. Not only is he inscrutable because we're lazy people and don't actually go look for him, he's inscrutable even if you go and search him out with the greatest wisdom that has ever existed. And all the resourcing required to do whatever searching you need to do. looking at it from Solomon's time, you would say, well, you know, they don't really have the capacity to can't speak or to you know, but now we have that capacity, and and with all of the technology that we have and I think the reason Ecclesiastes has resonated with the saved and the unsaved for so long some days in the uh you know to the court, right? But it's a stinging one. judgment and its enigma is juxtaposed with his affirmation of judgment and justice. That there will be judgment and justice. The words of see and experience and evaluate are always summed up in death. But it will not be well with the wicked, neither will he prolong his days like a shadow, because he does not fear before God. As he does when he is observing all that is done under the sun. Ecclesiastes 3:17. God is an avenger against those that approach him without appropriate fear. So that that's exactly the tension that needs needs to be worked out in in this passage. I I confess how this unfolded, so you're free to regard or disregard m my opinion on this. Is that justice does not seem to be affected or happened in life? I'm not seeing the justice in the world, but, but, my vertical relationship is square Enjoy that that confirms me in my actions. remember it. To make matters worse, because justice is not quickly realized under the sun, Ecclesiastes 3B tells us that the children of man are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to the dead. I don't usually do that, but it helps me move fast. Back a better conception of Old Testament hate when you see that word. I really think he's borrowing that word here. With knowledge and with understanding, and it would be the basis of their Christian lives. Hold on, hold on, I gotta keep going here. I think that they were an overwhelming grief to his soul that brought him daily remorse. Previously he was saying, this is what I observed, this is what I'm convinced of, and here he says, as a result, go. Would not honor God or me. which is Jesus Christ. And that doesn't mean if you're weeping that there's a problem. And I was thinking about how good you are to have finally made this come true when I was losing hope, frankly. And that is beginning to get at the heart of what's in Ecclesiastes 9. That they might be able to explain to us what our predicament is. Commentators will give you a stack of verses 6 to 12 deep in each of those slightly pre-exilic books. until right around literally the exilic period, meaning Isaiah or Hosea or Jeremiah. And he talks about these other things, but he switches. I argue all but one of them can be explained away as an Old Testament conception of death. Absolutely in Christ. That's called out and enumerated. in this New Testament age. I am a sinner, and I have nothing to offer except what you would provide. them in the context of your truth. But I have a promise that says I should build on the foundation of hope that I have in Christ, and then walk in his strength. And so I pray that I'm able to convey that not just in my own words, but the truth and reality of it from your scriptures today. synonymous with those things that we know that we are so convinced of that they drive our actions and our feelings. That the same event happens to all. that man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun. information, we still haven't. words I just feel uncomfortable with them frankly. It's irksome. really deeper into the microscopic world, deeper than we ever have. And its enigma is juxtaposed, set uh on uh aside, not against necessarily, but aside, is affirmation of judgment and justice. For the one who fears God shall come out from both of them. Because it's exactly twice. firm hopes that he refuses to let go of of a judgment and then make these statements that doesn't matter. The world are clearly seen, being understood by the things for me, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse Right? I will go to be with him. He believes that there is going to be justice. Not only do we not see justice enacted on this earth during this life, we can't even tell whether God loves us or hates us. The Holy Spirit. Why bother with temperance? It's backwards for us. That I might see your justice and your goodness. But it your one author said it was the lowest form of existence. You're exiled, cast out of your home, out of your right place, out of your right citizenship, disjointed from what you were supposed to what you are supposed to be, an alien from the kingdom Of which you are actually a citizen. Ransomed from the feudal ways. Temporal rewards which rust or melt or fade or can be ruined. Whether or not you are under the love or the hate of the Lord, or even the indifference for heaven's sake. So that your faith and come on, what's the next word? On some some or many days, it catches our attention. Solomon has for us in Ecclesiastes. But there is nothing that is not true about what Solomon said today, because he describes the curse and you live in it Which were the delight of the children of men. from the path of pain that a person walks. Can I come along? But when the perishable puts on the imperishable and the mortal puts on the puts on immortality 1 Corinthians 3, 10 through 15, but I'm only going to read a couple of the passages. A witness of hymns in the midst of fires and prayers in the midst of persecution. But the witness of men and women that have been in it in Christ and have held to their hope is a witness of joy and sufficiency and strength. My kids, my wife, my job, my career, my self-image, my marriage, all these things. How much more will your Father who is in heaven, who, by the way, nailed his son on the cross for you, give good gifts to those who ask him? Many of us are looking at the potential for bad things and worrying about that and we're frustrated about that. What you're really saying is, I want it my way. Small meditation, his utmost for his highest, that I keep in my office for just such occasions, and lay that out in front of me and fight for hope. I I'm amazed when you when you sit down with people how how much we're hurting, how much we need encouragement. kind of scientific language here. Right? anywhere near the depth. And that's a little bit, those are too many words, but that's a little bit like what sense you're supposed to get from. See also Ecclesiastes 7. I would be confused because it shows that he thinks that there's a judgment, but he doesn't necessarily tie that to the judg a judgment after death. terribly unclear whether there was any conception of a life after death or just the grave. Christ, God did this for 2,000 years of human history. Putting us all under captivity so that we could know the greatness of the riches that we have in Christ. If you look at my notes, you'll find that life in the grave, this an existence that was possible in Sheol in the grave, there was some existence there. Old Testament conception of death a little better. right to which you are going. And she's been very interactive, so I know that she's studying and keeping it all in in mind in in uh the class. Please look through them. journal repositories that I didn't have access to and I bought a couple extra commentaries and I scoured the internet and I got out stacks of books that I had on various topics and I spent about a week and a half the chapter of this week. Um and it takes a while a lot of times to get through the bravado and the the pride and the defensive mechanisms and all those other things, but I am convinced we all know what Solomon is complaining about in Ecclesiastes. Without, this sounds silly, but without the pollution of the hope that we have in the New Testament. I applied my mind to these things and I experimented with them and I tried them. I will hypothesize that riches and wealth will satisfy my heart. He had none of it. experimenting and observing and recording and summarizing his observations. Right? If you're interested, I will post the notes, so feel free to read them. But all this, a continuation, right, or for all this, if you will, I lay to heart. Alright? God is sovereign and he's inscrutable. That is God and his purposes. In the hand of God. craziness of our experience here under the sun directly to the hand of God And it has a piece of it tied up and it is like it's it's the corruption of something good. Right? And we even we it alluded that the clearness of the picture will even be expanded on when we have the right eyes and the right mind to be able to see it in. It makes me think if you've ever read uh C. Our hope defines how we live today, how we walk in the present, whether we can enjoy the gifts that God has given us during the time of our sojourning in this world. Because that act speaks to the care that Christ has for you. It is tea, and it's what drove Solomon nuts. If there's nothing after death, and I'm not sure about this whole justice and judgment thing, I still know that God is sovereign. Reflects the daily gifts God gives to you. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, there's the contrast with the grave right there. Immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. In nobility, it was denied to people for 2,000 years that I might favor it that much more Which will you take that they are ill for me in? Um and it competed with a number of the other things that I had been studying. And two more, those are just my uh study notes, and then I've got two more pages in today's lesson notes. How am I gonna do that, right? Exactly what God did in the curse. Maybe it'll help you if I say scrutiny? What's this heart cry thing? His language of observation is, we're all going to die. Enigma uh of of Ecclesiastes nine. And I go to pray for good things. And that's what's I mean here the frustration of Solomon. I don't think I'm using a rhetorical ploy here to play on your heart strings. Life alone provides hope for seeing justice. thirsty, empty, quiet world. Enjoy, so sec that's first thing, daily, the daily things of life Um and so I had to put it in here. Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might. Because this is the plan for my life, whether it be a month, a year, or a thousand. It's an active kind of thing. And it was not encouraging. At the end of the day, the Old Testament conception of death, Solomon's conception of what death was, is critical to understanding And it put foremost in my mind, not that I already wouldn't have known it, but it put foremost in my mind this thing that we all feel in different ways at home. Or, better, as Ecclesiastes put it, that when he seeks us, we would feel the refreshment of it. All of reality under the sun to the curse in Genesis 3. In one man's heart and mind, with all of the resources that he had, he is able to take all of that and describe the reality of the curse under the sun And I've read a lot of them. But occasionally he talks about God. And I see every one of my trials, every one of my struggles, every one of my frustrations over the last two weeks and beyond. Then I saw all the work of God, that man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun. Examining it all, how the righteous and the one, and again, notice this observational speech. How the righteous and the wise and their deeds are in the hand of God. Right? It he's in he has a degree of inscrutability. Goes on, though, he's not content. And as you talk through categorizing I thought Carl Linnaeus, right, the guy that first did all the categorizing of species and so on and so forth Hey! In all that is done under the sun. That the same event happens to all. Some good people will die early, and some wicked people will die late. Of hope in judgment and justice at this point in time in history. about a a judgment after death and about the justice that we now know that we're going to see in Christ uh would be Hosea and Isaiah, which would have been in the And as I pondered that, I had to make a confession to myself. But to say I'm not seeing that out there and I don't even know if there's a an ability to enjoy the kind of relationship with the Lord that I want to enjoy. If I believed that I could live in the smile under the smile of the Lord, I think I could do anything. And he left us in that kind of despair, or he called us to that kind of despair here in this passage. Did you say this cool little 70 years that God gave you? Not with perishable things such as silver or gold, which I'm going to come back to in a minute, but with the precious blood of Christ. I wasn't, again, wasn't a rhetorical ploy. It takes young people from us, and it takes old people from us and it takes terribly godly people from us that we love and that are our strength in ministry and service. You see that's a strong statement from that one verse. Do this thing. Right? Or the insults of death that will come to us. I'm sorry, I am terribly excited about the way that Ecclesiastes fleshes out the meaning of that passage in Corinthians. This last week, as I've been studying this, this great injury of the curse, this thing that my heart actually does resonate with as I look at my life under the curse is here addressed. And I don't know that I won, so please don't uh don't sing me any praises. And I discovered this week in part of my study Yeah, I'm getting way into this. Solomon actually does this thing where he flips in and out of two different types of talking. Wonder what that looks like when somebody that wise and that powerful has a little hissy fit. Written that, if he'd had the New Testament, knowing that you were ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers, like Adam. And I have no time to develop that. In delight of the children of men, that's in Ecclesiastes 2, 8. And apparently even affects my own wife. This is not an empty hope. And it felt like a personal insult, both from the person I got the bad news from and and then to a lesser degree from the Lord. Or at least none that's observable. Okay, think back to Genesis real quick, right? There's nothing outside of all. The inscrutability of the Lord I'm summarizing as an enigma, the thing we can't figure out, right? Solomon uses the preacher. The earliest record we have of verses that could actu uh uh prophecy that would actually reveal something definitive of 300 BC time frame. So there you go. So that we can enjoy in a superlative fashion what we have in Christ, right? Solomon's examination of justice leaves him unable to even determine how God is disposed toward man. This madness is them being disconnected from the reality that goes beyond what they can observe under the sun. Like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. How do we live in the shadow of this death? That was 8-11. Hebrews 6. Wait on the Lord the way a servant would wait on a king. But I'm nearly 50, I like to say that and everybody picks on me. some idea, some itch almost, about the goodness of God, about the character of God. just a sense of like judgment building, right? So like how it's expressed here in Ecclesiastes. I believe, and I can't not believe, for reasons he doesn't describe, he just never lets go of it. So I I do think God builds that into us. Ecclesiastes 9. Right. So what do we do? He's like, no, I tried that. Matthew 7. The day's attitude, the day's witness. But Solomon is able to comment in the most honest words possible, with the greatest wisdom that has ever been reservoired. No varnish, no mixture of hopes, no mixture of anything other than the curse. Solomon's testimony is again I come back to the word uncorrupted, untainted, but those are the wrong words where we talk about this great cult that we have in Christ, but he had none of it. I have spent my time to go through the verses. partially based on observation, but I'll call it derivative observation, right? And that you will be the greatest rewarder beyond what I am able to conceive of. Yeah, death. The way this message probably does when you apply it yourself to your own life. Solomon's many affirmations of justice. I've got some marginal notes which I hope will be helpful to you when you if you download the notes, but I gotta keep moving. It's not testable in a rational kind of way. Well, reality, period, right? How do you groom yourself? Psalm 27, 13. And we do have promises for goodness in the midst of our trials, in the midst of this vanity. And so we do talk, you know, theological terms, we do talk about the inscrutableness of God. One commentator says, Neither hard work, toil, persistent endeavor, seeking, skill or experience, wisdom, will unravel the mystery Ecclesiastes 5. Certainly it seems to speak to the instinctive nature God's creation has about their responsibility to God. And and so in this in this really cool thing, which may have some theological issues depending on what you think C. Look at 1 Corinthians 15, 55 through 58. To the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you in this Your uh uh emotional makeup is unlikely to respond to the events in your life in the way that mine would Doesn't seem to matter whether you live well or ill We see, at least in word, we see what he could not. Then shall come to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. With the truth of Christ all in and through it, fully redeemed And we will give an account for what we have built on the foundation that is in Christ. Over the last two weeks, and I conscripted Pastor Gabe to download me some papers off of uh uh And at the end of the day, I'm actually convinced that it might be the heart cry, if you will, you know, that that quintessential statement that's at the root of all of our thinking. And I think I've said to you before, I believe that it's supposed to be there, given by God, that we would seek Him. He changes it to be an expression more of hold. That is the heart. It it literally means you use long words to obscure your meaning. He his knowledge of judgment because once he sinned, um he killed himself but he actually had not sinned. He's gonna go on in another passage to talk uh three I think it's three Build on the foundation because you have the fuller knowledge. He says, I think or I believe or in my heart Yeah. How? So I wish I could remember the scriptures. 3B, also the hearts of the children of man are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to It says it. Life alone provides hope for seeing justice. And I know I live in it. In verses 7 and 8, he says, so let your daily ritual reflect the daily gifts God gives to you. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. But he does promise goodness to us. And of course my mind went, of course, you know, Solomon, all his vanity, it doesn't matter what you do, you know What's inscrutable? It's just the emptiness, it's it's the base existence. Please be with us. Solomon is first convinced that God is sovereign and inscrutable. Finally happened on Tuesday. I want to be clear on that. And why should we take his advice? And you look to the New Testament, what do you find? I don't have time to develop that thought, but I'll try to give you some more verses to that effect or the end of the lesson today. Something along the lines of the spirit brings joy. Picked on Ninja because she's in my small group and we're studying on Colossus. What we do in the reality of the curse, in the reality of the vanity of the curse, in the reality of the insulting death. Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, each one's work will become manifest. It is a hope that transforms the day's activity. I will be frustrated and unhappy. And so I had plenty of time to dive in, and I started on chapter nine and realized I did not understand it And it was good. That God will be just and will judge them for their actions. But again, notice that Solomon says this to himself. What we do now does matter. I said in my heart, God will judge the righteous and the wicked, for there is a time for every matter and for every work. We know the Holy Spirit. 19, we have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain, behind the thing they couldn't see through before. Remember the Lord your God. It seems unjust. So God believes, Solomon believes God is sovereign and inscrutable, but it's a stinging kind of enigma. So that's why this author says this. But why do any of it? We live in this world under the sun where death is still the curse. I uh I'll get you. 11, if you then who are evil, and I'll stop here, if you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children. And Solomon touches on that, but he also talks about the fact in here, whether good or evil, whatever, right? Ten cent word for ya. Let me dig into that a little bit more. What does that exactly mean? However much man may toil in seeking, he will not find it out. Now maybe I'm alone in that, and maybe I shouldn't have just confessed that to a big group of people. They expand in detail on some of the things that I've only touched in brief on this morning. And so that's why I spend all the time. Pray. So hand that was true what? But there is a side of this that's a little bit different. It is still terribly unclear what that means. Dissatisfaction grows in the heart with career, with fitness, with life, and you know, with a stereotype, right? You might be thinking that all this advice is great and our hope is in fact secure, but that leaves me with the next seven to a hundred years, seventy to a hundred years Yeah, uh just fill them out a little bit more, right? 26, and I only used passages that were up to the point that we have here, but the the occurrence of those passages actually increase as we move toward chapter twelve. Verse eight eleven, chapter eight, verse eleven, helps us understand this. That's not my commentary, by the way. And I had a lot of ups and downs. I feel challenged and rebuked. 6. Uh no, it wasn't. It's an expectant kind of thing. Why bother with obedience? You know, if a bunch of people that have studied this this all their lives, uh, and prepared for it with language school and seminary and and philosophy and on and on, how am I supposed to? But you are supposed to live with your arms gripped around the promises of God. It's it's the innermost person all through the Old Testament. 1b, so I'm backing up just a teeny bit. Do you know what you're called to in the New Testament? By the way, that doesn't mean like stand off in a corner and just hope that next year he'll be good to you. No what I know to be true in in God and what I'm convinced of All these things that Solomon experienced, he laid to heart. Then I saw all the work of God. I don't think there's any of us out there that are like, oh no, we got it all figured out. You're cheating to get ahead in my notes. Did I get that right? It is appropriate for us to see that message in the right context and to be motivated accordingly. This is not hope for tomorrow. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. When I say I study something, it means you all go away, you cease to exist, I will get up at two or three in the morning and study for eight hours, I'll see you at ten. We hear the beat and the tempo of our own hearts and our own minds, and yeah, this is frustrating. He references it all through Ecclesiastes. Let not your mouth lead you into sin. We do hope for justice in this life. It means something different in Greece than it is in Hebrew. His wives and concubines were the delight of the children of men. I'm not being nihilistic or vague or anything else. Oh, I'm never gonna make it. Man, it's one thing to say, I know I'm in the right, I know I'm doing what the Lord wants me to do, I know I'm enjoying the favor of the Lord. I think so little of this topic that it's not worth considering. I said, well as it turns out it's a two-seater. That's not my point. So I didn't finish my other statement. In your name I pray. Solomon is convinced that God ordained the vanity of our lives and that we cannot comprehend it. S. We have the benefit of the New Testament. Ecclesiastes eight, twelve through thirteen. There is nothing to hope for in death. It is not appropriate for us to distance ourselves from the message that And it was good because it helped me in a small way to understand even better the sting of death that Solomon is talking about here. You can stand on it, you can grasp it, you can secure it, you can sing about it, you can rejoice about it, you can claim it as the promise of God for your life. However much man may toil in seeking, he will not find it out. We still can't capture everything. Lewis's The Great Divorce, if you haven't, this is not going to help you, but if you've read it, there's a place where all these people that do not confess Christ go to, and they get a chance to go to heaven and experience reality. And it was just like and I tell you I sat there and I had to clear my work off my desk and go get uh We have the Holy Spirit because of what Christ has done for us. Sorry, I have prepositional confusion there. So give up hope beyond that. What's it mean if something is inscrutable? I can't figure that out. I have been studying that concept for the last ten years and I'm still learning about it and I'm still trying to figure out how to do it rightly. For the one who fears God shall come out from both of them. I seem to have not been able to garner even the slightest favor of the Lord. Because what God does and what he says and what he is, that is reality. Uh enjoy life with the wife of your youth. It was uh 9-7-8. But I I'm actually not going to read you any any of the notes. They bring their biases. Well I I'll help you. This gets to the heart of Solomon's view of death and challenges us to step outside of the biases to learn what is here for us. Which will you leave? Pulling and simple. But to the sinner he has given the business of gathering and collecting, only to give to one who pleases God. This is 1 Peter, guys. Moving forward to verse 21, who through him, Christ, are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory. But it's a strong imperative. 30-second story, I asked Angela if I could have a midlife crisis, and she said, Well, I don't know I think you get my point. That so that that was the beginning. And I think it's important to capture, that's why I wrote it, even though I don't like the author, or I don't like his position on that particular topic. I think I got that right. But for now I'm trying to get you to sink into the mire with me, with Solomon. Because there is no concept of a life after death. But you will struggle with the vanity of the curse more and more and more until you develop that daily discipline And it's why I spent those those extra weeks to try to go, like, how do I make sense of that? I just read you the verse. Still have this whole thing, we'll all feel hopeful after studying death for a little while. It's good, but there is a slightly larger dimension I could suffer if I knew that I had the smile of the Lord upon me. First Peter 1, 3 through 7, Blessed be the God and Father of your Lord Jesus Christ. I'll try that. And so if I shared from you some of the Old Testament conceptions of death But when you see it for what it is, you understand he is sharing with you. And exactly how wonderful what we have in Christ is. What's it mean? Isn't that the stereotype? In the reality of the knowledge that good or wicked, we will not know. And I feel encouraged to keep going. And I have no basis for this at all, but I like to believe that Peter is borrowing that since he's borrowing or since he's fulfilling so much of the enigma of the Old Testament in this passage. Because after I go to the grave, nothing. And he talks about goodness. That's why I wrote them up is so that you have them and don't have to just trust me. So you have both the sovereignty and the inscrutability of God right there in 17. If you can't get that right, you cannot understand this week's chapter. Do we know that word? He matter of fact, he has the greatest degree of inscrutability The sting of what? Ecclesiastes nine nine. You will not find him. Doesn't matter whether you're good or bad. And now you need to reread the Psalms where you thought they were talking about life after death, and you need to understand that it's more likely that they were saying, Let me live Because death is still coming to us, and we have witnessed in our own church body over the last several years, it comes to the good and the bad. You need to sit down and think through that. Amen. It's a conviction, not an well, yeah, it's a conviction, not an observation observation. This is a conviction, a hope. Um but I will also argue and you know Why bother with any of those things? Ecclesiastes 9. I mean it is a hope for tomorrow, but it's not only a hope for tomorrow. The witness of his persecuted saints is a witness of sufficiency. He doesn't say, I see, or I understand Inscrutable means not able to be done. He is convinced that there will be justice. How did He describe the time that we spend as Christians here under the sun? And I have to tell you here, uh Solomon switches to an imperative. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. It's not vain I am not clear that there is any sign of a life after death or a hope of justice in the Old Testament. There's a phrase to describe those words. As as the books are open and God says Some really high positive things happened uh over the last two weeks. That verse, frankly, is a bit cryptic. In the 300 BC time frame, 600 years later, before there was a word of it. But notice here that God did not use pecuniary means, filthy lucre, gold and silver. Colossians Mindy? Stick stay on target. In much of Solomon's work, he's talking like a scientist. The ultimate cost of the curse was death. Ecclesiastes 7. If you can't even get the smile of the Lord, if you can't know I appreciate the resurrection in a way that I never did before, now that I understand that it was denied, at least Let each one take care how he build upon the foundation that is Christ, for no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid. It's a kind of thing that, by the way, says all these things I want that tear at my flesh. Um and I say happened, but really what happened was I got an opportunity to actually grab it. I'm I'm closer to 50 than any other number. This is not about God not being sovereign. Why should God be angry at your voice and destroy the word of work of your hands? And there's some really good scripture references in my notes if I say so myself. I will hypothesize that it is better to accumulate the most beautiful women in the world. But you're exactly right. He's saying this is how you live your daily life. And it led me on a study of Old Testament concepts of death. I I'll help you. And I think that helps you understand an old conception That wasn't like a hey, pay attention to me kind of thing. Or which will you commission me in? Well, clearly the Psalms talk about a resurrection. This is an evil in all that is done under the sun. It's it's a side that's outside of what I'll call scientific classification. We're you know more and more frustration as you're saying. It will be well with those who fear God because they fear before Him. My prayers are corrupted by that thinking. We hope for the grace of God to bring justice in our lives. The Lord subjected all creation. Or pointless. Um the judgment that he perceived that's going to happen with Adam Um Solomon's observation that justice does not seem to be affected in life. Who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. It could just mean hate. So Salomon is right. Uh lost my place. It means look with concerted expectation at the one from whose hand all goodness comes. So please don't mishear me in all this. And as you can tell, as always, I'm excited about it. Though a sinner does evil a hundred times and prolongs his life, yet I know that it will be well with those who fear God. I think that once they walk a certain path of pain, they're able in an impassioned and sincere way to turn around and warn other people. And by the way, I'm increasingly amazed at how how I can understand the New Testament better because I'm understanding Ecclesiastes. It was only being, and that was it. We have the benefit of direct revelation from God. I will spend my days in tears. Um, I think this is really kinda interesting because it we were And I am all the time thinking to myself, why should God do this for me? And we are given a picture of it in the scriptures, a clear picture of it in the scriptures. Whether it is love or hate, man does not know. And it makes a wreck of our faith. I can't help but think that those thousand women are the basis of this imperative to enjoy life with the wife of your youth. Beyond questions. All the work of God, all this business that man is busy about under the sun, it is all the work of God And he's going to make that statement bigger before he attempts any resolution on it. Lives filled with obedient activity and joyful activity. Still today, we still live here. You're dissatisfied with life, so you'll go try somebody else. If something bears further scrutiny, what do we mean? I saw that this was all the work of God. In 9:1 he says, But all this I laid to heart, examining it all, how the righteous and the wise and their deeds are So hold on to that. So perhaps the struggle that Solomon is going through is because he lacked the Holy Spirit to bring the joy of the Lord 10B says, For there is no work or thought or knowledge or wisdom in Sheol. When the Lord wanted to express how much he cared for you, he took his son and hung him on his cross and spilled his blood. Most of the time he's speaking almost like a scientist. I feel ashamed and repentant. Like I I sort of think of of that um being in Daniel, right, where uh Certainly no ability to formulate it. He had an unfounded hope I'm as empty as I ever was, even more so because I have the insult of the fact that I've accumulated it and it did nothing for me. And I, while he doesn't exactly explain it, he does talk about the scriptures So life is to be clung to. So now I didn't do it, so I didn't get it. 18, it is good that you should take hold of this, and from that withhold not your hand. I got a good number of them at the end that casts this then into a New Testament context, right? I want my life to be like this, and if I can't have it that way, I will twist God's truth And the commentators argued more on this chapter than in any chapter that I had studied previously. It was like Lord, I've waited so long for this. Um and uh or maybe that was Monday, sorry. And he withheld things that we now have in the New Testament, even from those people in the Old Testament that he commissioned In Christ, in this testament, we have an assurance of a definitive hope. So I I should stop trying. He does not perceive it, or it has not been seen. Don't get distracted. Mm. It's one thing to just be bad. And there are people, but they don't interact. What are we studying in Colossians? Solomon recommends at least three daily disciplines of life. In this section, Solomon's exploration of delayed Does he care at all? But you know, I was just like, uh In truth. Now, take that as I meant that, right? So I'm going to skip all the other stuff, all the notes, all the intellectual side of this. As is the good, so is the sinner. It says, because the sentence against an evil dealer So sorry, I didn't mean to call you out there, but she's That death happens to all I thought of it last week when Pastor Gabe was touching on the same point. Enjoy life with the wife of your youth. I don't know, but I feel like I've had a couple weeks off here for some reason, uh from not teaching I mean I had a hypothesis and I tested it. He is not trying to tell you what he thinks or what he hopes for. You just kept searching and searching information that you didn't accept them And I I want to prove this to you So I've got piece of it. Solomon could have wrote that if he'd had the New Testament wrote that And he talks about a hope of justice. It's not the direct thing. Some good people will toil all their lives and die in poverty and hurt. Now for Solomon it was a mystery. Death is an ultimate stink. So it's a perfect phrase because it demonstrates what it's saying. The unsolvable Don't be confused. Um so I'm trying to remember the scripture I read. Build on it with goodness. Or I you know, I don't know. Okay? Solomon wrote in in about the 900-ish years BC Okay? Now my wife kept saying, you're gonna touch on that, right? I I discovered this week in my study Meaning the person is actually saying, spare me from Sheol, spare me from the grave, that I could be alive Life alone provides hope for seeing justice. I always feel this way, but this week I feel like this more more It it it it's most Whether it is love or hate, man does not know. It's one of those words that doesn't work well when you pull it apart, right? Death. But we will all die in the same way. What is clear I'm supposed to have read that for you earlier, but just skipped it. We have to live in this vanity. Um and I'm gonna skip all of it. We still can't find it. There aren't chairs together, but oh, there actually are two chairs right here if you guys want them. Ecclesiastes 2. Uh except for this. We get to peel, peel, peer behind the veil Beyond question. The part of Him that we we just don't know, that we can't get to, whether it's because our minds are not big enough or because He's bailed it So I don't think I'm too far Strings? S. So it's kind of cool to look back at this and say, well you could look at it and say, well that's just rudimentary knowledge because Um let's just submit to it for that one. I'll just maybe insult you. As we look for space as a people than we never have to, right The language he uses around that is this, I believe, or I am convinced it is not the language of observation. Because there is no room for questioning in your life, like the fool that I am. And by the way, if you study Old Testament conceptions of hate, That's how that verse starts They thought men were going to go to dust and the breath was returned to God. I I I think give me a sec. Does he love us? Lewis was trying to accomplish there, um, uh he he paints this gray, dry It is a hope that transforms the day's mind. There will be a judgment of the righteous and the wicked. Because these are the goodnesses of my life. Even though a wise man claims to know, he cannot find it out. I'll do my best. But I will also argue that Solomon is entirely limited to that instinctual level. And again, he'll amplify that statement in a little minute. It's nothing to me. So that your faith and blank are in God. O death, where is your victory? I want them so badly, Lord. Because he has Right? When somebody shows up and you expect them to be bad and then they are bad, you're like, yeah, that's really annoying, but you kind of expected it This isn't evil. It is T I still know that it's better for people that fear him than those that don't fear him And exactly how privileged we are to have what we have Say again? You just die, and that's the end of it. And yes, I studied David's comment about his child. Life after death. I'm I'm trying to be faithful to the scriptures. And if it is there, there's no tasting, there's no touching, there's no feeling. It needs to be a discipline in your home, in your life. We don't just ride it out with gritted teeth. And you gotta poke me with this? In 93A, he says this is an evil, it's a strong word. Ecclesiastes 9 2. Why am I stuttering? That was in Pastor Gabe's chapter last week. I think his call here is that is is that particularly powerful one that comes Go eat your bread and joy and drink your wine with a merry heart, for God has already approved what you do. Live with expectation, live with hope, live with purpose. They were exceedingly beautiful. I have enjoyed tremendously the study of your word this week, and I want to share that with people in this room. But his observation Why did I emphasize that? Paul prays that the people would be filled You have a rebel heart, and I have a rebel heart I'm not clear that they do I'm not sure where I'm getting the strength from to do that. We feel it and its vanity every day, and while it fatigues us and frustrates us on every day, I'm not seeing the direct hope the way we do, by the way. But we're going to pick up with the stain of death. He cemented in his heart. That thing is not able to be investigated further. Even though a wise man claims to know, he cannot find out Solomon believes, notice the word believes But he doesn't use the words of see and experience and evaluate. I cannot not believe. This is why I spent so long trying to understand these old concepts of death. It is a hope that we are required We suffer with a fiction Knowing that you were ransomed It means stay close to him and look at him and watch what he's doing in your life. And I say in truth because if they had that other hope, that would color their explanation of the curse. Because the reality around you is still under the curse and the promises are the surety. And how does it make any sense because of all the other stuff that we know? Same topic. Do you see And when we hear about the curse, we're like, yeah, why do I have to go through it? That is not what offends Solomon here. I'm going to specifically address the passage that you uh you mentioned there, but that's ex- you nailed it. I honestly believe that is true. Does he hate us? They give themselves over to madness. I can't help but think that seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines, first Kings eleven three That was second, third is do all your labor, do all your labor with all your might Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast. We live in the light of Christ. 26, for to the one who pleases him, God has given wisdom and knowledge and joy. We're not exactly sure. I'm trying to get you to resonate with Solomon's theology first. I I can't resonate with you Both are before him. Wait for the Lord, be strong, and let your heart take courage. And then separate from Ecclesiastes, I want to take you into the New Testament in my remaining few minutes. I have never appreciated that passage in Corinthians the way I have. And I was standing here in my office with my cup of coffee There's a Yeah. One author who doesn't believe that Solomon wrote the book writes, in this section. But I don't think so. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope. Build on it with hope. Um and uh Starting in 816, it says, when I applied my heart to know wisdom and to see, notice this. All's great work, super simple, really easy to uh capture the meaning of, and it's exhaustive. But I I think it resonates with us on a very fundamental level. I cannot see whether He loves me or hates me. Because they don't have this hope that Solomon has, because it's not observable I apologize for reading my notes. That is the situation until God recreates it, and He will recreate it. I don't think that's a word, but you get the idea. It's wounding in a in a much deeper way. And even then And if that's the character of God, if that that itch I feel about what I think God is really like. So be careful about bringing your modern conception of And I would actually go to Romans 1, 20, and 21 as my proof text for that. What is Solomon reflecting on there? Typically that is being buried off more and more. Right? Our hope cannot be speculative or ill-defined, this exercise Does God love us or hate us? What food you eat, what clothes you wear I observed. That that that that is so true, right? So I already said that, right? But not here. How did that work out for you I think it's so interesting that that shows up. It is the same for all, since the same event happened to the righteous and the wicked I'm trying to be faithful to the scriptures. I'm only going to make it, if I'm lucky, to verse 10 He's trying to tell you what he knows by observation. And he goes on to say, it doesn't even seem to matter whether you live well or ill, you just die whenever. 1 Peter 1, 17-21. Just to because everybody emphasizes the precious blood of Christ? I think that uh O death, where is your stain? And it's back to that, and I hate to use touchy feel It's in the context of don't don't be overly righteous, but don't be overly evil. And he who swears, as he who suns and doesn't matter what you do With the precious blood of Christ. But I also feel tremendously hopeful. I see Both are before him. 8 16 and 17, right? It's worse. But even in her mind, it was kind of like, I don't know, are you asking me for permission to do something that Nothing. It is good that you should take hold of this, whatever this is The Psalm come the closest, and it is terribly unclear And I'm not going to elaborate these because I'm going to run out of time. Um And here they are in my open hands. Um Let me let me say that with the right emphasis. Unalloyed. The phrase is suspopedalian obfuscation But I'd say it's a bit of a morbid study. Um We are deprived of them unnaturally. Um Your your burdens are unlikely to be the same as mine. Something he believes is And then like in the verse ten he says this It's in and it's scrutable I have no idea. Which is gonna Why bother with goodness? They died. I have a work harder mentality to a fault. I still haven't And Tuesday I got a bad piece of news We would see uniquely the satisfaction of it He sees it. To make matters worse, because justice is not actually he's going to amplify it right here. This very practical thing about my life is frustrating. Is is there any correlation between That's directly out of Scripture. Thank you So he believes that God is sovereign, but he's also inscrutable I have tried to serve God. We were not meant to die. I know my sins. Who can tell? Exploration of delayed judgment Do you see It is the same for all. And as Pastor Gabe mentioned last week, it really starts By the way, what's that one event? I can't I'm not saying they didn't. I just didn't go there because steal my thunder in following weeks. But we're not in it And there is a time for that that God has ordained. When I applied my heart to know wisdom and to see the business that is done on earth, And you gotta see that this annoys Solomon to no end. There will be a justice. He attributes all of the But I also feel like too there's a What Solomon's about to make No hope of justice. I gotta go fast. And I thought Terribly exciting and uplifting study. He sounds like a reprobate lunatic. That's what it means. Um By the way, did it say your your life under the sun? How does it work? No. Wait for the Lord. And I want to get to some really good verses at the end. Hope We say that today. And they are wonderful. The invisible things of Him from the Creation. And I think that's what he's doing here. How can he have this this Not the And what does that exactly mean? There's the curse, but That is the