I'm gonna start oddly. I'm gonna uh I'm gonna dive right into kind of a theme that I want to emphasize today. in a slightly odd fashion. The emphasis will be slightly odd. The theme hopefully is not. I'm going to do some summary which will result in really me uh summarizing both last week and then where I'm heading this week. And then we're gonna break out, minimize the passion, stick to the uh teaching, uh, and uh we'll do a little bit more Uh I'll say verse by verse on the chapter this morning. Let's get uh let's get rolling in prayer and then we'll we'll kick this off. I'm gonna read you from a book called This is uh one of my Christmas presents this year. Every moment holy. Um super fantastic book. I'm always recommending books. You should get this one. One's last week. Um it's a liturgy for feasting with friends. It says, to gather joyfully is indeed a serious affair, for feasting and all enjoyments, gratefully taken, are, at their heart, acts of war. As you might guess, I like that line. In celebrating this feast, we declare that evil and death, suffering and loss, sorrow and tears will not have the final word But the joy of fellowship and the welcome and comfort of friends, new and old, and the celebration of these blessings of food and drink and conversation and laughter are the true evidences of things eternal. And are the first fruits of that great glad joy that is to come and that will be unending So let our feast this day be joined to those sure victories secured by Christ. Let it be to us now a delight and a glad foretaste of his eternal kingdom. Bless us, O Lord, in this feast. Bless us, O Lord, as we linger over our cups and over this table laden with good things, as we relish the delights of varied texture and flavor, of aromas and savory spices, of dishes prepared as acts of love and blessing. of sweet delights made sweeter by the communion of saints. May this shared meal and our pleasure in it bear witness against the artifice and deceptions of the Prince of the Darkness. that would blind this world to hope. I hope you're tracking some of that. May it strike at the root of the lie that would drain life of meaning and the world of joy and suffering of redemption. May this our feast fall like a great hammer blow against the brittle night, shattering the gloom, reawakening our hearts, stirring our imaginations, focusing our vision on the kingdom of heaven that is to come On the kingdom that is promised, on the kingdom that is already indeed among us. For the resurrection of all good things has already joyfully begun. We're getting close, hang in there. May this feast be an echo of that great supper of the Lamb, a foreshadowing of the great celebration that awaits the children of God. Where two or more of us are gathered, O Lord, there you have promised to be, and here we are. And so here are you. Take joy, O King. in this our feast, I learned from Ecclesiastes 14 years ago to exercise what I call a theology of feasting. And I do not mean by that hedonism. I actually try to exercise that theology once a day. at the dinner meal with my family. And I got it from Ecclesiastes. You're going to read a little bit about it today, but it's something I want to challenge you with. We are forgetful, frail people. And without the constant reminder of what the Lord is doing in his blessings to sustain us, what he is in the kingdom for us now, indeed, and what he will be in the kingdom to come So much more, can't even describe it because I can't imagine it with sufficiency. Without those constant reminders, you will settle into, you are have already settled into the pessimism. Of Solomon, as he has gone about this business of investigation that he's doing And so I hope that you will take it on as a practice. It's a discipline of mind and heart. It does not require excess. It could be, it's a struggle for me to imagine, but it could be McDonald's. It definitely can be Chick-fil-A, especially if you get one of the milkshakes It's not about the lavishness of the meal. We've done it with cheese and crackers and a nice drink and sliced up cucumbers. It's about recognizing that you have been rewarded for the toil of your day by being in Christ and by all that he is for you and that he will sustain you through it again. It's recognizing that God ordained the activity of your day as piercing and trying and dry and ordinary and mundane and discouraging and fatiguing It's that he ordained them so that he could walk with you in some way that was needful for you. I think I just stole my thunder. That was the end. We can leave now. I'm done. Romans 1, 20 and 21, also 24, really summarize what we talked about last week and lead us into this week's study. It says this is going to be hard for me. I'm going to read it out of the ESV, but I've memorized it out of the King James and I it's almost impossible to stay on target when I have it in my head so clearly. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived. So his is God's, have been clearly perceived, understood, seen. Ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. Allah, creation. We can see that. And things about His, His eternal power and His divine nature, His invisible attributes can be seen from those things Even as God was with Adam and Eve in the garden, well perceived by them, even more than what we have here, we also can perceive him. We see his presence. We know he is there, and we understand that there are demands placed on us as a result of that. That's what this passage says. That's why I memorized it, and I've memorized it so well. I can't read it barely in another version. That's what that says. He surrounds us. By the way, you want a ground for that feasting we do daily? Because he surrounds us and we know it's true. And it's only when we give in to the deceitfulness of the evil one, or we choose our own way, that we struggle recognizing that daily, even in the midst of our heart Honest, serious trials, by the way. I'm not diminishing anybody's struggles. For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him Daily feasting, give thanks to him, but they became feudal. That's another word that Solomon might use for feudal. Yes, I I've heard a lot of you people talk. You have clear voices, but in here you mumble like my son does. Come on, people. Vain or vanity, right? Became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. What happens to us when we fail to recognize who and what God is for us and fail to regularly live? in the thankfulness that is appropriate to who he is and what he is for us, what happens to us? It's the same answer before, but you should say it without mumbling this time. We become what? Yeah. Way. Our lives are filled with vanity. What futility. They become futile in their thinking and their foolish hearts it says were are darkened. Therefore, God verse 24. Therefore, God gave them up to the lusts of their hearts, to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves, and it goes on, to an exercise of futility that is never satisfying Always striving for satisfaction, always striving for some sort of peace that never comes. And leaves the person more starved for satisfaction than when they began, and frankly, more desperate. If I have a problem and I attempt to solve it and I see some success in that solution, it calms me down a little bit. I see that this is working. I see that I have an outcome that I can have some hope in But when I have a problem and I line up my first three solutions and one doesn't work, oops, and two doesn't work, well now I've only got one left. And three doesn't work, I I got nothing. And frankly, we live like secularists, pessimists. From Monday to Sunday, and we wonder why we are tired and dry on Sunday morning. I don't mean that we mean to do it. Maybe we do, by the way, but that's not necessary for what I'm saying. I don't mean to do it. But the blessing for me of teaching is that I don't get to live any other way on from Monday to to Sunday. I have to get up super early every morning Prepare because then I got a long job to do, and then I got family responsibilities, and then Ansley keeps me busy on our little farm property thingy, and you know. I I so I don't get to live any other way than focused on God's word during during weeks when I have a lot of teaching responsibilities, but man, I I can't say how many weeks I go through and I'm just so busy trying to do the right thing, frankly But the end of my week is is fatigue and and exhaustion and emptiness because I failed to give the Lord thanks. I failed to adjust my thinking. To respond to the onslaught of the deceiver, the one that we read about last week that was more deceitful, more cunning than any other preacher. God is so gracious, as we read last week, He consigns us, His mercy consigns us to a life that is ultimately unsatisfying under the sun. In every respect, when lived separately from God. Solomon sets himself to see if walking every road of satisfaction Chapters 1 and 2. Every road of satisfaction to its furthest extent will let him find satisfaction. In the end, he sets himself to sets his heart, it says, to despair, Ecclesiastes 2. 20. He gave his heart to despair, for all our days are full of sorrow, and our work is a vexation. Even in the night, his heart does not rest, so the person that toils hard. Um again, without without God Though we didn't have time to develop it last week, I uh already did this week a little bit, uh this theology of feasting does show up in last week's the idea that we should enjoy the food and drink that we have in the Lord. That appeared last week and I just had to skip over it for the sake of time. But it it can be developed meaningfully from this week's uh as well. As a matter of fact, even in the sphere of all experiences of our lives, this is set apart, this theology of feces, and that's my phrase, that's not in scripture anywhere, just so you know And I don't know that you can find it in a book either, by the way. Um In in the sphere of all these experiences, all these times we're going to read about in chapter three, this is set as that thing that God gives us. to satisfy our hearts. It it's some somehow unique in that. And I I can't describe how. I really the scripture doesn't give it to me and I don't quite understand it, but it is conspicuously set aside as unique here in Ecclesiastes. It's also talked about in other places in Scripture, by the way, but it's cons- I found it here first because of its conspicuousness, and then I was able to thread it through other places in Scripture in the years that followed. There is nothing better for a person than that he should eat and drink and find enjoyment in his toil. Ecclesiastes two twenty-four, first part of the verse Because it is from the hand of God. Second part of that same verse. The ability Sorry, I wrote it wrong. The ability for a person to find satisfaction in eating and drinking in the daily toil of life Is a gift of wisdom and knowledge and joy from God. Ecclesiastes 2:26 It requires a surrender to God each day. It requires a remembrance of what you are and have in Christ. It requires a remembrance of the judgment you will face and the rewards of inheritance, or excuse me, end inheritance you will receive. This is reiterated and magnified in today's passage in Ecclesiastes 3, 12-15. All the vanity of life and the vexing toil is a work of and these are the things it's a work of seeking what has been driven away. Look at that in Ecclesiastes 3. 15. Hm, I don't think that's the right reference. I lied, it's the right reference. Look in 315. That which is already has been. That which is to be already has been. And God seeks what has been driven away. What happened when Adam and Adam and Eve sinned in the garden? Driven out. And they were prevented from ever returning. A guard was set that they might never re-enter that Eden. And since that time we have been scratching to get back in It is the great dissatisfaction of our lives, whether we know it or not. And we find here that all these times that we're about to read and and uh all these other dissatisfactions that Solomon speaks about in chapters one and two, and it he'll continue to elaborate on, are the seeking of the Lord after that which has been driven away. I love that. It provides good context for me. Life is hard. There's no point in putting any polish on that. You have seasons, as we'll read about, you have seasons that are great. But they are somehow made almost offensive by the seasons that are not great. And I just love that the Lord says, you realize I'm allowing you to taste the end of your rebellion. so that you will satisfy yourself only in me. I'm I'm running a controlled experiment. Maybe this is too academic for some of you, but I'm an engineer so it works for me, right? I'm running this controlled experiment So that you understand that no matter what you do and how you do it, it will always end up badly. It will always end up with dissatisfaction. It doesn't matter if you got everything you wanted tomorrow. It would not satisfy your heart. Only I will do that. And I'm so stupid, frankly, that I can't learn that lesson. Doesn't matter how many years. I can't learn it. Not fully. And so he gives me this labor of my day to remind me Right? To seek me out, to find me individually, to tailor the labor of my life for me, for my personality. For my weaknesses and my strengths and my faults, for the purposes for which he created me, he specifically tailors those sins To me, so that I would be satisfied only in that which is of the greatest value, so that I will not feed myself on that which is there which is temporal, which is unhealthy, which is unwholesome, which is unsatisfying. He finds me. He seeks me. He seeks me and he finds me in the labors of my day and the trials that I have. Please stop for just a second and put your finger on that thing that is annoying you right now. That irritation in your life, which you're praying about, or you're should be praying about Just stop for just a second and realize, be willing to lay that down, maybe with some injury to your heart and soul, and lay that down on the table in front of you and just go, yeah That's the vexation of my life right there that the Lord is using to make sure that I understand that there is nothing under this sun that will ever satisfy my heart. You have got to do that. You understand that? That is the Christian's call. That is the cross. That is the gospel. You can carry that thing for as long as you want. The Lord will allow you to do it. As a matter of fact, he'll probably give you a little extra burden if you carry it for too long. He's intent on rescuing you. He is intent on satisfying you. He is intent on recovering you. He is intent on delighting you. He is intent on putting his mark on your life in such a way that he creates a life for his glory and all the yours. He will make of you a distinctive person. No one say people, that's too general. He will make of you a distinctive person. Gotta stay behind the pulpit. Too much passion, not enough teaching. Stay behind the pulpit. I'll just hold on to it. We're talking about things that our vexing toil um does as a work of the Lord. It's his way of seeking those that have been driven away, Ecclesiastes 3. 15. It's his way of making us joyful in the knowledge of God's appointed time. Something we can only do with the perspective of eternal hope and covenant goodness. In Ecclesiastes 3. 11, he talks about a future goodness. He has made everything beautiful in its time. Also he has put eternity into man's heart, yet so that he cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the end. There's this future aspect to uh the goodness. that we hope for, that we expect. By the way, the unredeemed and the redeemed alike have that in their heart. It's just directed towards different objects. And it's important to see that we both somehow expect or hope for a superlative goodness in eternity. Frankly, I think that people say that you die and just go back to the dirt, like we're about to read in Ecclesiastes here, are really just kind of cowards. They hope for something better, but they don't expect it and they can't bear the disappointment. And so they're just like, ah, there's nothing. But I happen to know from Ecclesiastes 3 that God's put eternity in that person's heart. So that that leaves me with a a a troubling situation. Who's right? Well, easy question for me. You're a liar. God's right. God uses those trials of our lives to point us toward that hope of a future goodness and when we're redeemed in Christ we set it fixedly and firmly on a significant portion of our testament old and new, right? I guess I shouldn't bang. Uh old and new. About what we will get in eternity. What we will be, what we will enjoy, what we will experience But it also speaks to present goodness, the blessing of our daily toil and the food and drink and fellowship that we are able to enjoy in thanksgiving to God. Our theology of peace things, doesn't it bother you? Doesn't it bother any of you that the scriptures talk so imperatively? About your need to be filled with thanks and joy at all times and in all things, whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of the Lord. And in those things give thanks. And be joy-filled. Be inwardly filled with a reality of joy. And outwardly expressing what that looks like and who it is that made you joyful inside. Does it not bother you that we live in an age that's frankly doped up on drugs and alcohol and stimulated with entertainment and I prefer the word amusement because it it's it's the absence of thinking the absence of musing on a particular thing, right? We are so busy trying to handle the panic and sadness and sorrow and despair and frustration and anxiety and anger and disappointment of our lives. And yet it and it's it it's in the church too, by the way. It's in the body of the redeemed. And yet the Lord requires us, particularly in the New Testament, to be joyful and thankful in all things. I'm always blown away by the fact the fact that you read in Ephesians and Thessalonians and the the Lord lists long lists of sins that you shouldn't do, and I memorized those passages because I'm trying to, you know Live a life that's holy to the Lord. So I memorize these passages about all these things you shouldn't do. And he says instead of those things, don't be righteous, don't be holy, don't be this or that or the other. He says be thankful I love that juxtaposition. Here's all the sins that you can commit trying to satisfy yourself in things outside of God. You want to know what the remedy to those things are? Just be satisfied in God. And I say just be like it's so easy, but everybody in the room, I'm up here trying to implore you. Right? To be satisfied in the Lord because I know it's ultimately hard because the deceiver is doing everything that he can to make sure that we don't pursue that And the third thing that the Lord is trying to accomplish through the fixation of our lives is frankly to get us to continually strive to please Him through obedience. We think that obedience is that thing that the Lord does when he removes what we once once what we want and he replaces it with this dry pasty duty Boy, didn't the evil one win a victory when he uh perpetrated that lie on our minds so convincingly New Testament describes obedience and truth in particular as the way to be free. as the way to fully enjoy what God is and does for us. Don't have time to develop that thought at all, but just just look at the cycles of blessing and cursing in the Old Testament. He says, if you do these things, if you obey, these are the blessings I will heap on you. But Because I am a faithful God and would not tolerate losing you. If you do not do these things, if you pursue other satisfactions outside of me, I will curse you. Go back and read Deuteronomy eleven, thirteen. Read it all. But it's in that area. Right. Okay, that was introduction. The study at hand is uh from Ecclesiastes 3. So if you're not already open there, you should be there. We're going to talk about a providential task. And we'll come back to what providence means. I think you all know, or at least you all use that word regularly, but we'll we'll scratch at it a little bit in a minute. Structure of the first eight verses at least are 14 pairs of opposites. I guess I would be remiss if I didn't repeat that it was a song and lyrics. So they say words and lyrics by Pat Seeger, but that's not true. The words are from Ecclesiastes, it was put to music by Pat Seeger and then popularized, I don't know, ten or so years later, by the birds. And most of you are familiar with some mental scene of flower children running around during the Vietnam era singing this song and talking about anti-war, which is hilarious if you read the first eight verses because it says there's a time for war right there at the beginning It also says there's a time to kill. It says there's a time to break down. It says there's a time to weep and a time to mourn. And although there's a lot of argument about what it means, it says there's a time to cast stones. Away, admittedly, but hmm. Um So standard standard human stuff, right? Here's this word in scripture I'd like to manipulate. Let's just run off of it Fourteen pairs of opisits. I'm not sure if I'm pronouncing this word correctly, but apparently in Hebrew uh poetry this is called a merism. And it's really just the idea that you take two things that are pretty much polar opposites and you set them in opposition to each other in order to express the entire continuum of a thing. When I want to talk to you about a time see if I can find a good example. Oh, TV, right up front, right? Verse two. When I want to talk to you about a time to be born and a time to die, I'm I'm really not Isolating those two events in your lifetime, I'm trying to say there is a time for each day between your birth and your death. Right? And God has ordered each of those times appropriately. So this idea of Meriism is intended to show the entire continuum in between. singularly focus your attention on either one. What it does uniquely is it paints a full uh spectrum of concepts between it. We're not permitted to just say, well the Lord only meant This part that we can focus on this bracket in the continuum. No, the Lord meant from the day of your birth to the last breath of your death. These things are true in God appointed. And He'll continue to do that as we go. Every area of the spectrum is covered by what we're about to read in these things, not just the ends. Some of these can be categorized pretty easily into arenas of our life that we just did. For instance, the birth-death thing is kind of a continuum of life and all the stages in between. That's a pretty easy one to categorize. Um I already alluded to the fact that the casting away of stones runs all over the place in the commentary is very difficult to figure out what that means. I'll share a few of those, but since I really don't know, uh I'm not gonna spend a lot of time trying to act like I do. Um so that's that's really uh the structure of the passage there In verse 1, there is a season and a time for every matter. And I'm going to spend just a few seconds on that one. The season and time are easy enough. They're fairly ordinary words for specific points in time, just so you're clear, versus continuums or continuations of time, right? These The idea here is that what's about to be spoken of, there are specific aspects of these things at these times in your life and that they are appointed. It doesn't mean that you're going to get some jumble mush of them as you go through life, all just kind of continually rambling on. That's not the intention. Each of these words talks about a specific point in time with no necessity for continuation. The every matter part is very interesting to me. Depending on what version you have. Actually, quick show of hands, who has every matter? For verse the end of verse one. Not as many as I thought. Uh who has event? Okay, so looks like the room's pretty well split between the previous version of the NASB and the newer version of the NESB. If you have the NSB twenty with updates, it's every matter. If you have the n ninety-five, it's event. Um ESV also has every matter. Uh Young's literal translation just tries to translate either the Greek or Hebrew as literally as possible, which means it's difficult to read. um is the light, uh the um Christian Standard Bible, which I'm a big fan of lately, um at least for a digital Bible, I like to reference it. Um Used to be called the Holman Christian Standard Bible, I believe. Uh uses the word activity and the KJV uses purpose The only reason I'm spending some time on this, there's an interesting aspect to every matter that I'm not exactly sure what to do with, but it scratches at my thinking. And so I wanted to share that with you, and then I'll reference again later on. It actually has an aspect and is often used for every kind of delight or everything that has value. Right? And so it it gets this sense of every matter or stuff was even in one. I obviously didn't pick up that translation, but uh in one of the translations I think it was stuff, you know. I was like, hmm, a little too modern for me. Um But it gets that sense because it has the idea of everything that we might delight in or everything that we might pursue that has value. And so in that sense it just has this scope of stuff or every matter. You know, nice more formal type expression and stuff things. Um so I just wanted you to know that as it goes through here when it says For everything there is a season and a time for every matter under heaven. It would not be unreasonable to say every delight under heaven every activity under heaven, every purpose under heaven, or every event under heaven. Those are all uh I'll say helpful in maybe trying to understand the range of uh the original language here. Uh what your conclusion should be, uh I think will depend on whether on which of the two types of people draw conclusions from what we're about to read here. And I'll explain that statement in a minute. And then we begin just some simple categorizations. So I'm going to read these pretty quickly. They're just observations about the different things. I don't think that we're intended to uh As a matter of fact, I'll contest that we are not intended to read into this some sort of a dictionary of ethics or a dictionary of circumstances or any of those other things from here. I think they're helpful in understanding our lives uh under the sun, before the Lord, uh, but I don't think that any of these are intended to, you know, oh there it is, right? It says there's a time for war and therefore it's time to kill He says there's a time to kill, so that neighbor guy, and trust me I have one of these, and like literally I have one of these neighbors. It drives me so nuts I woke up this morning even quoting James 120. The anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. And I just kept saying that to myself over and over and over again. And then luckily I had to start on my notes, and so that that changed things. Yeah, I'm not supposed to go out and start slaying people because it's here in the passage, right? Um so I want to be careful about it. But I do think there's some interesting ranges of our experience. And I'm trying to make sure that you here see that yourself in the this context, in these circumstances, right? That there's no one in the room that thinks, uh, mine's not reflected there. I'm I'm not a part of this. This passage is for you Every age, every gender, every race, every occupation, every culture, it's for you. Time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what was planted. It seems to be an entire life cycle, first for men and animals, and then for plants. Covers every age of your life. A time to kill and a time to heal, a time to break down and a time to build up. This is actually a set of couplets. Right? Two in each of the the verses. This is uh four of the six that actually uh talk about um positive and negative aspects of control struction if you will. The first one was really the plant and the and the pluck up and then you have the kill and heal and then you have the breakdown and and build up. It's difficult to know exactly what category of our lives that's being referred to there. But it certainly covers a range of our experiences in all of those positive and negative aspects of construction. That's an author's word, not mine. But Don't you think well I what do you think about to kill and to heal? How do you see the mare what is that word that you say merrism Yeah, that's a good question, right? One is an activity that we do that destroys life. The effort that we make is an attempt to destroy life. And the other aspect of it is is uh you know, a committed attempt to preserve life. Um and again I I did as best I could on these, uh but at the end of the day there was So much debate about what each one and they take these passages and frankly they torture them until they yield some meaning that the authors wanted No, I wasn't questioning. I was just one and another thought. Well, I don't even mind you questioning. I'm just sharing with you. I o I only could go so far with my answer because I'm not sure after all the tortured commentary that I read on these Um there's uh it just draws your attention, I'm not sure necessarily trying to draw any meaning. There's a a reversal here. There's some positive things, a time to be born and a time to die. So it's that positive negative, a time to plant or a time to pluck up, positive, negative. Here it reversed those and it remains mostly reversed. for the the remainder of the passage. The remainder of verses one through eight. It's a time uh to kill and a time to heal, a time to break down, right? So you get the negative first instead of the positive. Again, not and not necessarily trying to derive any meaning there, just letting you know that there is that reversal. Um A time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn and a time to dance. These are the range of emotions that we feel throughout our lives. Opposites, I think the opposites that are picked here was interesting. I'm not sure if If weeping and laughing were necessarily the the polar opposites of that range of emotion in my mind, I'm actually just not sure what the opposite of weeping was, but for me I think it was something more like contentment or peace And so I was a little surprised to see laughter is presented as the opposite pole of that range of emotions. And then the same one for morning. Uh I would not have gone to dancing, that's why, because I'm you know a pacey Irish guy that wouldn't wouldn't be caught dead doing that anyway. But um Unless my wife made me, in which case I'd sort smartly and do whatever she told me to do. But um just do what we do. Um These are are clearly um you know those ranges of emotions and I just thought that what the opposites were were were interesting. Um again don't have any huge meaning I'm trying to draw there In verse 5, a time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together. I mentioned to you already that commentators are all over the place. I'll share a few thoughts. Stones Uh contrast is difficult, the stone's contrast is difficult to understand and argument among commentators. Um actually uh the most prevalent one is potentially about human relationship and it comes from a Jewish uh midrash between uh a commentary on on their texts. Um And it suggests that there's actually a time for being with your wife and there's a time to not be with your wife as far as conjugal rights are concerned. Uh uh I got nothing there, I'm just sharing that. That seems to be a more prevalent uh understanding of that passage I would call that tortured, but um the embracing one at the end of that same passage A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing. This one does have very real strong affection in in the actual meaning of the word. uh husband and wife uh or the response of being reunited with somebody after a very long separation. It's an extreme emotion uh when they're talking about this embracing. There is a time for that kind of embracing and there's a time That that's not appropriate or that's not possible or that's not allowed for whatever whatever reason is. A time to seek and a time to lose, a time to keep and a time to cast away in verse 6. One author, I think, put it well. This is really about our possessions and our resolutions. Concerning them. If you lose something that's insignificant, you don't pursue it, right? But if you lose things that you wanted and that are significant to you, you search for them. And so I think it's interesting that the Lord appoints times when we're seeking and uh and in in theory finding and a time that we're losing. There's a time for keeping things and there's a time for casting them away Verse 7 is a time to tear and a time to sew, a time to keep silence, and a time to speak. Difficult to apply another broad category to this pair. Tear and sow may be references to mourning, so say the commentators. Keeping silence and speaking would then be difficult, this is my comment It's the there's supposed to be a parallelism between each of these verses couplets and it's hard to understand what the parallelism between silence and speaking would be if tearing and sewing were references to mourning, right? I would uh Jew would potentially tear their clothes at a time of mourning, uh but they weren't all terribly wealthy, so they needed their clothes, and so they'd sew them back up after the time of mourning was over. Did that happen? Sure. Is this what's being referenced here? It's unclear to me. I actually have my own comment there. I said, I wonder if this is not talking more about personal relationships. A time to criticize Send a text to somebody saying thank you for your passion. It's just funny. I I don't want you to He's gonna be like, I don't want to text this guy anymore. You have really broad shoulders, I figured you could take it on the Steve and Joe, please. Time for finding a new church. Time to criticize and a time to praise. This would allow a parallelism with the silence and the speaking. Consider Job and his friends, right? A time to sit and be silent. right with this relation. Right? Sometimes words if you haven't learned this about your marriage, you should learn it soon. I learned it from wiser people and then my wife uh reinforced it often. Right? There's a time to just sit and be with that person. Do not try to solve her problems. All the time. Until she tells you So I I actually thought that had a um I thought that was more honest to the passage, but I again that's you know MOV, right? My own version. Uh so be careful with that one. Um I guess maybe just based off of the way that people have kind of interpreted this section of birth building capacity Seems like sometimes people just kind of use it as a like, hey, this is how I want to interpret this passage. So we're gonna put it to this passage, uh to this situation, like where someone says, Oh, it's time to They might apply it to civics, you know, as opposed to an interpersonal relationship. Like is there a sense for in what this is really meant to speak to? Like is this more for relationships between people or is this just As an engineer, I want to give you a concise answer Um as an honest person, I I'm just not sure that I can. And I noodled over this a bit. It's a significant portion of passage. It's a significant portion of scripture. And it's a passage that for reasons that aren't immediately clear to me, it it strikes a chord with with society, with with people, with all people, right? This is a a very well-known song. Um and it resonates even today. You still hear it. Um I I believe notice that phrase, right? As opposed to I know or I'm convinced. Well maybe I am convinced, but it's because I believe it, not because I know it. That this is really talking about the full palette of times that God has ordained for our lives. And the frustrating part about it is that they are these polar opposites, right? They are all over the place. And there's a suggestion here that uh implied, not explicit, but implied, that these seasons will be in all of our lives, in some way, shape, size, or form, right? Not necessarily everyone to the nth degree in the way that it will for everybody else. But that we will I'm going to use the phrase, enjoy the Lord's providence. Obviously this is for only the redeemed, right? We will enjoy the Lord's providence in all of its diversity, in every experience of our lives, in these ways. Now, you you touched on an interesting point. You know, is it general categories In here, it's a general category. I might get in trouble with this. I'll just tell you that up front. If I get in trouble, I'll try to dig myself out later, but we'll see. In here, it's general. But as the Lord communicates these ranges of experience to your specific heart in your specific life, they become very personal. Right? And that's why it's difficult for me to answer this question, most of all. The Lord will do these things in your life, and he will do them in ways that seek you the best. And draw you the most and satisfy you to the greatest degree. And those will be very personal and very specific to your life. And so there's a extreme specificity in them, as the Holy Spirit communicates these things with your heart and your mind through the course of your life and the inner But in this passage alone, I think it would be wrong for us to write a commentary or a book of ethics or something, a prescription for all Christians' lives that say, we're going to see this and we're going to see this and we're going to see this and there you go. Does that help at all? Can I just comment on that? But please. I I just want to affirm what you're saying. I agree with you and Uh uh just to say it in my own way, just uh uh uh uh emphasize that because I think you're a little a little too hesitant and and I wan I want to strengthen your conviction, um, or at least let everyone know that I agree with your conviction. What he's revealing here is not how we should live our lives, but he's making a statement of the sovereignty of God. That everything takes that takes place in our life is appointed by God. So maybe one way to say it is He's not giving us God's revealed will for our life, there for that which we ought to follow. He's saying here, what is God's decreed will? That anything that takes place, birth, death, laughing, mourning, dancing. Anything that takes place in our life takes place because it is God's appointed purpose in our life. So it's a statement of sovereignty which, and I don't want to steal your thunder, but um because I think it's helpful in verse 9, that's why he asks the question, what profit is there to the worker from that in which he toils? He's saying if God has appointed all these things, what's the point of me doing anything? Because God's already appointed it. Um again that's uh under the sun perspective. Uh so I agree that it's it's n statements of what God has appointed to take place, not the basis upon which we should decide what we should do. I think that's very helpful. Sometimes you see people use it and they're trying to defend their course of action when in fact this path they should not necessarily be saying, oh, that means that you should actually go out and fight An opportunity to first something. Yeah. So I'll skip a little bit and actually jump forward to uh where Pastor Gabe was there. One author actually makes the negative statement. He just Give me a second. Disagrees with you to some degree. And uh he says it is important to emphasize that the poem does not advocate these emotions, states, or actions And I since I'm disparaging the man, I guess I won't tell you who the author is. I think he's wrong, and I think he failed to read the rest of the passage. Verses 10 and 11 clearly make these seasons which God has appointed for man. And it would although it would be dangerous, very dangerous, to derive a system of ethics from verses one through nine, or said differently, a system of prescribed activities that we should Endeavor to do, we must at least confess that all these seasons are in God's economy or God's providence, God's appointment. So there's two responses to this passage, right? There and not like I'm making it up, it's actually here. In verse 9, you begin to see, and I'll over these view of these verses for you, you begin to see uh times and seasons What they feel like, what they look like, how they affect a pessimist or a secularist. And again, a secularist or a pessimist, all I mean by that is a person that does not hold God in their thinking. Right? There's no room for God in their thinking What they can see, taste, touch, and feel, although that flies in the face of Romans 1 a little bit, what they see, taste, touch, and feel is all there is And it's how we often practically live, by the way, plug, when we fail to remind ourselves each day what the Lord is for us. So again that importance of uh and it we'll get to it but uh the importance of that uh theology of feasting. We are forced to look at the seasons of time through two distinct worldviews, that of the secularist or the pessimist and that of the Christian In verses nine through fifteen. In verse nine, we hear, what gain has the worker from this toil? It goes on in verse 10 to say, I have seen everything done under the sun. And behold, oh excuse me I have seen the business that God has given to the children of man, he skips the under the sun in this one, to be busy with, right? That's not an attractive statement. Just go be busy with this, right? the futility of all of these this range of things. You just go be busy with the futility of that. Seasons you can't control. Outcomes you can't ensure. Right? Circumstances you can't navigate on your own. You're like a little cork lost on a on a on a stormy ocean. Right? The pessimist sees his life like that. I can't ensure the times. I can't pick the hour of my birth or the day of my death. I can't pick the hour of my weeping or the moment of my dancing, right? All of those things come upon me and I experience them as they flow at me and around me and through me and over me Right? That's a pessimist's view of the world. That's a secularist's view of the world without God. What gain has the worker from his toil? It doesn't matter how hard I toil. I can't navigate these things on my own. I didn't expect these things to come as a result of that decision I made twenty years ago, or I mean whatever it is. It's a summary of what he said in Ecclesiastes 1. 14 when he wrote I have seen everything that is done under the sun, and behold all is vanity and a striving after wind, that which I can't grasp, hold, even see. Verse 11. I'm I'm just covering the so I'm going to hit 9, 11, 14, and 15 here. There are aspects of a Christian worldview in in many of those verses. I'm just touching on the secularist ones. So we're going to go through this section first as a secularist, and then we're going to go back to this section as a Christian. Verse 11 says, Also he has put eternity into man's heart, yet so that he cannot find out the end. Man without God has a fundamental longing to know what is the end of all of this. What is the point? What is the purpose? But I cannot find it out. It is the gnawing hunger of my life that is never satisfying. Verse 14 says, I perceive that whatever God does endures forever. Nothing can be added to it, nor anything taken from it. God has done it So that the people fear before him. Man without God is afraid of the uncertainty of the seasons of life And his inability to control them. And by the mercies of God, that fear will never be satisfied. It will never be calmed without him. How gracious is that? If the Lord will not let us satisfy ourselves with any counterfeit Verse 15 says that which is already, already, has been already. So that which is, already has been. That which is to come already has been. And God seeks what has been driven away. We'll have to swing around to this one on the Christian worldview then, but at the at the moment the secularist says Everything that currently is has already been done. Everything that will be done has already been done. What's the point? By the way, that's a very honest secularist because we live in a world of secularists and they're so busy telling you how we're in a better place. You know why we hate history and proclaim over and over again how we are newly modern or technologically advanced or finally enlightened? Even the word modern is a bias. Well, word modern. What does that mean? If modern means you live today and everybody else died yesterday, okay. If modern means you somehow have an advantage over people before, I'm not convinced to that. We hate the hamster wheel of our existence. And that's what you see here. It's a hamster wheel. Everything that is has already happened. I'm gonna see it again. Everything that will be has already happened. We hate it. This is a secularist's view of the God-ordained seasons of our lives in all of their diversity and beauty, all of their opportunity to know him and discover him all of his opportunity to seek and find us and train us through those things. I'm cheating, right? I'm giving you the Christian worldview. But do you see the contrast? Now I have to stop here. I'm gonna have to stop anyway. Um Do you see the contrast here? Could you just be honest? This is criticism. I did this to me while I was studying, alright? So I'm just sharing my own personal exercise in reading these scriptures by myself. I am not a secularist, or at least I don't want to believe that I am. Certainly I purport by standing up here that I am not a secularist. And yet as I read this passage and I thought about the seasons of my life and I was honest about some of the trials and stresses and frustrations that I have right now going on in my life, which aren't that bad by the way, but they still bother me a lot Which worldview am I most like? Take your again, I gotta do this right. Take your very real challenges Not diminishing them. I'm not I some of them are that I the ones I know about grieved my heart. They bothered me almost as much almost as much as my own problems. Almost. I'm not minimizing anything. But we got to think about these things the right way before the Lord. We've got to know what the truth is. Do you see any of the secular world thinking, the worldview about the seasons of your life? Some of you have every, I'll say right to by human standards. You have every right to. And I would struggle not to think about your circumstances with a secularist worldview myself if I knew what they were But you do see what the deceiver wants, right? You see the cost in there, right? You see the border You are not permitted as a Christian to cross that border. You understand that, right? That doesn't mean that God won't be gracious to seek you if you wander across it. That is not what I'm saying. But do you see the boundary? You are not permitted to look at your seasons of life like this. That is a secular worldview. It speaks to the absence of God. It defies his providence in your life. It declares that he is not singularly loving towards you. It declares that he did not sacrifice his own son on the cross for your sins to not only redeem you, to pay the slave price, to buy you back from your indebtedness But to restore relationship, we just covered this in classes, right? Redemption and forgiveness. We get them all confused. We don't think clearly about the significance of those two. He didn't just buy us back and set us up as slaves to him. He bought us back. We are his slaves. I'm not refuting that. I would refute any other position on that. But he also restored us as sons. How slave sons works, I don't know, but I don't care. Scripture says it, and I'll repeat it You are not permitted to live life like a secularist. You are not permitted to think about your circumstances like that. Your providential God has ordered your life to display himself to you and to read deem you as a peculiar people, to satisfy you in the way that He created you to be satisfied in those first hours of creation in the garden. That is his intent for his life, and he is actively restoring that with us throughout our lives to the day he calls us to himself, and we will in fact experience the fullness of that restoration. That is what our seasons of our lives are intended to do. Every last hurt and sorrow and frustration, every last real health problem and real financial problem Every real problem is in his hands, orchestrated, so that he may declare himself an all-powerful, providential God who is securing you. And loving you, and providing for you, and drawing you, and seeking you, and finding you, and feasting you as best as his good providence will allow for now Because anything more would lead us astray until the day when that is no longer a problem and our hearts are only satisfied in Him and only ever will be satisfied in Him I'm skipping some notes. Do you know that a commentary on Ecclesiastes Wrote as a heading above Ecclesiastes 3, Hopelessness of Struggle Against an Arbitrary God Hopelessness of struggle against an arbitrary guy now. I hope it should be clear to you, I don't approve of that commentary. That is not what I just got all passionate about there. But I want you to see how this sneaks in even into the thinking of the church because we consider the hardness of our lives and we back away like cowards. from the borders that God drew for us and for the true instruction that He provides for us, we allow for the evil one to sneak in in His deceptions. A Christian worldview, and I'll have to stop here, I'm sorry. A Christian worldview is well summarized by an extended quote that I'm going to share with you. And then a quick definition from the Westminster Confession. And then the eject button. Commentator named Kidner provides a good summary of how a Christian sees the changing times. Our natural reaction might be to seek reality in something beyond the reach of change, right? Nobody likes change. Treating the world of everyday experience as a mere distraction. We see perpetual change. We, the redeemed, see perpetual change not as something unsettling, but as an unfolding pattern, scintillating and God-given. The trouble for us, by the way, if you don't know, perfectly good scientific word, the idea of interacting with something in order to excite it to high energy. That's a physics definition, right? You can understand the parallels to our lives. Stop being dull and bored and sedentary and still and useless These changing seasons are intended to scintillate, to interact with our lives in such a way as to impart them to a greater endeavor. The passage we read in Hebrews last week, the passage I hope you read for homework in Colossians this last week. Strengthen your weak knees, right? Run, do, be. And some of those things, by the way, are be joyful. Be filled with thanks. Be peaceful. It's not all just, you know, whipping what we mean when we say obedience, which is usually tasteless or distasteful kinds of tasks that we do because of somebody else's authority. God intended for the seasons of life to scintillate us in our God-given position in Him. Our God-given positions to weak inheritance. Adoption. Doesn't save people to set them on a shelf. What a damnable heresy that is And I mean those words in the Christian sense. I'm not trying to be profane. The trouble for us is not that life refuses to keep still, but that we see only a fraction of its movement, of its subtle, intricate design. Instead of changelessness, there is something better, a dynamic, divine purpose with its beginning and end. Instead of frozen perfection, there is a kaleidoscopic movement of innum not my big words, by the way, right? This is hiss. Some of you make fun of me about words. I love words, but not me this time It's a kaleidoscopic movement of innumerable processes, each with its own character and its period of blossoming and ripening, beautiful in its time and contributing to the overall masterpiece, which is the work of one creator. The believer, as opposed to the secularist, can accept the same kind of unpretentious program, meaning we don't try to gloss over the fact that there's weeping and killing and war. We we make no pretense of that. Oh, you know, God's mostly good all the time. Except for these areas where that really bad thing happens to you. Well God didn't mean it. We back away from it We back away from the struggle with our with our wives, with our finances, with our co-workers, with that crazy neighbor that drives me so nuts that I have to quote James 120 the first thing in the morning We put no pretense on it. That's God. And the way it's act working out in my life uh as Elizabeth brought to our attention earlier, is very specific to his activity in my life. Same kind of unpretentious program, not as a stopgap, something we just gotta suffer through this, but as an assignment This is what God is doing to draw us to himself. This is an important part of him revealing himself to us and us being satisfied in him ultimately. I can't wait to hear the conversations in heaven, but I guarantee you they will have something to do about what we did on earth. See Randy Alcorn. That's my footnote. It is a gift from God, verse thirteen. An allotted portion in life, whose purpose is known to the giver And is part of his everlasting work, for God does nothing in the Question 11 of the Westminster Shorter Catechism asks: what are God's works of providence? And I suppose there's no better place to end. The answer to that question is: God's works of providence are his most holy, wise. and powerful preserving and governing all his creatures and all their actions In this we see complete involvement of God ordering all things for good Wish I had another hour. I know you don't buy it. Let's pray