I'll confess to you that the last several weeks have been brutal. I don't know whether I shared this with you briefly previously, but something that I have been pursuing professionally for about seven years with some degree of earnest. uh and a great degree of expense uh happened um a few weeks ago and it really just means that I get a chance to engage it more directly than I had been engaging it Um because the government finally did what the government is supposed to do. Um but then they messed it all up in the process. And uh so my last several weeks have been amazing Um and so every day I get up in the morning and I think, Lord, this is all just vanity. So my mind is in a a great frame for uh for concluding Ecclesiastes. And actually, while I say that sarcastically, it it actually has been, and I hope to share that with you as we get rolling. Uh we're gonna finish. It's only five verses. Um I'm gonna spend a little bit of time in verse one, not a tremendous amount, but uh really we're just gonna do nine through fourteen And uh I have to tell you the setup is going to take a while this morning and uh the end is is pretty simple. It's it's really two verses. Um and they're they're you know they're pretty simple verses. Um I hope you won't let go of what we have studied in here over the last I don't even know how long it's been. Uh thir thirteen weeks, is I guess thirteen weeks. Um I had I told you I studied this previously and I enjoyed it tremendously and I studied it because of some things that were going on in my life and I studied it privately or personally, however you want to phrase that. And and I enjoyed it a lot. I got a lot out of it. The Lord used it to encourage me. But this last pass through has been different. Um I really feel like the um Vision is the wrong word. My ability to see all of Scripture freshly unified. I I've always appreciated the unity of the scriptures. I've always enjoyed and been excited about how you can step through the scriptures and just see the Lord just doing the same things in new and fresh ways to communicate himself. to us and you know, he's not different and he's not transitioning and he's not changing his mind and he's not he's cons And I've always loved that. But I feel like I've seen that freshly in in Ecclesiastes from those first chapters in Genesis to those last chapters in Revelation. And I've seen it in such a way that it puts our lives in their appropriate context. It puts our lives in the frame that is the scriptures. And in so doing, it it guards us, it keeps us, it protects us, it should calm us But it should also inspire and motivate And more words that have an energizing uh meaning to them that are escaping me at the moment And so I'm just really hoping that as you walk out of the class today, that you'll commit to going back and doing a little bit of Quick reading. It doesn't take long to read through any portion of Ecclesiastes, let alone the whole thing. But do some quick reading. Especially on those days when you're frustrated by the circumstances of your life. Which for me is most days. I hope you'll go back and put them in context. God is calling to you on those days, as chapter 3 says, right? He's ordered by his sovereign control the frustrations of your lives, the vanity of your lives, so that he can find you, so that he can seek you So that you will not be settled in the position that you're in, but that you will be hungry and craving for who he is and what he is and what he calls you to and the momentary dependence that you have on him. And it's not a Stoic dependence. Every time in Ecclesiastes I'm not even through the introduction yet. Every time in Ecclesiastes Do we get our eyes off of what's here under the sun and lift them to what's above the sun? What word is used to describe that experience Come on, don't mumble at me. You know I hate it. I've said that a thousand times. What word is used? Joy. Joy Every single time we get the right perspective, we are brought into joy. The circumstances are still what they are The curse is still what it is. And if the Lord unraveled that today, where would be the hope for what we we are promised? You would create an idol for yourself here. Your circumstances, your situations, your strengths, your ability to control your life. Or at least feel comfortable in the control over your life, even if you're not controlling it yourself. We do that all the time when we shift our idolatry to our spouse, or to our children, or to our church. You can do that, by the way, or to our government. A lot of that happening. Or to a national flag. Or fill in the blank. Right? If the Lord is kind and good, he will never allow you to be satisfied with anything other than himself. And that means that he will leave us in the situation that we find ourselves in under the curse Until he returns. And when he returns, the satisfaction is beyond my ability to express it. And it will be beyond your ability to express it as well. That is the reality that we live in. Lots of scot being emotionally excited about it, but at the end of the day, that is the reality that we live in And that's a reality I think most of us need every day. I I don't know all of you. I I I don't know what you think I'm doing up here on my phone at the beginning of class, but I'm actually going through the pictures that are in the participants list trying to learn your names, because a lot of you I I don't know your names I might not know Michelle except I see her all the time at the climbing gym, so she's really easy, right? And everybody's saying, Go Michelle, go oh her name must be Michelle. And I can remember that because it's enforced a thousand times, you know. The wheels just came completely off. I'm never gonna recover from that now. I'll be like, I you. Um But a number of you I do know. A a number of you I had come to me and express frustrations for various reasons because of prayer groups or small groups or Sunday school things or or whatever the case would be. I can't think of a better message for you than that one Not because it's so soft and fluffy. It's actually not. It says that you're going to have to live under the curse, that I promise you you will have to live with the effects of the curse in your life But as a child of Christ, never without it. Never without the supernatural enabling that we get through God. And never with a lack of hope. Never with an uh an inability to observe what comes later We never have Solomon's experience where we think there will be justice, we hope there will be goodness, we expect God to be consistent with his character, but we do not have definitive truth. That circumscribes all of that, or directs all of it. Maybe it's not able to be circumscribed, you know, that the abundance of his hope and goodness. But at least to direct it formally and officially Definitively, we have all that in Christ, and it's revealed in Ecclesiastes. And so I hope you'll come back to it from time to time. By the way, no, no, that was even in my notes. Okay. Um pray? And then we'll get going. Lord, you know the week that you have given me, and I am actually holding that up to you, expecting you To have been teaching me your word through those experiences so that I might share my discovery, my learning, my um conviction from you. I do not want to shape something with my own words in my own mind this morning. And present it to these people. It doesn't matter how successful I know I can be at that. I want to share with these people What I have found in your word, what is of your making and your shape, unmolested by me. Please help me to do that this morning, Lord. Help me to do it honestly. Help me to do it rightly. Help me to do it with good order. That it would bring glory to your name. And I pray for these people, Lord. The church has been in a stage of transition. Families have been in a stage of transition. COVID has put everybody in some form of transition. And transition is frightening and hard and discouraging, and it opens the door to the evil one, and we often invite him in. And I pray that you would help us correct that this morning. There is a conviction that we should have this morning, maybe even one of tears and repentance. But it leads to joy. It leads to peace. It leads to rest. It leads to hope. It leads to courage and bravery and action and love and unity and witness and so many good things that we need. And so I pray that would be the effect of us studying these verses from your word this morning. I'll just put a plug-in for Sean, Lord, that you would be in his heart and his mind this morning as he prepares to preach. That you would give him good heart and good courage and good vision of all the goodness that you are And that you will be to him. That again there would be no room for the evil one to snatch away your goodness uh by having us focus on cost or comfort or other things like that. So give he and Dory uh just an exceptional Sunday, Lord, when your smile is warm upon all their words and all their thoughts. And those of us that have an opportunity to interact with them. In your name I pray. Amen. Um we're going to go back to the beginning real quick. I, you know, set the stage for these last few verses. Like I said, they're pretty quick and they're pretty punchy, so I'm afraid that we do them and we're like, hmm You know, that's not what I expected, all this bigness of ecclesiastes, and then we end with these very simple words from Solomon. The end of the matter, as he says. Right here at the end of the chapter. So go back to chapter one. We're going to spend a few minutes there. Don't don't panic. We're not going to touch every chapter. I don't think. Solomon's great experiment, right? That's where we started this chapter. And in chapter, or started the yes, started this book. And in the first chapter, he he really lays out the experiment in brief. Verse 13a says, I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom all that is done under heaven. I want to understand. This this this world I live in. My place in it, its effect on me, everything. I I want to understand it And the results of his experiment are in that same verse at the end, the conclusion of that experiment, which we we went into in great detail It is an unhappy business that God has given, notice that phrase, that God has given to the children of man, Adam, to be busy with. I have seen everything that is done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity, and a striving after wind. Verse 15, what is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be counted. If we were honest today and we went around the room and maybe just did one at a time, but just kept it rolling. What's lacking in your life? What's lacking in your life? How about yours and yours and yours? I suspect we could go for a long time if we were honest. Now we're all good Christian people and we know you're not supposed to whine, so we can stop ourselves. And maybe that's good. But I suspect if we just are honest with ourselves, that phrase, what is lacking, cannot be counted resonates a little bit. Or a lot. That's the conclusion of the experiment of the wisest, most resourced man In all of history, save Christ himself. I wanted to see what the reality under the sun was, a reality that largely excludes God. When I say that, I don't mean the obviously he says the business that God has given us to do, but it's like that's it. He he doesn't have the rest of revelation doesn't have the rest of redemptive history to draw on. And even if he did, he's limiting himself to that which is observable He he's a honest scientist, if you will. Heard somebody go, hmm. Um I've seen everything that is done under the sun, and behold all is vanity and is striving after wind. What is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be counted. This is not an abstract experiment for Solomon. And you get some clue of that in Ecclesiastes 1-2 And it doesn't maybe play quite as well in English, but it plays better in Hebrew, just contextually. Vanity of vanities Right? He's stacking up superlatives. This is vanity. This is the vanity of vanities. But he's not content to just talk about it in terms of superlatives. He starts doubling it up Vanity of vanities, says the preacher, repeats himself, vanity of vanities. Unless you think I'm narrowing the scope of this, Solomon goes, all is vanity. I'm not just talking about my career, my uh my reign over Israel, the you know the accumulation of wealth, the fact that every ruler in every nation comes to me and pays me gold to give them their wisdom. He's not just talking about some particular field in his life, which is pretty broad in scope. I picture him standing in this amazing room with big columns and gold everywhere and worthless silver laying all over the floor. cares about silver, he's so wealthy, right? And clenching his fists and staring up in this echoing room and just vanity. All that I can do and all that I know and all that I have, nothing It's nothing, and it's more insulting because I am so well resourced. It's more insulting because I have such capacity I keep a book in my office. I wish I could remember the whole name of it. It's the subtitle that I like so much. Something like St. Peter's Rules of Leadership, which I was the first turned off to, and it turns out we're just talking about the Apostle Peter. But the subtitle is For Those of Us That Know We're Incompetent Already. For those of us that already know we're incompetent. No, like, that's my book. So I not only keep it, I keep it laying out so that people can understand I agree with that. That's me on the title. So when I talk about vanity, at least I already know I'm incompetent. Right? So it's frustrating, but it's not that frustrating, because my expectations are in line with my experience. Not so with Solomon. He is frustrated. Solomon's experiment does more than just speak into his life. It concretizes I I know that's a hard word. I did look it up. It is a word. I actually used it in a proposal this week. That's what made me think of it while I was writing my notes. The curse Flip back there. Genesis 3. You realize this is the beginning, right? I don't mean Genesis, yeah, obviously that's the beginning. That's not what I meant All the things we learn about in Scripture, all the work of Christ, all the work of God to reveal Himself on Mount Sinai, everything that you read in Scriptures. Starts here. Now, some somebody, some theologian in the room is going to pick up me for this, and that's fine, I'll decrow later, but It begins here in Genesis 3. Yeah, I know, before the foundations of the world, God had it all planned. You're right, I'm wrong, you're right, take it easy. It's ten verses. Starts in fourteen, and it goes to verse twenty-four of chapter three. It's the curse. God created us for infinite fellowship with Him in a holiness which we can't even imagine. a holiness which is so amazing that it would wash away every guilty instinct that you have. And I and I don't want to play that out too far, but you know how they started, right? You know? And then the sin. And then shame. showed up and close, which I'm very grateful for, showed up after that, right? Their holiness was such that all they saw in each other and all that was created was the radiance of the glory of the Lord We can't at least I can't even imagine what that sort of holiness would be like. What what that sort of innocence would be like. And if we did imagine it, I I anticipate that most of us would imagine it as some sort of foolishness. Some sort of weakness, some sort of childishness. Not so. Not so. I don't have time to develop it, but if you want to know what's in my mind right now, read C. S. Lewis's The Great Divorce. There is a scene in there where a man that is overcome by his I'll say his passions. It's not greatly developed, but you get the idea that he's sexually immortal, that he's, you know In his head he's just always thinking about things that he shouldn't be thinking about. And it's pictured as a small red dragon on on his shoulder. And he's having this confrontation discussion with an angel. And spoiler alert, um at one point in time, the angel reaches out and breaks the dragon's neck. kills the the thing that's always whispering the deceitfulness in his head, the weakness, the pluralness of his life. It's always always whispering it in his ears. And the angel reaches over and breaks its neck and throws it to the ground And the guy's so upset and he acts like he's in pain and it's like, oh my word you know, you you took away from me what defined me the most. Well no, it it didn't And in the next instant, what happens is man is transformed into an amazingly powerful man. The picture that we have of the glory of manhood, if you will. And that's not the arrogant, foolish, pompous thing, right? But it nonetheless accomplishes what we anticipate God meant men to be. And the dragon, I love this part. This I feel like is the is the uh genius of C. S. Lewis The dragon becomes a powerful steed upon which the man rides And I love it because it takes the passions of the man that were twisted and warped, that were crooked and could not be made straight. And it sets them whole again in Christ. And it becomes a source of strength and momentum Of movement, right? It facilitates the man's work and life from that time forward. It's a beautiful scene. I didn't do it justice. Obviously, C. S. Lewis is a lot better than I am, right? So go read it. It's a great short read. Pretty sure it's called The Great Divorce. I'm pretty sure that's the right one. I mean that is one of his books. I think that's the right one. Where am I going with that? Um That's what we were meant to be, except for the little dragon, right? And I'm not trying to externalize our sentence. It's completely internal. But as a mental image goes, I think it's a good mental image. And then we were we were cast out of that, we were disrupted from that in these in these ten short verses, and I suspect these are ten short verses that we spend very little time thinking about. But you do realize that in that fall we became what we are and what we will be. There's a clause here We became what we are and what we will be until the Lord returns and makes it all new, and I'll give you some good scripture for that in a moment, okay? And even though in Christ, from the cross forward, we do have substantial benefits, substantial redemption, substantial forgiveness, substantial sanctification, substantial holiness, substantial intercession, substantial advocacy. Sorry about that. Even though those things are true, we have a promise later on that says there is more to come. There is a newness to come. Well what do you think that's there for? It's there because it hasn't happened yet. We are still in the epoch, if you will, the aeon, if you want another word, short word, but for whatever reason It doesn't help many people. We are still in the Aeon of the Curse, the epoch of the curse. It explains our experience. It explains every single one of our frustrations. Uh oh. Am I giving you a head he headache, Becky? And Solomon's experiment takes us back to here and shows us how this curse explains our experience today. Why are we shocked about Afghanistan? Why are we shocked about the immorality of this world? It's not really a rebuke. It's an honest question. And I I'm the worst one. I just, you know, I confess to you, I do not listen to the news ever. And when I do it's an accident and I regret it. I stopped maybe five years ago. There was nothing good and pure and right and holy and beautiful and true about it. And I thought, why am I doing this? I can't change what's happening happening in Afghanistan right now But I may be able to change something that's going on in your life. I may be able to help a neighbor or a friend or a brother or sister But I don't need the news to go to you. Just picking on you too there. You're looking at me. I might be able to go to you And find a way to help you. I'm not going to listen to you tell me about you and get something in it. It might be hard, and by the way, helping people is the hardest thing I've ever done. It is messy And I always have to tell myself, you don't get to be a coward, you idiot. Go help. Just help, whatever that means. In your incompetence, go help. Because the curse is real. Because we need to be rescued from it. We need to be rescued from fuzzy thinking that the evil one would love to just rest on our brains as Christians, right? Because we are secured in Christ, and so we have a new perspective and we have enablements that the people under the curse don't have But the rest of the world is suffering under the curse. If it's bad for us, how much worse for them? You do understand that the curse never leaves room for us to sit back and be like, whoa, ugly business. Since we can't win, we won't play. There is no room for that here. Everything about the curse calls you, and by the way, there's great scripture that directly says this. I'll try to share it with you there and get there. Calls you to action. Because you fear the Lord and the judgment that is to come. This is Corinthians, by the way, not Old Testament, New Testament. Just making sure you know. Because you are afraid of the Lord, because you fear the Lord, and the judgment is to come. Proclaim his message to the world. That's what it says in the New Testament Man, I'm like shooting my outline in the foot. I stole one of my end quotes there. The curse is described, I said ten verses, it's eleven. I forgot to count the first verse. Eleven short verses in Genesis three. And although the rest of the scriptures deal with its results, I think we forget that we are not yet in the time when the curse is rolled back and death is undone. Out of Exodus thirty-three, it was great last week. The pastor actually used this passage. I forgot his name, but I loved his accent. And it wasn't Nicole, by the way. Exodus 33, I'm going to read you 18, a piece of 19, 20, and a piece of 23. Moses said, Please show me your glory. And he, God, said, I will make all my goodness pass before you. And I I remember the first time I noticed that he didn't say, All my majesty, all my righteousness, all my holiness, all my glory, he turned what Moses said into what he he intended to do and what what all of his glory actually leads to. He said, I will make all my goodness Pass before you. And there's a point here. I'm still talking about the curse. I'm not I'm not as far off as you might think I am after that wandering introduction I will make all my goodness pass before you, verse 20. But he said, God said, You cannot see my face. For man shall not see me and live. Say, why don't you go there? Because that is the curse. You don't get to tabernacle with God. You don't get to be with the source of goodness, every goodness, all goodness, any goodness That is the curse. You couldn't even survive it because of the curse And even this man that God intends to bless, he has to hide in a rock and cover with his hand and wait until what is effectively the shadow or the echo, much muted From that which is the original, passes by, and only then, and I believe only through supernatural enablement Are we even able to approach the goodness? Do you see the gigantic divide that the curse costs us or pause us? That sentence is busted, but you know what I mean. Between God and man. And it's not undone yet. No man has ever seen God at any time, but through Christ. Only as Christ was muted in the form of I don't mean like not able to speak, I mean like toned down, right? Okay. Only as he was muted in the form of flesh, the frailty of fresh, the Flesh. The rags of flesh. Wow. Be nice if I could at least be confident in my speech Only as Christ was muted in that way were we able to see him But there will be a day when that curse will be rolled back and we will stand in front of him. As a matter of fact, the scriptures say that we will have no longer any need for light Because it will come from him. We will live in that light and that goodness. We see continuation of the curse in our present day because of the definite hope we are given something Being undone in Revelation 21. What I'm going for here is that I don't want you to get to a place where you're like, well, now we're in Christ, we're in the New Testament epoch. That is not the way things are, the curse is rolled back. No, it is not. You have been enabled to walk in a manner consistent with what God wants you to do during this time under the sun. By what Christ has done. But we are still under the curse. We still live in a cursed world. Revelations 21, 1 through 5a. First part of 5. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God, or, by the way, tabernacle is the word that That could be used there. That's actually the word. We just changed it to dwelling because that makes more sense to us. The dwelling place of God is with man. That's that's not true right now. You can't survive that. But it will be true. It was true It was true, and then the curse. The dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe and I love this, right? God is not wasting our pain today He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. We saw death We get to die in Christ today, but we still have death, and it stings. That should be particularly close to home run for us right now And death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore. For the former things have passed away, the curse has passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold. I am making all things new. I know that we are still living under the old regime of the curse, if you will. And again, don't go too far with that. Christ is glorious, and what we have in Christ is glorious. I'm trying to help you understand how to live in the glory that is Christ in the midst of of a cursed world. That's all I'm trying to do. In Christ we are already led in victory, and yet if you study the passage you understand that that's led like those that were conquered. It's not led like those that are victorious. And I hope that many of you will come and study 1 Peter with Frank and I next next semester if if you're interested in some of these themes in Ecclesiastes because first Peter is going to drive home the idea that in Christ we get to suck We get to suffer in Christ. And you know why Peter says that is? Because we live as exiles in a foreign land. What is he talking about? A curse. And Peter drives to the saf I hope I'm not stealing your thunder there, Frank. And Peter drives to the exact same conclusion that Ecclesiastes does, that Solomon does in Ecclesiastes. I I don't think I'm on a hairy edge here. I I think I'm squarely in scripture We feel all of Solomon's frustration today, but we forget to ground it in its proper context. We feel the same frustration that Why? How? When? But we forget to to put it where it it belongs Well Lord, I'm saved. Aren't you following me? Or people talk about walking away from God because there's suffering in the world. What? Put it in its proper context. You can live under the curse without Christ, or you can live under the curse with Christ, but you will live under the curse. And for those of us that think about things correctly, that pursue Christ and the truth that's in Christ, there is daily joy to be had. I don't want to make this dark. There is a reality here that we can confront in Christ, and what we get to harvest from that reality in Christ is joy. Do you get that? The only way that's denied you is when you refuse to confront the reality and refuse to harvest the joy that is presented to you in Christ. That is what I my concern is. My concern is not that you get a grip on how bad things are. My concern is that you face the reality that is presented to you, that you put your experience in the context of the framework of truth that is in Scripture That you respond correctly to the way the Lord is keeping, securing, enabling, strengthening, satisfying, sanctifying, all those things that He does And that from that you reap the the joy. You you reap the peace, you reap the unity, you reap the secu the security. No, I I think this is a great point. And I guess my thought is a the transformation between a life that is in complete vein and a life where every single thing done is purposed by God, the eventuality of the glory that we see. So i it it in Christ every moment of your life has meaning. Without Christ, there's no meaning in Christ. So without Christ there's no Solomon and his idea of bearing the lands, but in Christ every single step you take is purposed by God to the sanctification for the life that you have This frustration that we have, like Solomon's, with our lives, uh forms a bridge to chapter twelve. So finally getting there. So turn to chapter twelve. We're gonna study verse one, verses thirteen through fourteen. Believe it or not, it it took me Uh I think I got up at 130 this morning. It took me five hours to get that part of my notes done, and it took me an hour to get uh the whole rest of So maybe that'll encourage you, or maybe you'll just think I'm nuts. Or maybe it will explain while I'm babbling. I'm not sure which I'm not even there. Good heavens, Scott. Remember also your creator. And then Pastor Gabe did a great job. I don't need to handle his message from last week, so I won't. So I'm going to just stick right there. Remember also your creator Solomon m for most of this he he is sharing with you his experien his experience, he's telling you what's true, so he's He's speaking to you, but he's not like directing you. He he's just sharing with you in a very definitive and very authoritative way all that he's experienced. And and a lot of times the tone, as you read it, at least in English, comes out as though he's you know it's imperative. He's telling you something. He's just very authoritatively sharing with you the experiment that he did and the results that he discovered. Every once in a while, and I tried to point those out to you as we went along, um, every once in a while he he switches a little bit to an imperative, like when he says Guard your steps when you go to the house of the Lord. That's an imperative. He's looking right at you, he's pointing his finger, and he's saying, Because of all that I've experienced, guard your steps. Here he switches again, and he's going to stay in this imperative tone of voice through the remainder of Ecclesiastes. Remember also your Creator. And you can picture him staring into your eyes with his finger out addressing you. Remember Also, your creator. Creator is a plural form in Hebrew, which gives it a bigger sense, not a little creator. I'm a creator if I build something. I'm a creator if I take a bunch of notes. I created something, right? But he is the creator, the manifold creator. As though Solomon is directly interacting with the curse here, right? He calls our minds back to God as creator. It's it's like he's deliberately trying to cast us back to that that Genesis passage, right? Remember that he is your creator. He's the one that did all these things that I just talked about even in verse one when he says the unhappy business that God has given you. It's like he's trying to call our minds back to that, but he's doing it now in a way that's different than he did it before. Now he's trying to draw our eyes up out of the things of this world under the sun to what's above. He's trying to pull us out of the context, as it were, into the reality that is above. And I I even looked at an old answer that I wrote up to a question that I somebody had asked me a question, I said I wasn't satisfied with the answer, so I I published a better answer. I was rereading some of those notes this morning and and I I traced this thread of reality and unreality through Ecclesiastes and the words that Solomon uses and and that's what he's doing here. He's saying, okay We've looked at the curse, but that's an unreality, a brokenness, right, that that i is under this reality that is above the heavens. So remember your creator. Remember the primary or the principal reality. Remember, I guess the only real uh truth that exists and that is God created you for a purpose. And he confesses this over and over again in the scriptures, a quick sampling of scriptures. God alone and I've adapted this from a um a a particular author's outline, so I'll just kind of run through it real quick, uh four different passages. God alone sees the pattern of existence as a whole Ecclesiastes 3. 11 says, He has made everything beautiful in his time. Also he has put eternity into man's heart, yet so that he cannot find out what God had done from the beginning to the end. God Has a beginning and an end already done. It's already established. But we can't know what it is. So remember your creator because he does know. We'll come back to that word remember in English. It just doesn't carry the weight that it does in the Jewish culture, or would have in the Jewish culture, so you're probably thinking, it doesn't it doesn't seem all that important. It it will be. Give me a minute. We have spoiled his workmanship by our devices. Ecclesiastes 7. 29. See, this alone I found, that God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes. God made us one way, and we've gone another way. Romans one twenty and twenty-one say the same thing. We do not understand, but God continues to create everything to satisfy his purposes. Ecclesiastes 11. 5. As you do not know the way the Spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with child, so you do not know the work of God who makes everything. Even under the curse, God continues to create all things so that they accomplish the purposes that He intends. And for the time being, He intends for His purposes to be within the bounds of the curse. so that he might seek us and find us, and so that he might come again in an amazing rejoicing of making all things new. Solomon recalls our minds to the essence of the curse. That we will return to dust And God's breath will return to him. Just like the curse, right? There was no returning to dust prior to Genesis 3. What God breathed into man would have never been undone except for the curse. But he keeps calling us back to that. He does it even in this passage. Remember your creator, but in verse 7, he says, 127, he says And the dust returns to the earth as it was, and the spirit returns to God who gave it. I believe That Solomon is specifically reflecting on the curse here in these first verses in chapter 12. And so he says, remember your creator. One author says, for our part, to remember him is no perfunctory or purely mental act. In other words, oh, okay, I remembered it. You know, you're yelling at me from about there, so poof, I remembered him. It's not an act like that To remember the Lord is like walking in some direction and suddenly understanding that you're you're not accomplishing the purpose that you were that you're intended to accomplish And you remember your purpose and you adjust your path. That's the remembrance that's being called for here. We don't have time to go back and look at all the Old Testament passages that I would love to go to uh that flesh this out. But we will look at one. So turn to Deuteronomy chapter eight real quickly. Starting in verse eleven, I'm gonna read it to you quickly so you get the whole context. Um obviously I post my notes. Take care lest you forget, notice the opposite of remember, take care lest you forget the Lord your God by not keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes which I command you today. Don't have time to do it, but that is not in any way undone by the New Testament. As a matter of fact, the New Testament will draw on these very passages and repeat them in the context of Christ Writ large. By not keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes. How do we forget God? Well, we walk the way we want to walk. We do what we think is right. We live and feel and think and act and do and love in the way that we want Not the way he wants. And when we do that, we're forgetting. We are not remembering. Lest when you have eaten and are full, and have built good houses and live in them, and when your herds and flocks multiply, and your silver and gold is multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied, then your heart be lifted up, and you forget the Lord your God who brought you. brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery, who led you through the great and terrifying wilderness with its fiery serpents and scorpions and thirsty ground, where there was no water Who brought you water out of the flinty rock, who fed you in the wilderness with nana that your fathers did not know, that he might humble you and test you to do you good in the end. Beware Lest you say in your heart, My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth. You want to know why we need a curse? Because of that If we if the if our weakness and the futility of our efforts and our gaining and our getting and our wanting and our having weren't made manifest to all of us, this would be us And so I say again, as I have said in previous weeks, that the curse is a mercy, that we might be found of Christ. And that when we find are found by him, we would realize the value of it. You shall, I mean verse 18, you shall remember the Lord your God. For it is he who gives you power to get wealth, that he may confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers, as it is this day. And if you forget the Lord your God and go after other gods and serve them and worship them, I solemnly warn you today that you shall surely perish. And back again with a pastor sermon last week You do realize that when we think about God the way we want to think about him instead of the way he actually is, we create for ourselves an idol. A God that is not our God. I know these passages are hard to relate to us because we think of little wooden statues or stone statues or uh golden uh Says move. Ouch. I had goats in my head for some reason and I couldn't get past the goat image. In an AA and NA with the narcotics analysis, they have this thing where it's uh the data of your understanding, right? And you know, to get sober or to get off drugs, what they say is, you know, um you do the twelve steps and you submit yourself to the God of your understanding, right? And it's so I I was like I don't quite understand why when I say the God of my understanding is Jesus Christ, he gets so hostile. If I say anything about Jesus, people will s sort of turn their They they put listening to you. So it's so interesting that you say that that fashion this this idea we make out anything other than who got it actually idolatry, you know. It's exactly what it is. Two specific instances of that I want to give you. One, is your picture of God fully disciplined by the scriptures? And the only way that you can answer yes to that is if you are fully in the scriptures. So let me say that first If you are not fully engaged with the scriptures on a consistent basis, thy word was found and I did eat it, and thy word was unto me the joy and salvation of my heart. Jeremiah fifteen sixteen That's what I'm going with? Until somebody falls under. Right? Until that statement is true of your everyday. Be careful. Beware. Two, you know, because we've discussed it in this classroom, that the most frequent commandment in Scripture is dawn If your God is calling you Every day. Anything other than that? And actually accomplishing it in your life. Not not every day. There are days when you pray to him out of obedience into Years. I get that. Don't don't there's nothing here that's meant to wound anybody here or quell the smoking flasks or you know I I that's not what I'm looking to do here I am looking to challenge your mind. Are you worshiping the one true God? Because he ooh superfest. Superfest. Because he is calling you to rejoicing. Verses 9 and 10. Fear God and keep his commandments. See how Solomon arranges his whole argument in verses 9 and 10 Good heavens, why am I having a hard time finding ecclesiastics? You'd think my Bible would just fall open in there by now. Besides being wise, the preacher also taught the people knowledge. Way Uh some of you have a different word there. Pon pondered? Pondering? Pondered, something like that? Yeah, it it it's actually the one It it's this idea of c kind of doing this, right? Like which which is heavier, which is lighter, you know, which which which one do I want to use? It's kind of that mental image of each word being measured out to to decide which one is fullest or best or most appropriate for his use. The preacher uh he's weighing and studying and arranging many proverbs with great care. And in verse 10 The preacher sought to find words of delight, and uprightly he wrote words of truth. He is coming to us with an appeal that he is doing everything in his power To make applicable to us. He wants these words to be those which are a delight to you. But he will not compromise on their veracity. Right? These words will be true from beginning to end. delightful, but not like the the preachers who tickle our ears in the New Testament, right? He's going to tell us what we need to know. He is going to explain the curse and the vanity of it. He's going to draw us into the truth. The words of the why, so this delightful, this drawing aspect, but there's another side to it in verse 11 Solomon's words are from God, first of all. You see that uh at the end of verse eleven. They're given by one shepherd. Well, Solomon doesn't call himself the shepherd. He calls himself the preacher. So who's the shepherd? Well the shepherd's God. So Solomon's words are from God. Doesn't mean he didn't uh spend a lot of time to try to order them correctly, but the the words, the truth, is from God And they are like goads and nails. Well goads is easy. Actually only occurs twice in Scripture, here and in 1 Samuel 13, 21. And it's pretty simple, right? A goat is a a prick of some sort, maybe a long thorn or a stick or something that you jam into a a dumb animal to get them to move Maybe that offends you. I'm the guy with the book about incompetency on my desk at work, so it doesn't offend me at all. I'm like, I need more ghosts. To goad us into action. This is not an intellectual exercise, and he'll magnify that again in another verse. This is not something where we're just like, oh, that was so nice to hear all that good truth This is intended to be transformational. It's intended to be a call to action. A call to remembrance, but in the way the Hebrew mind would have understanded it, stood it, not the way we understand it. Meaning in the Hebrew mind it was always a call to action And nails, that one I struggled with. I had to go do some homework on that one. I was like, nails, that doesn't sound good. Fasten the teaching to our minds and our hearts. In our lives. It's supposed to move us, but it's also supposed to be with us all the time, everywhere, in everything. The message of Ecclesiastes is not one that we enjoy on Sunday and put down on Monday. It is the one that I'm supposed to be thinking of when the government sends me stupid communications that are impossible to comply with. And the deadline was in the past. I don't have time, but I can't tell you how many of those communications I actually got this week. It was several. Moving on. Be careful. Excuse me. Another author, just real quick, the goads and the nails, regarding the goads and the nails, said to spur the will and spur stick in the memory and I liked that, so I wanted to share it with you. Be careful of remaining skeptical here. Here, here, and do it now. Look at verse twelve My son, beware of anything beyond these, these words that the shepherds spoke, of making many books. There is no end, and much study is the weariness of the flesh. Oh Lord, this is such a great truth. I think I want to study it a little more. I think I want to soak and marinate it in it a little more. He says, so time for words is finished. I've spoken them to you. Ask! No more writing. No more contemplating. No more analysis. No more studiousness. No more academic I don't even know what you would call it, right? No more showing up to church and listening to the sermons and enjoying the things that are spoken to you and remaining undecided. How long would you halt between these two opinions? There's a piece of it there that's entirely about the judgment of the Lord. You hold too long, you'll be on the wrong side of judgment. There's a piece of that. But right here, right now, with this group of people, the longer you halt between two opinions, the longer you will suffer the swings and arrows of outrageous fortune. Hamlet? Thanks Hamlet. Shakespeare. I watch behavior in my sons and I mean it's fine because they're kids and they need to be taught and trained and stuff, but I watch behavior in them in some of them I I react to it, and that's probably wrong because I'm the incompany guy. And Angela will come to me afterwards and she'll be like, I I I I don't really think you kept it together too well there. And I'm like, no. And sometimes she's right But there's sometimes when I turn around like no no don't understand. I understand my sons As a man, I understand my sons better than you do here, and I understand the risk of what they're doing. I understand the scars that this will cause them And that's what I hear Solomon saying here. Beware. I understand the curse. Better than you all, because of my wisdom and resources. Do not do this. Change now. What change? Haven't gotten there yet. Verse 13. It's perfect. It's hardly any time, and you don't need a lot of time for this The end of the matter. Look at the punctuation there. It's as faithful as it can be to the original language. The end of the matter And then a new thought, it's related, but it's a new thought. So there's a semicolon in your Bibles there, right? That means that that is the thought, the end of the matter. No more study is needed. No more books are needed. No more halting is needed. No more investigation is needed. The end of the matter All has been heard. There's nothing else to be said. There's nothing else for you to hear. There's nothing else you need to hear. And then there are two statements. And keep his commandments. I mean this is such a deep passage here, right? It it's it's difficult to understand the original Greek here No, it's not. It's not meat and it's not hard to understand. Really simple words, phobos, fear. It's the word we use for phobia. Fear God And here's another one. Obey. That's tough too, isn't it? Everybody that's a parent knows exactly what that word means Do what I want, even if I didn't express it correctly. Do what I want. Obey. Fear God and obey. The only part of this that's actually a bit tricky in this verse? It says, the end of the matter, all has been heard, fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. That last part of the verse, that's not what it actually says in the original language. We added that to try to help understanding. That's fine. But that's not what it says. What it says is Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole of man. The whole of man. This is it This this is all of it. It's not just your duty. It's your duty and your passion. It's your life and your calling. It's your joy and your peace. It's your responsibility. It's your advantage. It's the theme, it's the purpose. It's the identity It's the whole of you and me and everybody else you know The reality that Solomon discovered after this experiment was that all isn't vanity. All is to fear God and keep his commandments. That is the whole of man Because he lifted his eyes to the reality that was above the earth. Fear God and keep his commandments because, notice this, God will bring every deed into judgment. with every secret thing, whether good or evil. Ecclesiastes 12, 14. That fear God and keep his commandments because of judgment is all through the Old Testament. You know it. Most of you think of the Old Testament is summarized by that phrase. Fear God, keep his commandments or else. Right? That's how we think about the Old Testament, or at least most of us do. But this theme is unchanged in the New Testament as well. 2 Corinthians 7. 1 says, Since we have these promises, these great promises in Christ, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit. Bring holiness to completion in the fear of God Just prior to that, in second Corinthians chapter five, verse nine, it says, so whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. Almost exactly what was just said in Ecclesiastes 12. 14. But notice that Paul is talking to the church. He's talking to the inheritors of the promise. He is talking to people that are secure and close. This is Paul, man, right? The apostle that brought grace But you will appear before God and you will give an account for every action, whether good or evil. Therefore, therefore I'm just still in in the Corinthians passage. Knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade others. In light of the judgment, secure in Christ, in light of the judgment, and the fear that we have appropriate to that judgment, we persuade others I am not a good evangelist. I struggle with it. I don't know why. I I can't obviously I can talk the leather off a shoe But I struggle with evangelism, and I wonder if it's because I struggle with this. I don't have time to exhort you further on that, but fill in the gap. And then the first P or passage, so here's my tea up for Frank. And if you call on him as Father, right? If you call on him as Father, that's us. People are like, I don't want to fear the Lord. He's my Abba. Yes, if you my response is always the same. It's right out of first fear. I've memorized this passage because I'm so sick of people saying, I don't want to fear God. I don't have to fear God. He's my Abba. I'm like, if you call on God as Father Who judges impartially, who judges impartially, according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. The time that you spend in the curse is the time of your exile. Conduct yourself with fear, just like just like who is this guy? Solomon said. Just like Solomon said. Obediently Be because there's a judge. I'm in first Peter one seventeen through twenty-one. Sorry about that. Knowing that you were ransomed from the vein, if you will, although most of your viables probably have feudals. But same idea, right? The futile ways, the vanity of under-the-sun light. You were ransomed from that Not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. And I I shared that with you the last time I taught. I was like, that's really special to me because God didn't just buy me with what's expendable He bought me with what was most personal. He bought me effectively with all that he rejoiced in about himself, which is his son. And it it it's just it just amplifies everything about your calling. He didn't just pay a debt that you couldn't pay. He paid it with his son And in some senses, how much worse the offense when you stand in judgment? I hung my son and he says this in scripture, right? I I hung my son on the cross for you. You ever notice most of the New Testament was written to believers? What's the exhortation? Exhortation is the same exhortation that's in Ecclesiastes. Think rightly about God. Get in touch with the reality that is you in Christ. And live it out victoriously. Live it out amazingly. Live it out every day. Live it out conspicuously. You were called to be a conspicuous people with a light on a hill where everybody can see you and ridicule Because you are different. Or persecute, as we'll read about in 1 Peter. Because you are different. Because your life has Jesus printed all over it and the world hates it, just like you just said. Next point he says, I hope to see you in the first Peter class. I'll end with a quote by a guy I don't really know, but I like the quote. He may be a real jerk, but I like this quote, so I'm gonna read you the quote. Unfortunately, many of us presume that the world is the ultimate threat, and that God's function is to offset it, offset the threat of the world. How different this is from the biblical position that God is far scarier than the world. When we assume that the world is the ultimate threat, we give it unwarranted power. For in truth, the world's threats are always just temporary. When we expect God to balance the stress of the world, we reduce him to the world's equal. He goes on there. But our our God is not the world's equal, and he is not threatened or competed with in the least. All that happens in this world gets permission from God. And you as his even more so. I hope that you will be encouraged in Christ to capture, harvest, as I said earlier, to harvest the joy of every single day because of the reality of what we are and have in Christ. And Lord, that is my prayer. And so there's no point in me making more of it than that. Help us to do that. In your name I pray. Amen.