We are in Ecclesiastes five. And it's a it's a tough lesson. It's a tough lesson because it talks about vain worship. Well guess what we're doing here today? And guess what I'm gonna Bring criticism about, if you will, from from Solomon's message. It's what we're doing here today in some sense, in some sense. Vain worship and worthless wealth. If we actually get to the wealth part of this, it will be amazing. So I'm gonna Work you through the first uh paragraph basically of the text. We're gonna probably skip eight through seventeen because I just don't see that we have the time for it. It is in my notes and I'll post my notes for you. You're welcome to read that after the fact. It'll be more concise. You don't have to listen to all my blatherings, so you'll get through it much more quickly. And then we're gonna end up with 18 through 20, because that's the crescendo of the chapter, and we can't miss that. I want to put this in a little bit of context. Chapters 1 through 3 are really a great experiment that Solomon did. And the experiment was, what does reality without God look like? Solomon sets himself to fully explore the God-ordained dissatisfaction that we have been consigned to as a result of the fall, as a result of a reality without God or man separated from God. We see the ultimate contrast between those separated from God and those redeemed by God in those first three chapters Solomon asks this question, what is a man from all the toil and striving of heart with which he toils beneath the sun? In Ecclesiastes two twenty two. And what gain has the worker from his toil? So all the stuff we do here on this globe, what is the end of it? What is What do I get from it? What's the benefit? What's the purpose of it? Does it have any value? Is it worth anything? Is it tangible And he answers that question in Ecclesiastes two twenty-three with, For all his days, man's days, are full of sorrow, and his work is a vexation. Even in the night his heart does not rest. I I wasn't sure that Pastor Gabe was going to be able to teach last week. He said he was going to, but I didn't fully believe him. Um and so I prepared. And uh I prepared in brief, um but I prepared. Uh so I had pages of notes uh and and one of those things and I'm glad I didn't have to teach him because I really liked the way uh that he did uh the lesson last week and I've been thinking about it a lot this week. But Um I had done my own homework and um one of the things I'd done is a short write up um on uh Statistics largely of depression in the United States. And I I'm not gonna go over all those with you because we're not in chapter four, we're in chapter five But it proves this point that this ecclesiastes resonates with men, particularly the people in the United States. And again, I said I wasn't going to share all my statistics with you, so I won't, but you would not believe the statistics for clinical depression in the United States. People that are actually diagnosed With some form of depressive, I don't know what, you have to ask him, he's better trained in this, right? And they're taking medications for at least a period of two years Or have been taking medications for a period of at least two years, starting at the age of 16, by the way, it's unbelievable. Well over half Can you hear me? Well over half of Americans, according to statistics. In my statistics, the best I could do was getting up to about 2018. Right? I couldn't find anything for moving forward, except to say that those numbers I think they said di not diagnosis, what's the word I'm looking for when you write prescription The number of prescriptions written for antidepressants during COVID increased by 50%, actually 48% or something like that, but give me 2%. Fifty percent. We are a people that understand what it means to live in the vexation of the toil that we walk around in underneath this earth. It resonates with us. And by the way, young people uh young people, by the way, not young people, doesn't mean you're old and just saying I'm thinking about parents particularly. You want to get some understanding It was that bad, wasn't it? He's back there laughing and shaking his head off just it really was a train wreck. Um You do you want to know what your kids are struggling with in that weird separation thing they're doing? Where they're pulling back from you and acting strangely and acting like nothing means anything And they're addicted to their amusement and their entertainment and their music. It's this. It's this. They're frustrated with The hamster wheel. You've been demonstrating to them how frustrating it is for 14, 15, 16, 18 years now, and they're frustrated with it. I ran a youth group for eight years. Eight years? Nine years? I don't know. A long time. Felt like a long time. I don't think there was one person that went through that class with me from seventh to twelfth grade that I didn't apply this truth to in some way. Now some handled it in different ways, some were more upbeat than others, but everybody struggled with it What's the point? The point is we understand the end of Solomon's experiment all too well. We understand the summary of his experiment all too well, too. It is an unhappy business that God has given to the children of man to be busy with. Ecclesiastes 1. 13. An unhappy business. Later he just says this is the business or the busyness that God has given us to do. But here in particular he calls it the unhappy business that God has given the children of man to be busy with. And you notice that that comes from God. We covered that a lot. I just want you to keep that in mind. That this situation is ordained by God that we might understand that He is our only satisfaction. It is a mercy that we feel that way. And until you get that keystone, if you will, of the lesson, you will struggle with all the good things that Solomon has to exhort us in. It has to be rooted and grounded in his mercy for you to be able to see it for the goodness that it is And perhaps most memorably, Solomon says, I have seen everything that is done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and a striving after wind. So this great experiment, live separately from God, that's how it's described. But he also, in those same passages, describes or begins to at least give you some hint of what it looks like to be redeemed in God, not to be separated any longer from God. And he says, God seeks what has been driven away through that curse, through that toil, in Ecclesiastes 3. 15B. But it's the one who pleases God, him, God has given wisdom and knowledge, and and and you need to pay attention to this word. By the way, if you take notes, just write this word down on the page because it's important but I probably won't mention it as much today as I should. To the one who pleases God, who is no longer separated from God, whom God is seeking and has found and has redeemed and has forgiven, he gives wisdom and knowledge. And does anybody know? Just call it out if you know. Wisdom and knowledge and holiness. How about that? Does that sound right? It does sound right, but it's not right. This is important because I and I don't m there's no shame here, right? This is important because I'm excited about it, not because I want to tell you you're wrong about something or you need to be fixed about something. That's not what I'm going for here, right? But this is important. I got a room full of grown-up adults, many of which I know, many of which I have a lot of respect for. And at the heart of what God has called you to, it's this. Wisdom and knowledge and I didn't hear what you said. That's true. That's true. Can't believe it. Come on. It's a short word. My my wife hates that word. I dated e young lady in high school named Joy and become I'm not allowed to hang the Joy thing up at Christmas. I knew she was never gonna guess it 'cause it's like Joy, you know I was not joyful when I was with that young lady, so we don't we just don't talk about her. But anyway, joy, wisdom and knowledge, and joy is the purpose for which the Lord Did the work of cursing in Genesis 3. I honestly don't believe I'm overstating that. I don't believe that I'm reading too much into that I don't believe, I'm I'm definitely not intending, to manipulate God's scripture there to say what I want it to say And all I did actually was quote from Ecclesiastes 2. 26, to be clear. I didn't make up my own list of characteristics. Wisdom and knowledge and joy. Do you see the contradiction? Solomon does this great experiment. He says, everything under the sun leads to vanity and vexation, weariness, sleeplessness, tiredness. fatigue, desperation, dryness. And then he looks above the sun At our merciful God, from whose hand, Ecclesiastes 3, he sees all these times and toils ordained as by God And he says, I understand that God did all these things so that he could set my eyes on what is above the sun and call me to wisdom and knowledge and joy. The complete opposite in every way from the vexation that I experience under the sun. I promise you, this is not a wasted introduction. This is important to these first eight verses in chapter five. Solomon also understood this this this experiment this experience this outcome to the experiment in Ecclesiastes 2. 24 is from the hand of God So that, and I'm adding that part, it does say that, man should eat and drink and find enjoyment. In his toil. Joy and enjoyment. God did all this so that I actually can find enjoyment in my toil. Adam and Eve threw it away. And you and I would throw it away if we were left our own devices too. We would choose to be satisfied in the lesser things every time if there was any means of satisfaction in them. But the Lord makes it as as much like eating cancer, if you will, as is possible. I just don't know of another way to say it. You eat unto yourself that which will consume you And leave you with nothing left except for pain and injury and death. Doesn't get any gloomier. And yet God says or Solomon says, but I understand that God did all these things so that we could have joy and enjoyment. It goes on in 312 and 13 to say, and to be joyful, and to do good as long as they live. Also, that everyone should eat and drink and take pleasure in all his toil, and I still have not had a chance to fully expound my theology of feasting with you. And I don't know that I'm going to get to it today and I'm frustrated about that. But It shows up in chapters 8 and 9 too, so I'm hoping to get there. To be joyful and do good as long as they live, also that everyone should eat and drink and take pleasure in all his toils. This is God's gift to man See the joy again there? To be joy-filled or joy-full? David makes an interesting statement in the Psalms. He says, What shall I do then, Lord, because you've satisfied all my desires in you? And he I I I mean I don't know that he actually did this, but I picture in my hand him looking around and studying around and asking a few wise men and then going, That's all garbage. The only real thing to do is to lift my cup again to the Lord and let him fill it to overflowing yet again. That's a picture I have here in Ecclesiastes when the Lord says, Roman Solomon says, the Lord did these things that you might be joy-filled, not only complete, not only sufficient, but overflowing in all of your joy And to live in a way that acts like that. Out of our abundance of joy in Christ, we do good as long as we live. And we are able to regularly, daily, consistently eat and drink and take pleasure in all our toil. This is God's gift to man. So that's a great experiment. That's a whole thing. That's my the the first four lessons or Yeah, four lessons. That's the first four lessons. I tried to summarize there in in uh about fifteen minutes. Then Solomon takes a new tack in starting in chapter four and he starts to describe, okay, given that that's true, about Given that that's true, that that's our experience, let me talk to you a little bit about how that plays out in our regular lives. And so Pastor Gabe talked uh out of chapter four last week And he now turns, Solomon now turns his pen to describing our lives under the sun And in chapter 4, he dives right into particular ways that man lives and operates in the vanity that we're consigned to under the sun. We're oppressed in verses 1 through 3. But what I think is really notable there about the oppression, which I don't think shocked anybody That it repeats twice in the first verse that there was no comforter for them. There was no one to comfort them in the midst of their trial under the sun. What is the Holy Spirit called in the New Testament? When God finally invades our kingdom of darkness. and rescues us into the kingdom of light, what do we get? What is the sign and seal and covenant of that action in God? He sends the Holy Spirit, who is also called the With a capital C. I love the unity of scripture, it's so exciting. But in chapter 4, all that oppression and no comfort, one author describes that verses that follow that as the expression of suicidal longings. It would be better to be dead. It would be better to have not been born at all. And then we're told about the rat race of envious toil, keeping up with the Joneses in verse 4. The continual labor of life, which by the way, most of us uh endeavor upon in some way, shape, size, or form, part out of necessity, part because we have a hard time maintaining our bearing on the Lord, and we get kind of wandering off and then oops, I I got off too far, and then we come back. How we approach our work and the w the the labor of our day and how we feel about wealth and finances and money and what's important. Call that the rat race of envious toil. And then just to make sure that you understand, there's not a real good way to step out of that even. He talks about the foolishness of one who drops out of the rat race. That's in verses five and six And I like the way one author described that. He says, one who drops out of the race and consumes his own flesh, he will not I have carved is supposed to be care about others or himself, and in despair he gives up. He wastes not only what he has, but what he is. Again, I can't help but think a lot of our of our youth there. I feel like that's them. Can't win, can't do that. Just gonna drop out. Numb myself, at least with entertainment, if not things stronger. Although entertainment is awfully strong in the way it influences us Consider the statistics on depression that I just alluded to uh previously Then there's laboring selfishly for no real purpose, no family, no brother, no community, no real cause other than to just labor and accumulate The unhappy business of toiling and depriving myself of pleasure for toil that has no end and that never satisfies my eyes, neither son or brother or any other Do we not also see the sacrifice of family and community on the altar of career and success? Isn't that something we see around us all the time? I'll tell you flat out, I do it. I have three opportunities a week to teach. I have a Thursday night small group, uh we have a Sunday night small group, and uh opportunities on Sunday morning It consumes a lot of my time. I also own a business and I also act act like an engineer in my business. Um I cannot tell you how often, for whatever reason, on Thursday nights, that my prayer request to that small group is that the Lord would in some way, and I usually pick something specific, but in some way would correct my thinking about how much of myself I am investing in work. And it's like this yo-yo, I keep I keep going this way and then having to come back I realize I'm committed too much. I realize I'm defining myself too much that way. I realize I'm I'm enjoying the Lord based on my success at work or not. By the response of an employee or not, by the success on a contract or not. And then finally in chapter four, this irony of popularity and power and the the passage. 13 through 16 has actually got some really weird grammar. It's super hard to understand exactly what's being said there. But as near as you can tell, you get this uh man who becomes a king and becomes either so full of himself or just so experienced that he realizes that the advice around him isn't worth listening to or maybe he's just too arrogant and won't listen to it anymore. And some young upstart comes up and steals the popularity of his kingdom and takes his king kingdom from him And it's this idea that you you can succeed, but you will be supplanted. Popularity and power are fickle So in this context of describing our experiences, based on what he said in chapters one through three, he's now attacking point by point our experiences under the sun as as we see them every day. And it's in that soil, it's on that foundation that he now transitions to chapter 5. And he says, guard your steps when you go to the house of God. To draw near to listen is better than to offer the sacrifice of fools. For they do not know that they are doing evil. Be not rash with your mouth, nor let your heart be hasty to utter a word before God. For God is in heaven and you are on earth. And he goes on, but That should shock you a little bit. It seems like an abrupt change. He's describing all these things under the sun, and then he talks about going to the house of worship. Well who goes to the house of worship? God's people, right? People that are not under the sun. People that are have their minds set in heaven, right? But that's not the context of this passage. The context of this passage is I see people going to worship, and I see them doing it as though they were under the sun. I see them doing it with all the same earmarks of futility with which they do all those other things that I was just talking to you about in chapter 4. They do them maybe for right intentions, but they're misdirected. And it will never be satisfying to their hearts This is a this is a brute force statement. Right? This is a blunt object and not not a surgical knife here, what I'm about to say. We are a people that are generally dissatisfied with our Christianity. We do not understand why we applaud the truths, but our experience is one of dryness. Our experience is one of not being enabled. Our experience of one is not understanding what the will of the Lord is. Our experience of aka fear We are a people that are draped in our fears at all levels, some morosely, and some what I'll call trivially, but nonetheless ubiquitously, meaning We're not uh we're not reduced to quivering in the corner. We get up every day and face whatever it is we need to face, but every one of those things is like we can feel it right here And Solomon is saying, that's not surprising to me. You're approaching religion the same way the rest of the world approached. Godlessness. You are seeking satisfaction in your own activity. I'm totally stealing my thunder for later on here, but just in case I don't get there. You are stealing From yourselves, the satisfaction that I am promising you and offering you in the kingdom of heaven, which is partly now, since Christ Because you were endeavoring to do it through your own strength and your own will, by your own way. Well, no, not Scott. I read the Bible, I affirm the Bible, I believe the Bible. So do these people? That's why they were going to the temple Do you honestly believe, after reading the amount of scripture that I believe many of you have read, that the Lord intended to leave us a people without joy Again, stealing my thunder. Do you know? Ha ha, here's another do you know statement, right? Do you know? What the most often repeated command in Scripture is. By the way, from Genesis to Revelation. I mean just volumes above any other command. What is it? So somebody said one of them. I gotta find it's like way later in my notes here, so That you would rejoice, that you would give thanks, that you would sing praise. Somebody said, Do not be afraid. Tim there too. She would not be afraid. Do you realize that joyfulness that Solomon is talking about is the most often recited, rehearsed, repeated? Most imperative, if you will, that's probably not fair. There are probably other more more imperatives like believe in Christ. That's probably pretty high up there It's that. Is that your experience? Is that your experience? It There's no guilt and shame here, right? We have an opportunity to feast at the good truths of God's table this morning. But if I can't make the dish look grand enough to you, you might not take it. You might not partake of it. And then I failed totally. So if you hear something in my voice or you see something in my actions or there's something that's bothering you, just understand. I am excited About this fantastic thing that the Lord is teaching us here. About our salvation, about our worship of the Lord. And I want you to have it. I don't care a bit about whether you're wrong. I could care less what deceits, self-deceites, or or somebody else taught you deceits. I could care less about it. I could care less whether you're wrong. All I care about is seeing you eat this dish of joy. That didn't work. But you get the idea. Do you honestly believe that the Lord saved you from mediocrity? So that you could keep feeling the exhaustion of running uphill and swimming upstream. Excuse me, Scott. So the time one And I read scripture and I cease upon God's word and the dish is so enjoyable. But then all of a sudden in that dish Um something happened. I fight my own tongue. And then that gets me worried I know that he doesn't want me to worry, but yet I can only I feel that I've bitten my tongue and now I don't know which way to go Were you in here at the very beginning of the class? Did you hear my confession? No So I confessed to exactly what you just said. My experience this week in preparing this lesson was exactly what you just said. Right, enjoying God's word so much and yet stumbling over my unworthiness to prepare it. Stumbling over the remembrances of all of my sins. And the sorrow that I feel for it, struggling with the reality of God's free grip, free grift, free gift of grace as he provides it, right? But even as Solomon is about to prepare us with, I am I am called to guard my steps. And to guard my mouth as I approach those subjects and to hear what the Lord has to say. Because what He has to say is more important than what I think or feel or want to say. And so that's that's for the moment my best answer. It is always and it always will be. It always will be our experience that we struggle with the dissatisfaction of our own lives. God gives us that as a gift, right? Ecclesiastes gives us that as a gift, so we keep returning to him in that dependence. But when we return to him in that dependence, he promises in ways that I don't fully understand to fill us with joy, so that we might rejoice, so that we might sing his praises, so that we might glorify him, so that we might go back out and do it all over again in that battlefield of life the next day. Does that help? 'Ca and and it does, but just like you said, it um 'cause it's a cycle. And I I and now I can feel good And then I'm like, okay, but I know that after today I will be strong but then Wednesday claim That's okay. That's okay. God's mercies are new every day. And and you know what? Be in community. Be with other people that are there to pick you up. Don't ever fail to remember that the strengths that we each supply, the rest of the body, is what actually enables us to is New Testament, by the way, and I'll never get to these verses, but that's what enables us to grow up into the full stature of God in Jesus Enjoy him like this. Do you know that there is no ability, as near as I can tell in scripture, there's no ability to experience this kind of joy outside of a community of believers Because your weakness from day to day will be different from my weakness from day to day and vice versa. And I need you to bring your encouragement But you're easy, right? We talk about you at home all the time. You encouraged my family in fifty-two different small ways that you would never even believe if I told you. Right? So and so many others of you are like that too. You have no idea what you do week after week, but we talk about you at home. Did you see Mr So and so? Did you see Mrs So and so? Did you hear the way they did that? Did you see them quietly and faithfully serve that? Did you see them suffer that indignation at that other person's lips or words or actions or deeds Did you see how quietly they did those things? There will never be joy outside of the body of believers with Christ as ahead. I am totally blitzering my notes here. Go ahead, I'm sorry. I mean God wants us to be joyful, but in the Bible there's a great deal of thanksgiving. Absolutely All in in I I I lumped those all together just so you know. The rejoicing, the praising, the thanksgiving, the not being fearful in Christ, uh I I was lumping those all together into a kind of that one group of really living outside of the vexation that we experience under the sun. But you are you are dead right. And and to be honest I I love that he calls us to Thanksgiving, right? You give thanks for what wells up inside of you and has to be spoken about. But if you're not joy-filled in here, then what comes out of this is just it's tinkling brass, right? It's just noise Oh Lord, I'm so grateful for No, you're not. We all know the difference between somebody that's actually grateful and somebody that says, thank you for that spinach. I happen to like spinach, so don't get on my case, but You get the metaphor. Can I um can I relate another concept? concept in the Bible that might help and that is um by way of a story actually that is faith. So When we lose sight of what Christ has told us will be evident in our lives, in other words, joy, we tend to forget our faith. Our faith is weak So I relate the story of Peter when Christ was walking on the water, and Peter said, Well if that's you, then let me come out with you. And uh Laura's like, all right, come on out. And then he was out there, but then he saw the waves, you know, the the way we live our lives, the world. Right, coming at us, the cares of the world scare us, and then he starts to think And the Lord reminds them, he's like, hey look, your faith was weak. What happened to your faith? And so like a lot of times when we're when we're going through struggles throughout the day, it's important to remind ourselves, Lord, you know, I believe what you said. I believe that you know you're gonna grant me joy. You you know you're gonna you're gonna be there for me for those that uh for those that love him. So I mean that That's fantastic. Yes. That's fantastic. Thank you so much. That's fantastic. I'll even go one further. I'll build on what you just started there. I have been impressed this year. So we Sunday Night Small Group, we've just worked through the songs very systematically. And uh we're on our third time through after about ten years. Um And uh this year uh every year I uh I learn something new. I I mean I feel like a theme of the Psalms is magnified in my mind. And this I guess twenty twenty, but I'll just throw this year in because twenty twenty was lost to COVID, but um I'm impressed by the honesty of the prayers in the Psalms. And what I mean by that is, Lord, this stinks, and I am angry at you for not fixing my problems. What? Who talks to God like that? How does David get called the man after God's own heart and then speak to God like that? But he does. over and over and over again in this amazingly large poetic language that is really drawing out the emotion of David as he approaches the Lord And then he's refreshed in the Lord, just like you said. God does something, by the way. Psalm seventy three right and then I went to the house of the Lord. The psalmist starts out with I oh my foot almost slipped by the way I know we're we're not doing Ecclesiastes 5 much here, but guard your step. Psalm 73 says, My foot almost slipped, and then I entered the house of the Lord. I'll pray. And it turns to praise. It turns to praise. So do we have the experience that you suggested and will we continue to have it? Absolutely. But God makes a way And make the way such that we do not become dependent on the good feeling. Um but to go off what was they were saying. Um even in that moment where Peter picked his eyes out Jesus, God is so Gracious. You know how fast you think when you're standing in front of us? You know what I mean? So but when you step out and faith and and even then and when you falter it's so gracious. Alright, turbo mode, here you go, you ready? Buckle up. The house of God. We gotta start not with guarding our steps, but where we're going Verse 1, we're going to the house of God. We're going to draw near to God, also in verse 1. We're going to be before God, verse 2. We're going to approach our Lord. Solomon assumes that God may be approached here. There's no like, you know, well, it's Old Testament times. We're not allowed to get too close to God There's none of that here. Solomon makes the very assumption that you can go and speak to and draw near to God, and he will hear you and he will respond according to your interactions. Pretty amazing for Old Testament scripture, especially Ecclesiastes. Solomon assumes that God may be approached, addressed in prayer, and will receive our vows. Cares about our responses to him. Cares about our commitment to him. It's actually meaningful to him. Not like, oh that's cute. You said you were going to do that for me, Johnny, but okay. You vowed it. I accept that vow. Do it. God's house is used in Genesis 28, 17 and 22 of the place that Jacob met, wrestled, and was blessed by God. If you want to see a little summary of that whole cycle that Mr. Brown was just talking to us about, there it is in Jacob's life. I am unhappy. I am unsatisfied. All of my efforts have led to seven years for this one and seven years for that one, only to have my life destroyed by marital disunity. By infighting in my house. Everything is yuck in my life. And I'm going to wrestle with you, God, and I will not let you go. And so what? Until you make me filled with joy You're right. I just wanted to draw that back in context. And the next day, after he meets with God and is blessed by God, even though he's left with an infirmity that marks his encounter with the Lord, he says, I'm going to put up a Ebenezer. I'm going to put up a remembrance here that this is the house of God. This is where I met with God. Not a building, but the place where we meet God. It is the exercise of our lives that is significantly not under the sun. There's an interesting way for you to think about your Sunday, your one day where you are not consigned, put, placed. Dictated that you shall be a part of the toil of the vanity of this life. God gives you Sundays. God gives you the time when you can come and worship him. He gives you more than that too. I'm just drawing that out singularly. It is important to see this to understand why and how we do why and how we do this. Approach the Lord should look radically different than how we approach the rest of our lives. It is apart from the vanity of the curse that we all groan under. Romans 8, 22 to 23. So guard your feet. That didn't mean anything to me when I started. I was like, Lord, I can tell that that's supposed to be meaningful. Guard your steps. Very imperative. What does that mean? Okay, guard my steps. One author says it refers to the demeanor and preparedness. Preparedness. There's a sermon in itself. Do you prepare? How do you prepare? The first to the demeanor and preparedness as one comes to worship, particularly readiness to obey, for listen, which we'll get to in a moment. Listen Refers to the heeding as well as the hearing. The extreme effort made to approach the holy house of God in other parts of the testament help me understand what it means to guard my step. The brass lava of the tabernacle, that brass place where they would go in and and the priests would wash their hands and wash their feet. It was between the altar of burnt offering where that sin offering was placed The payment was made in some regard there on the burnt offering. It was between that burnt offering and the table of presents. in in the layout of the tabernacle. That's like physically where it was placed. And I think that that's significant. Not the point of this lesson, but I nonetheless think that that's significant. I am suggesting that that is significant. In Exodus 38. 8, we find that it was made of the looking glasses for the women assembled. So this would not have been foil-backed glass. It would have been polished metal. Brass or bronze or something polished that a woman could see her reflection in. This brass lava was made of that. And it was the symbol of the need to sanctify oneself before you entered the presence. Post-payment for sin, right? The hand on the goat and the goat out of the thing, that all happened outside. That happened already But after that, there's this place of sanctification, and then this place of the presence of the Lord, and then you get further into the Holy of Holies and on and on. But do you see the examination that's required here? Look at yourself, priest. By the way, who's called a holy priesthood now? We are, just to be clear. Examine yourself before you enter the presence of the Lord. And if you're despairing and discouraged, if you're angry and draped in your sins. That's examination. God is better. God is greater. God's forgiveness of sin is greater than your presumption upon that forgiveness. Lord please. But know who you are and what you are before you approach. Do not approach. Cavalier. Cavalier Lee, is that a word? It was intended, that brass lava was intended for the close inspection and cleansing of that which is unclean from ourselves. That which clings to us from the toil of our lives is to be removed before entering God's presence. Steve, I wrote that for myself. I don't intend to enter guys. This is not new study for me. I have held these truths for decades to be dear. But in reading through it like this, I was refreshed in this. And it occurs to me how often I come with the dust and dirt of my week on me. Whether that's sin or despair or discouragement or just thinking about things with some sort of fear that I should not have before the Lord. Having a desire for an outcome that may or may not be in the will of the Lord. Coming, frankly, and you guys know this, you've seen it How many prayer times at church or in church or around church are always I'm sick, I'm tired, I'm weary, I'm you see what I'm saying? It's not that those things shouldn't be brought to the Lord, but why is it that when we approach Him, the sorrow of our lives is what we're wearing? It's as bad as when I come off the land and I'm covered in mud. I would not stand before you in that condition. But we take our lives and stand before the Lord like that all the time. I'm sweating up here in this stupid coat, but I'm wearing it so that I can demonstrate respect for you. I think that's important. Whether you think it's stupid or not, it doesn't matter. It's my attempt to show respect for you. Do you prepare I I don't care about your coats, by the way. Do you prepare? To stand before the presence of the Lord. Not so that men can see you, by the way, but that's so that you can enjoy the Lord. So that you can see what's above the sun. Outside of the vexation of your day. For if anyone is a hearer of the word, this is a person who just walks right by the lobber, by the way. If anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently. See this? Looks intently at his natural face in the lava, in those looking glasses. Shrugs his shoulders. That's not scripture. For he leap looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he is like. James 1, 23 and 24. Notice that this cleansing, even in the Old Testament, is actually already said this, is after the altar of burnt offering, right? This is an action done after sin is forgiven, through appropriate sacrifice. Solomon exhorts us to examine ourselves and make sure that we are approaching God rightly. Part of the examination, guarding our steps, is to draw near, to listen, not speak, not tell God what we think is right, what we feel But to listen. And we should not offer the sacrifice of fools. So we do not draw near or we should draw near to listen and we should not offer the sacrifice of fools. I've got like a few minutes. I'm gonna do my best here. Draw near to listen I want to read most of the parable of the sower to you, but I don't have time. So I'm going to pick out some interesting phrases. If you download my notes, you'll get the whole passage. Or if you just want to sneak over to Luke 4 real quick, I'm going to focus on verses 11 through 15. You know the story all too well, and one of the seeds uh falls on the rocks and it is received with joy But there's no root. And in the time of testing, or in this time under the sun, we fall away And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but as they go on their way, they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature. Man, does that sound like Solomon in Ecclesiastes, doesn't it? But as for the as for that seed that is in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word Draw near to listen. They are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart and bear fruit with patience. You see in Luke 4. 15 the necessary link between hearing and heeding. Do not offer the sacrifices of fools. I'm in part three of verse one. I think I get a record for slowest taught verse. The sacrifice here, commentators tell me I wouldn't have known this. is the sacrifice that was killed and then used as a meal, not the one that was burned up and consumed on the altar there that I talked to you about a minute ago. Commentators point out that this is the sacrifice that most often degenerated into thoughtless festivity. An extension of the vanity under the sun. It most often degenerated into, look, Lord, what I've offered you, and now I feel good because I've met with other people and the sun is out, and I went to church and I wore my nice clothes and I did my service act and I I got my communion and I sang my hymns and I did all this other good stuff. Right? There you go, Lord. I had a great time. But you still go home feeling about as empty as you came with and maybe worse. Or when Monday morning comes up and you have to walk back into whatever that trial is, you feel anything other than supported and enabled by what you experienced on Sunday What you learned to be true, what the word of the Lord did in your heart that day. The well-meaning person, one author says, the well-meaning person who likes a good sing and turns up cheerfully enough to church. But whose worship is vain nonetheless. There are two Old Testament pictures of foolish worship. that I wanted to take you to. Don't have the time. But Isaiah 1 uh is an indictment of God's people uh about their They're useless worship. And he says basically, I am sick to death of your holidays and your temple work and your treading around on my and he actually says that, right? What do I care about your stamping around in my temple? guard your steps. And he just goes on and on in that passage in the most uh almost offensive language the way uh he denigrates, derides the worship of Israel there. There's a picture of foolish worship, the sacrifice of fools. And then in Malachi three, and I would like you to turn there right at the end of the Old Testament, Malachi three. Thirteen and fourteen And a piece of fifteen. It says, Your words have been hard against me, says the Lord. In other words, the Lord is saying that to us. Your words have been hard against me, says the Lord, but you say, how have we spoken against you? And he answered, as you have said, it is vain to serve God. What is the profit of our keeping his charge or of walking as in mourning before the Lord of hosts? Evildoers not only prosper, but they put God to the test and they escape. That's what we say. All that last part is what we say. We have said it is vain to serve God. We have said that evildoers not only prosper, but they put God to the test and they escape. You say, I've never said that. Uh-oh, forgot the quote. I've never said that to serve God is vain. How you doing with that most often repeated command in scripture I have. I don't know about you, but I have. And I'm ashamed to say that I have said it to the people that I love the most in my life. I've said it in those first five minutes of my attitude when I walk through the door and I make it clear that I'm doing my best to recover my composure, but I am assaulted by my life. I say that to my wife. She won't even ask me how my day went anymore, and she tells the kids not to ask me that anymore because it's just not a good question. Because what I end up spilling out is the toil of my day. And even if I do it quietly and gently, I'm not saying I would run around the house, you know, breaking walls and Screaming profanities, but even if I say it quietly and gently, it it sounds like it sounds like God is not God What a horrible thing to tell my sons. Born pagans. I desire them to know Christ. And after they come to know him, I desire them to be built up and strengthened in him and to lead other people into the same thing. And yet their broken father, whom they know better than most people on this earth know me. How often do I say that to serve God is vain, pointless, useless, not helpful, not profitable, not amazing? Not the greatest good of all other goods. It would be better to win the contract than to serve God. It would be better for my employees never to leave than to serve God. Clearly those words have never crossed my lips. Or at least it should be clear, I hope. But does my attitude agree with that? Where I walk, right? That will be what impresses my children. Not the flapping of my gums. You have said that to serve God is vain, and what prophet is keeping his charge or walking as in mourning before the Lord of hosts? You have said that evildoers prosper and that God lets them escape I think this passage, more than any other, helps us to get at the heart of Solomon's exhortation. And by the way, I forgot to say it, but this is the very first exhortation that Solomon actually gives in Ecclesiastes to guard your steps. It's the first time he actually just reaches out and says, you Do this thing because of all that I've experienced and all that I'm sharing with you. You must do this thing. You must guard your steps. You must listen. You must not offer the sacrifice of a fool. And I want you to notice here the need to examine yourselves. They did not know It says. They were not aware. Even in the Malachi passage, right? He quite he says, You have been hard against me, and they say, How have we been hard against you? They they didn't know. And here it says the same thing. Verse one, for they did not know that they were doing evil If you want some mental picture of what it means that they are doing evil, consider Nadab and Abahu. They, as far as we know, they were well-intentioned. I don't believe that we're ever told in Scripture that they didn't have the right intentions of serving God. Now they mixed it with their own arrogance. But the two sons of Aaron, in case somebody needs a little filler right there, the two sons of Aaron that offered strange fire and were destroyed. I think there's a good picture of evil in foolish sacrifice. How about Ananias and Sapphira? They thought they'd approach God on their own terms. I'll surrender most, most, almost all. And I want you to believe, you, my church family, I want you to believe I gave it all Attempted to appear fully committed to God while their hearts were still in love with money and wealth. Funny that this passage is about to talk about wealth and honor, which we're never going to get to. And in Ecclesiastes 5, verse 6, the same kind of useless worship actually leads men into sin. Sin that later on in verse six it says angers God so that he destroys the work of our hands. We're so busy with our toil that we won't let it go and approach God the way He wants to be approached. And we won't listen. To what he has to say to us, not just directly from his word, but through his spirit and through his word and spirit working in the body of believers In the way that God ordained that it must, in the same way that He ordained our toil, He ordained our joy in the context of His body, and because we won't have any of those things and we're so busy with the work of our own hands We bring false worship. And what does false worship do? It angers God. And He destroys the work of our hands across the board. There's no joy in that, is there? And even that is the graciousness of God, lest we depend on the work of our own hands. Really? One week for a whole chapter? Now I'm gonna go all the way to verse eighteen, cause this is just where we have to end. This is a hard passage And I I told you I struggled all week with it. I did not want to stand. I know my sins. I am a rotten sinner And I always have been. And I keep waiting for that to change. And it's not happening fast enough. But in verse 18, behold, the wisest man that has ever lived, the most resourced man that has ever lived, testifies To what he has learned to be ultimately true. Behold, what I have seen to be good and fitting is to eat and drink and find enjoyment in all the toil with which one toils under the sun, the few days of life that God has given him For this is his lot. Everyone also to whom God has given wealth and possessions and power to enjoy them and to accept his lot and rejoice In his toil, this is the gift of God. For he will not much remember the days of his life because God keeps him occupied with what? What's it say at the end? Come on. Joy in his heart. Do you see that God will keep those that guard their step and approach him correctly. God will keep them occupied. That's not the same word toil there. Keep them occupied with joy in their hearts Such that the toil of our days, which we will always experience under the sun, until God redeems all of creation, that Romans 8 passage I referenced earlier. So that all of our days in that toil won't even be remembered. It will just seem like a few days Under the sun, guard your step, approach the door the door, approach the Lord. Rightly. Do you see the utter contrast between those two? Now the question you have to ask in this last minute and a half. Where are you on the spectrum? I suspect that none of us are on either pole. Right? You are not guarding yourself. You are not listening to the Lord. You are not obeying what you are hearing from the Lord, and as a result, you are suffering to some degree with the vanity of your experiences under the sun. But I also assume you are not a secularist. I assume that you name the name of Christ, that you honestly believe that there is a God in heaven who is sovereign over all that we are, do, am, and will do, and will be. But where are you on the spectrum? And what needs to be done in order for you to move toward the pole where your days are occupied By the joy of the Lord. To go away and to not think about that question is to not guard your feet. It is to not guard your steps. I I really it it really doesn't matter how far you are toward the the pole of being occupied by the joy of the Lord, even if you're you know a micrometer away from it For us not to go away and examine ourselves and guard our steps and listen to the Lord and be challenged by Solomon's exhortation here. is to participate in vain worship. Look at yourself in that brass lava. There is to be no spot upon you. God's blood is efficacious, and there is no spot that will endure its cleansing. And he's calling you to avail yourself of it. And I hope that that excites you. I hope that the idea of having your days occupied by the Lord is not something you believe is only for some sort of abstract Uber Christian. Solomon is is as real as they get, man. He's talking to you about our experiences right here, right now, without all the decoration of philosophy or religion or any of those other things. And this is his exhortation for you. Guard your step.