So that's the first principle we've seen. Furthermore, the hearts of the sons of men are full of evil, and insanity is in their hearts throughout their lives. So work is good. And let that hinder you from accomplishing your responsibilities or purposes. There's always joy and of course from our perspective joy in Christ, joy in the Lord. To fix something to change a light bulb, you know, you're gonna think twice about that. But again, according to the Old Testament perspective, once you go down to the grave, your usefulness and your value in this life is gone and it's over. But if you're, as far as you know, perfectly healthy and you've been around other perfectly healthy people, I would tell you it is unloving to keep yourself away from others who need you to practice the one another's. In chapter nine, verse one, he says, For I have taken all this to my heart and explaineth that righteous men, wise men, and their deeds are in the hand of God. Thinking okay, I gotta wrap this up. uh philanthropy, uh giving to others. You know, leave your spouse or quit your job because people there are terrible. That's obviously referring to the eyesight, right? Uh some say that could be a reference to kind of restlessness easily awakened or more likely just getting up earlier, you know, waking up with the birds in the morning. And the battle is not to the warriors, and neither is bread to the wise, nor wealth to the discerning, nor favor to men of ability, for time and chance overtake them all. You're gonna die. to help us understand, okay, what is life all about if if it's unpredictable? Solomon begins to give us some wisdom. as we live this life. Yet know that God will bring you to judgment for all these things. uh and trade and eventually it will come back. I know life is unpredictable, uh I know you have no control, I know you're gonna die, but still go out and do your work Uh we're we're looking out at uh because we're going to California this this week uh to visit family and whatnot and uh looking at the weather report for California Right? I see a cloud over there, so it it'll probably rain later today, so I'm not gonna I'm not gonna sow my field today. We don't know, but we're not going to take a risk on that, right? And he goes to bed at night and gets up by day, and the seed sprouts and grows, how he himself does not know. And we can apply this in a variety of areas like biology. But that's about as much as we can say. to sow the seed. or a place to go to school uh or you know a car to buy or you know you have you have two good options. the gym in the evening. Most most companies are. And I'm looking around, what in the world, what happened here? you know, a a policeman or a firefighter, you know, all kinds of things that we all kinda aspired to because of our uh just the the the experiences of life and things that we thought would be cool to do Those are all aspects of the the vigor and the energy that young people have, whether it's you know kids or teenagers. You're you have more strength now than than you're ever gonna have. uh of what you want to accomplish in life. That last phrase there, yet know that God will bring you to judgment for all these things. And are therefore meaningful through and through, robs joy of nothing but its hollowness. Because we're doing something that has eternal impact. Uh people are are born with uh maladies, with difficulties that they just have no control over, they can't get rid of. Where you're going to be tempted to do things that could bring sorrow into your life, right? um you know a stingy person or untrusting. That what used to be uh things that you would use for productivity, for protection, uh now are are much more difficult because they shake. You know, if you're old and you're frail and and you're having to shuffle along, uh and you n realize there's a ladder I need to get on to to That's useful, but as soon as they're broken, they're useless and they don't have any value. We we don't just plan for tomorrow, we plan for next year. Now those things aren't bad, right? Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a city and spend a year there and engage in business and make a profit. Or chapter 3, verse 17, I said to myself, God will judge both the righteous man and the wicked man. It's not just like, oh yeah, I remember that. or poison or brain aneurysms or disease or any number of natural and unnatural causes. seat belts or vaccines or vitamins or exercise or anything else has no determining impact on the day of our And then we'll be done. You don't know what's going to come. And of course we as we saw last week that was in the context of a fool just talking about things he has no idea about. Solomon says, There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is prevalent among men. Yet God has not empowered him to eat from them, for a foreigner enjoys them. There is a righteous man who perishes in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man who prolongs his life in his wickedness Again, we have no control. the uh rules of the road, we uh do things we take vitamins, but then things happen outside of our control that All they all have the same breath and there is no advantage for man over beast. We can't avoid that. uh because there was an accident on the on the roadway. Principles and that'll be our time for today. If the clouds are full, they pour out rain upon the earth. The pitcher by the well is shattered, and the wheel at the cistern is crushed. makes all things. idle because they are few, and those who look through the windows grow dim. Furthermore, men are afraid of a high place and of terrors on the road. But anyway, principle number one is despite the uncertainty of life, engage in business and you will reap the ri rewards. So it's it almost seems like an un unexpected uh topic to raise. You know. Clearly he's not referring to literally throwing your bread on the water. And casting it on the waters is letting it go out uh on a ship uh s for buying and selling uh and trade. And then again, the flip side of that coin, uh, or the other element of that in verse 2 is to diversify. Recognizing that you don't know, as he says, what misfortune may occur on the earth. during the few years of his life which God has given him, for this is his reward. Wherever the tree falls, there it lies. But you know it's a very simple truth. In the sense of that un unless someone moves it, it that's just where it's gonna be. You can predict that every day and be right ninety-nine percent of the time. That's been one of the uh lessons. of the pregnant woman. And so the way this is phrased, it could be a reference to the wind. And he's highlighting that reality. And it's all a mystery to us. And do not be idle in the evening, for you do not know whether morning or evening sewing will succeed or whether both of them alike will be good. But there's mystery behind what is it that that causes the seed to have the the most nutrients and the most opportunity to grow? testing. Don't try and predict what is the optimal time. Yeah, one could argue and I I'm I don't I'm not nutritionist. of darkness, for they will be many. to live, right? uh or actually chapter uh the next section verse 9. God does give to those who look to him, God does give to those who fear him, who trust in him, the ability to enjoy life. If it's not raining, uh there might be a sun somewhere out there. People would take time off work and go outside because it was so incredibly rare. So take advantage of them with an eye toward the judgment. And follow the impulses of your heart and the desires of your eyes. You have goals, you have desires. We had energy. But this is the point that he's making, that for those who are young, who are full of strength and energy, take advantage of that We have to recognize that God is concerned about those things, right? is, no matter how silly you think your education is as far as having to do things that you're never going to have to use later in life, God is concerned about it all. And so when when we live our lives with a recognition of what God is doing and w how God will bring everything to judgment and how he will reward us, that increases our joy as we pursue the life he has given us. So again, just if possible, we know it's not always possible, but if it is possible, remove grief and anger and sorrow and pain from your life. There's an impending doom that's that's coming when the sun doesn't come out tomorrow, right? So the sun's not coming out, you can see that the end is near. In verse 3, he says, In the day that the watchmen of the house tremble. And bending over and weak. uh older age that you just have to you don't need as much sleep. the the white whiting of the hair. Uh and so there's fear there. as you get older in life. uh now is dragging himself. The l this is the literal translation. and uh nothing can bring it back. And so these are implements that you would use to to get that water out of the source. A wheel that would uh that would cause something to go down to to and bring up the water. Or Psalm 88, verse 11, will your loving kindness be declared in the grave, your faithfulness in Abaddon? sovereign over life. There is nothing to add to it, or there is nothing to take from it, for God has so worked that men should fear him. It's not something that you're just supposed to think about, oh yeah, I have this memory, you know, Facebook memory. And on the basis of rec recalling what he had promised, then he moved forward in action. as Noah was floating around with his family on on the ark. Now we see this even in Exodus chapter 13, verse 3, where it says, Moses said to the people, Remember this day in which you went out from Egypt. from the house of slavery, for by a powerful hand the Lord brought you out from his place, and nothing leavened shall be eaten. But it should also lead to fidelity, right? For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one will do, excuse me, so that each one may be recompensed for his deeds in the body according to what he has done, whether good. even to the worship center than we're than we're able to come. death. Again, you cannot guarantee the outcome. So again, this is someone who has worked hard through their efforts, through their wisdom, they've accumulated, they have possessions, they have wealth. But something happens outside of their control and they lose it all and someone else enjoys what they what they've accumulated. He who watches the wind will not sow, and he who looks at the clouds will not reap. Before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars are darkened, and clouds return after the rain. And the Spirit will return to God who gave it. partially take them down. On the kind of flip side of the coin, because of the uncertainty of life, don't put all your hopes in one venture. In the history of the interpretation of these two particular verses, and to some degree uh beyond that, but especially these two, one of the more common interpretations has been that this refers to generosity, fill fill generally means to give and so it's more uh sometimes it's been thought of this he's talking about hey because life is uncertain just give everything away um because you know what's the point of keeping it all engage in in work. the New Jerusalem. And it's going to be triple digits, 100, 110 where we're going to be. From verses 5 and 6, we can discern here there are mysteries of the created order that you cannot understand. No, don't don't worry about the weather. And it's an italics because they have to insert that to make sense of of the particular interpretation that they give it I do agree with the ESV here where, just for those who don't have it, it says this, as you do not know the way the spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a pregnant woman with child. So you do not know the way the Spirit comes to the bones in the womb of a woman with child. And God portrays himself, he reveals that he is the one in control of all of these things, uh, and and in the carrying of his creation. which is rooted in part from a philosophical perspective on when does the spirit, when does the soul enter that being, that person. Innumerable examples of things about this world that we don't understand from God's perspective. And you will succeed somewhere, even if you don't succeed everywhere. What is the prime time to put a seed in the ground that will produce the most amount of crop? But apparently in this ancient time, one of the questions was, is it better to sew in the morning or is it better to sew in the evening? In fact, even Jesus acknowledged the mystery that is involved here. Or investments, which you know, which stock is gonna be the best you d you just don't know. Uh accomplish your your responsibilities and don't worry about the outcome necessarily Fulfilling a guy together duty? Alright, principle number four, this is a short one. But in verses seven and eight we see this light is pleasant, and it is good for the eyes to see the sun. For God has already approved your works. But death is final, so enjoy every day that you have life. He is good and all that he does is good. We see this there in verse 9. Bullishness is bound up in the heart of a child, he says 22 verse 15. I identified the judgment from God in chapter three verse seventeen. But again, don't do it with this reckless abandonment. For a time and for every matter and for every deed is there. Rob's joy of nothing but its hollowness. that uh God gives us work, He gives each one of us gifts and opportunities, and He wants us to be good stewards of those things, and He's using all of that And pains that distract or hinder your life. for his glory to accomplish his purposes in the world. And instead of saying, well, I want to do this, but you know, I guess God doesn't want me to do that, so that robs me of my joy. evil re with regard to your body is translated as pain. Even whole, like as those who go down to the pit. And then he says, My son, do not walk in the way with them. But they lie in wait for their own blood. difficulty and sorrow and pain from our lives if we would stay away from those who tend to bring that into our life. So I don't know if when you were when I was reading this as you were following along, if you had any idea of what he's talking about. The sun and the light, the moon and the stars are darkened, and the clouds return after the rain. coming near. And then as he says, as the sound of the grinding mill is low, that would be the ears. Then in verse 5 he continues on. Now here again he's not talking about heaven. uh for forever. before you die. You you uh if you don't have uh a source like a lake or river where you're getting water, in that ancient time you would get it from a well, you would get it from a cistern that would collect rain water It's over for good. No, we don't do that. In other words, don't question, don't challenge God because He is sovereign. In other words, if if God is doing something, if if He's if his purposes clearly are at odds with yours, don't think that you can correct His. And so even though life can be enigmatic, life can be confusing, it can be unpredictable. You are just a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. They didn't remember. We are to take everything he gives to us, all of our opportunities, all of our responsibilities, all of our relationships, and live to the full, remembering that it's all from his hand. or bad. That was a natural expression of his human experience and his human body. I mean frankly with this building we we could accommodate everybody for worship, you know, spaced out and everything if we really wanted to, but we never had more people come. My resources, my time, my energy, I'm going to give of myself for the benefit of another person. Claim that love is withholding myself in the unlikely event that I might be sick unknowingly. Or in the Colossians 1 way of saying it, set your mind on things above. The New Testament doesn't change that perspective necessarily. But according to the wisest man who ever lived, there are wise principles that we should follow as The light is pleasant, for it is good for the eyes to see the sun. Sorry, that the days of darkness will be many, depending on the translation. So we get this from verses one and two. from that. experiments on. Again, he's acknowledging this mystery of we don't know how seeds grow, right? Just good in quality. And so it is good to live. You know, of course, from a New Testament perspective, we can know that even in our most difficult days, God is still good, right? Recognize that God will bring you to judgment. Don't wallow unnecessarily in sorrow. W with a stranger that you have you don't know what their credit history is, what their faithfulness is, uh don't do foolish things that is could land you in trouble. Because you're it's more difficult to interact with the world around you. This is like a second bullet point. of death. It's empty. Again, God is sovereign. as the Spirit works in them. Um so I a a minute ago I said that we naturally tend to live without the thought of death, right? Whether it's through the death of someone we know and love, whether it's through our own um encounter with death or a near-death experience. thinking and you know the reality is that's not just under the sun thinking that's just reality that's just truth. Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth. Engage in business, do work, uh pursue business even though there is uncertainty. So he's simply saying, yeah, life is unpredictable. One basket. is good. Vanity and the futility of work. In chapter 5, verse 18, he also says, Here is what I have seen to be good and fitting, to eat, to drink, and to enjoy oneself in all one's labor in which he toils under the sun. And of course in the New Testament we find the truth that work is something that God has given us to do so much so that he who doesn't work shouldn't eat. We can look at the five-day forecast, at the ten-day forecast, it's like that's exactly what it's gonna be. Fulfill your responsibilities. But that that's a mystery that remains even today. Soil produces crops by itself, first the blade, then the head, and then the mature grain of the head. Death is final, so rejoice in every day you have life. You will be dead, again, from the perspective of this earth, you will be dead much longer than you will have been alive. He's acknowledging that that it is good to be alive. Uh and it is good for the eyes to see the sun. of uh uh an above the sun perspective in this whole section as he's recognizing and of course he'll talk about God in chapter twelve You know, with regard to the idea that seeing the sun is is good, uh tov is the Hebrew word there. Take advantage of the strength and energy you have, whatever your hand finds to do. On the other hand, when we are living our life without regard to God, joy is hollow, is circumstantial, right? Or things happen outside of you that bring grief and sorrow into your heart. Are fleeting. I think one of the applications we can draw from here in verse ten is w we can stay away, we can avoid And you know, sometimes in that particular case, uh the motivation is to help someone uh and to not be perceived as And then we'll kind of wrap all of this up together. And then he says, and the caperberry is ineffective, or your translation might have the desire is no more or is gone, something like that. When we hold on to our plan as if we can ensure its outcome, right? I think this is what Solomon essentially is referring to when he talks about remembering your creator. So when God remembers, that recollection moves into activity, moves into action. It will affect eternity in some way, shape, or form, and obviously we can't predict what that impact will be. Hebrews 2, 14 to 15 tell us that the fear of death is one of the primary weapons that the evil one uses to keep people in his grip of control. Even without the New Testament revelation, we can follow Solomon's wisdom here to live life Man does not know whether it will be love or hatred. Rejoice, young man, during your childhood, and lay your heart be pleasant during the days of your young manhood, and follow the impulses of your heart and the desires of your eyes. He hasn't uh promoted it, he hasn't encouraged it, he hasn't really talked about it in any sense whatsoever. Verse five. I don't know if you've ever taken a an ethics class uh or or done reading study on the whole issue of you know abortion and one of the questions that comes into play is at what point does an embryo become a human being? Is it at conception? both the weather and and animals and everything else. Yeah, Nike, right? And if he commands us to do that, that must mean because there's things to be thankful for. Life is short, death is final, and so we should delight and rejoice in the life that God has given us. So again, he's just saying God will judge everything, so recognize that. Yeah, you have to use wisdom in those situations. In light of your Creator. The teeth, right? Eating of paste. Or as we just read in chapter eleven, verse nine, align the impulses of your heart. And we are to live life. We're not guaranteed, but that's just how we did, how we lived. or whether it's through a perceived threat to our life, something like a pandemic, perhaps. Because we don't know what's going to happen, right? that people weren't gonna come even if we did. Where we have gotten to the point where we've said, well, actually, before we I say that, biblical love, biblical love is the commitment to give myself No, obviously it's one thing if if you know you're sick or you know you've been around other sick people to say I'm gonna take a precaution there Do our work, engage in relationships, enjoy life, rejoice in what God has given us, and of course, most of all, remember our Creator. For man goes to his eternal home while mourner mourners go about in the street. Okay, seven principles of how to live life in under the understanding of the vanity of life But that doesn't seem to, in my estimation, to be the thrust, and I'm not the only one. But it's not the kind of thing that floats around and comes back to you, right? It may be that that crop doesn't go well this year, so it's better to do a variety of crops or a variety of business ventures to insure against unexpected misfortune I'll state it this way: the weather will do whatever it's going to do. There are mysteries of the created order that you cannot understand. Or chapter 9, verse 10, where he says, Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with all your might, for there is no activity or planning or knowledge or wisdom in Sheol where you are going. I like one of one of the commentators, Derek Kidner, who said this with regard to the judgment. He goes on in verse 3, he says, the mighty men stoop. uh are an allegorical look at death. In verse 4, he says, and the doors of the street are shut. So when you're experiencing all of these things in your life, your body is breaking down, it's falling apart, it's weakening, the next step is your eternal home. Of course, harking back to Genesis chapter 2, that it's from dust that we were made, and to dust we shall return. We see this in the New Testament, the Proverbs of the New Testament, the book of James, chapter 13, verse, excuse me, chapter 4, verses 13 to 15. We often read time and time again, God remembered his covenant. Or God remembering his covenant to Abraham by preserving the life of his chosen people. And so we are called to do the same thing. But everything that we will do will have an eternal impact, and so we should live in light of that. And then she goes on to say, there will be American Christians who will skip church this week because they have chosen safety over faithfulness. Um you know, one of the reasons that we didn't ever feel the need to even consider um taking the path that other churches did of uh going against the government mandates is because it was very obvious But my fundamental concern for all of us, and myself included, is that we, as Christians, don't adopt the attitudes of the world that are based on the fear of death. We've gone so far in adopting the world's values based on the fear of death that we've distorted the definition of love. And it's unloving to keep yourself away from others who need who you need to receive one another's from. On the other hand, because of the connection to the the bones in the womb of a pregnant woman, if you have an NAS, you see that the verb are formed is in italics. You know, sometimes both myself and others have had that this question of, okay, I have two good options for maybe a job Don't be a perfectionist. So like don't you know, uh what is it like that one verse where it says like there's a line like the fool says there's a line in the street. Proverbs 69 is what Don just quoted. We obviously have a natural fear of death and danger that's you know given to us and that's there's nothing uh wrong with that. And obviously there are complex issues. So that's kind of been the thrust of Ecclesiastes. Let me say that again. But again, the point is there's mystery in when is the most um productive time, when's the most effective time He's contrasting that with life and light. One example that he gives in the first chapter of Proverbs with regard to this as he is counseling his son So because death is final, he says, remember your creator. So here in Ecclesiastes, we are told that our Creator has given us life. Their recollection of the escape from Egypt, the exodus from Egypt, should lead to both celebration on the one hand, as they celebrated that year after year in the Passover Now again, this is Old Testament. Just a general wisdom principle. So again, despite the uncertainty of life, and because of the uncertainty of life, the way we should engage in business should not be dependent on our ability to confidently predict the future. So take risks and you will succeed somewhere even if you don't succeed everywhere. He says, My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. You know, it's a natural human tendency to live with no thought of death. That is a sinful fear of death. Chapter three, verse nineteen, he says, For the fate of the sons of men and the fate of beasts is the same. No, life is unpredictable. Cast your bread on the surface of the waters, for you will find it after many days. Um, you know, and when Jesus says I'm the door, does he actually, you know, open and close and make a sound when you knock on it? But what he says uh going on into um verse four, he who watches the wind will not sow, and he who looks at the clouds will not reap. That's a possibility, but I think it makes better sense for a couple of reasons to say that when he refers to the days of darkness. He's he's backed off of that uh in part because he's not necessarily focusing at this time about what are the difficulties and the challenges and the sufferings of life So how does he describe uh the older uh aging of life here? But no matter what, remember that God is on his throne. I want to start with the encouragement that I and I want to end with the encouragement that I started with. Life is unpredictable, you have no control, and you're gonna die. That's simply what it means. Is it morning? And so, you know, whether it's the unpredictable weather, whether it's the mysteries of life, again Solomon is saying, just live, just do your work, just He identifies light as pleasant there. There will be Afghan Christians who will die this week because they will choose faithfulness over safety. So fundamentally these three principles are reality. In chapter 2, verse 24 of Ecclesiastes Holm and says, There is nothing better for a man to eat and to drink and to tell himself that his labor Perhaps someone has the expertise where they could give me an answer, but you you don't have that, you know, you're you're declaring that. You know, we it's like not letting those little things be excuses. And we understand that the sun is a delight. So as a result of taking advantage of your youthful years, he says in verse 10: So remove grief and anger from your heart and put away pain from your body, because childhood and the prime of life That causes to end our lives unexpectedly. Yeah. You know, especially around here, though we learned coming from Southern California where um weather re reporters or whatever their official title is are have the easiest job in the world. Along these lines, principle number five, the years of vigor and strength are short. Start to live your life in light of your Creator. And then the second half he says the pitcher by the well is shattered and the wheel at the cistern is crushed. Or Psalm 30, verse 9. We've seen that from time to time. We will die. Again, if you see there in verse 3, he says, If the clouds are full, they pour out rain upon the earth, and whether a tree falls toward the south or toward the north Now I know most of you have an ESV which says something different, doesn't it? And should I eat before I go to the gym or after I go to the gym? In Proverbs, Solomon says for us that if you have a child, what defines that child is foolishness, right? That seems to refer to more the restlessness aspect that you know those around you are being more quiet because they don't want to bother you and wake you up. Again, from the Old Testament perspective, we read passages like this in Psalm chapter 6, verse 5. Once the vibrant life full of vigor and strength and productivity and joy and love and anything else that we would attribute to life, once it is over, Now, obviously you're here, so that doesn't necessarily apply to you today. There is a question of is he talking about when he talks about the days of darkness, is he saying, hey, enjoy your years now because difficult days are coming? We're like, I can do this. And so then finally verse 7 he says, then the dust will return to the earth as it was, and the spirit will return to God who gave it. In fact, they didn't even know because it hadn't been passed down to the next generation after Joshua In other words, our lives should be based on the recognition that everything you do will have an eternal impact. And and that's just what it is. So there there are seven principles that that I've identified in this passage that we'll walk through. That's true to you. To bring up a matter in the presence of God, for God is in heaven and you are on earth. So whatever you choose to do, know that God's going to judge you for that. We read a passage like 2 Corinthians 5, 9 through 10, which says that we are to make it our aim to please him. Unless the Lord returns first, we are all gonna die. As a righteous and wise individual, we do things to try and extend our lives. Before the evil days come and the years draw near when you will say, I have no delight in them. I hope this has been helpful. So principle number one, I didn't word these in a short pithy way, so uh if if you want uh to um Remembered Solomon Toxie, especially there in chapter two about the uncertainty in the Work is right. So this is not a scientific issue. And some of that is really by feel. Verse uh the as he continues there in verse four, uh the one and one will arise at the sound of a bird. And so again he kind of reiterates, remember him. It's gone. That's the perspective of Ecclesiastes. I can provide the notes though. Is it evening? Uh the the weather and the light is just constantly negative and and difficult and hard Again, there's as we've uh talked about, there's no sense of the resurrection uh at this point in in uh Revelation history. He says, before the silver cord is broken and the golden bowl is crushed. A generation goes by and another generation goes by and before it's as if you never even existed. Yeah. So work is good. We will make things and discover things and trade and bring wealth into The weather will do whatever it's going to do. All right, principle number six. You don't see that phrase in commentaries very very often in other places, but it's often repeated with regard to these verses. You know, it's almost like you know, he could have inserted the vr the uh the phrase or the idea that says if a tree falls and no one hears it, does it actually make a sound? We don't know when the spirit enters a person in the womb. Trying to set if I want I'll go ahead and do it. But, beloved, that is not love. I gotta bring some truth to bear some wisdom here. Just do it. The word grief there can be translated as bitterness or anger or sorrow. It's meaningless. No, remembering in the Old Testament should lead to action. That's going to be what happens. Sow your seed in the morning, and do not be idle in the evening, for you do not know whether morning or evening sowing will succeed, or whether both of both of them alike will be good. Just go and do your work and deal with the weather as it comes. Is it when they're born, when they come out of the womb? And uh I remember one day I was walking around going about my work and I'm thinking, man, where is everybody? The older you get in a society where there is no dental care is you have fewer and fewer teeth. Or you're more susceptible to the dangers that are out uh in the world. The car caperberry is ineffective. And I'm just gonna say this as uh with my heart full of love and not seeking to be offensive to anyone, but I've I've heard this by many people. Right? I don't have to know something that you're allowing to hinder you from doing what God is calling you. Furthermore, men are afraid of high places and of terrors on the road. It is no more. Even more than that, we often live as though our plans are certain, right? Solomon is very clear in e especially in Proverbs that planning is good. The opposite danger of not thinking about death is fearing death. And what someone is saying here, it doesn't matter. You know, some of you when you were young wanted to be an astronaut, some of you wanted to be a doctor, some of you wanted to be He refers to the almond tree blossom, uh bl that that it blossoms. We we we plan, but then we trust that the Lord we trust them to the Lord and then we trust the Lord that He will accomplish whatever His purposes are Kind of. Um I was thinking about how in Washington State where uh you know it's cloudy ninety-nine percent of the time, and if if it's not cloudy, it's raining. With regard to I'm just I I skipped a section of my notes here. He moves slowly and laborously. It's diminished. Uh and then a second one is that we have no control in chapter six, verses one and two In fact in verse two, uh the word that in the NAS is translated divide is the word Natan, which Cast your bread on the surface of the waters, for you will find it after many days. It's not a new thing to recognize, hey, uh if if I sow one particular crop He says, just as you do not know the path of the wind or how the born uh bones are formed in the womb Yeah. In the first bullet point, it was remember your creator in your youth before you get old. God made us to work. Whatever happens, that's what's ha that's what happens. It's all a mystery. Don't ever put your window down on a nice day. We're just going to trust that from the moment of conception, a person is a person. There's still a lot of mystery in exactly how that works. And then I looked outside and the sun had come out. Rejoice, young man, during your childhood, and let your heart be pleasant during the days of young manhood. We're doing something that has divine pleasure attached to it as we are honoring the Lord. Life is unpredictable. Okay, what then should life look like? Okay? I don't know how you read that, but as I read that over and over again, I'm thinking, okay, there's got to be some juicy truth in this. We will find all kinds of precious wealth. Um some of us have to wear glasses sooner than others, but many people as they get older uh their eyesight gets worse and worse In chapter 3, verse 14, he says, I know that everything God does will remain forever. We don't know if the virus numbers are going to increase, if the government's going to impose more restrictions on us as as a church. Don't shun work just because life is unpredictable. You know when you when you put it on a ship it's not something that you see at the end of the day. I want to pursue that. So don't live in without that reality in mind. And so all that we do should be aimed at glorifying God, at at pleasing him. And it's just dust. Or verse 11 of chapter 9, he says, I again saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift. This isn't a mystery of science. This the there is not a lot of New Testament thinking in terms of the purposes of God in suffering to conform us to the image of Christ, to build character. Question about that. Yeah, i in the sense that i it's a foolish thing according to Solomon Proverbs to to give your surety to basically cosign in modern terms Everything that is to come will be futility. Chapter 9, verse 7, he said, Go then eat your bread in happiness and drink your wine with a cheerful cheerful heart. He refers to the grasshopper that drags itself along. What prophet is there in my blood if I go down to the pit? Yeah, submit them to the Lord. So follow along as I read Ecclesiastes chapter 11, verse 1 through 12, verse 8. Right? So it wasn't even needed to to consider violating those mandates You don't know what's going to happen. That's just one example of a number of times in Ecclesiastes that Solomon has acknowledged the goodness of life and that In chapter 12, verse 14, which uh obviously comes later, he says, For God will bring every act to judgment, everything which is hidden, whether it will be whether it is good or evil Keep your feet from their path, for their feet run to evil and they hasten to shed blood. My notes are nowhere near exquisite as exquis exquisite as Scott's notes. Avoid difficulties. They ambush their own lives. But there are there are foolish things that we can do in the attempt to do something good. Proverbs 19, 21, many are the plans in a man's heart, but the counsel of the Lord will stand. Faithfulness. It just sheds more light on it. And so I just said, you know, imagine that whoever was involved in the accident, you know, they didn't wake up that morning thinking, oh, I'm gonna get an accident today, my whole day's gonna be ruined and you know, whatever o other problems there might be. We don't know what things we can accomplish in our lives that will have a lasting impact on others. Vanity of vanity, says the preacher, all is vanity. This is the activity of God, as he calls it. Mm-hmm. He and of course, again, from the New Testament perspective, fullness of revelation, we know that We have a five-year plan maybe or a ten-year plan. And so on the base of remembering his covenant, the waters started to go away. Alright, principle number three. Death is final, so rejoice in every day you have life. And what he's getting at there is this sense that as we are fulfilling the desires and we're pursuing the passions that we have in life Our recollection of God should move us to action But at the same time, he recognizes, even though it's futile in many ways, even though it's uncertain, still engage in it Like like like I I always say, should I go to the gym like should I go to the gym in the morning or should I go And God has even made us physiologically to benefit from the sun, right? And so take advantage of that. You get up much earlier. Because you're not steady. And I don't mean come at all, but we we never had more people come than we were allowed to have here, right? Everything that uh everything that is to come will be futility. Now clearly he's he's gone away, he's backed off from his thought, like in chapter six, where he said, In light of the futility of life it's better to be a miscarriage than And he commands us to be thankful in all things, right? Don't let yourself be hindered by, again, this thought of, well I might fail or it's going to be too hard or, you know, things like that. Don't do it with this sense of you know I can do no wrong and you know I I'm not gonna I'm not gonna be judged, I'm not gonna get in trouble for anything. You can't control it. No, the idea is don't get yourself involved in friendships and relationships Throughout the Ecclesiastes, Solomon has occasionally dipped into metaphor or allegory, but here he just dives into the deep end. He gives life, he takes life. And I get that from verse 6, where he says, sow your seed in the morning. Yeah, sure. And so the days of darkness are the days of death. How is it that the cells know what to do? And that's where I get the idea of taking a risk. And we're going to die. I'm not an athletic trainer, you can tell that. He said God will judge both the righteous man and the wicked man Once your life is over, it's over. So remove grief and anger from your heart and put away pain from your body, because childhood and the prime of life are fleeting. The idea here is the your bread is your possessions, it's the product of your work You don't know what's gonna take place, so don't put all your eggs in what It is good to see the sun. Start as early as possible to live in light of your Creator. Before the evil days come and the years draw near when you will say, I have no delight in them. There's certainly a lot of uh commentators who would affirm this. Uh so he is bringing uh a theocentric perspective if you will and he says life is good uh the sun is good You know, maybe you were into sports and so you you gave yourself to that. So it's not always possible to get rid of the challenges of life, but what he's saying here is don't wallow unnecessarily in sorrow. I know it's not always encouraging to think about the the reality of death, but it is necessary for us. So life is unpredictable, you have no control, and then But as Solomon gets to the end here in these final few chapters, and again just a reminder, chapters are not inspired, so he's not thinking about chapter 11 and 12, he's just That's what makes it so hard to read, is this almost uh fatalistic life is terrible, life is confusing, it's enigmatic, it's empty, it's meaningless. So engaging in business, putting your products out there to sell. Yet know that God will bring you to judgment for all these things. And the rod will drive it far from it. Relieve the sorrows and pains that distract or hinder your life. I understand that there are different attitudes of what constitutes reasonable safety measures. And whether a tree falls toward the south or toward the north, wherever the tree falls, there it lies. And the doors on the street are shut as the sound of the grinding mill is low, and one will arise at the sound of a bird, and all the daughters of song will sing softly. Just sow your seed throughout the day. And death is final. We will fill our houses with spoil. And then finally that last phrase, again, doing away with any allegory, for the man goes to his eternal home while mourners go about in the street. The almond tree blossoms, the grasshopper drags himself along, and the caperberry is ineffective There's indications that in the new heavens and the new earth we will Especially when it was actually a nice day as far as temperature And apparently the caperberry was kind of a like an aphrodisiac, so the the libido, the sex drive has decreased, it's gone away And then in chapter 9, verse 3, he says, This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, for there is one fate for all men. It's out in the desert. In Mark chapter 4, verse 26, he says, the kingdom of God is like a man who casts seed upon the soil. Maybe you have sweet in your translation. Again, setting aside hearing aids and you know the the rest that we enjoy in our age He's identifying the longevity of death. That's that's what we naturally do. Anything awaits him. And then finally, in chapter 10, verse 14, he says, Yet the fool multiplies wisdom. Indeed, if a man should live many years, let him rejoice in them all, and let them let him remember that the days of uh that Is it sometime earlier? You know, science is never going to figure this out because first of all science denies the soul anyway, because it's not something they can see or test or or do any uh But really just go to the gym. So the reference primarily to the legs, maybe to the upper body, but that which would give you strength and fortitude, that which would carry you, are now stooping. So again, throughout Ecclesiastes, Solomon has made it very clear that God is sovereign over life. One of the ways you can tell if something's a metaphor is does it actually work? But don't let that stop you from engaging in business, uh, in commerce, and being productive uh in your life So those are just two passages that tell us that this isn't the first time Solomon has said, hey But here you can't do that, right? Remember your Creator before that happens What's the purpose of life if we're all going to die? They are true for every single one of us. So take risks, and you will succeed somewhere, even if you don't succeed everywhere. Yeah, I might fail, or it's not going to be as good as as it could be. Alright. And of course we see that in those who are elderly. Excuse me. And so when you get to judges, the problem was You can't predict it. So are the ways of everyone who gains by violence. What are some principles that we should live by in light of these realities? And so don't look at those mysterious things And again, this is under the sun thinking. And I worked at a software company which, you know, people didn't get out much, they just hunkered down in the building doing their work, which of course The years of vigor and strength are short. Don't wait until you get older. Once those are broken, you get no more water. Uh or you know, sometimes we get from one of the uh old uh photo sites that we've used in the past to print photos and stuff, you know, remember this thing from thirteen years ago. For all is vanity. Where you're going to be involved in some criminal activity or foolish behavior that can result in pain and sorrow. Now you see that if you have an NAS that's in italics. Now, when we turn to the New Testament, right, we see some more clarity, and I'll be wrapping up here in a minute We technically have four minutes anyway, so I've just been trying to finish early. The exception to that is when we're confronted by our mortality. And so don't let that stop you from making a decision. Take stock in the good things that God has provided for you. Now I know most of us are kind of beyond these years, so this is just stuff you can tell the younger folk. And I think that's a trickier one, but I think he's referring to the mouth there. You don't have the balance that you used to have And what he's depicting here is those implements that you would use, whether it's a pitcher or We don't know how that actually works. Right. And I I take those kind of combined together that as you're hearing less and less, you're talking less and less Uh anything else? And many people die unexpectedly. You can't control it, you can't predict it, so go about your work and don't wait for the perfect time to fulfill your responsibilities. This is reflecting the hands and the shaking of the hands that comes as you get older and older. Sometimes it's God remembered his covenant with Abraham, God remembered his covenant with Noah, God remembered his covenant with David. Sorry, let me rephrase that. We're all gonna die. And again, he's just stating the truth that the weather's gonna do what the weather's gonna do. And obviously we know that this isn't always possible, right? You don't have the quick uh responses and reflexes that you used to have. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and also do this or that. So what do we do? In chapter eleven, verses one to chapter twelve verse eight. He continues there in verse 3, the grinding ones stand idle because they are few. It brings color and nuance and insight. Again, the sun and the light and the moon are darkened in the stars. And so Solomon ends where he began the book. We we naturally assume we're gonna live to the end of this day. There was a saying that went around this week, I think it was a pastor's wife that posted this. Because it probably won't stay nice. It's interesting that he would even uh have that that dynamic without all of the technology that we have today, that he would be thinking about those things If they say, Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us ambush the innocent without cause, let us swallow them alive like Sheol This is actually not really all that allegorical. You can't do that here. Is that also kind of the drive and the gist of the problems that we see about not pledged for strangers But I think it's something that's important for us to consider. But also uh the the passage can be understood pretty easily as business ventures. We don't know how God does what he does. A man to whom God has given riches and wealth and honor, so that his soul lacks nothing in of all that he desires Well obviously scripture doesn't say, and so we can be more confident to say Which one's going to be the best So there's always things that we can uh have gratitude over. Um but It can be full of joy, it can be full of sorrow, it can be full of blessing and prosperity, it can be full of pain. Divide your portion to seven or even to eight, for you do not know what misfortune may occur on the earth Then the dust will return to the earth as it was. Uh or it's kind of windy, so it's probably gonna be this, so okay, I'll just I'll just stay inside a little bit longer And it was it was a normal thing that when the sun came out They're only good to be thrown away or at least recast into something else. Will the dust praise you? Follow the impulses of your heart and the desires of your eyes, yet know that God will bring you to judgment for all these things. You know, we wear seat belts, we follow the So you do not know the work of God who makes everything. Should lead to action. Divide your portion to seven or even to eight, for you do not know what misfortune may occur on the earth As I've told you before, the word for wind and the word for spirit are the same word in the Hebrew This is the work of God. And as you're pursuing your desires, as you're pursuing your passions, Throw in your lot with us. We have a career plan that we're following in our life. It's used there in Genesis 9 of, you know, again, God remembering his covenant with Noah. If we think we can avoid death by anything that we do, we'll we're soon going to find out that It's not loving to isolate ourselves from others out of the fear of the unknown. Afterwards they go to the dead. Just as you do not know the path of the wind, or how the bones are formed in the womb of the pregnant woman, so you do not know the activity of God whom Once you die, that's it. Principle number six from verse ten is if possible, relieve the sorrows And then last part in all the daughters of the songs excuse me, all the daughters of song will sing softly. With regard to um you know the finality What does Scripture call us to do with our plans? We're going to die from cancer or car accidents or heart attacks or old age or choking or drowning Right? And so to bring it in here, it's like, well, well, wait a minute, what are we talking about? So don't go about your work. And this is a true statement, right? And you know there's mystery because they can't exactly replicate it, or at least the replication is under a lot of And as we've talked, The problem is when we allow the fear of death to control our lives and to hinder our relationships Or chapter seven verse fifteen, I have seen everything during my lifetime of futility I mean it Stay away from people in situations that only bring trouble in life. We live as though we we can predict the future, as if we know what's going to happen, as if we can control our lives Chapter 7, verse 13, consider the work of God, for who is able to straighten what he has bent? He has given us a task in the sense that we are given to work. We don't know what conversations we have with people that will transform and change their lives God is at the center of all of it. Use all that you have toward that end, because the time will come when it will be gone. Uh or you have an injury that comes upon you. Alright, the final principle, principle number seven Therefore, let your words be few. I have a story that I don't have time to tell. I don't know. Um But He's not at all thinking about eternity here. This is not the first time Solomon has Life is unpredictable. That's kind of the under the sun You could split these into two, but I just put them into one because his point is And not letting like the combination of our excuses plus the need to be perfect to stop us from Verse 3 again he he's he finishes out the verse saying, those who look through the windows grow dim We are to live as full a life as He gives us the opportunity to live And within 50, 100, 150 years, no one's ever gonna know that we existed. So we'll read through the text and then we'll walk through each of those Remember him, before the silver cord is broken, and the golden bowl is crushed. In some translation the idea of the tree falling there is is not just that that's where it lies, but that's where it's going to continue to lie Or God remembering his covenant to David by mean making sure that the line of David was perpetuated. I mean Jesus himself, he sweat drops of blood as he anticipated the cross and This is vanity and severe affliction. No, it doesn't work. Now again, we can we can say things like, well we know that there's DNA and that there's instruction. Yeah, I mean there's there's all kinds of ways in which we make excuses to not do what we sh we know we should do, right? Verse two, he says, before Those are images of something that's valuable We don't wake up in the morning naturally thinking, oh, I might die today. Why should we behave one way as opposed to another way? In the day that the watchmen of the house tremble and mighty men stoop, the grinding ones stand You know, that creature that uh that just hopped around and moved with ease Remember your creator. It's like even in the morning, if they predict a certain weather forecast, it's probably gonna be different, right You're not always going to know which option is the best. He's bringing more of He said, by insisting that our ways matter to God, Let me read that again. Uh first of all, philanthropy is not something that Solomon has really talked about at all in Ecclesiasticals. It takes a while for it to go out uh to to accomplish its purposes and and for the income to get back to you. Maybe for some of you fishermen this would be a question, is it better to fish in the morning or fish in the evening? But when the crop permits, he immediately puts the sickle because the harvest time has come. And we can guarantee that that's exactly what's going to happen. But he's not- I don't think he's thinking of that aspect of human life. And this is not the idea of stay away from toxic people or people that make your life difficult, you know. But this whole section, verses one to uh to seven or really two to seven. Throughout Ecclesiastes, Solomon has acknowledged God as Clear statement of God's sovereignty, right? Now in the Old Testament, the word remember zakar in the Hebrew is not just an intellectual activity. He acts in light of what he remembers. The question is can how do we interpret that? Again, it's unpredictable. We're all gonna die. We get vitamin D from the sun, we rejuvenate, we get energy and strength from the sun. And so he's saying, take advantage of that. So again he says ri uh verse one, remember also your creator in the days of your youth. And so the reason that is possible is because life is unpredictable. Uh Instead, and I've kind of done a little bit of interpretation here, take risks Do it in the morning. No, recognize that that actually should increase our joy This is the idea of life just starts to get harder and harder. There's a couple more there. How else can we can we say that? Next week, Scott will finish out Ecclesiastes for us. As one dies, so dies the other. Okay? Principle number three. I'm not a farmer, so maybe there's some additional nuances that they have to work through in wrestling with this question This is how we see God remembering. You had aspirations to sports. And that's uh a white flower that that comes out. Indeed, if a man should live many years, let him rejoice in them all, and let him remember the days. And so God is very concerned about our lives. And now he's saying, remember your creator before you die. The problem is Once you die, you're going to be in the grave. You don't know what's going to happen. So uh And those will be many. And then the word pain is really the word evil, but because it's Water, of course, is what gives life to our bodies, and so Despite the uncertainty of life, engage in business and you will reap the rewards. It's over. It takes away the life of its possessors. You do not know what your life will be like tomorrow Today, many and many in the world, but many as well around us Alright, principle number two, verses three and four. Jesus alludes to this in John 3. Will it declare your faithfulness? Right. Mentioned that earlier. And so I'm going to stay away from you. And so eventually when you put out your products, eventually you will come you will receive the the income, the revenue. Make a decision and then trust the Lord for it. We shall all have one purse. By insisting that our ways matter to God and are therefore meaningful through and through. We uh Excuse me. Do it in the afternoon. We'll talk more about that as he gets talks about death later on. What do we do? He is sovereignly in control over every element of creation Indeed, it is useless to spread the baited net in the sight of any bird. Do it now. For there is no mention of you in death. Okay? Humans are gonna die, beasts are gonna die Right? So Vanity of vanity, says the preacher, all is vanity. And this is just one example. Nobody, with a couple of exceptions, were at their desks So take advantage of them with an eye toward the judgment. And your life is over. Why? I was talking to a couple the other day and they they had arrived to the meeting late. Don't say, God, you've got to align yourself to my plans and my purposes. We go to bed thinking I'm gonna wake up in the morning, right? You have no control over the weather You can't control it. You read the last few chapters of Job as God is talking to Job about how he cares for his creation. And Solomon says it's not worth it And so with fewer teeth comes less chewing and more So go about your work and don't wait for the perfect time to fulfill your responsibilities. So just to say again, as early as possible. Chapter 5, verse 2, Solomon says, Do not be hasty in word or impulsive in thought. It doesn't matter how wise you are, it doesn't matter how righteous you are The opposite danger of not thinking about death is fearing death. So don't let that stop you. We have a plan for retirement No man knows what will happen, and no one can tell him what will come after him. Take advantage of that energy and strength and creativity and the desires And certainly both of those would be true of of Whether we were at twenty-five percent, whether whether we are at fifty percent That's that produces fear in you. So this thought of the eternality of death, the finality of the grave. One of the mysteries of life is Do it in the evening. Yeah, no that's that that that's right. We should make it our aim to do that. Start as early as possible to live How how do we understand that We we come up with all kinds of excuses There's mystery behind this We don't know the wind, where it's coming, where it's going. Indeed, they have So let's pray. They will last much, much longer than this life. It comes and it goes No, recognize Well, we haven't said anything about this before But don't let that hinder you. Because life is short. He's very concerned about what you do for your work. Oh yeah, just do it. There are Yeah. He's just saying, you know, when you're young, you have aspirations. Um It's gonna be sunny today. He who doesn't provide for his family is wort is worse than an unbeliever. And And we gotta go. So I don't know if you've ever cast your bread on water. And so of course that's referring to It's almost an apocalyptic. You're more cautious, you're more careful Don't wallow unnecessarily in sorrow. In Sheol, who will give you thanks? Is it just like anti-perfectional Anybody know what that is? So I I should live as if I'm gonna die. I mean Don't wait for the perfect time. You know, none of that is part of this equation. We can say things like that. No matter how mundane you think your work Like you can see the end No, that's not gonna work. We'll come back to what remember means. Um