Prayer to the Christian life has often been likened to breathing. It's natural and it's necessary. Truth is, sadly, prayer is something Christians often struggle to do. It comes out, but it's labored, and it's not easy flowing. At other times it just sounds rote and it smells stale. Almost every believer knows that they are to grow stronger in their prayer life. We nod our heads in approval as the preacher calls for more intercessory prayer. I mean, who would argue against that? But being the pragmatic people, we are way too reliant on our own plans, abilities, skills, creativity, often very distracted with lesser things This most important function of the Christian life languishes. It's there, true enough, but it has only half a heart to it. Does that describe your prayer life? Yet for those who are humble in their hearts and who are willing to believe God's abundant and amazing promises, and exercise the discipline that is necessary, prayer is, can be, and is a most delightful thing And it becomes a growing hunger within the heart. For they have learned the truth of what we read in James 5. 16. The effective prayer of a righteous man can accomplish much So, do you want to have effective prayers from a righteous life in order to accomplish much? If so, let us consider again the life of Elijah, this time focusing upon his prayer life. Would you open with me to 1 Kings chapter 18? And verses 41 through 46 today, a shorter passage, but one which allows us to get a glimpse into Elijah's life of prayer. First Kings eighteen, verses forty one through forty six. Please follow along as I read it. Now Elijah said to Ahab, Go up, eat and drink, for there is the sound of the roar of a heavy shower. So Ahab went up to eat and drink, but Elijah went up to the top of Carmel. And he crouched down on the earth and put his face between his knees. He said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea. So he went up and looked and said, There is nothing. And he said, go back seven times. It came about at the seventh time that he said Behold, a cloud as small as a man's hand is coming up from the sea. And he said, Go up, say to Ahab, prepare your chariot, and go down, so that the heavy shower does not stop you. In a little while the sky grew black with clouds and wind, and there was a heavy shower. And Ahab rode and went to Jezreel. Then the hand of the Lord was on Elijah, and he girded up his loins and outran or ran before Ahab to Jezreel. Well, this account, as most of you know, comes immediately after Elijah's calling down fire from heaven, from a gracious God to whom he appealed. and was willing to hear the prayer of this humble servant. That was a public prayer. The one we encounter today is a private prayer. That public prayer, though, was not to show off for himself or to show off his faith or his character. Rather, that public prayer was to show off The reality and power and faithfulness of Yahweh, the Lord of Israel. The calling down of fire from heaven Vindicated God as the true God of Israel over Baal, who was a false God but was worshipped in the land. But really the full vindication of the Lord God as the one who brought the famine in the first place. in judgment because of sin, as the giver of the rain and as the sovereign one over all of Israel, would only come, not with the Falling of fire upon the sacrifice and burning up the stones and the water and all of that that we saw last week, but would only come about if God produced the what? The rain. The rain was necessary to. And in the sending of the rain, there also was going to be a dramatic demonstration of the power of Jehovah for the nation of Israel. This time not in a miracle, but in a normal providential event. Now it is true that in the years to come, these same people who fell on their face And said, The Lord He is God, the Lord He is God. In the years to come they were not going to be completely turned away from idolatry. It would come back into the land again, and eventually we know that the Northern Kingdom of Israel would be ripped off of the land for the sin of idolatry and the breaking of their covenant with God. That is true. But at least for now they had turned. And the Lord had looked into their hearts and considered at this time that he would bring back the blessing of rain to the land. For rain often was spoken of as a blessing from God if the people would turn to him Such as in Deuteronomy 28, 12, where it says, The Lord will open for you his good storehouse, the heavens, to give rain to your land in its season, and to bless all the work of your hand. And you shall lend to many nations which you shall not borrow. And so there was a blessing that would be given to the land because of the rain, and it would, of course, help them economically. Here the rain will dramatically end a disastrous three and a half year drought. This was devastating to Israel. Now this sorter text that we have here neatly divides into two parts. There's first a prayer request and then second a answer to prayer. First, Elijah's request in prayer, and then second, God's answer to prayer. And as we go through the passage, I'm going to punctuate it with lessons that we can extract from the text to learn about our own prayer life. I'll just call them lessons and I'll give them to you as we come. First, let's look at the first half Elijah's request in prayer. That's in verses 41 through 43. Focus again, if you would, on verse 41. Now Elijah said to Ahab, Go up, eat and drink, for there is the sound of the roar of a heavy shout. So Ahab went up to eat and drink. So immediately following this great demonstration of God's power, rather than causing a revolt against the king, which by the way Elijah easily could have done at this point in time, he had enough control over the massive mobs that were there to have had the slaughter of eight hundred and fifty of these false prophets. He could easily have taken care of the king right now if he had desi desired, but that wasn't what he desired. Elijah does not use the opportunity to have the king killed. Elijah's goal is not to take power himself, but to restore the nation to the Lord, right? That's what he's wanting to do. He's not leading a revolt against his leader, he's trying to correct the leader, trying to bring the leader to repentance as well. And so he tells Ahab Go up and eat and drink drink. Why do that? For the rain is coming. What does that imply? There's a celebration time. This is good news for the king, good news for the nation. Ahab evidently had been totally immersed in the whole show that day, that he had not eaten. Maybe he was fretting and worried And so he had brought his royal banquet, but he had not eaten all day long. Now he's told, celebrate, the rain is coming. This too was a statement of faith on the part of Elijah. He says that he hears the sound of a heavy shower coming. Oh, really? Well, there wasn't a cloud in the sky at this point in time, and there certainly was no sound at all, but he said he heard it. So those are words of what? Faith. It's coming. It's so certain, he says, I hear it. That's an important lesson we'll come back to. Elijah clearly expected it to rain. He was certain it was going to rain. It was going to rain, it was going to rain very hard, and it was going to rain very soon. And they would see that. This also telling Ahab to go up and eat was a gesture of goodwill toward the king himself. The going up indicates that Ahab's royal tents were likely pitched up on higher ground, as kings would do where the crowds have gathered were further below, probably by this time they might still have been down at the Kishone River where they slaughtered The uh prophets, the base of the mountain range, and so he's told to go up and celebrate. And Ahab once again, very interestingly, follows Elijah's instructions, a man whom he had called the trouble of Israel. Now he's taking orders from Elijah. Every indication of Ahab in scripture that we have is that he was not a very dominant man, but a rather weak man. We're told that Jezebel incited him to do evil. If Jezebel had been here, I imagine her reaction would have been much different than Ahab. Ahab's going along with what Elijah says. Jezebel would have been clinching her teeth and raising her fists in anger. All of her prophets were just slaughtered. She would have been beside herself. But Ahab, probably fearing the crowd as well, does not protest. He takes orders from Elijah. Now look at the rest of verse 42. But Elijah went up to the top of Carmel, and he crouched down on the earth and put his face between his knees. So Ahab goes off to eat, but Elijah still has some work to do He still has some work to do. This time his work is going to be in the area of prayer. And the work of prayer accomplishes much. Sometimes we think of prayer as an add-on and not as a daily work that we are to engage in. Well, he ascends to nearer the peak. so that he, or more specifically his servant, can have a good view of the Mediterranean Sea off to the west, off in the distance. And he comes and he prays in a crouched position. He gets down on the ground. He kneels before God. Now please understand as we look at this and we think about that, you're trying to think about how to improve your prayer. It's not necessarily about the posture of prayer. That's not the lesson here. We've already seen one of his prayers where he stretched out over the widow's son and he was kind of laying over him like that and that was his posture at that time Probably before the people, when fire was called down, he was standing up with his eyes towards heaven and his palms raised. That's likely. The Bible really doesn't endorse one posture in prayer. I mean there's many different ways you can pray Praying just about any position that you want to pray in. That's not really the issue. Here's a little story. Three ministers were talking about prayer in general and the appropriate and effective positions for prayer. As they were taking as they were talking, a telephone repairman was working on the phone system in the background. One minister said that he felt the key to prayer was in the hands He always held his hands together and pointed them upward as a form of symbolic worship. Maybe that works. The second suggested that real prayer was conducted on one's knees. The third suggested that they both had it wrong. The only position worth its salt was to pray while stretched out flat on your faith. By this time, the phone man couldn't stay out of the conversation any longer. He interjected, I found that the most powerful prayer I ever made was while I was dangling upside down by my heels from a power pole suspended. Forty feet above the ground. Posture and prayer isn't the point. Elijah's posture merely tells us the state of mind that he was in. He was in a humbled state before God in a needy state, and there was earnestness to this prayer. The nation, after all, was in great need of rain. Elijah was well aware of this Fire from heaven falling is one thing, but the land is still parched. We don't have the actual words of Elijah expressed in prayer here. We know that's what he was doing from the context, and the New Testament affirms that as well, that he prayed again. for rain. Lord, now listen to thy servant again. Maybe he said something like that. And send, according to the covenant that you made with Israel, the promise of rain, for your people have now turned back to you again, and they've proven the change in heart by slaughtering the false prophets. So while others were eating, he dedicated himself to interceding for the nation. And God was going to bless the entire nation because of the prayers of One man. One man. So here I want us to learn some lessons. Lesson number one. You could write these down. Lesson for us about prayer. Lesson number one. We can learn to pray like Elijah. We can learn to pray like Elijah. That's what James 5:17 is saying. It makes this very point to us as Christians. It says, Elijah was a man with a nature like ours. And he prayed earnestly that it would not rain, and it did not rain on the earth for three years and six months. Then he prayed again, and the sky poured rain, and the earth produced its fruit. James writes, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, that Elijah was a man with a nature just like ours. That word for nature, Hamoi apathace, of like nature or passions. That means Elijah was born in sin like we are. He was a man of flesh like we are. He had to deal with the same weaknesses and troubles that we have to deal with. And yet his prayers prevailed. We can learn to pray like that. That's the point. Our prayers can be like his because he was like us. Do you understand that? The way he prayed, we can pray. The hand of God that moved in response to his prayers is the same hand of God that will move in response to our prayers and our petition. You say, no, I mean come on, Pastor, that's a bit of a stretch. I mean we're talking about Elijah here. You're not really saying that we can we can talk to God like Elijah, but see there you go, putting him immediately in your mind in some special category that he's not like us. At all, after all, he's written about in the Bible, and we are. And sometimes we suddenly go through that process and we forget that he's written about in the Bible so that we would learn to be like him That's the whole point is in the Bible. If we saw Elijah and he was standing there and saying, well, he just looks like an average guy. He's a little weird. He's got the leather on, he's a very hairy kind of guy. He doesn't hang out with a lot of different kinds of people. He's a bit strange socially and all of that. But he's a normal guy. And we would say, well if he can pray like that, then why can't we pray like that? God hears his children, does he not? What promises do we have? First John five fourteen. This is the confidence. This is the confidence which we have before him that if we ask anything that if we ask anything according to his will, here's the promise, he hears us. And then he goes on to say, if we know that he hears us, we know that we have a request which we've asked from him. Listen, James the Lord's brother who wrote this epistle of James and wrote in James 5, he lived some seven, eight hundred years after Elijah. So Elijah was ancient history to James when he was writing the New Testament, that part of it. He could have said, Oh, that guy's way off there in the ancient times, and he's really special. God talked to the ancients a lot better than he does today. I'm not like him. But James says, no, he was just like us. The Church Father Jerome quoted an earlier church father that said, James, this is the Lord's brother, his knees were reputed to have acquired the hardness of camel's knees because of his prayers. James would learn to pray like he liked. Maybe even greater. If James learned it, as a Christian, we can too. Learning to pray like Elijah won't be quick, it will take time, it won't be instant. Elijah himself had much preparation in his life before this time. There was much time in isolation, learning about himself, learning about God, meditating on the law of God. It takes time to grow in the Lord. It takes time to come to understand God better and his ways better We can hear the word of God, but we don't know how it applies to our life. It takes time to absorb that and learn that, but as you do, your prayers will increase. With time, with dedication, with not quitting, with confidence in the Lord, your prayers will increase, your prayers will prevail. But the question is. Do you really desire to have that kind of a prayer life? Or are you getting along just fine without it? See, many of us are just a little bit too content with the way things are. Someone says, well, how's your prayer life? Well, it could be better. True enough, but are you concerned about it becoming better? Here's the second lesson. Lesson number two for us. Effective prayer must flow from an obedient life. Let me read that again. Effective prayer must flow from an obedient life. You want to have effective prayer, you have to have an obedient life. What have we seen already in connection with Elijah's life? Back in chapter 17, verse 5, it says, So Elijah went and did according to the word of the Lord. The word of the Lord came to him, he listened, and he went out and he obeyed. He didn't question it. First Kings 18 1. Now it happened after many days. The word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain on the face of the earth. Verse 2, so Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. Word of God came, obedience came. Elijah lived a consistent life of obedience towards God. No, he wasn't sinless, but he was obedient. And hearing just finished laying his life on the line for the Lord and obeyed, even when no one else was willing to stand with him. Nobody. Let me tell you something. Some of you don't have active prayer lives because in part you really don't think it's going to make any difference at all. You're going to pray and nothing's going to change I mean why pray if nothing's going to change? And that's where your mind is. Somewhere in the back of your mind, that's controlling your lack of prayers. And why are you there? Why do you think it will not make a difference? Because you can think of requests that you prayed about and God didn't answer. Yes? He didn't answer your prayers. He didn't listen to you, you're thinking in the back of your mind. It doesn't make a difference. But why didn't he listen to you? Maybe because you were sinning against him and asking him to do your will. Maybe your heart was disobedient. Maybe you weren't living a consistent life of obedience to the revealed will of God in Scripture. You're disobedient to God. Proverbs 28:8 says, He who turns away his ears from listening to the law, the law of God, even his prayers are an abomination. We have this idea that God's up there and he can't wait to hear some prayers Some prayers kind of rub them the wrong way. It's an abomination. It's yuck. He even says that through the prophets sometimes. They're coming in with beautiful music, coming in with great praise bands, whatever they did back then, and they're shouting to the Lord and the words sound good and God says Take it away. There's injustice in your land. Care for the orphan, care for the widow, obey me, and then come back and praise me. Then I'll listen. James 4, 3 says, you ask and do not receive because you ask with wrong motives. Uh-oh. So that you may spend it on your pleasures. Lord, you know it would be a good idea. And then we try to give it a spiritual bent so we kind of like trick God and do Do we really think that lowly of God that we think we can tell him that and he's not gonna really know what our real motive is Hmm. First Peter 3:7, husbands, if you mistreat your wives, if you neglect them, if you don't care for them tenderly, your prayers will be hindered. We're told that many other reasons in Scripture why our prayers are hindered It is hypocrisy to live disobediently to the Word of God while asking God to give heed to your supplications. First obey Him. in what you know you're supposed to do. Don't sit around there scratching your head and say, I don't know what God wants me to do in life. You're getting a little bit too technical. Just start with what you already know Then you'll have confidence that he will listen to your prayers. 1 John 3. 22. 1 John 3. 22. Whatever we ask, we receive from him. Because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. See, when the other promise said if we ask anything according to his will, it already assumes that the person who's asking according to God's will is practicing God's will. Why would you be asking to do God's will if you're not practicing God's will? It doesn't make any sense There's another lesson, number three. Prayer must conform to the word and will of God. Third lesson. Prayer must conform to the word and the will of God. Many people tell themselves, I want to do the will of God. And that's kind of interesting. They're out somewhere out there looking for the will of God. Where's the will of God for me, Lord? I'm searching for the will of God out there somewhere. grasping to find the will of God. The will of God's not out there. The will of God's right here. It's inside here. We're looking for a sign. We're looking for the way that girl will smile at me so I'm not supposed to ask her to marry me. You know that phone call that comes that confirms I'm supposed to have this job. And we're searching for the will of God when we have how many pages in here? Woo! That's a big book. A big book We're fretting over which job, which college, which color car. And it's all right here. The word of God tells us the what? The will of God. And what it does not tell you specifically about yourself and what you're supposed to do, it tells us that God will providentially guide you. And that there are areas of freedom for your choice, but make sure that your choices have his priorities first God's providence guides us. So study the word and relax. Study the word, obey it, and relax about your life with the will of God. The word tells you how to think right about your life, how to think about your circumstances. It tells us what to long for in our hearts. Work on that You can't change the world till you change your heart. It tells us how to serve in his kingdom, how to have the character of the Lord Jesus, what the character of the Lord Jesus looks like, how to relate to people in a godly way, how to minister to How to use our spiritual gifts, how to have an impact on other people, how to pray, how to have the right priorities in our decision making so that when we make a decision it pleases God based upon the condition of our heart and our right priorities. Not some sign we got. It leads you to understand the greater purposes of God throughout the entire universe. It also helps you to know how to make the smallest decisions in your life that you make from a heart of faith and a heart of joy and a heart of thanksgiving. So to grow in prayer, you must grow in your understanding of the Word. I. He writes this doing God's will and having his word abiding in us is an imperative for effectual praying. But It may be asked, how are we to know what God's will is? The answer is by studying His Word, by hiding it in our hearts, and by letting the Word dwell richly. To know God's will in prayer, we must be filled with God's Spirit, who makes intercession for the saints and in the saints, according to the will of God. To be filled with God's Spirit, to be filled with God's Word is to know God's will. He goes on. Prayer draws its very life from the Bible and has no standing ground outside the words of the Scriptures. Its very existence and character is dependent on revelation. And turns men toward that word. The nature, necessity, and all-comprehending character of prayer is based on the word of God. This is the confidence which we have before him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests which we have asked from him. Lesson number four. Prayer should be earnest. Effective prayer must be earnest prayer. Prayer should be earnest. Do you remember how earnestly and with what emotion Elijah prayed to the Lord to save the life of the widow's son? Remember how he carried Him up to the upper room, laid him down and stretched himself over him and cried out to the Lord, and then with joy returned the boy back to the widow Prayer is given to us as a tool, as our breathing, but it's given to us right in the midst of all of life. Prayer is something we can exercise when we're happy, when we're sad When we're exuberant, when we're just crushed. Prayer is there with us constantly because God is there with us constantly. Prayer is meant to be cast in the midst of real life Often when we pray, we feel stunning pain or inexpressible joy or just some exciting expectation as we're filled with the Spirit And so prayer must in that real life kind of heat rise up before the Lord. James said that Elijah prayed earnestly. He prayed earnestly that it would not rain. That means when he went up to the mountain, he didn't just sit down and say We have a glass of water. Phew, that was a long day. Lord, would you send uh the rain now? That's not how he talked to God. That wasn't his spirit within him. His prayers were not casual. They were with feeling. They were with all of his being invested in it. That's why he put his head down between his legs. He was showing the intensity of how he felt by his posture. Often when we pray to God, the way we talk in our prayer does not reflect that we even understand who we're speaking to, if just for a minute. The clouds were ripped apart, and we could see, as John would see, some of the scenes in heaven and the Lord God sitting upon his throne, and then realize that our words are going to go up in the midst of that and be heard up there. Wouldn't we pray with a little more passion? We're speaking to Almighty and Infinite God. And we talk like we're having a chat over the fence with our neighbor. Remember Hannah who prayed with great need and earnestness when she pleaded for God for a son? Remember Jacob who had to wrestle with God all night? I get tired wrestling three minutes, but all night wrestled with God to be blessed. Paul, who interceded day and night for the churches, sometimes, frankly, our prayers just lack heat They have no heartbeat to them. They're kind of flat-line. Woo! They're dead. There's nothing in them. They're not even dead on arrival in heaven. They're dead on departure. They don't get anywhere. You know, we figure out how to talk in a prayer meeting exactly when to Amen. Mm-hmm. Grunt a little. So we can fit in, right words to say. Too often the prayers just sound exactly the same. They're the same words over and over again. No one's even given any thought. It's just sort of like you're on radar and boom, boom, boom. Even the things that you call God are the same. Dear Jesus, Lord God, whatever. You don't even vary that. It's just do-do-do-do-do-do-do. Where's the earnestness in that? Where's the thought that drove the passion for that kind of prayer? Please understand. I do the same. I do the same. But we need to hear this. Lord, please bless us. Lord Jesus, do that. Lord God, do this. We want to sound like we fit into the group, not like we're talking to God. The requests aren't heartfelt. They have no fire in them. It almost sounds like you could take it or leave it. Ask someone 30 minutes, what'd you pray for? Oh, I kind of forgot. Well, if you don't take your prayer request seriously, worship God. Right? Well, he's forgotten it. He didn't really think that much about it. He didn't feel a lot about that. Whoa, whoa, why waste the breath? Where's the earnestness to that? You think Elijah forgot that he was praying for rain to fall? Bowing down, putting his head between his knees. It shows Elijah's humility, yes, but it also shows his passion and his earnestness. I have been driven many times to my knees. Notice how he worded that. I've been driven to my knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had nowhere else to go. My own wisdom and that of all about me seemed insufficient for the day. He hear a little bit of frustration in there. None of his i advisors had any idea at all what to do. Are you earnest in your prayers for the glory of God? Do you earnestly pray for the church to have purity and power and strength? Do you pray for the raising up of missionaries, as was talked about, I heard yesterday at the ladies' breakfast? Do you pray for young people who want to dedicate their lives to God Do you pray for our outreach ministries, for our discipleship ministries, for our worship leaders? Is there passion in your prayers? Wouldn't it be great to send out more because of prayers, to send out more evangelists and more missionaries, even raised up right here in this congregation? Wouldn't that be great? Wouldn't that be great? That starts with prayer. Earnest prayer is not flowery prayer, necessarily. There's nothing wrong with well-chosen words, but there's nothing necessarily right with it either. Earnestness is not necessarily shown with shouting. Elijah's prayers were probably quite quiet if he spoke out loud at all. But it was with real conviction, this request I bring to you, Lord, I've thought it through. It's important. Here's my reasoning from your word and how it will bring you glory. And I see its importance. And I pray. Well, sometimes we don't have all that energy, but deep within us we ought to always have that passion. You don't have to have great vocabulary to pray with passion. Now look at verse 43 as we move on. Verse 43: He said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea. So he went up and looked and said, There's nothing. And Elijah said, go back, and that happened seven times. Well, where did this servant come from? He may have attached himself to Elijah after the fire fell. He might have seen that this was the truth and said, now I'm going to hang out with this guy. You know. Or he may have come up from the Tsar Fat, we don't really know, we're not told, but he does send a servant up to the very pinnacle to look out towards the west over the Mediterranean Sea to see and to look for the answer to his prayer Elijah, of course, knew that storms came west to east there, so when the storm would come, it would come off of the Mediterranean. He was not looking for a miracle, he was looking for a providential act of God. Please notice that Elijah does not send his servant to look for the provision of God before he prayed. The order is very important. First he prayed, then he instructs his servant to go and look. First he prayed, then he said, Go and look. And Elijah did not get discouraged when the first bad report came. Servant basically said, sky's still blue, there's nothing. Well, it's getting later into the afternoon, maybe early evening, but the sun is still up, and he comes down and has to give the report. Imagine how he felt. I'm sorry, boss, and there's no clouds I know you're earnest and all down there on your knees, but nothing's happening. Well Elijah sends them back, comes back down. Nothing. Go back up again. Pray it again. So he's petitioning each time. He's sending them back up. Look again. It's not there. It would have been very easy for Elijah to stop after three or four and do what I know that I would do at this situation, and that is, Lord, what are you doing? How many times do we have to pray this? I think many of us might have done that, scratching our heads. You know, this prayer thing doesn't work all that well. Sort of hit or miss. Not really sure about this. But he keeps going all the way to the seventh trip. Of course, we know the number seven stands for completion in Scripture. It's doubtful that Elijah knew it was going to take seven times. But he kept petitioning until God decided it was time. After all, remember that quite unlike his prayer, standing by the altar with everyone around him, God answered that prayer the first time he prayed it, right? Answer me, O Lord, answer me. Shhh. No delay, instant. What does that tell us? Even a guy like Elijah who's got a lot of faith, sometimes the answer to prayers come what? Immediately, and sometimes they Take time. That's just the way it is. You say, why? I don't know. I don't know. God knows. He's got all this spiritual warfare going up there. He knows the timing of things. He tests our hearts. He's got his reasons. It's just the way it is. But we don't stop praying. God knew in that situation that the answer had to come right away because Elijah's life depended on it. It was time to vindicate his name. And so the answer came immediately. This time it didn't have to come immediately There's nothing wrong with him answering it after three requests, seven, or maybe even more, for all I know. So God did it this way. Well that leads us to lesson number five about our prayers, and that is this. And you know where this is going Prayer must persevere until the time of fulfillment. Prayer must persevere until the time of fulfillment. Prayer needs endurance. It has to have it. Well, Jesus taught this in a couple of his parables. I'm not going there this morning, but you can read them. We're encouraged. To pray and keep praying. But also in Matthew chapter 7, in the latter part of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus spoke three imperatives. He said, ask and what? You will receive. Seek, and what? You'll find. Knock, and the door shall be open. You guys know it. All three are imperatives, all three are in the present tense in Greek, which indicates Ask and keep asking, seek and keep seeking, knock and keep knocking. It's not just a I asked, received thing, it's not there, okay, prayer doesn't work Hey, you put a couple quarters in the Coke machine, push the button, the Coke better come out, or you kick the thing That's sometimes how we treat God. You know? I put it in, ching, ching, ching. Okay, didn't think of the first time. A little more ching, ching, ching. You're stealing my money, God. You're stealing my time. You're not answering my prayers But keep asking. It's not popcorn kind of praying, you know? Shh, okay, it's all over with. Sometimes we have to go on and on. This is not meaningless repetition. Jesus preached against that. The pagans says over and over and over their prayers, and they think they'll be heard for their many prayers. It's not that It's with ever increasing earnestness, logic towards God. As my prayers don't get answered, I'm trying to figure out why I'm studying my heart I'm maybe adjusting the prayer request. I'm trying to go back to the scriptures and learn and repeat it. And sometimes you're like, no, I think my heart's right. I think it's the right request. I'm just now supposed to what? Persevere Persistence in prayer is needed. Many there are who ask, but don't keep asking. Are you in that category? The fervency of their request fizzles, so to say, in the pond of complacency, disbelief, apathy. Or just distraction. I guess that wasn't all that important after all I'm moving on to another request Jesus teaches us that persistence in prayer is needed. Why? Because the pleading of God's children brings joy to the Lord. Why? Because we're in spiritual warfare. Why? because it's not the right timing. Why? Because our faith needs to grow more. Why? I don't know why else. There's just twice in there. I know that. And so some never receive anything and they never find anything and the door stays rammed shut But work, persistent work in prayer, we are told and urged to understand, is worth it It's like starting to dig for gold, and you go with a pan a little bit, no gold. Then you do a little more, no gold, and you don't persist with it, but there is gold there. Keep at it. God has made prayer work. But the answer is guaranteed. It's guaranteed by God. So keep asking. How few in the church work at prayer. Come on now. How poorly attended is our prayer meeting. But pastor, it's at an inconvenient time. Yeah, I know prayer is always inconvenient, isn't it? It just gets in the way of all of our plans, doesn't it? Prayer's always in the way. That prayer meeting, that's not a good night for me. Oh, look, small group, we didn't get to prayer tonight. We had such a good discussion. Well, let's get two minutes in at the end. Prayer is just such an inconvenient thing. Maybe we just don't believe in it enough. Maybe we think we're fine without it Men how's the prayer time going at home with your families? You have a regular time of prayer with your with your families, with your kids, your wife gathered around, you're leading your wife in prayer, you doing the leading, you're not just waiting for her to say, I want to pray tonight, honey, are you doing the leading Is that how your home is, or is that kind of like on hold for the last few weeks or months? Remember when we prayed for the facility? Man, there's a lot of lessons in that. You know, we got all excited, oh there's this place, and they decide now they're gonna give it to someone else, they have more money. Oh, okay, Lord, that wasn't your place, and all there's another place, and they're like, no, that one didn't work out. Then we're like, oh this is not working. Then the third one comes and it goes. And then we had found a spot. It was the best of all. Like wow Lord you saved it for the end, you tested us and And now you've given us the very, very best spot. And then we go through the whole process and they say, you know, we really don't want a church here. In so many words. We're like, forget this praying stuff. I'm not praying anymore. I'm done with this facility stuff. God has a zillion facilities out there. Give us one We don't command the hand of God. We bend our will to His. And then sort of quietly with our original broker that we had sort of fired. At a place we knew couldn't possibly be the right spot, there wasn't enough parking there, all of a sudden the answer to prayer came. I think some were still praying, but some had fizzled out But God answers in unexpected places after he tries his people. Well, second, wow, I'm only the point two and I'm out of time. That's a bad sign. That is a very, very bad sign. You sure that clock is right? That is sad. Oh my. Well I I could rush through it in three minutes, but I'll have to save it for next time We'll get into God's answer in verses 44 through 46 and learn a few more lessons there as well next week. Would you close with me in earnest prayer? Oh Father God, we confess to you the sin of unbelief, the sin of laziness and spiritual work. The sin of being too much in love with the things of the world to recreate us and to involve our mind that your prayer gets two to three minutes a day, maybe That we don't intercede for the saints enough, that we don't thank you consistently enough, that we don't honor your name and praise and adoration. That we think that we're spiritual giants when we spend ten minutes in prayer. Please, Lord, teach us who you are. Teach this congregation, our leaders included, myself included, the power and effectiveness of prayer. Teach us to be believing in prayer, persisting in prayer, earnest in prayer, and all of these principles, Lord, and we pray you would again visit this issue with us again next week in your providence. And we just pray this in Christ's holy and blessed name. Amen.