Well, I personally have enjoyed this summer going through the adventures of the life of Elijah and learning lessons from his life, taking them and applying them to our own life I hope this uh character study in the Old Testament has been ministering to your heart as well. We have learned from the life of Elijah the importance of taking a stand for God and not compromising with the unbelieving world around us. Every day, every week, you are faced with people who would like to drag you into compromise. And Elijah serves as an example of a man who did not We have also seen how God has taken care of those who bring His word to His people. Elijah was a man of God. He was chosen by God, and God took care of him. We have beheld Elijah humbly praying to the Lord and relying greatly on believing prayer, but at the same time, we've seen him in a moment become fearful and run for his life. We have viewed his absolute certainty about what he should do and what the will of God is, and we have also seen him quite uncertain about what God was doing and become confused because of that. And last week we read of him beginning to disciple another man, to take his place, and to extend his work to the benefit of the nation of Israel. Today we will see him conveying God's concern that his people be righteous people, that justice and righteousness be done in the land, particularly by kings. That no king is above the law of God. And so I ask you to open to 1 Kings chapter 21. We read a very famous account and story in the Old Testament, one which teaches a powerful lesson. 1 Kings 21. We'll read the whole chapter down to verse 29. Now it came about after these things that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, beside the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, Give me your vineyard that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is close beside my house, and I will give you a better vineyard than it in its place. If you like, I will give you the price of it in money. But Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord, forbid me that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers. So Ahab came into his house, sullen and vexed, because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him, for he said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and ate no food. But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, How is it that your spirit is so sullen that you are not eating food? So he said to her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and said to him, Give me your vineyard for money, or else If it pleases you, I will give you a vineyard in this place. But he said, I will not give you my vineyard. Jezebel his wife said to him, Do you now reign over Israel? Arise, eat bread, and let your heart be joyful. I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreel. So she wrote letters in Ahab's name and sealed them with his seal, and sent letters to the elders and to the nobles who were living with Naboth in his city. Now she wrote in the letter saying, Proclaim a fast And seat Naboth at the head of the people, and seat two worthless men before him, and let them testify against him, saying, You curse God and the king. Then take him out and stone him to death. So the men of his city, the elders and nobles who lived in his city, did as Jezebel had sent word to them, just as it was written in the letters which she had sent them. They proclaimed a fast and seated Naboth at the head of the people. Then the two worthless men came in and sat before him, and the worthless men testified against him, even against Naboth, before the people, saying, Naboth cursed God and the king. So they took him outside the city and stoned him to death with stone. Then they sent word to Jezebel saying, Naboth has been stoned and is dead. When Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, Jezebel said to Abise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money, for Naboth is not alive but dead When Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, Ahab arose to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite to take possession of it. Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Arise Go down to meet Ahab, king of Israel, who is in Samaria. Behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, where he has gone down to take possession of it. You shall speak to him, saying Thus says the Lord, have you murdered and also taken possession? And then you shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, in the place where the dogs licked up the blood of Naboth, the dogs will lick up your blood, even yours. Ahab said to Elijah, Have you found me, O my enemy? And he answered, I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do evil in the sight of the Lord. Behold, I will bring evil upon you, and will utterly sweep you away, and will cut off from Ahab every male, both bond and free in Israel. And I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baashah the son of Ahijah Because of the provocation with which you have provoked me to anger, and because you have made Israel sin. Of Jezebel also has the Lord spoken, saying, The dogs will eat Jezebel in the district of Jezreel The one belonging to Ahab who dies in the city, the dogs will eat, and the one who dies in the field, the birds of heaven will eat. Surely there was no one like Ahab who sold himself to do evil in the sight of the Lord because Jezebel his wife incited him He acted very abominably in following idols according to all that the Amorite had done, whom the Lord cast out before the sons of Israel. It came about when Ahab heard these words that he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and fasted, and he lay in sackcloth and went about despondently. Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishvite, saying, Do you see how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days, but I will bring the evil upon his house. In his son's days. Well, that's a big chunk of scripture we're going to cover today. You may have noticed we purposely passed over chapter 20 to chapter 21. Chapter 20 focuses on King Ahab and his wars with the Arameans, country of Aram. It contains absolutely nothing about the life of Elijah. Nevertheless, there's a little background to this story. It helps to summarize what had happened even in chapter 20. This is a very brief summary here. God had decided that he was going to help King Ahab in winning his wars against the Arameans, and particularly against their king, Ben-Hadad, who was very proud and quite a warrior king. God told Ahab that he would win the battle just to show the Lord's power that God would fight for his own nation. Twice in chapter 20, God's message is given like this: I will give all this great multitude into your hand, he said to Ahab. And you, Ahab, shall know that I am the Lord. So God would execute his power in a battle just to teach Ahab who the real Lord was. Ahab was to know who the true God was and know who gave him victory. And Ahab was supposed to put Ben Hadad to death. Since it was God's victory. But, yes, you can guess it, Ahab disobeyed God's command. So at the end of chapter 20, in verse 42, another prophet came with a message for Ahab. And it says this, thus says the Lord, because you have let go out of your hand the man whom I had devoted to destruction, therefore your light shall go for his light And your people for his people. So the king of Israel went to his house sullen and vexed and came to Samaria. So that was what was going on with Ahab during that time. Ahab was being taught a lesson by God. We may ask, what happened to Elijah? Did he just fall off the pages? No, he re-emerges here in chapter 21. But what happened during the time of the wars between the northern nation of Israel and Aram? What was going on with Elijah? What was going on with Elisha? Well, Elijah, after he laid his mantle on Elisha, we we don't know exactly where they went. As I said, the time is not covered there in chapter 20. We don't have any stories of what happened to them. There's no record of all of what they did. And so we might be guessing what they did, but there actually are some hints, and we can put them together, and we can see that Elijah was putting time into building the sons of the prophets, and in discipling, particularly Elisha. In chapter twenty and in verse thirty-five, it speaks of a group of men called the sons of the prophets. That's the first time that phrase or that title is used in the Old Testament. Also later in 2 Kings 2 and verse 3, we find out that there was a group of the sons of prophets at the city of Bethel. Also in verse 5 of 2 Kings 2, there were more of these sons of the prophets in Jericho. And then later in chapter 4 and verse 38, we find them also at Gilgal. We know nothing of them prior to this time. Samuel had some prophets that he had trained many, many years prior to this, but that had not That was not continued. We'd not heard of these sons of the prophets, and all of a sudden we hear of them popping up regularly after this time. So it's reasonable to conclude, and many scholars have That Elijah started pouring time into building up more prophets and following God's lead. And Elisha was assisting him. You might remember back in chapter 19 and verse 14 Elijah wanted to die and be taken completely out of his work because he thought he was the very last prophet that was left of the Lord. There are no others, he told God. I'm the very last one, and they're seeking to kill my life as well. Take my life as well He genuinely thought he was the last one left. So he didn't know of any other prophets. He didn't have any communication with them. He lived in seclusion. He was in isolation. This guy always had worked alone. He didn't know how to work as a prophet other than alone. That's what he had done. And so he really didn't know if there were any other living prophets besides himself. And Jezebel had exterminated the vast majority of many ways. So, where did all these people come from? It's reasonable to conclude that they were developed by Elijah and Elisha at the leading of God. These were not literally his sons, literal sons of the prophets, but spiritual sons. Indeed, when Elijah will see him being taken up in the whirlwind up into heaven Elisha calls out to Elijah, My father, my father. So you can see him seeing himself as a spiritual son to Elijah. And so were the other prophets. There would be a master, there would be one leader, there would be a father, so to say, a father figure, and he would be training and teaching and discipling the other prophets. And so I think that it's reasonable to conclude that. There would be a great need for more prophets after Jezebel exterminated so many of them. the climate of the country would be more favorable for the public re-emergence of some prophets, at least in certain areas. Remember the people had been won over to the Lord even though Jezebel had not, so things were a little more split in the nation now. And Ahab seemed to have his mind mostly in fighting against the Arameans and protecting his nation in war. And so Elijah could go on and do this for a few years. And so that brings us into chapter 21. And we could entitle chapter 21, the murder and robbery of Naboth and his family. But though Naboth is at the heart of the account, and his name comes up regularly in the account, and you might say his vineyard is the center of the whole account, this account really is not about Naboth. It's not about him. The reason for this text, 1 Kings chapter 21, is to teach all of us why the reign of Ahab and the dynasty of Amri in the northern kingdom of Israel came. to an end by God's judgment. It is to show God's mercy and his long suffering with an evil king, helping him, fighting for him Being on his side, even answering prayer that benefited his kingdom, and God finally reaching the limit and pronouncing the finality of his dynasty and his kingdom. And so that's really the purpose of this passage of Scripture here. For us, we can glean lessons from this. We can see that God is a patient God, but that He is also a just God. We can see that when people commit sins and they think they'll get away with their sins, one day their sins will find them out. Indeed, there is a very famous sermon from this text of Scripture entitled Payday Someday. And I think that's exactly what happened here. God is a just judge, and God does avenge the death of the righteous And God will use a man of God who stands on the side of God and the side of justice to pronounce the judgment of God against sin. So today we see Elijah operating as a man of justice, proclaiming the just judgment of God. And to teach us these things, we're going to focus on three characters. The pouting king, the perverse queen, and then the prophet of justice. First the pouting king. Look back at verses 1 through 4, if you would. Verses 1 through 4. It says, Now it came about after these things that Naboth, the Jezreelite, had a vineyard which was in Jezreel beside the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is close beside my house. And I will give you a better vineyard than it in its place. If you like, I will give you the price of it in money But Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord forbid me that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers. So Ahab came into his house, sullen and vexed, because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him, for he said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and ate no food. He's sulking. He's pout Ahab's character is seen here once again. The wars with Aram are all over, so what should he turn his attention towards? Well, pampering himself, of course. That's what kings do. That's what selfishly proud people do. They assume that they're entitled to live in more in more luxury. They pursue their own pleasures. He's called the king of Samaria here, by the way, in verse 1, for that is where his main palace was, but he built a summer palace in Jezreel. In 1 Kings chapter 22 and verse 39, it speaks of an ivory house that he built, and many believe this was the ivory laden palace in Jezreel. It must have been absolutely gorgeous. He was a man who appreciated the aesthetics and pleasures, and he used his riches and his authority in order to do that for himself. He may have even built this one to rival his father Amri's palace, which was built in Samaria. And like many kings, he wanted to enlarge the beauty and the charm of his own palace A nice garden would certainly be a plus for him, right? So he sees the vineyard and he wants it So he makes a decent offer to Naboth. It's not a bad offer. He says, you know, I'll give you a better one, or I'll give you the money. He hasn't really done anything wrong at this point in time. By the way, we actually got to stand near here in Naboth's Vineyard when we went to Israel. It's all in ruins now. But there was a lecture going on about this whole story and what had happened. As I was standing there, I saw that there were still wild grapes growing in the area. So I snuck the uh you know leaf and took it home as a as a little memento. But I thought, yeah, I got a I got a grape leaf from uh Navas Vineyard. I thought that was cool But it's still there, it's still it's it's in ruins, doesn't look beautiful at all, but it's there in the stones to testify to the truthfulness of the story. Naboth refuses the offer. And it's clear that Ahab was really not prepared for a negative answer. He was expecting to get his way. His offer was reasonable. He was king. He was probably used to getting his own way. So not being a particularly strong man, he does what those kind of men do. He went back home and he pouted. He goes off to sulk like a child upon his bed, even turning his face away and refusing to eat. Two words describing his reaction are that he was sullen and vexed. Translated, again, he was just pouting. He was just sad that he didn't get what he wanted. He was having a pity party This has been a pattern with Ahab. He really is the pouting king, the pouting potentate, as one commentary calls it. And this might be funny. We might laugh, and indeed we are, about him, if it were not for what happens next. A king pouting for not getting a garden after winning a great battle seems so trivial, but that's where he is. That's where his mind is. And often that, by the way, if we just take a sidestep for a minute and think of our own lives, we fail to look at all the wonderful things we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, like what? Well, like eternal life, for example That's pretty good. Everlasting life. And we get focused on the little things that we don't have, and then we become complainers and we can become touting. That's exactly what can happen in our own thinking And so he just isolates himself. He doesn't want to see anybody. He turns his face away. He doesn't want to eat anything. I don't know if the court jesters came in there trying to cheer him up and he said, shoe him away. Someone came in with a wonderful meal. He says, I don't want it No sense of humor is left. No desire for interaction with people. It's just brooding. Have you ever been there? Have you ever been there? Well, dealing with disappointment in life this way is certainly counterproductive at best. Indeed, it's quite selfish. It shows a lack of contentment. It shows a lack of acceptance of what God is doing in our lives. Some of you might be at that place right now. Life's not going the way you designed, and you are Discouraged about it, maybe even pouting. Maybe men, only your wife knows about your pouting at home, and maybe she has tried to get you out of it, and she can't do that. You just keep sitting at home. Maybe it's not in bed. Maybe your face is not turned away. Maybe you're just plopping down on the chair, watching TV, doing whatever to isolate yourself from other people. I know what you're feeling. I've been there myself. We all have been in something like that before. But it helps nobody It helps not for us to act like unbelievers, like we don't trust the Lord and what he's doing in our lives. Many unbelievers of the world are exactly like this. They get so downcast about the smallest things that don't go their way, instead of thanking God, even from their perspective, for living in a free country and having the riches that they have. Petty. That is the mindset of the world. May it not be true of us. And Ahab probably Should have been left alone. Let him just sulk and pout. Don't go in there and say anything to him. Just leave him alone. He's got to get hungry sooner or later, right? He's got to come back out of there. I have heard and I agree the worst thing to do with a powder is to a powder is to coddle him. It only intensifies his feeling sorry for himself. Don't join the pity party. It's a party to stay away from You can gently help people out in other ways, remind them of the responsibilities they have and how God can work. Now I mentioned this famous sermon, Payday Someday. It was preached by a Southern Baptist preacher over a thousand times, I think he preached it. Name Robert G. Lee. No, that's not Robert E. Lee, but Robert G. Lee. And um give a quote of about his description of Ahab from the sermon. He calls Ahab the vile human toad who squatted upon the throne of his nation. Who had command of the army, but he had no command of his lusts and appetites. Naboth's character is given in stark contrast in the text. Naboth is not about money. He is a man of righteous standards, something that the world knows absolutely nothing about, and they don't know what to do with a man like this. He seems so inflexible. He might even seem rude. But he really wants to honor his fathers. Notice how it says: the Lord forbid me that I should give you, look how he describes it, the inheritance of my fathers. Hey, but it's not being stubborn. In other civilizations it might be viewed that way. It might be viewed as disrespectful to deny a king. The Gentile world basically was used to kings getting their way, whatever they wanted, give it to them But the Jews believed that the law was above the king. The law came from God, and the king was under God, and so the king was under the law. And the laws of inheritance in the nation of Israel stressed the importance of keeping the family inheritance within the family. Leviticus chapter twenty-five, verses twenty-five through twenty-eight, teaches that even if land had to be sold due to some extreme poverty, they couldn't hang on to it. The rule was to transfer that land back to the family for resale at a good price as quickly as could be done. And there was this thing called the year of Jubilee, every fifty years And every fifty years, no matter what it happened to the land, it was automatically to be brought back to that family's inheritance. Nabeth held to this law and to the spirit of this law. Land was a big issue in the land of promise. And so he valued the property as his God given inheritance, and it was necessary to be loyal to the Lord. He had known that his father and his grandfather and his grandfather's father, all of these men had worked these grapevines This land was in his very fiber. It reminded him to be loyal to his fathers. Even probably his childhood memories were as he played among the vineyards. And so for him, this is an act of faith and obedience toward the Lord. Naboth is a God-fearing, righteous man. He is one of those 7,000 who had not bowed the knee to Baal. That the Lord mentioned on Mount Orah, Mount Sinai. However, for Naboth, his righteousness here gets him into trouble. As Phil Johnson says in his series on Elijah. Providence had put him in harm's way. Second, we see not just the pouting king, but the perverse queen. Look at verses five through fourteen. Verse 5. But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, How is it that your spirit is so sullen that you are not eating food? So he said to her, Because I spoke to Nabh the Jezreelite and said to him, Give me your vineyard for money, or else if it pleases you I will give you a vineyard in his place. But he said, I will not give you my vineyard Jezebel his wife said to him, Do you now reign over Israel? Arise, eat bread, and let your heart be joyful. I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. And here's her plan. So she wrote letters in Ahab's name and sealed them with his seal, and sent letters to the elders and to the nobles who were living with Naboth in his city. Now she wrote in a letter saying, Proclaim a fast and seat Naboth at the head of the people, and seek two worthless men before him, and let them testify against him, saying, You cursed God and the king. Then take him out and stone him to death. So the men of his city, the elders and nobles who lived in the city, did as Jezebel had sent word to them, just as it was written in the letters which she had sent them. They proclaimed the fast and seated Naboth at the head of the people. Then the two worthless men came in and sat before him, and the worthless men testified against him, even against Nab, before the people, saying, Naboth cursed the God and the king So they took him outside the city and stoned him to death with stones. Then they sent word to Jezebel saying, Nabuch has been stoned. and is dead. Well once again we see Jezebel in control, pulling the strings behind the scene, and in control of her husband, her weak husband Ahab. She comes and inquires as to the source of him being downcast, excuse me. Why are you not eating? And then he tells her, and she first rebukes him for being such a weak man. You are you not the king? Sharp tongue from a sharp lady. It reveals how disappointed indeed she is with her husband. And then she reassures him she's going to get the vineyard for him. Now, if she had been a godly woman, ladies, what might she have said to her king at this point in time? She might have said, you know, you have this wonderful palace. Get up and enjoy it. Be thankful unto God. Be like the kings of old, like King David, who wrote the Psalms and gave thanks. But of course, this is hardly at all what she says. Indeed, a woman can inspire her man to great things or to terrible things. We know Jezebel did. And really, without Jezebel enticing Ahab here, This whole account would have just dropped off the scene of history and we never would have heard about this at all. But because Jezebel steps front and center And she hatches a plan. Here we have the remembrance of it. It is a plan that involves theft, conspiracy, perjury, abuse of power, and murder. And she really shows how ruthless she can be. Dr. Unger calls her actions calm viciousness. Dr. Will Varner calls it evil brilliant. The ring that she used was, of course, the king's official ring, and it made the documents that were sent out in the king's name official, carrying royal weight. And Ahab let her use the ring. Maybe he didn't know exactly what she was doing, but she felt she was in control enough to use it. Maybe didn't even bother to tell him. And with the seal, the letter became like a royal dictate, a command, and it carried the king's weight. So you see in her evil All of this conniving that goes on. And we also see that when you worship a false God, it often leads to wrong behavior. Wrong worship goes hand in hand with wrong behavior. Injustice and the oppression of the righteous are no problem for someone who worships a false God. Dr. Varner gives a summary of Jezebel. He writes, Truly this woman was a personification of evil in its worst form. When the Lord Jesus accused the Church of Thyatira of spiritual fornication He called the instigator of the affair by the name of this wicked woman in Revelation two. Probably no female name is associated with such insidious cruelty as Jezebel A woman like Jezebel was not at all concerned whether her husband had an herb garden or not. It was the principle of autocratic executive power that was at stake The rights of the individual, Mayboth, must always take second place to the dictatorial whims of an absolute monarch That's what she was after. Are you not the king? Get what you want. This is how things work with my father and his kingdom. And this is how it was among the pagans. So now we read of the unjust death of Nabod. He is killed. And she couches this entire episode, this entire thing. in the guise of religion. It makes all of this not just evil but just drenched with hypocrisy on our part. There is this pretended accusation coming from the palace, coming from Ahab himself of the guilt of blasphemy. Someone in your city has committed blasphemy, and so you need to call a fast and you need to decide who it is that has done that. Find out who has done that. There's the idea that there's a threat from the king that's coming in and the king is going to punish the city if they don't find out who it is and punish that person Thus the need to call for a fast on behalf of the entire city, a time of solemn self-examination. The solemn fast was often called when there was danger. 2 Chronicles chapter 20 and verse 3 is another example. Also in Ezra chapter 8 and verse 21. Many examples when the people were in danger, they called for a fast. And it gives the appearance of religious concern and keeping the law. And all of this is as a cover for the evil deed. They in essence were threatening treason, and the penalty for treason was death, according to Exodus chapter 22 and verse 28. So here she and the king pretend to really be caring for the name of God, cursing God and cursing the king. Jezebel's not a believer in God, she could care less about God and his name And Jezebel probably knew these evil nobles and elders, a terrible name for them, that they had indeed bowed the knee to Baal. Jezebel knew of her ability to control them. They must have been quite afraid of Jezebel. And to condemn one innocent man, one whom they knew to be innocent. That shows their level of corruption. She even uses the law of Moses to help her plan along. In the law of Moses, you had to have two witnesses, and they use it to condemn an innocent man. The two witnesses here are called worthless, literally sons of belile, men willing to do whatever for personal gain. You know, there are always people that are available To take a buck and trade truth for money. So Nathan was put at the head of the table. Here's this righteous man in his city. The false, worthless men make their accusations. The ninth commandment of the Lord is broken, thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. Naboth is their neighbor, and just the whole thing is a travesty of justice. And this leads to his tragic death. The stoning is even done outside the city. Is the law required to give again this aura that they're obeying the law of God? The two witnesses probably were the first to throw the stones and the rest joined in. And we even find out from 2 Kings chapter 9 and verse 26 that not just Nabeth but also all of his sons were stoned to death with him here. Not one heir for the property was left. And then they communicate all of this back to the Queen. I'm sure they were compensated for their actions. And Jezebel's plan has worked perfectly to the letter, if you can pardon the pun. She feels totally in control. God did not intervene. God did nothing. Evil seems to have triumphed. It was just another dark day in Israel's history. You know, that's where a lot of people are, and they see evil go on in the world. Evil happens, God doesn't stop it, and people say, Where was God? And then they even cry out sometimes, There must be no God. For God allows these kinds of evil things to happen. If this is all that you saw, this is all that you knew, and you were stuck here just looking at the events that way. Without understanding God's purposes behind it, you might also, and I might also have said, Why, God, do you allow the righteous like that to be treated that way? The man was killed. The man did the right thing, and he was killed. And probably these worthless people got rich off of it. Well, there are many, many who snub the law of God and live the way they want to. Others misuse and twist the law of God for their own purposes. But nobody, nobody will ever escape the demands of the law of God That's why we need Jesus' blood shed for us. God is saying, I killed my own son to meet the demands of my law. Of course he'll send us to hell if we don't come to Jesus Christ to be rescued from his wrath. This is not the law of just any being. This is the law of an omnipotent being with eyes That see all throughout the world that he is a righteous and just judge. And so we see him act with our focus on the third character, the prophet of justice. In verses 15 through 29, the prophet of justice. Look at verse 15. When Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Nabah, the Jezreelite. When Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, Ahab arose to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite to take possession of it. Let me just stop there. Here we see Ahab's greed again. I mean Jezebel's conscience is totally seared. Forget about her. Now she's lost any understanding of right or wrong she was born with. To her, Mike is right. And so she urges her husband to grab what he wants. They consider the land instantly forfeited to the king if there was no heir. That's not in the law of Moses, that was custom. Ahab doesn't care. He's dead, it's mine. That's all he's thinking about. He knows the queen has done something. Whether he knows all the details or not, I think he probably does, and I don't think he wants to know anything about it. He doesn't rebuke her, he doesn't inquire about it, he just wants what he wants. This is Christmas morning for Ahab. He's gleeful. He's running down to the vineyard. He's going to get to extend what he has. It's going to be beautiful for him. And so he springs up, he heads on down. Greed is obviously in his eyes. Well, those who are weak sell out the evil. They sell their soul. We might ask, what does it profit a man to gain a garden and forfeit a soul? But that is what this man has done. Of course, at this point in the account, it just screams for justice, doesn't it? You just like if you stop here, life is so unfair. Where is God when bad things happen? Where is justice? Well, the word of God now comes to Elijah in verse 17. Look at it. Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Arise, go down to meet Ahab. King of Israel who is in Samaria, behold he is in the vineyard of Nabeth, where he has gone down to take possession of it. You shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord Have you murdered and also taken possession? And you shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, in the place where the dogs licked up the blood of Naboth, the dogs will lick up your blood, even yours. This is tough Jezebel was making her plan, saying, Arise, go down and take the vineyard. And God talks to his prophet and says, Arise, go down and confront the king. Well, Jezebel tells Ahab, get your vineyard. God tells Elijah, go tell him that his entire reign will come to an end. He may get the vineyard, but he's lost his kingdom and his dynasty. This is so reminiscent of Saul being told by the Prophet Samuel because he refused to kill King Agag as he was supposed to Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice Saul, and to heed than the fat of rams, for rebellion is as the sin of divination, and insubordination is as iniquity and idolatry Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has also rejected you from being king. That was told to Saul, and now Ahab is also being rejected. Justice has been violated, and God is a God who loves justice. Psalm 37, 28, For the Lord loves justice and does not forsake his godly ones. They are preserved forever, but the descendants of the wicked will be cut off. Psalm 140, verse 12, I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted and justice for the poor. Zephaniah chapter 3 and verse 5, the Lord is righteous within her. He will do no injustice. Every morning he brings his justice to light. He does not fail, but the unjust knows no shame. Justice is right. Justice is rooted In the very character of God and we being made in the image of God have ingrained in us the very understanding that justice must prevail. Even unbelievers know that Justice is something to rejoice in. Justice set things right. And so Elijah speaks God's word to Ahab. Look at verses 20 through 26. Ahab said to Elijah, Have you found me, O my enemy? And he answered, I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do evil in the sight of the Lord. Behold, I will bring evil upon you And will utterly sweep you away, and will cut off from Ahab every male, both bond and free in Israel. And I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat. And like the house of Baashah the son of Ahijah, because of the provocation with which you have provoked me to anger, and because you have made Israel sin Of Jezebel also has the Lord spoken, saying, the dogs will eat Jezebel in the district of Jezreel, the one of belonging to Ahab. Who dies in the city, the dogs will eat. The one who dies in the field, the birds of heaven will eat. And he goes on, surely there was no one like Ahab who sold himself to do evil in the sight of the Lord because Jezebel his wife incited him He acted very abominably in following idols, according to all that the Amorites had done, whom the Lord cast out before the sons of Israel. That refers all the way back to the Canaanites in the land when Joshua conquered That's how evil Ahab had got. Well, I just want you to put your shoes, yourself in Ahab's shoes for a moment because here he is coming down. He's very happy. He's gonna get his vineyard. He's rubbing his hands together, his eyes are big. This is a joyful moment for him. And there's Elijah pops up right there in his garden again. Imagine how he feels. Every time he's got something going for himself, something good. There's Elijah and he pops up. And this is the worst timing for Elijah to be there, right? I mean, his plans, he's just about to fulfill all his plans, the prophet of God, and he knows him right away. You found me, oh my enemy. By the way, his title has changed now. He's no longer the troubler of Israel. He can't use that anymore. So he says, You're my enemy. Ahab's conscience must have been bothering him. And this message of judgment lands on Ahab like a hammer, like the thunder of judgment. Just falls upon this wicked king. Remember back in chapter 20, Ahab had already been told of his death. But now there are more details, more prophetic details that are given to fill it out Every one of your descendants of your blood will be cut off. The whole of your house will come to ruin. This was said of previous dynasties like that of Jeroboam back in 1 Kings 15, 29, and also in chapter 16, verses 8 through 12. This is the annihilation of an entire dynasty. This is God saying, I am done with you. It's over. You, your life, your reign, your dynasty, your sons, it's all going to come to nothing. In fact, one of the very purposes of the entire book of 1 Kings is to give a commentary on the rulers of the people of Israel, the kings. What did God think of each one of them? What did their reign have to do with the kingdom of God? How did it advance it? Well, this assessment of Ahab's reign is the bottom of the barrel. It's the worst. Just listen again to the emotion in this assessment. Surely there was no one like Ahab who sold himself. to do evil in the sight of the Lord. I mean this is the most wicked, the vilest a man dominated by wickedness. And then, of course, it's impossible to speak of Ahab's wickedness without citing the woman behind him. Behind this evil man is a very evil woman. The dregs of evil, the worst kind of a woman to walk this planet, because Jezebel, his wife, incited it. He acted bad. He followed idols. She was the worst. And so the prophecy of judgment came Now, this prophecy against Ahab was actually changed, and it was postponed because Ahab shows regret and a degree of humility. It was fulfilled in part when we get to chapter 22 and verses 37 and 38 with dogs that did end up licking his blood in Samaria And the rest of it would be fulfilled in the days of Ahab's sons, as the text goes on to explain. You need to remember that when God made a pronouncement of judgment in a prophecy, it was always conditioned upon the person not repenting. If they repented, then things could change. You may remember that um Jonah walked through the streets of Nineveh and said, In forty days it will be overthrown, but in forty days it was not overthrown. Why? Because the people repented. So the very fact that they they were being warned meant that there was hope if they turned away from it. Indeed we see Ahab doing some of this The prophecy of Jezebel, however, was fulfilled exactly as it said. But it was not fulfilled for another, get this, 20 years That woman continued to live in the palace for 20 more years. God let her live 20 more years. You might say, why? Well, because God has an eternal plan. But it did happen. And if we had time, I'd take you to 2 Kings chapter 9 and verses 6 through 10. And 2 Kings chapter 9 and verses 30 through 7. And I'd read all that for you. And the account of where Jezebel was thrown down from the palace. And she died down below and dogs actually came and ate her up entirely. Except for her hands and I believe it was another part of her body, I can't remember. A violent and dishonorable death. Dogs were not the cute little puppy dogs of our society. They roamed the streets as scavengers. That's what they were known at. Phil Johnson commenting on this said, I can't think of a more fitting end for a woman like Jezebel to be eaten by dogs. Because of her sin against God, God turned her into dog food. That's what she became. And God utterly, utterly destroyed her and dishonored her. The word of God always And how terrible are those who try to take advantage of the time to wait, and they say, I don't have to worry about the judgment of God because look Today is just like it was yesterday and the day before. It's not a big deal. Yes, God is a God of mercy, but his mercy is mixed with justice. Look at the last three verses as we close here. It came about when Ahab heard these words that he tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and fasted, and he lay in sackcloth and went about despondently. And then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite saying, Do you see how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days, but I will bring the evil da upon his house in his son's days. By the way, is God in control of evil? He is absolutely in control of all evil. It says he brings the evil. That doesn't mean God does evil. That means he's in control of it. This calamity that would be brought him was really a righteous judgment from God's perspective. Well Ahab has learned enough through the years He knows that Elijah's words have a way of always coming true, and the man just is frightened to death, and it lands on his ears. And he rips his clothes and he puts on sackcloth and he goes around walking about literally lightly and slowly, despondently. And there's great sorrow and extreme grief in his heart, and evidently that was genuine. The question arises: was he genuinely saved? No, it wasn't a repentance unto salvation here. It was sincere, but it was a temporary turning away from sin. He was saddened more by the consequences for his sin than by the sin itself. He didn't want to pay the price for his sin. This isn't the godly sorrow that works repentance unto salvation. It was shallow, but it was still real to an extent. God testifies to that. And God just shows the amazing kind of mercy here to a man who has done all of this You know, his wife has been this way, and the way he treated Elijah, and he's disobeyed, and God is still patient and kind with this king, and he's unregenerate And God is just willing to extend mercy to Ahab to not bring about all of this in his life. Maybe even by delaying, giving Ahab a chance to deepen his repentance so it truly would come to salvation. But people take advantage of God's delays and judgment, and they think and they look around them, and everything looks safe, and they think I don't have to respond to that warning of judgment from God. Maybe it will never happen. Maybe I'm safe the way I am. You read on in the Word of God, beloved, and that is not true. Though God is long suffering and He's gracious and merciful, yet His judgment will land. Ahab got three more years of peace. And then he decided to disobey God again and he went into a battle. And he went in disguised so they would not know he was the king and he thought he was going to get through the battle and be fine. And the scripture says that just some person took an arrow and shot it in the air and it landed right in the hole in his armor. And he was brought back. And he watched the rest of the battle and he slowly bled to death. And that was the end of Ahab. And dogs licked up his blood. The judgment was not withdrawn. The judgment was just delayed. This judgment was indeed fulfilled in the days of Ahab's son Joram. And Joram died in the fields of Naboth, and he was thrown in there, and dogs licked up his blood. 2 Kings chapter 9, verses 24 through 26. I wish we had time to get into it. Beloved, I want to close with this challenge to you. When you hear that God is a God of justice. You need to remember as you go out and talk to people, every single person outside of Jesus Christ is under the judgment of God. John chapter 3, verse 36 says literally, the wrath of God abides on them. In Acts 17, Paul said, God is now declaring to all men everywhere that they are to repent, for he has fixed a day in which he will judge the world. Revelation chapter 20 says, Anyone's name is not written in the Lamb's book of life. will be thrown into the lake of fire. People take advantage of God's patience and his mercy and how he extends time upon time, year upon year, and 2 Peter We're told the Lord is not slow about his promise. One day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as what? One day. Time is not a big deal to him, but the judgment of God is going to come, and when it comes, it will not be reversible. When you go and you witness to people, you need to be like Elijah, you need to be people who say, just as there is a prophecy of judgment against Ahab that Elijah spoke. There are many prophecies of judgment against unbelievers in our world. And though you and I are not prophets, we speak from the prophetic word, and we can bring that prophecy to people and warn them you are under prophetic judgment from God. And one day, someday, you're going to face that judgment and you will not escape. And the very core part of your evangelism and talking to unbelievers is to make sure before they can even understand what the mercy of God is that they understand. the justice of God. And then you tell them, then you tell them, once they get the justice of God, once they have fear in the heart, then you tell them what? The good news of Jesus Christ, who died on a cross to pay the just penalty for sin. Then the gospel will land on the ears with power. Teach them the judgment of God first. They don't want to hear it, but don't you shrink from giving it. Amen? I'm going to pray, and Rod's going to come. He's going to talk about our offering for the poor. Heavenly Father, we just pray that you help us to meditate on this passage more. There's so much in the passage I couldn't even get into this morning, Lord, and it's so instructive of your character and your love. We pray we would just learn to be faithful to you and trust you and to be like Elijah and being men and women of justice, standing on the side of righteousness and proclaiming a just and righteous God. And we also pray we would extend the message of your mercy through Jesus to those who understand and have the conviction that they are under your judgment. We pray that you would give us bold words that others may fall under that conviction of sin. That they may flee to a Savior. In Christ's name we pray. Amen