Open your Bibles, if you would, again, to Acts chapter 2, verses 1 through 4, and I'll begin today by reading the text. Acts 2, day of Pentecost, verses 1 through 4. When the day of Pentecost had come, they were all together in one place, and suddenly there came from heaven a noise like a violent rushing wind. And it filled the whole house where they were sitting, and there appeared to them tongues as a fire distributing themselves, and they rested on each one of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues. As the Spirit was giving them utterance. Jesus declared that he came into the world to give us life. He said the kind of life that he gave was more abundant than anything that the world could offer. Unfortunately, though, as Christians, our experience of that more abundant life. Depends on, or sometimes we might say is held back by our lack of developing our relationship with the Holy Spirit. We are meant to experience the fullness of life because of the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives Jesus testified to that very thing in John chapter seven. He said, He who believes in me, as the Scripture said, from his innermost being will flow rivers of living water. Think about that. From your innermost being. Do you have that? Do you know Christ and God are on the inside of you so that from the inside of you flows this living water, this moving, flowing, gushing water. You know, the Holy Spirit is essential to everything we do as a church and as believers. He's called the Spirit of Life. That's because He causes us to be born again and He grants us life. He's called the Spirit of Truth. He teaches us divine knowledge through the Word of God that He inspired He is called the Spirit of Christ, and because of that, he unites us to Christ and teaches us how to be like Christ. He's called the Holy Spirit because He sanctifies us and shows us that sin is not so wonderful as we used to think. He is called the Spirit of your Father, because inside us The Holy Spirit speaks to our spirit and testifies and assures us that we are children of God and heirs of great promises. That is why the Holy Spirit is called and described as living water. He's described as a fountain gushing up within us. He's described as a drink that satisfies much better than Gatorade or anything like that. Life as a Christian is life in the Spirit. And the Spirit in us. Did you know that we heard the gospel preached to us by the Holy Spirit? 1 Peter 1, verse 12? Did you know that we confess Jesus as the Christ because of the work of the Holy Spirit in our life? 1 John chapter 4 and verse 2. Did you know that when we pray, we pray in the Holy Spirit, according to Jude and verse 20? This is why, for our third message now, we are studying our relationship with the Holy Spirit and praying that God will deepen it. Over the first two messages, if you heard them, we studied The Holy Spirit's work pre-Pentecost, what he was doing in Old Testament times. Under the Old Covenant, and even before that, under the Abrahamic covenant, and even before that, all the way back to the creation of the world. We talked about that Last time we talked about what happened on the day of Pentecost, describing these signs and what they meant and what actually happened on that day, why God chose the Jewish feast of Pentecost. Today we began learning what's more applicable to us, and that is the work of the Holy Spirit. post Pentecost because you and I are post Pentecost believers We are that. And it is our privilege to live in post-Pentecost times because the work of the Spirit of God in our times is greater than in previous times. We're told that the Spirit of Jesus literally came rushing into this world from the throne of God and ushered in an entirely new age of how God would be dealing with man. This is Thanksgiving Sunday, and we give thanks for all of our blessings. I hope you will give thanks for your relationship with God through the Holy Spirit of God. Paul wrote in Ephesians 1:3: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who has blessed us with every spiritual blessings in the heavenly places in Christ. That's communicated to us by the Holy Spirit. So we begin today by looking at the first work of the Holy Spirit for the new age, and that is the baptism with the Spirit, the baptism of the Spirit, as many say. The first work of the Holy Spirit in the post-Pentecost age is the baptism of the Spirit. And you need to see it. Look back at the first four verses because this is exactly what happened in this text. Focus on verse 2, and you'll see that it tells us that there was a sound like a mighty rushing wind, and it filled the whole house, and the sound really poured out into the streets. Then you look at verse 4 and it says, with the sound that came all of the people that were in that house, they were full of the Spirit. They were filled with the Holy Spirit. So ask yourself what happened. We're not told all that happened in verses 1 through 4. You have a historical writing here, but as to all of the doctrine and all of the work of the Holy Spirit, you have to keep reading into the rest of the New Testament and dig it out And say, oh, so that's what happened, and that's what we're going to do a little bit of this week and next week as we learn about the work of the Holy Spirit for believers in New Testament times. I'll tell you one thing that happened here. These disciples were immersed into the Spirit of Jesus. They were made instantly To transition from being believers under the old covenant into believers under the new covenant. Now they were no longer a band of disciples following a Jewish rabbi around. They were actually now all joined Together because of the work of the Holy Spirit and connected immediately to their head, who is sitting at the right hand of the throne of God in heavens, Jesus our Lord. They became on this day the body of Christ on earth. This was the birthday of the church. And part of their experience of that baptism with the Spirit is what is written about there in verse 4, and that is the fullness of the Spirit. They would not have had the fullness of the Spirit if they hadn't had the baptism with the Spirit The baptism, in other words, caused the fullness, or at least enabled there to be this fullness. Look back to chapter 1 and verse 5, just to re remind us of what we've learned through Acts already. You notice that on Ascension Day Jesus told them they were all about to be baptized with the Holy Spirit. Already had their water baptism, they didn't need that. Their baptism with the Holy Spirit Look at chapter 1, verse 8. Jesus said the baptism involved clothing them with power from on high. So he was talking about the baptism of the Spirit. It was one of the most important things he said to them before he left this planet. And so the Holy Spirit of God, who is a person, but who functions at times like He is an element, an element of water, or an element of air, or an element of fire. But remember, He is a person also. The Holy Spirit of God was going to be poured out from above and descend down upon them, and they would be baptized. That means submerged. Drenched, if you would like, dunked into the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Christ. The Spirit is poured out, and Jesus pours the Spirit out, John the Baptist said, in full measure. Nothing held back. The sound of the mighty rushing wind filling the whole house was the sign that the Spirit had come, the wind being the symbol of the movement of the Spirit. Now keep in mind, whenever we're studying an historical portion of God's Word, Old Testament or New Testament, and the book of Acts is history, we need to go to those didactic and teaching sections of the Bible to understand the historical part accurately. People get into trouble when they read something in history and then they begin to think things about it that are not according to the teaching of the New Testament. And so we have to do that. We have to go to the epistles, we have to go to the teaching, to the direct statements in the Bible to understand all that happened here on the day of Pentecost. And to do that, and to understand the doctrine of the baptism of the Spirit, you keep your pinky or whatever you want in Acts 2, but I want you to turn to Paul's letter to the Corinthians. 1 Corinthians. And the chapter 12. Because something is written in this chapter, 1 Corinthians 12, that's important for us to know and understand. About the baptism with the Spirit. First Corinthians twelve and verse thirteen. You know chapter twelve of First Corinthians as the great body of Christ chapter. You read all about the different parts of the body and how they have need of one another, and we cannot say to any member that we have no need of you. It talks about how we're many different members and we have different gifts of the Spirit. But every gift of the Spirit is needed to make up the whole body, and the body is to work in unity because the body is one. That's what we are as a local church, that's what we are as a universal church, as we're connected to that But 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 13, and really backing up the verse 12, talks about the baptism with the Spirit and how that connects to the body of Christ. If you start in verse 12, it says For even as the body is one and yet has many members, and all the members of the body, though they are many, are one body, so also is Christ. He's saying, look at your human body. You have a lot of different members in it Could describe all those different members. They have different jobs to do. But you're one body. You're not two bodies or three bodies. You're one body. So also is Christ. That is the body of Christ, the church. Many different members, one body. As different members, we have different spiritual gifts. Some of them are listed in 1 Corinthians 12, not all of them. You'd have to go to Romans 12, you'd have to go to Ephesians 4 and other places to add up all the different kinds of spiritual gifts that are given to the body of Christ in New Testament times. But verse 13 is a linchpin really to the entire chapter It tells us how all of these spiritual gifts and all the different members fit together, how they actually came together in the first place. How he came to become the body of Christ. And it points to this wonderful and precious work of God called Spirit Baptism. Spirit baptism. It says, For by one spirit. Now we know we're talking about the Holy Spirit. For by one spirit, I think actually that preposition in Greek is better translated in one spirit, or I even like with one spirit. The ESV has ESV has in one spirit, but or even with one spirit would be, I think, very accurate. For In one spirit or with one spirit, we were all, please notice the all there, no exclusions. We were all baptized, path tense, into what? One body. How did we get into the body of Christ? How did we get into the church? Answer: Spirit baptism. The baptism with or in the Holy Spirit placed us into the body of Christ. Beloved, these words are critical to understand. Look at that word for there at the beginning of verse 13. It explains the truth in verse 12. Verse 12 says, we are all put into the body of Christ. Verse 13 says, for Spirit baptism, put us there. So Paul is teaching that it is our common spirit baptism, by the way, not for some believers, not for a third of the body of Christ, not for the special elite Christians, not for those only in churches called Pentecostal churches. But for everyone, we were all, notice, baptized. And that spirit baptism assures us that despite the different races, here as mentioned Jew or Greek, in our time we see other other ethnic groups Despite our different social standing, slave or free, we are all inside the same body. Isn't that wonderful? The one Holy Spirit made the one body of Christ. In fact, Paul writes this very thing in Ephesians 4. He says, be diligent to preserve the unity of the Spirit, how important it is. to be preserving the unity of the Spirit. That's what the Spirit wants. There's no doubt about that. Be diligent to present the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Why? For there is one body and one spirit. He puts those back to back because it's the spirit that formed the body. I was able to take a long walk on the beach this past week, look out over the vast ocean. I thought there's a lot of creatures down in that ocean, a couple of dolphins. tails, you know, and fins popped out there a little bit. But there are a lot of things in a vast, vast ocean. What we see from the from the shore is not very much of the ocean at all. What an immense and vast thing the ocean is. And you look over it, you think Think of all the creatures, the millions, billions of creatures that are swimming around and live in that. It's humongous. Just as they are all in the same ocean, we are all in the same oce The same ocean called the Holy Spirit. We live and move and serve in that water of the Spirit. That Spirit is our environment. And spirit baptism is what joined every one of us to one another and joined every one of us to Christ our head. Now you might say, but Pastor, I thought that I got into the body of Christ When I got saved. I believed in Jesus and I got saved. I repented of my sins, and then they told me I was part of the body of Christ. That's correct. They did not lie to you But you need to understand what particular work of God happened at the time of your salvation that placed you into Christ. You got into the body of Christ by the vehicle of Spirit baptism. And for these men, listen to this, who were already saved in Acts 1 and back in the Gospels, and already had their water baptism. Spirit baptism for them brought them from the Old Testament and put them into the New Testament. You say I thought the New Testament started in Matthew chapter 1. Well, yes, it does. But New Testament times, the covenant of the new covenant that we're under doesn't happen. The stipulations don't happen until Christ is crucified. The blood is applied to our sins, and then the Spirit comes and according to prophecy and promise of God forms the body of Christ. And that really is the beginning of the new covenant right there for us. You know, it's uh Thanksgiving time, I know that. But soon it'll be Christmas. They started Christmas in October, by the way. They get earlier and earlier all the time. But I want to give you a pop quiz about Christmas. Fill in the blank Jesus Christ came into the world to do what? Save sinners. Good answer. How about to die for sin? Would that would that be a passing grade? Used to be a fourth grade teacher, so I like giving quizzes How about this? To love and to heal, to reveal the invisible God. All the above, those are good answers. But of all the things that John the Baptist could have said, that Jesus came into the world. to do, to accomplish. He singled out this one fact in Matthew chapter 3 and verse 11. He said, There is one coming mightier than I. I'm not even worthy to stoop down and untie his the thong of his sandals. He, I baptized with water. He will baptize you with what? The Holy Spirit. He came into the world, and John the Baptist said This is what he came to do. He came to baptize with the Holy Spirit. Spirit baptism is no lesser work of Jesus Christ. I hope you understand that. John the Baptist said Jesus Christ came into the world to do this. I bet you that one gets missed on a lot of biblical quizzes. It's often overlooked. Spirit baptism. Spirit baptism is so crucial to all that we are as a church and what we intend to do. Remember, the primary instruction that Jesus gave to the disciples after his resurrection, after his 40 days, is on the 40th day All the things he would say you could go do to begin to prepare to be the church and to witness and make sure the gospel gets to the end of the earth, he basically told them, look Don't mess this up. Just just stay in Jerusalem. Just don't don't talk too much. Just stay in Jerusalem until you're clothed with power from on high. And then things will get going. That's important. Do you see that? That is so important. John the Baptist said this, and Jesus also said this. We desperately need to learn to depend on our relationship with the Holy Spirit. We say, I pray to God the Father, and I thank him that he is my Father. You know, my father died when I was 26. I I buried him on my 27th birthday. And uh I knew that when my father, my earthly father died, I'd always have a heavenly father. Yes? Always. I felt that my job as an earthly father is to make sure before I die my kids understand they have a heavenly father. And that's great. I'm not taking anything away from God the Father Almighty, okay? We hear a lot about that. And then there's Jesus Christ our Lord, He who is God eternal, and became a man and lived among us and died on a cross for us and broke the shackles of death and ascended into heaven, sat down at the right hand of God. We sing the praise of Jesus, yes. That's good. But let us not forget that when God chose to be intimate with us, he chose as the third member of the Holy Trinity, that it is He who comes to reside and live inside of you and make your body a temple of Holy Holy Spirit, that he decided to tie you to the other two members of the Triune Godhead through the Holy Spirit. He is that important to you and me. And we should we should be developing our relationship with the Holy Spirit. Unfortunately, churches have erroneous ideas about spirit baptism. It's so important. You'd figure that Satan would get his fingers in on some of that, right? I mean, people mess up the death of Jesus, yes? They messed up the resurrection of Jesus. How do you mess up the resurrection of Jesus? He was dead and he rose again, you know? Well, he had a spiritual resurrection. No such thing. It was a bodily resurrection, okay? That's what it was. They messed that up. They messed up the virgin birth. Ah, it was just a myth. And it comes to this as well, and churches, unfortunately, can mess this doctrine up as well But I need to mention some of these to you so that you're not sidetracked or deceived. Indeed, I think because of some of these errors, believers like in our churches, our kind of churches, we're non-charismatic churches, we're Bible churches, you know, we teach the Bible. We love the Bible. Bible's in our name. We listen to the Bible a long time. But believers in churches like ours often avoid the topic of the Holy Spirit. They're afraid they're going to be lumped in with the Holy Rollers. They're afraid they're going to be lumped in with the gib We'll get to that. We'll get to that But beloved, this is our doctrine of the Holy Spirit. This is our doctrine. This is our blessed doctrine. This is for us. No one should steal it from us. No one should rob our joy of experiencing what we're supposed to experience. Now One of the some of the churches, you might say, one of the errors that people bring to this doctrine is to tell believers that they need now to be seeking the baptism of the Holy Spirit after They get saved. You might have heard that. I was in a church that taught that. I was taught that early on in my Christian life. You're saved, but now you need a second thing, and the second thing you need is the second blessing. And this really comes out of Wesleyan kind of theology, that's a sermon for another day. But where there's just two two steps that you have. First you get saved Then you need some other kind of a step. The Pentecostals say the second step that you need is the baptism of the Spirit. Look what happened to the disciples. They were saved. Period of time happened. Then they're baptized in the Spirit. So you need to reproduce that now as well. That's what they think. They believe only some Christians have been empowered by the Holy Spirit. I guess it's them and not us, you see. The disciples were saved way back in the Gospels, they started following Christ, but then you come to Acts, then they were baptized with the Spirit. We need to reproduce that. They misunderstand the historical nature of the book of Acts. This is history. It's written as history, it's to be interpreted as history. Spirit baptism came at a certain time on the day of Pentecost, we covered this, to create the church, to usher in a new age. There is no church in the four gospels. In Matthew 16, Jesus promised, I will build my church. I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overcome it. It didn't exist yet. Acts 2 is the birthday of the church. First, the Jews were baptized in the Holy Spirit so that they were put into the body of Christ. That's what we're reading about in Acts chapter 2. All 120 were Jews. Then the Samaritans, who are they? They're half Jews and what? Half Gentile, right? The Jews had a hard time thinking they're going to share all the glories of the kingdom with anybody else, it's their kingdom Gentiles are terrible, Samaritans are worse, compromisers. But then you read in Acts chapter eight, these half Jews are baptized in the Holy Spirit and placed into the body of Christ. That's history happening After that, you never hear of that being repeated among Samaritans. Then you get to Acts 10, and Peter has this amazing experience with Cornelius, and it's the completely non-Jews, the Gentiles, and they are baptized into the body of Christ to join the Jews and the half-Jews who are already in there to make it one body, one spirit, one body. And that's what you're reading unfolding in the book of Acts. Even in Acts nineteen, there's a little splinter group. These are followers of John the Baptist, and they love John the Baptist. They were talking about John the Baptist, and Paul bumps into them and like But have you heard of Jesus? And have you heard of the Holy Spirit? So we haven't heard it. And they were brought into the fold as well. And signs were given to the Jews to understand they too were baptized in the Holy Spirit. These are historical unfoldings that happened. They're one-time happenings to put us into the body of Christ. So they misunderstand that. Another error is that some churches have worship services where they claim you can come forward Come on down forward, come stand, and we're gonna have we're gonna we're gonna get the music going. We're gonna get it loud, it's gonna be exciting up front, and then there's someone who has got an awful lot of power and he's gonna go down there and you can't see the Holy Spirit, so you just have to believe him And he comes down and he lays hands on you, and some people are slain in the Holy Spirit, and they fall over backwards and like, wow, stuff is happening, and the music gets louder and faster, and this is going on. Yes, I've been in one of those. It was exciting. It was deceptive. I'm not so sure they were trying to be deceptive. It just they were caught up in it. A second work of God's grace after salvation? What is this? Why are they trying to repeat what the book of Acts did? Two thousand years in the church history. I said it didn't work the first hundred years. It didn't work the second hundred years. Now two thousand years later we've got to reinvent it. We've got to do it. We have to restart the church. That obviously limits the greatness of what God had already done and already given to the church. They want to call the Holy Spirit down. Please don't call the Holy Spirit down from heaven. He already is down here. He already came. Why are you calling down? You know, why are we? We wouldn't send Jesus back to the cross. We're not going to call the Holy Spirit down from heaven. He's already arrived. We're already in the new age. Christ has already baptized his church. They may be zealous for spiritual things, these people, but they are ignorant of the very truth the Holy Spirit wrote in inspired scriptures. You need to be a man of the word to understand your experiences in the Holy Spirit. You cannot take your experiences in the Holy Spirit and reinterpret the Word of God to match what you think your experiences mean. It's the other way around You understand your experiences in the Holy Spirit through the lens of the Word of God. Amen? Another error is to say that the Old Testament saints were baptized in the Holy Spirit also. Now you wonder how that could happen since the baptism didn't happen until Acts 2. In Acts 1, Jesus is saying, you're going to be baptized in the Holy Spirit not many days from now. So they got that wrong as well. That is why we studied the work of the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament, so we could see this work of the Holy Spirit in the New Covenant is greater. Do you remember how it was greater? It's more extensive. That is, it covers every believer. It's more intensive, that is, it's comes with full power, not in measure. And it's more permanent. The Spirit doesn't come and go. He comes in, resides, and stays. It's a better deal, this covenant we have And then there are others that erroneously teach that you have to speak in tongues to show that you have the baptism. I went through this. I remember even getting a little manual. Here's what you do. You have to get into the service and make sure that it's loud and it's emotional and make sure your mouth hangs open and get your tongue loose. And then call on God and get your frame of mind and their swaying helps a little bit, I think. And then through all of that, you're supposed to s kind of jumpstart this gift of tongues. Get it going. Well, it didn't work. And I mean I was all in. The Bible makes it clear that not all have the gift of tongues. How could it be a sign of a baptism that all get when not all get the gift of tongues? Can't be that. Still, there are others that confuse the baptism of the Holy Spirit with the filling of the Holy Spirit or fullness of the Holy Spirit. I had a friend who I worked with in North Carolina one summer and after the summer was over, we love to talk theology. He lived in Alabama, he called me up, he said, Tom, I've been baptized with the Holy Spirit. I can't reproduce the Southern drawl, sorry about that. But he had a deep voice and um his name was Lee and I said, You know, Lee, I don't think you were baptized with the Holy Spirit. I think that already happened to you. I think what happened to you is you had a great experience experiencing the fullness of the Holy Spirit in your life. And he didn't know the difference And I needed to take some time with him and and show him they're not exactly the same thing. These are works of the Holy Spirit who is invisible to us, and so the only way we can know and interpret And understand it is to take what God has given to us that we can read, and that is the Word of God, and study what He says about His own work among us and then interpret those experiences through the Word of God. The scripture teaches us that there are multiple works of the Holy Spirit in the life of a believer, many of them. Yes, they are related, but they are not all the same. And then there are those who make the error of wanting more than one baptism of the Spirit. Think about it. If the Spirit of God, its baptism needs to happen to you again and again and again, almost like they still don't understand They're acting like they're under the old covenant where it would come and empower them and leave and come and empower them and leave, you see? They're they're thinking in old covenant terms. They haven't figured out that when Christ gave his baptism that was good. It was fine. You're good now. They think they need multiple, more the merrier, I guess. I remember when we were in Israel and we saw some ladies in the Jordan River. And you're in the holy land, and here supposedly is holy water, and they're down in the Jordan. And they're baptizing themselves. I don't know where they got that from, but they're baptizing themselves And they're in the water and they're just bobbing up and down, many times, getting all the way under. Just having a good old time. Just bobbing up and down. I don't know, like fifty times getting baptized I'm thinking like you'd only need to go down under once and come back out. That's it. Well Water baptism is only once. Spirit baptism, which is parallel to water baptism, you only need once. Once you're in the ocean, you're in the ocean. And then there are some who sacramentally believe through their denomination, Roman Catholicism is like this as well, that that there's a confusion between the relationship between water baptism and spirit baptism. They think that when one is administered in their sacrament, that the other one happens automatically. You see Their understanding of Christianity runs through these elements, and it's a sort of a sacerdotal system of salvation. Thus a child is brought to the church. And they're sprinkled, and the wording is exact, you know, in Latin in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And they think because they're now water baptized instantly, what happened to that baby, that child who can't possibly understand the gospel That they have also been spirit baptized and they are now united to the church. You may have come out of that kind of a background. We went sightseeing in Savannah Georgia on vacation, and we walked into the uh Cathedral of St. John the Baptist. And that was kind of a misnomer to me because I got baptism wrong, but the cathedral of St. John the Baptist We went in there to admire, you know, the the architecture and the uh the stained glass and but when you walk in the first thing you see is this this enormous baptismal with the holy water and the little sayings around it and you know This is what they use to baptize their infants and and uh anyone really that is going to be baptized. But you look at it and it's just H two O It's just water. That's all that it is. Water baptism cannot give you the Spirit of God, and it doesn't matter what the priest says Our pastors here, when we baptize people, often say something like, water baptism ensures nothing other than you getting wet. And they're right. You have to be first spirit baptized when you come to faith in Jesus. See, as soon as you believe Jesus now, once these historical events have happened, as soon as you believe Christ, you are placed into the body of Christ. You're baptized with the Holy Spirit. You don't have to have the signs that came to convince the Jews that first it happened. You just read the Word of God and understand I've been baptized in the Holy Spirit too. And that happens as soon as you put your faith in Jesus Christ. And you understand that. You understand that first it's spirit baptism when you're saved, then after that you come and you get what? You get water baptized. That's the correct order. If you're water baptized and then you later get saved and spirit baptized, you now have to have your water baptism because you got them out of order. So these are some of the errors that you hear when it comes to spirit baptism. Now, despite all of the erroneous ideas, spirit baptism is really not that difficult to understand. And I'm only going to be able to get started with this with you today, because we actually have baptisms to do today. I think it's an incredible blessing to think about this Thanksgiving that God has overwhelmed us with His Holy Spirit. As you're staying in 1 Corinthians 12, look at verse 13 again, and just notice that first verb there, baptized. We were all baptized. He's not talking about water baptism in this context. That verb there is past. And it's passive. Someone else baptized us. It's a form of baptizo. Baptizzo. And we got our word baptism or to baptize from it That tidzo literally means to be immersed or to be dipped into something Actually it's an intensive form of another Greek verb, bapto. Bapto means to to dip. They often would take a cloth and they wanted it to have color, and they would put dye in a bowl and they would dip the cloth in the bowl and then it would take on the identity of the color, whether it's purple or whatever it would be. But baptizo is an intensive form of bapto, and it means don't dip it Dunk it. Put it all the way down in. That's why it's an intensive form. It's ironic that the very word baptize means to dunk, and people still can't get that right today. Baptism does not mean to sprinkle. It never meant that in New Testament Greek, and every scholar agrees with that. It means to completely bathe, or wash, or submerge, or dunk. And that's why we have to get them all the way down in there. All the way down. You know, and make sure they get it. Just hold them down there a little, okay? Make sure that they get a good baptism. It's also used as a past passive verb. It means that at some time in the past, someone else's spirit baptized us. Who was that, and how did that happen? Well, think about the symbol of water baptism, the thing that we are said to be immersed into, there is water. With spirit baptism, the thing we're immersed into, the element we're immersed into is the Holy Spirit. Again, I said 1 Corinthians 12 is not about water baptism, it's about the Holy Spirit. And you may remember to parallel this the words of John the Baptist again. He gave such a perfect illustration so everyone would understand that. He says, I baptize you in water. So there's the person doing the baptizing, and then there's the person getting baptized. I baptize you with water, but one is coming who's mightier than I He, that's Jesus, He will baptize you in or with the Holy Spirit. Do you see the parallel It's not the Holy Spirit who's doing the baptizing. The Holy Spirit is the element into which you are baptized. The one doing the baptism is Jesus Christ our Lord. He is the one who poured forth the Father from the Holy Spirit from the right hand of the Father. John took people and dunked them in the Jordan River. Jesus took people and submerged them in the Holy Spirit. So it's clear Jesus was the one doing the baptizing. In Acts chapter 1 and verse 5, Jesus said, You will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. It will happen to you. I will do it, but it will happen to you. And when that day of Pentecost came, just ten days later, Peter describes the event as Jesus pouring forth the Holy Spirit from heaven down upon the disciples so that it completely surrounded and filled them and overwhelmed them. We might even say engulfed them into the life of the Spirit. By this bountiful outpouring, they all knew they were placed into the sphere of the Holy Spirit. And so this baptism metaphor, and I think you could see how it was purposefully used so we would picture it and understand that, reminds us that all of our life is life in the Holy Spirit. Paul even goes a step further in verse 13 if you look at that, and he kind of internalizes this unity. And we're going to talk about this by pointing out that not only did the Holy Spirit come and surround the believers, but it then says we were all made to drink. from the Holy Spirit as well. So now the Holy Spirit pours into us and now He is in our inside as well. We were dumped on, and then we also have the Spirit well up inside of us. Again the words of John 7 come to bear in that from our innermost being will flow rivers of living water. We all drink the same spirit. He satisfies all of us the same. So I want you to get this connection and we'll pick up next week right here. When we were submerged into the Spirit of Christ by Jesus Himself, We were all placed into the body of Jesus, and we were all made to drink of the same Holy Spirit, and now we have a whole new life in the Spirit. So when we come to talk about next time, Lord dwelling, the fullness of the Holy Spirit, or we talk about the indwelling ministry of the Holy Spirit. Or we talk about walking in the Spirit, or not grieving the Spirit, or other relationship and works of the Spirit He has to us. We all understand it began with and was initiated by this work of the Holy Spirit for the new age. the baptism of the Holy Spirit. How blessed it is to be a post-Pentecost believer and know God has come. in full measure. It's our responsibility not to neglect that ministry, not to shy away from it, because some people do strange things with that, but to understand what the Word of God teaches about the fullness of the Spirit of Christ. And to make sure that we are becoming full of Christ, not full of things in the world, not full of ourselves, not depending on our own abilities, but relying completely on this member of the Holy Trinity who came into this world to empower believers like you and me to proclaim the gospel and to live obediently for Christ. We're about to see some people baptized, and when they're baptized, we should pray God will fill them with the Holy Spirit as well. Father, thank you for the teaching of the baptism with and in your Holy Spirit. Thank you. We are post-Pentecost believers. Thank you. That all of the fullness of your spirit that satisfies our souls comes because of this amazing work, this one-time work. And we're just grateful, Lord, that you've given us the book of Acts to study it. We pray, Father, you take your word and help your people to be excited about that relationship with your spirit. Open their lives up. Be yielded. And bless us as we go on next week as well, Father, to learn more about what it means to walk in the fullness of your Spirit. And to that end, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.