Okay. Um so um for some of you in the class that I don't I might not know My name is Daniel Ragu. I've just one of the teachers in this class. Scott teens of Baldridge are also. If you have questions or comments, feel free to look me up on Hopebook. You can send me an email. Or in in any other way. So we are continuing in Ephesians four. We last week had gone through a little bit longer of a section in terms of verses 7 to 14. Sorry, 7 to 16. And today we're picking up in 17 and continuing on to 24. It's a continuation of this transition, right? So we talked about it last week. Doug talked about it the week before. Ephesians 1 to 3, going into 4 to 6, we find that Paul is, as is his custom in some of his other letters, going from what was largely doctrinal So teaching that he is trying to impart to connecting what does it look like for Holy doctrine for the teaching from the Lord to play itself out in your lives, and what does that look like for you? And so we're continuing today, then in that idea about well what does this look like as it plays out in your lives um but really he's setting the stage for the rest of The rest of four and then five and six where he's really going to sort of like, I would say dig into some of the really like practical outworking of our theology. So, um by way of review, um what did we talk about last week And I think this is going to be important for the parallel before we read the section today. From the very beginning of chapter 4, what is Paul asking us to do? What does he urge us to do? That's your that's your so yeah. Walk whether you are calling. That's right. And and that idea about walk is to what? That's right. That's right. Worthy of the calling to which we've been called. And then he sort of gives a little bit of qualifiers what that looks like. And he continues on as he's working through um in terms of the unified church, what that means. We say unified church, um, what is that unity that he had been talking about a lot um so far as a section? Right. And when he uses the expression there that we saw before He says there's the Jewish believers, and then there are the Gentile believers. And when he is using that expression, what does Gentile mean there? Anyone who wasn't Jewish. Correct. Right? So of the people group that are not Jewish. And that's what he's saying when he was sort of talking about it before. That's going to be a little bit important for the session we'll come right into. What was the purpose? Uh no, I'm gonna pivot. One of the things that we had talked about last week also is that we would be built up together in a unity of faith and the knowledge of the Son of God. Right? So this is verse 13. Until we attain the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So that, right? We had talked about that so that what? We wouldn't be tossed around by what? It wouldn't be nothing. It was cunning. That's right. That's right. So deceitful teaching, scheming. Essentially anything that would try to take us from the truth and move us. And we have talked about there are offices in the new the New Testament church are really in the in the church at play here where the gifts are on play. And what was the focus that we had talked about a little bit? Right. Because there's definitely a focus in terms of what Paul's saying with regard to your might. With regard to what's the good teaching that you're receiving, how is that impacting your relationships, how you live What is the good doctrine you're receiving? Don't be pushed off from that from that good doctrine by manipulation, by scheming, by deceit, right? Don't get moved on from those things. He very much is centering a lot of what he's talking about in terms of how you're going to walk in a manner worthy connected to What do you concern your mind with with regard to the truth of God? And right, he has just moved through a lot of that doctrine in chapters 1 to 3. He just went through a lot of what that teaching is. There's the mystery. Here's the plan. Who is in charge? Christ over all things. Right? We had worked through a lot of those things. So again, if you're reading this letter all at once, I think it takes about like 25, 30 minutes, as you're going through this, you should be reflecting on, oh yeah, oh you would just walk through all these texts. So let us read then chapter four, verses seventeen to twenty-four. Can I get a volunteer to read that nice and loud? That'd be great. Can you tell me your name? Actually, my name is Bob. Bob? Nice to meet you, I'm being here. Nice to meet you, Joe. Okay. Now this I say and testify in the Lord. that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding. alienated from the life of God because of their ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart. They have become callous and have given up them and have given themselves up the sensuality, greed, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. But that is not the way you learned Christ. Assuming that you have heard about him and you were taught in him as the truth is in Jesus. To put off your old self which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds. And to be put on the self created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. Thank you, Bob. Also I really appreciate you put the emphasis you put on verse twenty is exactly like what we needed right there. So that was great. Thank you. Um so Right off the beginning he has this, well, so, right, that word, um, which is a little bit of uh it's like a slight transition, but really what it's Putting is, this is the logical next thought. Right? So we've just said all these things. Here's the logical next thought we have. And he says this expression, I say and testify in the Lord. The next thing that I'm about to say, this being Paul, I'm saying with an author authority, and I'm urging you in the name of the Lord, essentially, with both authority and the weight that I'm about to say next. You must no longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their minds. So right away you should pick up two things. Right away you should pick up, just like we started Ephesians 4, hey Paul, you said walk again. So right off the bat you have okay you again are talking about the manner in which we live our lives and you essentially almost it's like a it's it's a little bit like a like a bookend. You you brought back something that you already talked about. You said in the beginning you should walk in this manner, and now you should not walk in this manner. You must no longer walk as the Gentiles do. Well, Paul, how do the Gentiles walk? In the futility of their minds. So. A couple observations here. One, Gentile here. Paul is changing his use of Gentile a little bit. The word gentile, um the word gentile actually um I it's funny, Pastor Gabe taught us in uh in the class that we were taking with him one time. His recommendation is to try not to Say the Greek words because we don't really know how to pronounce them super well. And every time I'm just about to say it, that comes to mind of like Don't say it, but I kinda want to. So it's on the recording. Sorry, Pastor Gay. Um i That word for Gentile effectively means it's it's like a people that live together that are bound by customs and institutions that make them somewhat similar. Okay Here, when Paul's using it, he's not using it in terms of the Gentile believers who were the Jewish, uh the like non-Jewish believers. But rather he's saying, don't live like the other people group. Okay, so that that usage is one a shift. In the Old Testament, in any reference there for Gentile, it really would have been just non-Jewish. But when Paul is using it here, he's referring to more Well don't don't walk in that manner. And we know that based on essentially what he's about to say next, that they live in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to the hardness of their heart. Description, description, description calls. You want to understand well how are you using Gentile? He gives you the context right there. It wouldn't make sense, obviously, that he's referring to Gentile believers, because the description here is alienated from God. Darken understanding, ignorant, and futility of their minds. Futility. Anyone oh does anyone have a different translation that doesn't say futility? Okay. How might you describe or define the word futility here? Useless. Excellent. Yes. That's a really good one. So, um good segue, this is not planted. Um in the Septuagint, so if you if you sort of call back to Ecclesiastes and an expression at the author of Ecclesiastes. uses the lot in terms of vanity of vanities. And that picture, that Jewish, sorry, that Hebrew word, hevil. Okay. So you can be more close enough. Um it's like a uh like a like a vapor, like a breath, like something that is that is just fleeting, that is useless, that is without purpose. In the Septuagint of the Greek translation, the word that is used there is the same word that is used here. Emptiness, lack of substance, lack of purpose. There is a futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them. That idea of the uselessness, the lack of purpose, or whatnot, it it's not there. To put it in the the plainest way, it's not just being stupid. It's not the idea of just like, well, there's like there's no knowledge here whatsoever. It's the idea that it it goes nowhere. It is with no purpose. It has no end that is the same as if you had knowledge of God. as you were knowing God Himself. It is in and of itself just a fleeting thing, as if any thought that I can put together is worth it just because it's a thought I've put together. He describes it further there in the darkening understanding I want to go to Romans briefly here, so Romans 1, because there's a parallel in terms of how Paul is working through An ignorance and a darkness of mind in that passage. But before I do that, one thing I want to make sort of really clear is that there's a little bit of a shock factor. to this thing, the description, because Ephesus is uh is a center seat of a lot of cultural um advancement in terms of wisdom, like Greek wisdom, intellectualism, like culture, society, and in the Greek culture In prevailing sort of like a prevailing thought of the day, the idea of intellectualism or wisdom as being the direct path to enlightenment is very strong. Because it through my thoughts and how I can sort of reason and lay these things out, I will essentially achieve what is the higher status with regard to what is life, how do I live life. I mean we still uh you know In society today, we still draw a lot of conclusions or parallels to things that are based out of sort of Greek wisdom that then the Romans talk, and they make its way through society. Paul's not saying people are stupid. And he's not saying it's not that there's not knowledge around or that you're not trying to reason things. But the fact of the matter is that it's purposeless. Purposeless. That it ends nowhere. So if you hop over to Romans 1 for a second, take a look at verse 21. For even though they knew God, they did not honor him, or as God Oh, hold on. I typed it all out. This, but let me just make sure I don't. As you read it out loud, I realize, oh, there's a typo there. Um, okay. For although they knew God, they did not honor Him as God or give thanks to Him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. There's quite a parallel between what actually Paul's working through in Ephesians here and what he works through in the beginning of Romans, so that like verses like um 18 down to 22, 23, in terms of um There is a darkness of your mind, there's an alienation from God, and then this is the consequence of how it plays itself out in life. Which is essentially what he's going to keep doing here in Ephesians. That idea about being darkened in understanding is that sharp contrast to what I was just talking about with regard to enlightenment. Is, oh, sure, you may have knowledge, but where does that knowledge lead and what does it what how does it manifest itself? So in the futility of the minds and darkness of understanding, there is then the alienation from the life of God There's a parallel concept here in Colossians 1, which says, and really talking to the recipient of the letter, although you were former formerly alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds. This picture of alienation, um can someone define alienation like in a different way, or you can use maybe a different word for it for me? Separated. Okay. Okay. Um what else? Yeah. Yep. Um so separated So the concept of made foreign is very useful because um it's actually like right how we use the word alien right now. Um estrangement is another way. I think a way to make sure that we understand this is alienation from the life of God is not simply to be It's not simply to be apart from him, but it's also hostility towards him. There's no being separated from God that isn't in of itself hostility towards him and essentially being an enemy of God in this way. But not only that, with the idea of alienation, if you consider it in in terms of a family, if you say alienated family members or estranged family members, if that's an easy related do that. What do you what do you I mean it's a it's a sad sort of thing to work through, but what are some of the characteristics we might say with regard to that? No look Okay, not welcome? What else? Say again. Cut off. Cut off. Okay. Okay. Yep. There's not a relationship there. There are lies that continue and they are not intersecting. They are not lies that are lived out together, but rather separate and in many ways in spite of each other. I want to be careful with that. Don't let's not go too far with that, right? Don't In in working through the analogy, don't then sort of like put that back on the scripture, just to be clear. The mark of a life that's departed from God and this goodness are purposes that ignore and do not consider, let alone give honor or embrace. who God is. A life that is alienated from God is one that is at war with Him, and then really seeking To steal honor from him, to steal glory from him, to take things that are not to be worshipped, to draw that parallel back from Romans again, and to put the worship onto it. So Paul then makes it clear you shouldn't walk this way, right? So just remember in the description, he's saying you must no longer walk. As the Gentiles. Just to pause for it again, what's the must no longer there refer to? Right. Right. And now that we are not supposed to be walking that way, there's no excuse. that can be given in the eyes of the Pan or walking that way without understanding Yeah, and I and I want to connect then to something we're going to talk about in a little bit, which is because that's not who you are anymore. And that's very much what Paul is making the point of here. Because that's not who you are. You won't walk that way because that's not what you've been called into. That is not walking worthy of the calling to which you were called. What is the reason That Paul gives for the walking futility of minds, dark not understanding, alienated from God. Because of what? Because the hardness of heart, um, That word for hardness um is The definition for the Greek word there is the process by which the extremities of fractured bones are reunited by a callus. Yeah, s exactly, similar to that. It's sort of as it comes together, there's a hardness there and a compass that is Starts to become impenetrable. There is another use of this word. In Mark three five, when the Lord um let me see what was that Let me just read it. Again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand, and they watched Jesus, the religious leaders, to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him. And he said to the man with a withered hand, Come here. And he said to them, Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill? But they were silent. And he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart. That's the same word there. And said to the man, Stretch out your hand. He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against him how to destroy him. It grieves the Lord that instead of Being able to accept what would come next, the miracle of that healing, to understand what is the purpose of the Sabbath, to understand what is the good work of God. to rather just want to set him in a trap. So not only such disregard for God, but disregard for their man in front of them and for what was him, and that idea of you're so hard in where you are that you you can't even see this. Understand what else example is the view. Thank you. Yeah. Everything it's very short sighted. It's it just focused on the very limited political situation. that they're in, not on eternal glory, not on God, not on anything higher. Yeah. Yeah. What is it right in front of me and how can I sort of put it into a box? A willful, obstinate rejection of God that leads to moral blindness in terms of like a lack of knowledge and perception. Heart that's so hard it it cannot perceive what is who is God By actively rejecting the evidence put in front of them. Because just again to call ourselves to the beginning of Romans, there's not an excuse here First saying, well, I never knew there was a God, because the Lord has laid evidence of Himself throughout creation, by His good design, and in our consciences. And yet you can continue in sin apart from God to have your heart hardened over and over and over, that like it sort of calcifies, you don't even You don't even see how bad it's gotten. And that's quite a useful segue for us in terms of what he describes. They have become callous, so verse 19, and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. Um that idea about having become um oh actually this is useful. Any other translation for verse 19? Sensuality, greedy. Oh actually in terms of the um they have become callous. Oh callous? No. Anybody else? Yes, that's the new king vice. Yeah. Um so not the same work by the cal hardness. It's the even though that was the medical definition, it's not the same word there in the Greek. Um but that idea is you've gone beyond feeling. So if the idea of then if you think about something calloused over and like You can't s you can't feel it. What he's saying is you just nothing penetrates anymore in terms of um in it in terms of value of emotion. It's a picture of apathy, being insensible, pain sort of like no longer having its same effect. He's talking here about a sin that's sort of in itself Just nothing nothing will matter anymore. And then he describes it as giving themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. The um that word for sensuality here is interesting because here it's more the concept of Um like an unbridled, like an unbridled sin with no moderation. Sort of it's like reckless abandon of sin. So there can be sin, there can be a concept of sin, right, that's used where it comes with a picture of shame, and yet the word that's used here is there's there's not even shame in it. A concept that I would sort of like try to maybe draw a parallel to here is almost um The word here doesn't draw this, I'm making this parallel as as by way of analogy. Something that's like animalistic Something that is sort of like just according to its nature just goes and goes and goes. And you know, an animal that just goes after something doesn't feel shame for the behavior that it's going after, right? Like like uh something something chasing after um Chasing after prey and just sort of like trying to devour it. It's not a shame to which it does it. Is Paul saying here that every believer acts in this way? At all times, Every non-believer acts this way. Did I say believer? Definitely. I looked at the room and it was like really blank. And I was just like, oh that didn't register as a question because I said it very wrong. I'm sorry Well done, you're all paying attention. So that's good. I'm sorry. What I meant to say. Thank you, Minji. Is Paul saying every non-believer acts this way at all times? No, but I'll say yes. Okay. What do you works without that way? Well, I mean I I guess if you want to use the term like total depravity where it's like, okay, every person who is outside Christ has sin permeating as a part of him So they may not necessarily choose to act in every respect as badly as they possibly could. But when you think about the fact that they're rejecting God over and over and over again, we don't necessarily see into the heart of every person. to know where those excesses are. And like you think about the fact that a constant institution doesn't have that restraining influence of the Holy Spirit on them You know, like there are so many people where you don't realize a very lovely veneer of respectability about them and then you go into their first all that's like, oh Oh so we don't always see all of it. Okay. But there's also the fact that they are in fact slowly becoming harder over time. So those areas where they are allowing that access to a query it can go very far. Okay. Would that be considerable They'll think none. Or they just not fully understanding or getting the understanding who Jesus Christ is and the purpose of him arriving. On earth. I I missed the first thing you said actually. Can you say it again? I say it could it be Christian? A young Christian who's been still taking milk, not getting a fully understanding of who Christ is and how he's served him lately through the Spirit or Could it be uh someone that have it yet? learn that the whole heart has to be God and they still make it now always So I I think here Paul's description is of the non-believer. I I think that is a a firm I think that that's a firm line that he's put in terms of these are the characteristics of those alienated from God. I think there is wisdom in terms of what he is describing to illuminate areas in our hearts that we need to continue to put off, which is what he's going to work through. Because otherwise he would sort of be he there would be no reason for him to say, but you must no longer walk this way. Because he's making very much the point. That's not who you are. That's not the truth that you have embraced. That's not the goodness of God. Don't walk this way. It's not true of you. But then you also need to not Thrive in the or thrive in the live in the futility of your mind. You need to not be ignorant of these things. You need to not he's gonna draw the sort of like parallel against it now. So I think these are non-believers. Yeah, go for it. Might be a tough question, but is there a reason why he called out specifically Gentile non believers here? I said of also Jew mo Jewish? Oh, I think he means all non believers. Yes, I'm sorry. Um the distinction in before that transition when he's saying Jewish believers, Gentile believers, is in the context I think of Israel. And in here what he just means is non-believers of of like of any sort of like cultural background. No no not at all. It's a good clarification. Yes, huh? Just I guess I was just looking at this that When we're not believers, we are chasing after sin. Yes. Is what I yeah. Yeah, and and I think and I think that's a that's a good point. I I I think What Paul's talking about here is the full gamut of where you can be and the trajectory when you are apart from God. So not every person is living the most heinous sinful life possible, because one, thank God for the grace that he has in the present day. Because there are believers who will still have quote-unquote, I mean, uh no, I'm gonna say they still have good characteristics, right? Because the Lord's grace is still evident in this place. It doesn't mean that they're with the Lord, but it doesn't mean that when you have a non-believer next to you, that they don't do something that is good. But the point is that if it's a mind darkened, If it's a by not worshiping the Lord, there is the trajectory that is possible and a hardness that will and can continue unless The Lord intervenes. Because the reminder here is that every single one of us was the same. That we were alienated from God, we were enemies of God, and yet the Lord loved us still. So we don't have a place to stand to be like, well, I'm better than you because it's my grace, right? And yet we want to participate in The sharing of the good news of Christ, who by grace offers these things. So this is not a believers good, non-believers bad, easy sort of dichotomy. What he's saying is. A life alienated from God looks like this and has a trajectory and a door open that sin would just continue in this path. Don't walk this way. Does that sort of make sense? Any comments or questions there? I think that's very helpful because otherwise when most of us speak this passage Nobody will consider I don't think there's anybody any of us consider themselves what is it, trans sensuality. I don't know the exact phrase there. Right? I don't think anybody who's So that it's easy to when we come across passage like this, but so often to think that they kind of went, okay, those really wretched and verses are safe. So that your explanation is very helpful. Yeah, I I um I'm glad. I mean I I think for me a part of it is one it helps me One, try to interact with a non-believer with a heart that's sort of open towards how do I love you like I've been loved? How do I share the gospel like as they shared me? And two, to the next section, also help Lord, illuminate the areas of my heart where am I just chasing after something that I shouldn't be chasing? And and keep in mind that these can be Now here's where I am going to put good things. It can be the respectable things. I'm going to talk about that in a little bit, but A futility of mine or mine darkened from God will be, will I make my own value? Let's say, for instance, is it my career? Is it that the way that I raise my kids? Is it how well I serve in church? If that's my end-all-be-all, if that's my purpose. And I step away from who the Lord is or doing any of that for the Lord, I can make that its own idol to worship. And I can chase after that. And I can be respectable and I can be successful by the world standards and yet living a life alienated from God. Does that make sense? It there there's an aspect of there that's incredibly important to just say, Lord Like who who are you? To which Paul then says Bob, that was great though. You said I really I heard the punch when you said it. But that is not the way you learned Christ. Assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him as the truth is in Jesus. To put off your old self, which belongs to your former man or of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self. created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. This is not what you have learned The the expression for for whatever reason I kept like writing this down as an expression. I kept writing the word battlefront is what it is. The battlefront that Paul is saying is one of the mind and the heart. Right? He's not just talking about your practices. But immediately goes back to that's not what you learned, that's not who you are. From the foundational truth set throughout the Old Testament apostolic teaching, the life that he had just described is not consistent with who God is and who you are because of what God has done. So there's this expression, and so out of the commentaries, it's a Bart commentary and then stop. They both call it The school of Christ, which is one that I really like here. And so really it these three I'm I'm drawing from that commentary, so I'm just going to sort of quote it here. Christ is the substance of the teaching. Christ is himself the teacher, and Christ is himself the truth. John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. So there's no arena for the believer that excludes Christ in any way. You were taught by him, you were taught in him, he is himself the truth. What are those truths? All the things that we had already worked through, Ephesians 1 to 3, starting with the very basic foundation of The gospel. This is an anchor point. It's an anchor point for ourselves as believers. I don't want to forget a major theme here in Coloss um in Ephesians is The unity of the believers together in the midst of this. There's very much here an individual Aspect of this, but there's also a communal aspect of this in terms of what is the truth that we have. In last week, remember, we were talking about as a community of believers in a unity of faith. growing in the knowledge of God together, that it would play itself out in our individual and our communal lives. There was that concept we talked about in the beginning in terms of like um fighting against the deceitful teaching. of speaking the truth in love or really sort of like the true thing in love as the as the verb there. So He is still connecting this idea of you live in community as believers who should be preoccupied with the truth. What does that life look like as an individual and in community to put on Nope. Sorry? To put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and this corrupt of deceitful desires And to be renewed in the spirit of your mind, again, that's where the battle starts, if you will. And to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God and true righteousness and holiness. Picture of put on, put off is um language with regard to garments, to like clothing. Take off the muddy clothes, put on the clean clothes. Take off the stained clothes, stain with your own sin, stain with your own consequence. And put on the clothes that were given to you. Nope, that. It's this intersection of That's not who you are. Live life how you are. Why? How? Because of God's good grace. And yet we have an aspect, not in terms of we don't affect our salvation, and yet in terms of the lives we live, we have a part to play with regard to well that that's not who I am. So this idea of putting off and putting on here, according to corrupt through deceitful desires. Is very much a question, a conversation around identity. Around Yeah, but that's not who I am anymore. For each of us in our lives, um Whatever that looks like in terms of before you were believer, after believer, it looks very different for each one of us individually. For some of us, it's a very stark outward change that for people that knew us in our older lives versus know us as believers, it's really different. But for some people, it's not necessarily so different looking from the outside. That doesn't mean it's not drastically different on the inside. Does that make sense? Your testimony. Just as a word of encouragement here. We hear testimonies sometimes. That are about a very drastic change in a person's life, and they're exciting to us. And that is to the glory of God. And we hear some testimonies that are about A heart that was betraying God, that was alienated from God. From the outside, everything kind of looked okay, but you knew the war that was going on the inside. And then the Lord Changed my heart, and then I became a believer. And that's just as wonderful of a testimony. Does that make sense? Because both give glory to God, who interacts with Who you are as a person and your heart. And not only he does not add to it, but to quote 2 Corinthians, If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature creature. The old things passed away, behold, new things have come. So Paul says, okay, to put off your clothing, to be able to put on your clothing, how is it that you do that? Verse 23 gives us an idea to be renewed in the spirit of your minds. If you consider to Romans 12, Therefore, I urge you, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice. Again, note the outward workings of your mind. Acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service of worship, and do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what is the will of God, that which is good and acceptable and perfect. To put on the new self created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. You know what that is? That's putting on that's putting on image-bearer clothing that matches the image closer and better. Who is the perfect image of God? Jesus. He represents him. He is him. And yet as the representation of him is perfect in every way. What is our desire? What is our purpose as believers in serving him in a holy way? Is to be more Christ-like, is to be more like him. that we would walk with him close in relationship. This is not just a doing in spite of God. Does that make sense To be the right image bearer, to be closer, to represent it better, is to walk closer with the Lord in relationship with him. That's very much that idea that we had before in terms of learning it in him. I'm going to read this quote directly from Stott. In addition to the decisive rejection of the old and assumption of the new, implicit in conversion. A daily, indeed, a continuous inward renew renewal of our outlooks is involved in being a Christian If heathen degradation is due to the futility of their minds, then Christian righteousness depends on the constant renewing of our minds. Who am I? What am I here for? What's my purpose? What's the purpose of the church? What's the purpose of my daily life? So in the last five minutes, I'm going to read a small passage from Genesis. There is not a reference to this passage at all in terms of what we're studying But when I was studying, I just kept coming back to this. It's Joseph, and there is an aspect of the story in Joseph that my mu I just I kept coming back to it, so I want to Read it. Again, there's not a reference in the passage we're studying, but rather there is an image of someone who loves the Lord and who wants to walk with the Lord that I very much enjoy out of this. So if you will permit me, I'm going to read this slightly longer passage, and then I'm going to give you the bullets as the example of what is it to be what is it to be secure in the identity of I belong to the Lord and the Lord alone. Genesis 39, 6-21. Now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance. It came about after these events that his master's wife looked with desire at Joseph, and she said, Lie with me. But he refused and said to his master's wife, Behold, with me here, my master does not concern himself with anything in the house. And he has put all that he owns in my charge. There is no one greater in this house than I, and he has withheld nothing from me except you, because you are his wife. How then could I do this great evil and sin against God? She spoke to Joseph day after day. He did not listen to her, to lie beside her or be with her Now it happened one day that he went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the household were there inside. She caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me, and he left his garment in her hand and fled and went outside. When she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and had fled outside, she called the man of her household and said, See, he has brought in a Hebrew to us to make a sport of us. He came in to lie with me, and I screamed. When he heard that I raised my voice and screamed, he left his garment beside me and fled and went outside. So she left his garment beside her until his master came home. Then she spoke to him with these words, The Hebrew slave whom you brought to us, came in to me to make sport of me, and as I raised my voice and screamed he left his garment beside me and fled outside. Now his master heard the words of his wife Which she spoke to him, saying, This is what your slave did to me, his anger burned. So Joseph's master took him and put him into the jail, the place where the king's prisoners were confined, and he was there in jail Verse 21. But the Lord was with Joseph, and extended kindness to him, and gave him favor in the sight of the chief jailer. Why this passage? Any ideas? In the face of sin, in the face of What the wife is propositioning Joseph with His response is one from No, that's not what this is That's not what I've been given authority to do. That's not what my purpose here is. That's not what I should do. Why would I do this great evil against God? In the face of sinful temptation, desire, proposition in front of him The first response is that from his mind of, well, this doesn't match up with who I am or what's true. Well, this isn't what God has done. This isn't the responsibility of Kidden. This is not the authority of Kidden. What are you doing? No. The circumstance that proceeds is essentially a false accusation. Of a soul, and he's imprisoned, and the reminder to the listener, to the reader, that the Lord was with him, and his kindness is extended to him. So, nevertheless, Joseph, in that scenario, in that example, does not lose sight of who he is because of who God is. And I think that's the lesson for us out of Ephesians. Don't walk in the way that you used to. Walk according to who you are. And who are you? You belong to the Lord. You belong to Christ. Did you have sorry? Oh I was just gonna say also that I see that he you stated that knew who he was serving also. Yep. That's why he played And that's what we have found the food. Who we serve. That's right. That's right. If I wear the clothing, if I wear the right clothing at the right time, we know what it's like. And a lot of the commentaries and references, they use actually sort of um like di different pictures, whether it's like military uniforms. So there's like different military uniforms that skate, whether it's a more formal dress or like one that might be used sort of like um like in a in a work setting but really the picture is hold on this that I put on doesn't match with what who I am or what's in front of me. As we continue in Ephesians, what I'm hoping is for us to just keep that Keep that really central. We're going to continue to go. Um I think Scott teaches next week Um we're going to continue to go in Ephesians, and Paul is going to go right down into like Very practical. Well do this, don't do this. Let this happen, don't let this happen. And his entire premise that he's working through are the The premise that we discussed here. So when we continue to walk through Ephesians and we have all these practical considerations, what I want us to do is to always connect them with identity. Who are you in Christ? Who is Christ? I don't do these things because that's not who the Lord is, and that's not who I am in the Lord. Okay. With that, I am going to close 1030. Heavenly Father, we thank you for um We thank you for you. We thank you, Lord, for your grace. We thank you that we can recognize The walks that we had apart from you, and how great of a savior you are. That you would have delivered us from them into a new life through Jesus Christ. We thank you, God, that we do not deserve your goodness and your grace. But because of how great you are, you loved us still. We pray, Lord, that we would continue to worship and that your name would be praised. We pray this all in Jesus' good name. Amen.