If you uh if you look at the notes, um the uh the introductory verse for today is 2 Thessalonians 1 11 and 12. It says, to this end, we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you and you in him, according to the grace of our God. And the Lord Jesus Christ. And the reason why this verse is here is because as we get into the beginning of chapter 4, we're going to see that it says there, the command is to walk worthy of our calling. And this verse right these verses right here speak to the prayer that Paul had for the Thessalonians that God would make them worthy of his calling. And I think that's an important Thing for us to remember as we start to think about putting into practice walking worthy of the calling that God has for us. Is that there is There is a grace-filled walk that we have. And Paul recognized that when he was praying for the Thessalonians. Also Um I know you guys probably open up to uh Ephesians chapter four, but if you could like hold that with a bookmark or something and turn a few pages over to Colossians chapter one There's a parallel passage right there and it says, and so from the day we heard, I'm sorry, I'm starting at verse 9, Colossians 1. 9. And so from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding. That sounds very similar to the kind of prayer that we saw last week at the end of chapter 3 of Ephesians, where Paul was praying that they would be filled with knowledge. and wisdom and have power to understand. And here in Colossians he says that they be filled with the knowledge of his will and all spiritual understanding. So as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. Which is also very similar to where Paul goes in the passage that we're going to be looking at today. fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might for all endurance and patience with joy giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. In many respects these verses encapsulate where we're going to be going for the next two chapters in the book of Ephesians. Recognize again there this this combination that we have Where we are commanded to walk in a manner worthy, and yet Paul feels like it's the right thing and appropriate thing for him to pray for the churches that they would walk worthy. There's both things going on at the same time. We are commanded to work, and God also gives us grace to do so. And I wanted to put those thoughts into our minds as we start to dig into the beginning of chapter four. When we come to chapter four, we are coming to a major division point in the book of Ephesians. We're transitioning from a section that's doctrinal, that's doxological, which means that praising God, there's a lot of glory to God There's a lot of expressing what God has done and who we are in Christ. So there's a lot of definition and explanation that's going on in the first three chapters of Ephesians, and in the last three chapters of Ephesians, Paul transitions to, so this is what you do with that. Just one example to try to help illustrate that is when you look at chapters 1 to 3, there is one command. Another word for that is imperative. When you get into chapters four to six, there's at least 40. If you look at things that are implied, there's more, but just straight up that command, there's 39 more commands that follow in these chapters that we're going to be looking at. So these chapters start to get to a place where we're rolling up our sleeves and putting into practice what Paul's already taught us. This past week I sent a message out on HopeBook inviting us all to reread chapters 1 to 3. Did anybody not get that message? Um we want to double check that you're not there there's communication that goes out through hook book. Let's make sure afterwards and stuff that you have the opportunity to get that. The purpose behind that message As we transition here from chapters 1 to 3 into chapter 4, is to give ourselves an opportunity to refresh our minds in what it is that we looked at. We don't want to just come on Sunday and look at three verses, right? Or six verses. We got these six verses, and then we walk away from that. We've got to make sure that we see it in its context. And understand how it fits together in the bigger picture. So one of the things I was inviting folks to do was to look back over those chapters and see if there's something that drew your attention. Something that you wanted to study more deeply or something you wanted to make sure you hung on to. Did anybody have anything there that sprung out to them as they read through those three chapters? I didn't get the message, so I didn't do the exercise of the study of these because that's very visual a little bit. Uh 211, is that the imperative in the first uh three chapters? Yes. The remember one? Yes. Remember. Thank you. Yeah. Um I would Encourage you to be in the practice of reviewing and studying and looking at this before class. I think your experience here, your understanding the richness of what you know and get will be deeper when you're spending the week thinking through how the rest of this book connects together. And uh more now I understand too we're busy and we have lives that um call us to many different things and some of us wake up in the morning and we go to sleep and it was a blur what happened in between. And and I completely understand that. And so when I encourage you to be reading Ephesians to prepare yourself for this class, I want to do that with grace. And understanding about where you are and what's going on. I can't see what everybody experiences in their lives and on a daily basis Um I read through the book Book of Ephesians, I'm sorry, I read through chapters one to three yesterday in about twelve minutes. Um And I'll leave it at that. Um I know I just push the screws down on everybody a little bit and and and stuff like that. But I hope that that's of valuable encouragement in your lives. To dig deeply into God's Word. Not just because Doug said so, but to dig deeply into God's Word because you want to desperately know God better. and rightly understand who he is so that you can live your life in a manner that's pleasing to God, that's satisfying, satisfying to your soul. And that's only going to come as you dig deeper into the word. I've said enough. So let's just do a real quick refresher. Real quick refresher. If we looked at get chapters 1 to 3, there's a greeting that happens And then Paul spends verses four to thirteen praising God for the blessings that he has placed into our lives. He has blessed us with every spiritual blessing. And there's lots of ways that Paul talks about that he has blessed us in Christ. Again and again and again, in Christ. These are blessings to the praise of his glory. When we get to chapter 15, Paul takes that as a jumping-off point to thank God for the Ephesians and let them know, reveal to them that he is continually praying for them. That they would know and understand in their hearts deeply, like in their guts would understand the truths that he just explained to them. And he describes it in three ways: the hope of their calling. their inheritance and the power that's at work in them. Paul in chapter two then illustrates that with two illustrations. First, Paul explains how the power of God saves us and enables us to serve God. And then he Paul explains in chapters eleven to twenty-two the fact that our inclusion Gives us hope and grants us access and unites us and builds the church. We who were hopeless and outside. And not part of God's elect people. I'm sorry, God's chosen people. In chapter 3, Paul explains his task of explaining the mystery. That the Gentiles are included in the blessings of God's chosen people. And then he ends chapter 3 with praying again that Christ would dwell in our hearts. And that we would comprehend the love of God. All of this, as Paul's going through that, is an explanation of the loving plan and purpose of God for us and the church and a display of his praise and of his glory. And then with all of that, all of that that that's gone before in chapters one to three Paul changes and he transitions to, okay, let's talk about how we're going to notify that. Another way of saying that is, okay, how are you going to live your life? What are you going to do? What does that mean to us and how are we going to put that into practice? Um chapters four to six can be outlined and this is a this is one of these things to see and and and pay attention to these markers. There are five times in chapters four to six that Paul says, walk. And that's going to be in chapter 4, verse 1, in chapter 4, verse 17, in chapter 5, verse 2, in chapter 5, verse 8. And then chapter five, verse fifteen. Anybody want those again? If you Chapter four, verse one and seventeen. Chapter five, verse two and eight, and fifteen And you may be able to extend that and say in chapter six the command is to stand. So with that in mind, that the next few chapters that we've got coming up, walk, this command to walk, the imperative Is important, we probably ought to stop and ask ourselves, okay, okay, I can walk. Um how hard could it be? So what does Paul mean when he says what? What does phone mean? Throw it out to the class. Does it mean what we've got? Yes. But what do you mean by walkers God? We can do nothing without him. We can't do a clear path unless we have them an out Okay. Alright. Let's add on to that. What does Paul mean? And I like what you started us off with. What does Paul mean when he says walk? Who said that? Yeah, Paul says to live. Can you give me an example? How you interact with others? How you like specific examples or that's good. What you just said is a really good example. How you interface with others. Yeah. Either yells? I think he's uh he he meant order your life in a particular way How we how we live our lives, how we order our lives, how we depend on God, all these things are really important concepts along with the idea of walking. Fantastic. Um it it's a metaphor of how we live our lives. And we use this in English all the time. Can anybody think of an idiom that includes the word walk in it? Walk a mile in someone's shoes. Walk a mile in someone's shoes. Yeah. And what does that mean? Experience what they experience. Experience what they experience. Understand their life. Right? What's another one? No, yeah. Anyone else? Can you think of an idiom? Anybody not know what idiom is? It's okay. I'm glad you raised your hand. It's a saying, it's a saying or phrase that is specific to a culture. And it's a common kind of phrase. And if you're from outside the culture, you probably have to have it explained. Because the words themselves walk a mile in somebody else's shoes. I'm glad you asked. Walking a mile in somebody else's shoes, um, if those shoes don't fit, it is that I mean if you took those words literally, it's like, okay, um What kind of shoes do you have? It's not the the idea is behind it, the concept that's being illustrated. Yes Walk on eggs on eggshells. Walk on eggshells. What does that mean? To tread carefully. To tread carefully, yes. Yeah, it's another yeah, yeah, walking on eggshells. It doesn't mean that you're gonna throw eggs down on the ground and you're gonna crunch, crunch, crunch, crunch, crunch. Yes These are really good. Walking a fine line. Walking a fine line! Yeah. What's that? Walk of life. Walk of ooh, walk of life. Yeah. What does that mean? Uh maybe what profession you're in? Okay. Yeah. Yeah, this is really good. Anybody else want to say one more? Walking in the dark. Ooh. Yes. You know, this same concept, the same it shows up in scripture too. Um in Romans, what's that? Go ahead. Psalm eighty six, I will watch and make trees teaching ways. Okay, yeah. I mean let's watch the power of the word that's talking Fantastic. Yeah. Yeah. And when God says and when it says I'm gonna be a light to your feet, that's not meaning that you got you can see it it's it's a matter it's a it's it's right It's the same thing. Romans thirteen thirteen says us says let us walk properly as in daytime. First or second Corinthians five seven says we walk by faith. I think somebody might have mentioned that already. Not by sight. Galatians five sixteen says, walk by the Spirit I want to as we hold on to this as a foundation to remember this as we walk through scriptures and talk about the things that are here. The uh I I want us to remember that Paul, he's in the illustrated this already, but let's hold on to this ourselves. As he's giving us these commands, walking is a walk by faith. It's a walk that's enabled by the Spirit. It's a walk that believers have the ability to do because of God's grace in their lives. And that's really important to hold on to when we get to a command that says, imitate God. Or as we get to the command that we see today. Walk in a manner worthy of your calling. So let's look at chapter four. That was kind of a long introduction. Let's look at chapter four. Verse 1. And the the next walk command is down at verse 17, so we'll look verses 1 to 16. It says, I therefore A prisoner of the Lord urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love. Eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace, there is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to the hope to the one hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all, and in all. But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives and gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean that he had also descended into the lower regions of the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens that he might fill all things. And he gave apostles. I'm sorry, and he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers to equip the saints for the work of the ministry, for building up of the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes. Rather Speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head into Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. So in this passage, we start off with the command to walk, and we end with the concept of growing and maturity. We can think of this entire passage as kind of a building of unity and strength in the church. individual individually. Because what you see here is you see God giving individuals grace gifts To enable them, and God commanding each of us to walk in a manner worthy, and that those things are working together in concert to build and strengthen God's church. And it creates unity and it creates maturity, and that's part of God's plan. And so as we're walking here, as we're walking worthy There's kind of a direction that this is going. There's a big picture that we have in this Paul starts off with a big therefore. Therefore, I the prisoner of the Lord. There's a kind of respect here. There's a kind of solemnity. There's a seriousness when Paul pulls out his title like this. So therefore, I, prisoner of the Lord, urge you to walk. And it lends gravitas and weight to what Paul's telling us and seriousness to what's being talked about here. But he starts off with the word therefore. And there's always a struggle of how far back do you go? Do we go back to the prayer that Paul had for love and increasing in knowledge? Do we go back to Paul's stewardship and the explanation? Do we go back to the inclusion that we have, do we go back to and I think we at this point, because of the transition in the letter, we go back to all of it. All three chapters that have happened. And so Paul's looking back to these three chapters, and he says, therefore, walk in a manner worthy. Of your calling. And if you go back, look at just glance back, because in chapter one Verse 18, Paul prayed that we would know the hope of our calling. And now here Paul's saying, walk worthy of your calling. I've hinted at this a little bit, but I want us to remember And if you if you're looking back at chapter 1, you'll see it in the previous couple of verses that Paul's praying there that we would have a supernatural understanding He's praying that God would enlighten us, that God would open our hearts, that we would see with the eyes of our hearts, that God would enlighten us. To the hope of this calling. It's an effectual calling that brought about salvation. We were dead in our trespasses and sins. And we were given this immeasurable grace. And we were saved apart from the work. And this is an amazing gift of God. We don't have any room to boast in this. And so we're to walk in a manner worthy of that calling. It's a calling, if you look back at chapter two, that takes people who are hopeless and gives them hope. People that were outside and makes them belong. I think this calling smears across all of what God has done and Paul describes in Christ. These things. And so we who are far off were brought near by this calling. It says that that's tied to the blood of Christ. We were sealed also with the Holy Spirit, so we have confidence and hope in our inheritance. We're given a privileged position in this calling. It says in chapter 2 that we're raised up and seated with him. This calling gives us a family. Makes us belong and gives us a family. We're adopted as sons. We're made one with the Jews. The dividing wall of hostility was broken down, were members of the same household, the household of God, and built together. We're given identity. Paul says this calling makes us fellow citizens. And it gives us peace in this calling. We're reconciled to God. We're redeemed through his blood. We have forgiveness of our trespasses. Who were called in love, and it's all by the grace of God. And that's why as Paul's going through chapters 1, 2, and 3, he gets to the end of chapter 3, and he just erupts in praise. Praise God! His love surpasses knowledge. And that's why, as he gets to chapter 3, he says, we need strength to understand this. To what this means for us. And so the question then for us, as we come to this, what does it mean? What does it mean to walk worthy of that calling? This is glorious in what Paul is saying. Therefore, I, prisoner of the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. What does that mean for us? Anybody? Yeah. Treating it with respect, not taking it for granted. Seriously. Yeah. Seriously. Yeah. Treating it with respect and taking it seriously. Anybody else? What does it mean? To walk worthy of this calling. The glory of God. I think what you're saying is the glory of God is something we need to hold on to as we live our lives. Yeah. Anybody else? Yes. Letting our hearts be captured by God. And in fact, he's made it so that we can draw near. We have we have access. Yes. Stephen Young. Yes, make a uh question. Yes Uh would verse two be the manner in which I walk? Oh that's an interesting question, Mike. Would verse two. Mike, would you read for us verse two? With all humility and gentleness It with patience, bearing with one another in love. I don't know, that's not very noble. You know, when I hear somebody say to me, walk in a manner worthy, I'm picturing, you know, somebody who's a uh a diplomat and they're showing up someplace else They've got their, you know, they're all dressed up. They're going to walk down the carpet. They're going to walk in a manner worthy. They're going to hold their head high. And you're talking about humility, Mike. I don't know about this. I can't argue with scripture. I can't argue with scripture, and you're right. That's where Paul goes first. But we can't, and not but we can't lose fact that where Paul will go is he is gonna go, be careful how you walk, not as the Gentiles. He is going to say, imitate your father. He is going to go there. But the place where Paul starts is humility. God has Paul tell us first thing if you're gonna walk in a manner worthy Of your calling, you're going to walk with humility. Why? Why does God start there? Yes. God's plan is to bring himself glory. It's not about us getting glory. Who's that guy that had leprosy and he was told to just go wash in the Jordan? Amen. And and the servant said, if you were told to do something noble, you'd run out and do that, wouldn't you? What's a river, Jordan? There's an aspect that that's an illustration for us as well. Plus that out for me. Um yes. Please ask the question. Well, it's a request, right? Um I'm going there next. Then I'll wait. Um, We were dead in our trespasses when we were saved. We were following the course of the spirit of the air. Our walk The very first reference in the book of Ephesians is the walk of our lostness. In chapter 2, verse 11, Paul says, And you were hopeless, you were without God, but God. The two but God verses in chapter two remind us. That we didn't get ourselves here, we couldn't get ourselves here, and if it was left to us, we'd still be in a dump. We'd still be dead, we'd still be in our sins. But God And if you're going to walk worthy of that calling, you're in a position of humility. It's all God's work. And that's why Paul says we don't get to boast. And so the place for us to start with here is a start of humility, of of lowliness. It's not a glamorous place. It's not necessarily the place we would think to start, but it's also a place of dependence. As well. I didn't get myself saved. And by God's grace, only I'll stay saved. If you know what I mean. My walk depends on God. I walk by the Spirit. If I walk by the flesh, I'm going to go back to doing the deeds of the flesh. Also, starting off by walking worthy of our walking in humility is an imitation of our Savior. He didn't think being God was something to hold on to and grasp. That's a poor paraphrase of Philippians too. But he humbled himself and became a man. Um, the the place that this whole passage from one to sixteen is going to be going to is a place of building up the church in in in maturity. And one surefire way of not building up the church would be to enact the opposite of humility. If we have a church of proud people The church is not going to build up in in strength. We're going to be taking these gifts that God gives us, and we're going to be like, whew. Look at what I did. Can't believe you got that gift. Great. Shh. I'm a nose. Um When we walk in humility and gentleness, we care for others. And again, this is a reflection of how God treated us. Amen. It's it's very easy to think too highly of ourselves. We're saved by grace, we live by grace, and and God's about his glory. And if we're using his gifts for our glory, rather than walking in humility, God says he opposes the proud. If we're going to walk worthy of God's calling, we've got to be dependent on God to do that. And so he starts us off in a place of humility. Like I said, Paul is going to call us to not walk like the Gentiles. Yeah. One of the things too, as we're talking about things that humility we might assume humility means but doesn't, is humility doesn't mean weakness. This passage in some translations is translated meek, and it's not weakness It's not. When you look at the examples of Paul and Christ, they were passionate defenders of God and his glory. Passionate defenders of God and his glory. And so we can be strong on God's truth, and we can be strong on what God has to say, and we can stand firm for his glory and not shrink back. But when it comes to us and our glory, yeah, okay. And and I want to go back to the example I I gave before of a diplomat. You know, I was Kind of doing a caricature of a diplomat. I've never met a diplomat, so I don't know. But one thing I know is a diplomat is there on behalf of someone else Of some other country. They're not there to represent themselves. If their commander-in-chief says blue, then their job is to talk about blue. And and not uh yeah, but green is nice also. I think you know, I think a different shade of blue. No When their boss says blue, when their the the entity they represent says something, they represent that forward and not themselves. And that's the position of humility also. We're not we're not building our own selves up. This is not our kingdom. I didn't call myself. And God's the one who's in charge, and I want to represent him well and clearly. Paul, I'm sorry, John the Baptist is a fantastic example of this. I gotta get out of the way so God can do his thing. Yeah, I'm glad you brought that out from the larger context of where this passage is going to be going. Um He's going to be talking here about the gifting that God's given us. And and that's that's going to be very important in in what's coming up. Thank you for that. Um And I I love that that points to the larger context. Yes. Yeah. Cool. Yeah, I was very focused on the attitudes of this, not so much on the doing of this, so I appreciate you bringing that out Yeah, but it's really powerful coming from you because you serve. So I was kinda hoping you were gonna give like personal testimony there. It's not about me. And and that's my thinking. But but app pr thank you. I appreciate that. Um I have a question. You know, Mildred, I Paul here is not being specific in how we live out our humility. He's just saying humility. And where he's about to go is he's about to say, and some people are apostles, some people are prophets. And I would say some people go out and serve the community, and some people serve the local body of Christ. There is individuality In how God has empowered and enabled each believer. And so Maybe God's given us the ability to sing. Maybe God's given us the ability to cook amazing food Maybe God's given us an ability to see how things can be organized and put together. And, you know, I've been around people who really care about the details, and then I've been around people who see the bigger picture. And there might be a temptation for those people to argue and fight because the detailed people might care about the tints of the color in the room and the scratches in the paint And the big picture kind of people are like, we got time for this. But there's a gracious and love and respect There's even a joy that comes in seeing how God has gifted and enabled other people. And it's sometimes surprising. And there is an aspect where we could go now I've done this before myself. There's an aspect where I could go Wha why aren't you all doing the thing that I think is important? And that's where Paul's about to go. The very next thing he says here Is bearing with one another, I'm sorry, with patience, bearing with one another in love. I'm going to tell you right now that people can be difficult. I don't think that's really breaking news. I hear some chuffles around the room. People can be difficult when they're trying to do something that's different than what you want We're having a baptism today. And um can I tell you that there was nearly a discussion Uh uh on the it never came to a conflict, so I can't even say that. But there could have been a conflict over the placement of the baptismal tank this morning and the piano. Wow indeed. There could have been, because you know graciously the guys who do the baptismal pool, they set it up before we had music practice yesterday. And we slid everything over, and I got a call last night saying you didn't slide it over far enough. I'm exaggerating. He was very gracious, but I'm doing it to be humorous He was so gracious in in the phone call. And you know, it was quick and easy to understand and get through Because we're walking in humility, because we're uh trying to consider one another more important than ourselves, we got to a resolution quickly. If we were walking in pride, it might have been like, you can't do this! Do you know how you just shattered everything that we set up yesterday? Anyway, we've got a there's there's several aspects to this concept of being patient and bearing with one another in love. Um But I want to start off with kind of like how I did before, is that this being patient and bearing in love reflects what God did for us. Wow God is patient. And it's all over Scripture about how God is patient. And it's so important for us as we walk worthy of the calling that we have. That we walk like our father. And we reflect back the same patience that he gave us when he called us. It is interesting as we look here at patients bearing with one another in love to think forward in time a little bit to the letter that is written to the church at Ephesus in the book of Revelation. And you can look at this later. We don't have time for this today. You look at this, the thing that God commends the church for is that they're patient. But he condemns them for their lack of love. And so here Paul's telling them With patience bearing with one another in love. And we can ask ourselves the question in Revelation: is God talking to them about their first love for Him or the first love for one another? It doesn't say. But it says that they lost their first love. And I thought to myself, does it make sense that we could be patient with people and not love them? I can put up with you. And it might look like I'm being patient with you. Instead, you say, Oh, this person's doing something, I don't like it. I'll be patient with that, but I'll just go ahead and do my thing or grab them. And basically send them in until they have the choice what's doing. Yeah. You could do that. I mean there's strategies, right? I gotta laugh. Yeah. I'm being so patient with you. I'm praying for you. Because I know you need it. Um and I think that there's a a reality here too That that ties back to our humility because we can think we're being humble when we're praying for somebody, but we're really like in precatory calling down condemnation and stuff like that. I don't think that's what God meant when he said Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Pray for them. I think really, really, God's calling us to be in a position of bearing with one another in love. And so, you know, I was I was on a project where I'd been working on a project for years, and and then somebody came up underneath me. Above us, whispered to the people in charge, and basically slandered us such that they took away our work. And thought that that work wasn't any good for anymore. All that labor and there was good stuff. God wants me to bear with them too And to be patient with somebody who's actively my enemy and thinks they're in a right? I think that right here, this patience and bearing with one another in love is bigger than we might initially think. This can be a real challenge to our souls that Paul's calling us to. And it makes sense when you start to see this that just before this, Paul prayed that we would have Strength to understand the love of God. Because our patience is short and our love is shallow. And God is calling us to walk worthy of our calling with which He called us Um And and I would say too that I I'm I'm trying to think about how this is actively service as well. So I'm kind of like talking about this in my head right now. Have you ever gone to somebody to take care of them and they don't want it? I knew somebody who cared for their father who was not able to take care of themselves anymore who had Alzheimer's. And couldn't remember who that person that person was, his daughter. And cussed her out, and she bore with him in patience. and in love and took care of him to the very end. This is this is a real thing here This is not small stuff. And we need grace. We need God's power and spirit to bear with one another in love and to walk in humility and to be gentle When we don't feel like being gentle. And And to be eager to maintain the unity in the bond of peace is one of these things that Paul, he's been talking to a church here that is trying to integrate Jew and Gentile. And just because Paul says it's been broken down May not mean that it's actually been broken down. And what God in His glory has done is He has put together in a church People that don't have the same background as you. People who don't come with the same internal rules of what's right and the internal expectations of how you talk. And the internal expectations of how you worship God. But God put the body together, the church. And he says, and I want you to be eager to maintain unity. Eager. He didn't say, yeah, when it's convenient. Have you ever seen that person coming down the hallway and you're like, hmm, all right, I gotta say hello to them. Shouldn't that come easy? It should come easy, but I'm just being I I I'm thinking that this is Paul's given us this word, God's given Paul this word to give to us To remind us that who we are, that we need to fight against our flesh. And wrap our arms around the people who are different and praise God for them. Because his church has strengthened and matured and grown up when we see the people who are different than us and we go, praise God, I want to be united to them. Scott and I don't think the same. We don't. It you saw it even today. And there are times when when Scott's looking at this passage and and I'm looking at the passage and and we see different shades of it, but we're looking at the same passage And very likely, yes, it's true that there's an attitude and there's a putting into practice that happens at the same time. And that's how God's church is strengthened. Because if we're all seeing, if we're all wearing yellow shirts to church every Sunday, I gotta say this, I'm wearing a yellow shirt for the recording. Then we're gonna miss out on the glory of God. And what he's designed. Because you guys are smart, but you can't see eternity You can't understand the matchless glory of who God is. And so God's made it so that some people are going to be teachers. And back in the day there were apostles And prophets. And that's God's plan for the church And for you guys who are married, you may have noticed in your marriage that your spouse has different giftings than you. And you can be like that's stupid. Sorry. Or you can put your arms around that and be a stronger together. Because your spouse does the things that you struggle with. And you put up with, not just put up with, but you glory God in what he has done in your marriage, and glory God in what he has done in the church. And so God doesn't stop there. There's kind of like a I I spent a lot of time wrestling with what's the transition between verse three and verse four Because he's talking about these things that we, you know, be humble, be gentle, be patient, bearing one another in love. eager to maintain the unity and this bond of the you know bond of peace and I'm like cool that's me I got that okay I can work that I can work that I can work that and then he just jumps in and he goes there's there's one body and one spirit what's the connection for that Is Paul starting a new thought? Or is he building a thought that follows underneath of the concept of building, I'm sorry, maintaining the unity and the bond of peace? And I think it's a thought that follows underneath of verse 3. But I might, but yeah. But I I think that because Paul's talking about this unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. And then He starts illustrating how the Trinity is united in their tasking and the things that they have done where they have different roles and responsibilities. And so he links together there's one body and one spirit, just as you're called to the one hope that belongs to your call. One body and one spirit. Paul already talked about back in the end of chapter 2, that the Spirit of God is in the business of building up his church. And the Spirit of God is a seal that's inside to ensure who we are and to maintain us. And we're all members together, and verse 22 says we are built together into a dwelling place for God. Romans twelve I just want to make sure that we all know when Paul talks about the body here, he's talking about the church. I just want to lay that out. And Romans 12 also kind of helps us to understand that. For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ. and individually members of one another. And so with that we're going to see that the implementation Uh each person is different, but the body is going to work together and the spirit has a plan for that. The spirit's the one who's giving out gifts. And the spirit also is our enabling, is enabling us in power to do this thing that, as we think about it, feels a little bit outside of our grasp. I've talked a lot about our call. Um Uh I I want to press on because the next thing it says is one Lord, which is Christ, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, and we all Have our salvation by faith in Jesus Christ. And we're all baptized into Christ. Romans chapter 6 talks about that right in the beginning of the chapter Galatians 3 at the end of the chapter talks about that. Baptized into Christ, we all have the same faith. And finally, there's one God and Father who is over all and through all. And in all, the plan and purpose of God the Father has brought all of this together. You see it in chapter one in his election. You see it in his adoption. You see it in the blessing that God has poured out for us. So what we see here illustrated in the Trinity is kind of an illustration of what God's doing in the church. The persons of the Trinity are at work in doing these different activities that are building up and growing the church And we are going to be in a church actively working individually in the things that God calls us to. To build up a mature church. So it's a picture and an analogy of what's going on And so it's as simple as that. Just walk worthy in the manner which you've been called. Walk worthy of your calling. With all humility and gentleness Um I you know, we started this off by saying this doesn't feel all that glorious. Right? It it doesn't feel like I'm gonna I'm gonna go take that hill. I'm gonna plant a flag. Um But this is this is where this starts. One of the things that Paul's talking about here in the beginning, he's talking about the end in this passage. By the end, I mean down in just all the way down to chapter 16 is unity. You will not have unity in a church if you do the opposite of these things. If you walk in pride, you will not have unity. If you lack patience, if you're not gentle, if you're harsh We will not have unity. If you do not bear with one another in love, we will not have unity and the church. We'll have little bitty silos of people that just don't get along. And that's not the way God has indicated his churches to be. It's really important that we don't overlook the value that God places on loving others. It's a second greatest commandment. And it's also important That God remembers who we are, that we're dirt, that He breathed life into. And then after that we were sinners that He had to bring to life. And so he starts us off telling us, I just want you to walk in humility I just want you to be patient and loving with the people that are around you. In a sense, God's saying, let's start there. Let's get this aspect right. And we'll move on to some of these other things. This requires abiding in Christ. You can compromise for a little while, but you'll grow in bitterness. You can hold it inside, but eventually it's going to bubble out. You can tamp it down, try to forget about it, but instead, if you allow God to create a genuine love for the people that are around you, The people that are doing that thing again, whatever it is that drives you nuts, God can make it So you stop noticing that thing that drives you nuts because you love them He will create growth in us. That's why James says God gives grace to those who are humble. Let's start in the dependent attitude of walking humbly before God. Um, Jesus said, I came into your house, but you didn't wash my feet, you didn't give me oil for my head. But she came in and she's been wiping my feet with her tears. Because she's been forgiven much, she loves much. I think that as we see how much we've been loved, we'll be compelled to love others. I think that's wrapped also in knowing, I'm sorry, in walking worthy of the calling with which we've been called. Heavenly Father, you're very, very kind to us. You're very patient with us. Uh there's days when we feel like we'd be better off back in Egypt and we're ashamed of those things. Uh there's days, dear Lord, when we think I got this and I run out in front of you. There's days when I think, look what I just did. And dear Lord, you continue to be patient with me and you continue to work on me Heavenly Father, um I thank you for the strength and the Joy that you give us. Oh dear Lord, it's no fun to be humbled. So I pray, Heavenly Father, you'd help us to start in a position of humility. But dear Lord, thank you that you don't give up on us And you do discipline us when we need to be disciplined. And you treat us like your children. And Oh God, I I am so grateful that you start us here, that you you bring us back to the place where we need to be. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that we would remember our dependence on you. that we would walk by your power, that we would, our lives would be dominated by the fear of the Lord That we would grow in grace, dear Lord, that we would grow in joy because we see you. Heavenly Father, please Help us to be men and women after your heart and after your glory. We pray, dear Lord, for your glory. Amen.