I press record. We're good to go. So um good morning. Um my name is Daniel Ragab. Um I think from the room I recognize or at least know uh fast number of you, but not all of you. So it's nice to meet you. I am the third teacher in the class, so you if you've been with us the whole time then you've sat under Doug, Scott, and then now here I am. So a couple things just sort of right off the bat. If you co-teach a class with two of the worship leaders in the class. They like to put hymns at the beginning, which I think is wonderful. But it also means that one of them needs to help lead the hymn because I will not. So Scott is here and he will help with that. Second, I enjoy discussion in class a lot. And so I try to ask questions to sort of solicit some conversation, some discussion. Eventually sort of like when my um when my wife gets here, um you'll find that sometimes I look to her because sometimes my questions are a little vague or they don't sort of She'll give me like a little signal of like nope, try it again, like that one didn't make sense. Um but if you need clarification, I want you just to Just say, hey, what do you mean by that? Or just you know what I mean? You can just say like, can you give us a little more or whatnot. That being said, discussion is wonderful. Um I think it's a part of the way that we Enjoy community, but we're here to study a specific passage, a specific purpose. And so at moments or times I will curtail the conversation or sort of bring us back in. If we go on a tangent, Gonna pull this back in, um, but try to do so with sort of like grace. So um just that you don't feel offended, but just you know intentionally um this is what I'm doing. Um I believe that our time together on a Sunday morning um is worship, um including the time in class together, so not just the time in service. And so what I mean by that is um Even as we're studying the passage, we're going through what does Paul have to say in this letter, the aim here is to worship a good God who is loving. It's not academic knowledge. In fact, that's incredibly relevant given Ephesians, given part of the section that we're going to get an intro in today, because Paul's prayer is for the recipients of the letter to know God better. And he does not mean know more about God. He means to know God. And then he will work his way through that in terms of the whole letter. So that's uh just just as a reminder, that is the perspective that I have in terms of how we will spend this time together this morning. So uh I'm gonna pray to start us off, and I'm gonna ask Scott to help um lead us in the hymn and then we're going to get into the section. So the section that we're reading today is Ephesians 1, 13 to 17. And as we go through it, you'll see it's a little bit of sort of like, particularly depending on the Bible you have, it's a little bit of the end of one quote unquote section and start of another section. And I say that just because those headings and whatnot are not from manuscripts, but it's the translators trying to help us group thoughts together. So let me uh commit our time Heavenly Father, we are thankful that we can come to you on a morning like this and we can ask for your help. to know you better. We thank you, God, that you've given us your word, that you've kept for us. We thank you, Lord, for the Holy Spirit, that He will lead. Conversation that he will impress your truth upon our hearts and bring your truth to remembrance in our mind and convict us of our sin and keep us close to you. We are thankful, God, that you have a good plan that is a big plan, yet that involves us each individually. So I pray for this morning that you would be honored. that we would give weight to you, Lord, and praise to you, and that we would love you in our time together. And just that it would be focused and sweet and even that we would grow in fellowship as we spend this time. Thank you for who you are and how you love. We pray this all in Jesus' good name. Okay. So if you all can please turn back to uh Ephesians one. Before we go into the section for today, I want to do a little bit of review and a little bit of sort of what have we seen so far and what's in the section. So to do that, I am actually going to ask that we read in Ephesians 1 from verse 3 all the way down through. Seventeen. So three to seventeen. Can I get a couple volunteers, maybe two, to just split it up? Thanks, Jim. Thanks, Mark. You want to start us off? Thank you. You know, uh just as a function of how we study things together sort of as a church or even individually. Um a lot of times you have to spend a lot of time in short verses, right? In in the short um Sort of number of verses. So for instance, today we're really only going to talk about 13 to 17 for the most part. But an important thing to consider is that this is a letter that's written and read all together. And a lot of times what you don't want to do is because you've zoomed in so far on sort of the small section of your reading, is forget, wait, how did we get here? What was Paul talking about? What are all the things we're doing together? For your own personal study and then sort of also coming in the class, it's really useful actually to just go back and keep rereading these sections and talking about And and thinking through, well yeah, what what have you done in terms of like these different themes, like Paul? Like what what did you mean here? What did you mean there? Just as a function of one way to study is sometimes is literally just to circle words that you see that seem to pop off a lot. And so that's actually something that I want to sort of start with first here, is just in the preceding section, before we even get to our verses today, what are some of the words that we have recognized Like Paul is is either using or or even sort of like ideas. If I were to pull some of those out and say, like, what's language that Paul keeps referencing a lot, I would say that he keeps referring to praise. Whose praise? That's a Sunday school answer. It's a real easy one. Jesus. Hey, thank you. Love? Whose love? So far, God's love, correct? Purpose. Say it again. Okay. Any others? He just gave writes a lot or any occurs to the right. He does. But even on that purpose one, I'd say that Paul's also making reference to our purpose. There's his purpose, and there's our purpose. Not that they're against each other, but that they are intimately connected. Calling His calling, but our calling in him. Blessing, redemption, forgiveness, grace. His action, our receipt. Wisdom counsel, whose Say that again. Okay. If you were to look at all of these together and these ideas and these themes, I think something that's really important to press this upon us is that these are not new things That Paul is writing, but he is building upon a very rich Old Testament background for each of these ideas. He's working through promises and truths that God from the beginning of time set forth. And then as time progressed, he accomplished, and then Paul is referencing what is to come as well. And we got a little bit in that in terms of um Verse 10, for instance, as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in Christ, things in heaven and things on earth in him. If you're actually to zoom out and think about how the Lord is working through time here, You can see that he's referring to things that he first intended right in the beginning. This is this concept of predestination. Old Testament promises that he gave to patriarchs and prophets along the way, things that were accomplished. Things that are accomplished in time now in Christ, both applicable to the recipients of the letter who are in Christ and us as believers, and that also a future look towards things that would come. And that's particularly important when we are considering something about 13 to 17 where we want to focus in here a little bit more, because he's building on this theme It was already referenced before when both Doug and Scott had talked through it. There's a lot of Trinitarian theology throughout this. It's God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. In and out. And today, for instance, is a continuation of that. Something I want for us to consider here is that these promises and these truths are both universal and personal. What I mean by that is it's God's master plan that he's unfolding, that encompasses all of history, and yet they're very much also individual promises That are true for the individual believer in the midst of the body. The reason that's important is because that is a theme that Paul is actually going to keep throughout Ephesians with regard to Yeah, here's the purpose for God's children. Here's the purpose for God's church. Here's what it looks like on an individual level. Here's how those intertwine. The revealing of God's promise sort of across this is first to God's chosen people, Israel. But then what Paul is sort of laying out is that this plan was always with intention to include what becomes the church as well. And and that's very much what he's sort of talking about in our section here. If you were to look at verses 1, 3 to 14 together, and this is where sort of like I think the other guys reference as well, and there are folks definitely in the church who study biblical Greek. Uh I I do not um in terms of like I am not a scholar in biblical Greek or Hebrew. Um but essentially in the original Greek verses three to fourteen is a single sentence And then verses 15, all the way to chapter 2, verse 10, is also a single sentence. It's one thought that Paul is sort of like putting all the way through. John Scott has a really nice sort of synthesis of those two sections. The section of three to fourteen is essentially, it's the idea that these are the praiseworthy blessings that we have in Christ. And that second section, 115, 2 to 10, is Paul prays both the thanksgiving, but that you would know these blessings even more. And that you understand the fullness of these blessings. And then he wants to break that down for us. So Before we get into the individual verses, from the themes that we've gotten to so far What here's one of my vague questions. So help me help me if you want narrow din What do these truths that we've gotten so far tell us about a praiseworthy God? Okay. Which speaks of God with a plan. What else Well also that he's faithful. That he's faithful. Um can you pull that out a little bit more free? So that's really helpful because you described in terms of God as faithful, but then you also gave us pictures of God's perfection. There's nothing that fails in him. In terms of that faithfulness, it's he does what he says he will do. And there's no changing in him. He does not lie. He is good. And you also made reference towards what we would call sort of God's righteousness and his holiness. He is set apart. He is something more and different and perfect. And there's every aspect of goodness. And it's not just that he is good, he is, but that he sets the standard of good. So if you have these truths, and when Paul is writing through this, I I think it's important to consider Paul's not just like writing down systematic theology. Right? He's not just like writing down truths. He has a purpose in his letter for sharing these things. So if you were pausing and say, okay, well, God who is faithful, who is holy, who is righteous, Has a purposeful plan that he has been unfolding and continues to unfold, you should trust in him. This all of a sudden sets the tone for our response towards, God, you're good. God, I do want to trust in your plan. God, I want to know you better. So I want to pause here for a quick second, and I just want to acknowledge that this is how we as people, in our design, as God intended, trust. We put our trust into people that do what they say they're going to do, that are good, that are righteous, that are trustworthy. That don't turn left to right. That this is part of our design. And that is a function of Well God, one, were made in your image, and two, that's how you designed relationships. That's how you intended for things, because that's who you are You put all that together God is worthy of praise in design. Because our inclination towards a thing that we see as good and holy and beautiful In God's good purposes is to worship it. To worship in love, in attention, in focus, in trust. If this is the perspective I have of God, say, God, this is who you are, and this is my response. Then when I consider that someone is telling me, someone being Paul with the Holy Spirit, so let's take that. So then when I consider that God is telling me through the Apostle Paul. Hey, I have a plan, and this plan has looked like this since eternity and will continue to unfold in this way. What he is prompting from you is a heart response to say, okay Lord, tell me more. Okay, Lord, I do want to know. Okay, how does this unfold? For the original recipients of this letter, it's going to look a little different from us, only in that he's revealing some truths that for us from the outside we might not have appreciated in the same way But for today and for present day, we can appreciate it in principle similarly. And so I want to talk about that when we get to the verse, okay? So To get to verse thirteen, so um To get to verse 13, I gotta cross through 1112. So, Scott, I'm not I'm not doubling up, but I gotta I gotta like touch on it again. In him we have obtained an inheritance having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him you also When you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. I'm reading from the ESV. This concept of inheritance, the word that is used here for inheritance, is something that literally means to sort of like uh to obtain a possession uh to choose by law. Now or still risk here's still risk. Here we go, Bill. The way I am using trusted commentators with regard to an interpretation of biblical Greek. Okay, so I set that forth. The way that inheritance is conjugated here, apparently, does not absolutely make it clear whose inheritance is it. What it could mean here is that it is actually our inheritance, so the thing that we have in future state to claim, or it could mean A reference to God's inheritance, that is, God's taking of possession. And that has Old Testament parallels So if you turn to Deuteronomy 4, keep your finger in Ephesians and Deuteronomy 4, and can I get one volunteer to read first? Is that from the ESC? Uh this is the greenest from the body. Okay. Um so say that again. No no that's okay. Um if you were to go into the NASDAQ for that one, for instance, it would say to be a people for his own possession as today, which is that other idea for inheritance. So what what does this mean? The point here is that Do do to do to do to do. Try trying to find the verse back. In him we we have obtained an inheritance. Having been predestined according to purpose of him who works all things according to counsel of his will. If it's a reference to God's claiming of his own possession, which that thought comes in later in a few verses Then this is really the idea of God saying, like, and you are my people who I will always take back, who I will always keep with. What is the purpose? What is the purpose of that? The purpose of that inheritance? The purpose of That um really that truth to the praise of his glory. It is to the praise of his glory. It is not an intention of something for us individual or apart from God, but is literally that he would be praised. So now when you get to verse 12, which is the transition that I needed for verse 13, you have a reference to we who were the first to hope in Christ. When you get to verse thirteen, it says, In him you also, when you heard the word of truth. That we first versus you also is the reference to first The Jew, and second, the Gentile believer. Now we're going to get to this and it becomes very clear. The you first Second here is not in terms of hierarchy, superiority, but rather chronology. In time, in God's good purpose, we just worked through all these biblical truths about why we trust God and His good plan. This is how the plan unfolded. It unfolded in a manner that it first came to God's chosen people The promises, the blessings, the truths, all these things that would continue to be accomplished. And then as the mysterious plan unfolded, which that reference, we are going to get more in Ephesians. It became clear, and this is for the Gentile believer also I'm going to talk about it a little bit more and really like we're going to spend a lot of time in it in Ephesians. This is impactful. This is impactful because it is a it requires a shift in the thinking Of a Jewish believer at that time who would have been so accustomed to the idea we are God's chosen people Even in believing in Christ, it would have said, we are God's chosen people in this way. And Paul works to this in other letters as well. It might not be as impactful to us today in that exact same manner, but it is still relevant. So the question comes well, in verse thirteen, what is it What what is it? Yeah, that question's not gonna work. Hold on. I'm pulling that one back. I'm just gonna make a sentence. In him you also, so now we have who the recipient is, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. I would like a if it's okay, I'd like a slightly honest response. How many of you sometimes You don't have to raise your hand. This doesn't matter. Breeze over words like that sometimes. You might just sort of be like, yeah yeah, I got it, I got it. You heard the gospel, you believed. I don't mean that in any way to disregard the weight of scripture. What I'm saying is that sometimes our emotional response or our unfortunately sort of like a response we have is that we sort of like, yeah, that's the gospel, but like I'm here to learn something sort of deeper. And what I would like to posit here is that Paul is particularly making the point, well, you don't move on from the gospel. You never move on from the gospel. It is still the foundation of the truths that we believe here. He is saying that when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, that is the good news of your salvation, and believed, you were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. Can someone turn to uh actually I will I will get this. I'm gonna pull up first John here for a quick second. 1 John chapter 5. Whoever believes that Jesus Christ, sorry, whoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and whoever loves the Father loves the child born of him. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and observe His commandments. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and His commandments are not burdensome. For whatever is born of God overcomes the world, and this is a victory that has overcome the world, our faith. Who is the one that overcomes the world? But he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ. Not with water only, but with the water and with the blood. It is the Spirit who testifies, because the Spirit is truth. We're going to talk here in a second about the idea of being sealed by the Holy Spirit and this reference here. But to get there, we have to just appreciate that what Paul is laying out is that that good work accomplished by God that had a response in a person is that There is a hearing of the word of truth, which implies there is a speaking of the word of truth. That gospel of salvation, and there is belief. And those things are accomplished by the Holy Spirit through his people. The Holy Spirit is the one who does the work. And yet it's God's people who are speaking truth. And your heart response is to believe in these things Now, we got to believe here, and what would have to be incredibly important is to recognize that believe is not intellectual Acknowledgment. Jesus himself had claims against the demons. Yeah, yeah, you know who I am. So knowledge of is not that which accomplishes belief. But it is, and if you take the idea of promise and trust and all these things, It is, no God, I I believe in you. I trust you. So what is this identity that you have in Christ? It is one that has a response in faith. Based on that belief, you are sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. The concept of feeling. Any public notaries in the class? No? It's a little bit old school. Really? We don't have any? We have a public notary in the church, though, right? I think we do, right? What is significant about a public notary that I would reference here? Thoughts? Seal. Say again? They're seal. They're they have a seal, right? And what when you say seal for the kids in the class, what's the literal seal? It's like this. Yeah, yeah, or a stamp or a it's this idea of you you physically mark the thing. with and it's raised and you can like touch it if you guys have ever gotten it. Yep. When you go to a public notary and they take their seal and they stamp it, what did they do with regard to the person that went to get something notarized? At least one of you has gotten to it. This is definitely Say again. They checked your ID. That's right. Take your ID, they check it, they got that little ledger that they write in by hand, if they still do it that way. And they just sort of like write your info, put your ID, what did I check, blah blah blah Standard, right? It's a mark of authenticity, or essentially a mark of, hey, this thing is valid and can be vouched for. So the concept here of feeling, so that's a that's an excellent word. Say that again. And that's a really sort of excellent add-on to it, right? Because we here take a seal and we say, well public notary is sort of like, yeah, you're sort of uh involved with a government attack But depending on whose seal that is, you tend to give it more weight. There are higher and higher levels of, for instance, in our government, of seals that can show up on things. all the way up to the executive office. Who is, according to this verse, the seal? Not what? Who? The Holy Spirit. In the concept of sealing with regard to a stamp of authenticity, true and genuine, this carries the weight of the one who has of the one who has marked it, if you will You could turn to Romans 8. 16, and you can say the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs of Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we might also be glorified with him. The Holy Spirit Himself becomes that mark of authenticity. The concept of indwelling spirits, where do we draw that from? Like in scripture. Reference in Romans. Reference in the upper room discourse in terms of the Lord making his home. in you. And in fact, that's where I drew the verse here. Um That concept of feeling has another meaning that also draws from biblical truth. That relates to time. Any ideas what that might be? Um yeah, it's a it's a s it's a very similar concept to that. Um and and what I might say is that it's that concept of being kept in time, in security and state. So what I think you're referencing is that that ceiling, what we think is is the idea that it's going to be kept together until like its final time due The concept here of sealing in terms of biblical truth may also refer to that. It may be that there's a tension that really that with the way the the Lord is using this is that like Take these truths with regard to what sealing can mean. There is a mark of authenticity. There is also this concept of you are kept. You will not be lost. You belong to me. When the Lord is in the upper room, right, so this is right before Um it's it's his last extended time with the disciples. He's talking to the disciples, and he is encouraging them in terms of a time of what is going to become incredibly sorrowful and difficult for them, and trying to encourage them, no, no, no, your sorrow is going to turn to joy. No, no, no. I'm not leaving you on your own. In fact, I'm going to send one to you. I'm going to send you this helper, and he is going to be with you. You will not be lost. You will not be overcome by the world. You will be kept. That concept of That concept of being kept and being secure in the Lord Is accomplished by his person and is a reflection of what we were already talking about. He is a faithful God who keeps his promises, who does what he says, to the extent that he promises to be with the believer. Now, don't miss that even in even in referencing to this and the idea of being sealed with the Holy Spirit, he has connected it to the gospel of your salvation, which you believed. He connects here. And we're going to talk about for a second the promised Holy Spirit with belief, not with another higher order of Christian life that then accomplishes the receipt of the Holy Spirit. I'm just going to lay that here and we don't need to sort of like draw on it too much, but the point is it's a receipt of the Holy Spirit upon belief. not upon something else. Why the promised Holy Spirit? Jesus promised that he would send it. Yeah, so so Jesus references in terms of the promise of the Holy Spirit coming. But then zoom out. You got another one actually? Testament talks about the pouring out of God's Spirit on his people to give them heart, flesh, etc. So even in the Old Testament you see periods where people receive the Holy Spirit but don't worry. Right, and that promise we um we draw from Joel in so chapter two in Joel verse twenty eight. And we reference the accomplishment of that, if you will, or the first coming of the Holy Spirit at what event? In what reference of the Bible? What event? What reference? Pentecost axe two. Pentecost acts two. The coming of the Holy Spirit and what the Holy Spirit accomplishes in believers' lives is all part of God's plan. So keep in mind this whole section, every spiritual blessing that you have that you've already been blessed with, is a part of a plan that He's had all along, and a plan that looks to the future Where as a believer you are marked and you are kept not just with an external action, but with the presence of the Holy Spirit in the believer who Because this is going to be particularly important as we continue on in Ephesians, helps us grow in our knowledge of the Lord and in how we Become more like him in relationship, in action, in desire, in intention. Because what is our purpose? It's for his glory. It was never a concept that you would be saved and just kept until the end, and then you keep being you, and then just roll on. I really want sort of like really want like normal language on that one. The concept here is this, yeah, for for God's glory. But in looking at all these things, we desire to be closer to God. And this is where we sort of, as we get into the next session, is because as you know him more, you will recognize, oh God, you are really worthy of praise. So if we can end number 14, who is the guarantee? Who is the who in the sentence? Holy Spirit. is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. Okay, so the word guarantee here refers to like a deposit or a pledge, if you will. So essentially the idea of like it's a it's the down payment. The Holy Spirit is that which is sort of like the, yep, this is a part of what will become the final inheritance. Whose inheritance is it? And this one? This one I'm yeah, this one we're gonna go up with ours. Um does he mean believing Drew or does he mean Gentile? Please say. Excellent. That's right. That transition for you, for we, for you also, here is the hour. This is our inheritance as saints This is that which we have that down payment for that will go all the way through. Now That until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory, apparently in the section that I signed up for, there was all the ones that were like, it could be this or it could be this. So in your EC study Bible, there should actually be a reference to the idea that this one may actually be more God's own possession. So it's God taking it back. So a little bit of that same idea we were talking before. Can you say it again? I thought uh I was just looking at an NESV because it's got those professionals. Yeah. Yeah, so I think the ESV, if I'm not mistaken, the ESV says until we acquire possession of it, but then they put in a footnote. That references the NASDAQ translation. If you take that same word, so that's a that's a godlined possession is a slight, it's a different word there. And go to 1 Peter 2:9, you find that Peter is saying, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of the darkness into his marvelous light. That's 1 Peter 2, uh actually it's 1 Peter 2, 9. God's taking, God will keep you, God's taking you back. The Holy Spirit, who is that mark that you belong to Him, That you will be kept in time until the fullness with which God brings you back all the way to completion in the final way That hour actually um just as a note, if you caught in that first Peter reference God's purpose, His plan always connects with our purpose, that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous life. These truths, these things, they're not a compulsion. Sorry, we're not compelled into them as if it's forced upon us. When you look at the truth, when you look at the truth of your own heart, and you recognize, God, how great you are and how great I'm not. You want to worship him. You are thankful. You want to proclaim his excellencies because you look at a trustworthy God and you say, God, you are wonderful. I want to praise you. To the praise of his glory. That's the end of that. It's it's consistent. Note the very beginning of the sentence. Well, not beginning a sentence, but in there. He he references this idea of to the praise of his glorious grace just It's the book end of the entire thought, which is that God would be praising us. That God would be praising this So, how does this transition then, if you take the culmination of these spiritual blessings in this section, how does it transition then into Paul's prayers? So, this is a paraphrase. Don't write this down. So, these things being true, I thank God for how they work in your lives. his work, your response, and pray that they would be even more true in your lives as you apprehend them more. It's not a It's not like a strange transition. He's saying, look at this masterful plan, look at these things that are true, look at the way that it's unfolding. This is always God's purpose. I thank God that I see this at plain in your life. I want you to know this even more. And that's our transition in the verses fifteen to seventeen. For this reason, because I've heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him. Faith in the Lord Jesus and love for the saints is intertwined in a concept. It's intertwined in a concept. You don't get the one without the other. This concept of all saints Toward all the saints, all the holy, is a theme that he's going to dig deeper into in Ephesians 2. With regard to the wall that is between the Jewish believers and the Gentile believers, that is to be broken down. I sort of referenced it a little It's kind of a hard concept for us, mainly in that we're not in that culture. So when I say it's a hard concept, what I mean is like I just don't I just don't think we totally get how impactful or significant that was to the New Testament church. But we can, with regard to the ideas of The walls that can be between saints now. And what Paul is saying, what the Lord is saying, is you don't get to keep any barriers between saints that are a reflection of Cultural norms, traditions, national, political, ideological, preferential Certain aspects of the model has to look like this in terms of how you live your life. Now, keep in mind I'm staying on the right side of Orthodox. Okay? So I'm not saying that there is a tolerance of sin with this concept. What I'm saying is that he doesn't allow for, well no, this is the way it is. This is what it looks like to be a Christian With regard to the cultural norm, there's no room for that. So when he later is going to talk about the breaking down the wall between what God's chosen people were and the Gentile believers. There he's building on he's building on tradition and the way that God's people had been first marked out. And he's saying, yeah, but that but now it's sort of opened up. If I were to summarize that a little bit more in terms of a concept of application I would say you may not hold on to anything that is greater than the truth that God has revealed that would impact your love for one another. If there is a hindrance towards your love for a saint because of something that you're holding on to that is more important than God's truth, that is something to be dealt with. And the good news is that God has every intention of helping with that regard, because that's his intention for the church, is to be a unified church in his truth. Listen, there are things you hold on to closed fist, and there are things you hold on to open hand. I don't know if that does that expression like super clear to folks? I'm actually like not sure. Like I learned that like a long time ago, but I'm not sure like how normal it is. There is theological orthodoxy. There are things that you do not mess around with. And you don't get to tolerate it because that will disseminate in a church and be very dangerous. So there are the truths of God that we do not mess around with. So this is not a concept of like We're going to mess around with the Trinity. And like, oh, you don't believe that the Holy Spirit is like a person of God? No, that's the root of a lot of heresy in church history. We're not talking about that, but we're talking about our if there are cultural norms or barriers or whatnot, that is a hindrance for 12 and the faint. But God is not leaving us to our own devices with regard to figure it out. What he's saying is I remember you in my prayers, so Paul writing, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. It continues on, but that's going to be for next week, where I'll continue on for that. But what he's saying is: hey, I want you to know God more. And I want this to play out in your life. And I want God, I'm praying that God would continue, that you would rely on the Spirit that He's given, that He would teach you through these things. Note in this sentence the purposes of the triune God again. Right? Lord Jesus Christ, Father of Glory, Spirit of wisdom and revelation. You know him. I want you to know him more. You have him. I want him that he would work more in your life. You love him, that you would love him more. That one I'm adding in and thought And the wisdom and revelation that you would have, what is the purpose of that? To the praise of his glory. It's that same concept that we got before: that he would be praised, that your life would be reflection that you proclaim as excellencies, that even more so people will turn and say, like, oh, that's a good God. That's a good God that you have. This concept of like that being our purpose, incidentally, should also jar our minds and hearts a little bit. with regard to what's our daily purpose? Because sometimes we'll wake up in the morning and our purpose is to get through the day. Or just to accomplish that thing, or just to fill in the blank that's more personal. Whereas here what he's saying is, oh, no, actually your purpose is for his glory. And that can look like being in a hard time, going through some things, being faithful in the season that you're in, in the role that you're in, in the struggle that you're in. in the praise that you're able to give him, absolutely. But he wants you to zoom out and be like, who do I belong to? Who has kept me? Who do I give thanks to? What can I give thanks for? What love do I have? What love do I receive? All those things he wants to keep at the forefront of our mind And again, he promises that the Holy Spirit is with us and helping us in that. This idea of the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of him, if you consider it with regard to the prophecy of Jesus in terms of Isaiah 11, There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse and a branch from its roots that shall bear fruit, and the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding. the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. And his delight shall be in the fear of the Lord. He shall not judge by what his eyes see or decide disputes by what his ears hear, but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, and decide with equity for the meek of the earth. Keeping in mind this is a prophecy for Jesus. And he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips he shall kill the wicked. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and the faithfulness the belt of his loin. Understand that when we look towards that perfect example in our Lord Christ, we see one who relied on the Lord, trusted in the Lord Said, yeah, it's it's my father's will that would be done. So I'm rounding up here. And my questions with regard towards application for ourselves What promises do you rely on in your daily life What promises do you draw from? What truths are you able to go back to and say, God has said this thing, so I know this to be true, I can trust him in this. Are you God's possession? Now that one is not a No, that one is not a do you feel like God's possession? That is not what I'm saying. I'm saying, are you God's possession? If you are in Christ, the answer is yes, correct? We all agree with that. It's not a whole lot of nodding, but I'm going to take that as the general consensus of the room. But if that's true, then what of your identity do you draw from that first? What do you say? Well, no, I I belong to the Lord. Well, no, I have an inheritance. I am God's inheritance. that he wants for me and not because of any good work I've done but because of who Jesus Christ is. How did that affect your identity In the structure of Ephesians, Ephesians 1 to 3 will be a lot of sort of like spiritual truths and unveiling. And then 4 to 6 becomes this incredibly um personal interaction with, hey, what do your relationships look like? Hey, what does your behavior look like? Hey, how does that how how does that model itself in terms of God's plan playing out in the church in the local church, in the universal church? How's that playing out? And Paul goes all the way down to your most intimate relationships and friendships. So then the question for you then, by manner of application, is also, what are you holding on to that hinders belief or trust in God's promises? What's the thing that you're going to instead of God's plan? So if I look at Ephesians 1, 3 to 14, And I say, well, yeah, but what am I trusting more than that plan as it unfolds? And then the last that I have is And this is going to be built on a a lot more Ephesians, but in terms of unity with believers in God's purpose. Is there something that hinders you with regard to that? Is there something that you hold on to more? Now keep in mind that's not a What hinders my unity in looking at the other person? Right? The point here is the self-reflection of it, not the idea of, no, I'm being hindered by you. It is the, no, what am I bringing that is bringing hindrance to unity. So I'm gonna pause here. We're gonna continue on in the next section next week. So in terms of That Thanksgiving and prayer, we're going to continue on in that section, and then I will try to sort of right I'm I'm going to overlay a little bit from this week into next week as well, just so that the thought remains continual. Um any final questions or comments before I close this in prayer? And we're ending a couple minutes early. Okay. Thank you all. So I'm gonna just close us and then um thanks for your time. Heavenly Father, um We thank you for your truth and we thank you for just your promises and how good you are to us. It is really easy to see a big plan that you have, your big truths. And to acknowledge them intellectually, but to disregard them personally when we think about how you have called us individually in relationship with you. I pray, Lord, just that you would help us trust in you more personally and as your body. That you would just remind us of your glory and your goodness, that we would praise you. And just Lord that we would take your word seriously and that we would trust in you and the Holy Spirit that He would apply it to our hearts. And just that we would continue to be changed from the inside out, to be more like you, to your praise. We pray, Lord, for the rest of the morning, for a continuation of worship. Just that you be glorified and that we would love you more. Praise this in Jesus' good name. Amen.