Record. Hope y'all can hear me on the recording. Um So today is week seven. Week seven, going through the book of Ephesians. If you think about that, this is the first quarter that we're going through. We are just at the halfway point of the first quarter, which puts us a quarter of the way through the whole thing that we plan to do. Ish. Um The title today is One, I can't even say it, sorry. One New Man at Peace. One new man at peace. You know, last week Scott taught from Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 to 10. How many of y'all, raise your hand, if that's like one of your treasured passages in Scripture? Ephesians 1, sorry, 2, verses 1 to 10. Why? So rich. Compacted. It's so rich. It's compacted. It lays out the gospel. And if some of you guys are a little early on a Sunday morning and are like, oh, Ephesians 2. That's a passage that says, and you were dead in your trespasses and sins. But God made you alive. So by grace you've been saved. And it's because of his love. So that so that we can do the things that God has prepared beforehand And that's a quick high-level summary of what it was that we were talking about last week. It's a powerful passage. And for me it is one of my favorite passages. How many of you all Think of Ephesians two, eleven to twenty-two as one of your favorite passages. Uh uh. Yeah. Oh yes? I will never forget the first time I taught this passage. Watching a new believer that was being taught just break down and cry. Because of the power of what's being taught here in this passage. And I also submit to you that Ephesians 2, 1 to 10, And Ephesians two, eleven to twenty-two are parallel illustrations. And it's important to see that from the perspective of the entire flow of the book. And we'll come back to that and we'll talk about that for a minute. But I'll tell you, I have two and a half classes worth of notes to teach today. So God's going to have to take care of teaching to us. The things that he wants us to know and hear and learn, so that it can impact our hearts, so that we can draw near to him and glorify God Who's over all and in all and through all and has an amazing, absolutely amazing plan that he revealed in Christ. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are amazing. And I said it again and again. You are glorious. You're amazing to behold your tenderness towards us, your loving kindness towards us, your immeasurable grace. Your spectacular inheritance that you have for us, God, are things that we can talk about on and on, and we look to the day when we will have the chance to revel in your glory. seeing you light up the sky so that there's no need for sun. But in the meantime, Heavenly Father We have your word that displays your glory in all of its splendor. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would impact our hearts today, that we would grow to love you more, and that we would cherish you, God. You above all, that we see, Heavenly Father, the tenderness that you have towards us. The unfolding of your wonderful plan. I pray, God, that you would give me strength. This feels beyond my grasp. And uh and yet it's right here. So I pray, Heavenly Father, you direct this class, knowing God, that we're hearts, all of us, have hearts that are frail and tired. And we confess lazy and self-centered. So I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would shine forth your sparkling glory to us today, so that we would see it. So that we would echo back your glory, your praise, and honor about who you are this day. That we would love you more deeply and have a desire to draw near to you. Amen. Open Ephesians 2. I just want to give a quick summary of where we stand in the book of Ephesians right now. Not only are we in Ephesians chapter 2, starting at verse 11, but we've gone all the way through chapter 1 into this point right now. And so quick review of where we are as we progress through the book of Ephesians. Chapter 1 starts off with Paul's greeting in verses 1 and 2. He says, Hey, I'm Paul, grace and peace to you. And then jumping forward in verses 3 to 14, there's one long, glorious praise of who God is and what he has done, starting off with: Blessed be the God and Father. Of our Lord Jesus Christ who has past tense blessed us with every spiritual, not some, every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places And it's this amazing, glorious praise. And I just picture Paul who's dictating this to somebody else, and the guy who's trying to write this down is like, woo, woo! Because Paul just can't contain himself. And he's overflowing with praise. And oftentimes I've thought about the book of Ephesians as these three, these verses right here are Paul's praise, and then he gets on to the teaching part. But I've come to realize that chapters 1 through 3 are all about praise, especially chapters 1 and 2. All about God's glory. All about who he is and what he has done. But these verses in 3 to 14 have a few key thoughts that are important for us to remember. First of all, the blessings that he talks about are all in Christ Jesus All of them. And he repeats it again and again and again. He's the source and primary agent of these blessings. All of these, too, all of these are in accordance with the plan, the foreknowledge, the purpose, the wisdom, and the intentional will of God. Four, the bl the blessings include things like adoption and redemption and forgiveness and holiness. And election and unity, which is what we're starting to talk about today, and our inheritance that we have in Christ. And finally, again and again, they display the immeasurable love and lavish riches of his grace. And Paul repeats this phrase to the praise of his glory. To the praise of his glory. You can shout that. You can dance on to the praise of his glory. And all of these display these. And Paul then in verse 15 to 23 jumps in and says, I'm grateful for you and I pray for you. Because I want your hearts to be filled the same way my heart is filled with, that you would know the hope that God has called you to. that you would see and understand deep in your heart where it matters, the riches of his glorious inheritance and the saints. And that you would really understand the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe. And then he goes on to illustrate that right then and there. He said, that's that same power that raised Christ from the dead and seated him in the heavenly places. Far above. That's the power that's at work in us. And in the passage that Scott talked last week, he says the same things about us. Look at chapter 2. I imagine you're already there. Look at chapter 2 of Ephesians. And this to me is really Verse 5 and 6. But, I'm sorry, even when we were dead in our trespasses, he made us alive together with Christ by grace you've been saved. And raised us up with him. and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That to me feels like places I don't belong To claim that I could be seated with Christ in the heavenly realms if God's word didn't say that, I would think that was a blasphemous thing to say. That's too far. That's a blessing too high. But that's what God says. That's what Paul, by the Spirit of God, revealed to us that God's power is at work in us to do. And I go, Woo Hallelujah. Praise God That's what Paul's praying that they would understand. And he doesn't know it's just like, I'm praying for you, brother. I'm praying for you, sister. I did it yesterday, I know I did. Because I knew I was going to forget after yesterday Paul says, I continue to pray for those things. And then in chapter 2, like a good teacher, he gives us two illustrations of what that looks like. And both of them start off with, and they both basically have the same outline. They both start off with: remember who you were, you were dead. But God fixed your problem with a so that And so the outline in chapter in chapter 2, verses 1 to 10 is: you are dead. You talk about us being zombies, right? You are dead. You are hopelessly runt Dead, but God, because of his love, made us alive. So he fixed our problem And if you look at the so that, you can say it's so that we don't have any room to boast, and that we would get to work doing what God prepared for us to do beforehand. And some of you are all LA, I'm tired, I don't want to go to work. But this is God's glorious work to do. This is a joy to do. It's satisfying to do the things. That God has prepared for us in the power that God supplies. More on that in chapters 4, 5, and 6. And so today we have the same outline. We have a problem. We're desperately ruined, but God sow that. No, today we're not going to get through the whole passage. And praise God I get to teach next Sunday because whatever I don't get to It's just going to roll in the next Sunday. But uh at his mercy we'll finish this passage. But I want to read the whole illustration. I'm reading an ESV and I'm starting at verse 11. Therefore, remember That at one time you Gentiles in flesh called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ. Alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise Having no hope and without God in the world But now, in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near. by the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in the place of the two so making peace and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near For through him, we both have access in one spirit to the Father So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God built on a foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you are also being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. This is God's work that's going on. All to God's glory, to the praise of his glorious grace. So, Paul, wanting us to understand our inheritance The power at work in God, I'm sorry, in us, that God exercises in us. And um brain And the hope that God has called us to gives us these two illustrations. Yes, dear. I'm glad you asked that question, because I think it's multi-layered. The hostility, the question you asked is, is the hostility that's talked about in verse 14 The dividing wall of hostility, is that between Jew and Gentile? Or is that between unbelievers in God? How's that for a retake saying it? And I say the answer is yes. I say the answer is yes. Paul the Apostle to the Gentiles Has on his mind this division that's between Jew and Gentile. And the direction this is going, and where we're going to see more in chapter 3, is Paul's going to speak to this amazing mystery That the Gentiles now have a share in the hope that the Jews had as God's chosen people. And so that's one aspect of that mystery that's now broken down. But the other aspect of the mystery gets to what Paul talks about in Romans chapter 5 where he says we have peace now because before that he says in Romans chapter 3 What benefit is there in being a Jew? And if you skip forward to verse 9, he says, I already asserted that everybody's a sinner. And all are in need of grace. Amen. So there's hostility that unsaved Jews and unsaved Gentiles have. And in fact, later on in that same chapter in Romans, he says we were at enmity with God. But God showed his love to us who were his enemies and put his son on the cross. So that by his blood we could be reconciled and redeemed. And also Colossians uh chapter one. Um verse 21 said we were uh alienated because of our uh alienated because we were hostile in our minds and do what we believe. I'm glad you went to Colossians. You said Colossians chapter one, where you said we're alienated in our minds is powerful because that's also one of the prison epistles that's written at this same time and has a lot of parallel thoughts. in it. And so that's good good place to go when you're looking for other text to support your thoughts. So just like Scott showed us last week, we gotta start off with the bad news this week. And the bad news is staggering. But this first thing is this division between Jew and Gentile. Actually, can I I'm gonna interrupt myself just a minute. This passage starts off with the command to remember. And we don't want to gloss over that because in chapters one to three there are not a lot of commands. And so all of a sudden this command pops up that says, remember. Remember who you were. It's implied in verses 1 to 10, you were dead in your trespass. So he's helping us to remember that. In that illustration as well. And when you think about what, why? Stop for a minute. Because God wants us to know and hold in our minds. who we were so that we can be ones who love God more deeply You know, Jesus gave the example to the Pharisee, and he asked the question. Who would love them more? The one who's been forgiven a lot or the one who's been forgiven a little? And the Pharisee was probably the one forgiven a lot. And the picture there is the one who remembers that they've been forgiven a lot will love more. And so part of the reason why God has this here for us is for his glory, but also so that we would love God more deeply and that we would see what Paul's prayer is. the hope that we've been called to, the immeasurable greatness of this inheritance, and the power that's at work, that God's working in us. I have a really cool quote somewhere in my notes by R. C. Sprohl about we have a faith that's based on gratitude. And it motivates us to work. And if I ever find it, I'll read it to you. But it's in the notes. Actually, we should republish these notes because they've been updated a couple of times. Year I am, finally found my space Oh, R. C. Sprohl quoted a guy named G. Key Birkauer who said, gentlemen, the essence of Christian theology is grace, and the essence of Christian ethics is gratitude. We're not supposed to be motivated to godliness by fear of consequences of breaking the law. Rather, we ought to be motivated by gratitude. And in fact, what we see echoed in the Old Testament are feasts, and they're feasts to help us help the Jews to remember all that God had done. And for us, communion or Lord's Supper, depending on how you grew up calling it, is also a celebration To remember Christ's blood and body that was shed for us. So Paul jumps in and he says, Now remember you Gentiles in the flesh. What's a gentile in the flesh? Anybody? Not a Jew. I'm sorry? Not a Jew. Not a Jew. That's one answer. What's another answer? Uncircumcised. Uncircumcised, yeah. Between those two, that's really good. Not a Jew, uncircumcised. And that's where Paul goes right off the bat. And please understand that when Paul's using this He's recognizing that the Jews would use this as a term of contempt. Paul grew up in that society. He understands that society. And so he starts off by saying, okay, you contemptuous people Remember who you were, contemptuous, uncircumcised. From Abraham, historically speaking, from Abraham forward, circumcision was a sign of belonging to God's covenant people And being a part of his promise, identified with God's special blessing, and the recipients Of God's special revelation. Everybody gets general revelation, but the Jews Were spoken to by God and revealed to them the truth that God had for them. No other nation got that. There were chosen, and the sign of them being chosen was circumcision. You can see it in Genesis 17, 14. God tells Abram, go circumcise everybody, all the males And there's an interesting thing that happens to the nation of Israel starting in Deuteronomy chapter 10. Where God now commands the Israelites, they've been wandering in the wilderness, they're about to go into the promised land, and God commands in Deuteronomy 10, 16, circumcise your hearts. So that identification, this is early in the history of Israel. And I think maybe they didn't see it all the way or know it all the way. Or realize really what's going on here is that God is identifying Himself not so much with this physical sign done with hands. But that physical sign is intended to point to hearts that are circumcised. And that becomes a jumping off point to where we're gonna go to. By the way, this circumcision thing, it was a big deal for the early church. You can read about that in Acts chapter 15. Paul goes on and on about it in the book of Galatians. It's here This is a contemporary problem that Paul, as the apostle to the Gentiles, is dealing with. There are centuries of Jews and Gentiles Not relating to each other, not breaking bread together. It was scandalous that Paul went and had a meal with Cornelius in Acts chapter 10. Scandalous. Peter, not Paul. Yeah. And then it goes on. But as Gentiles, they didn't have any share. And Paul says Paul in the book of Romans says some interesting things that help shine some light on this. In Romans 3, verses 1 and 2, and also in Romans 9, verses 4 and 5 Paul speaks to the special privilege that the Israelites had. In Romans 3, he says, to them belong the oracles. And Romans 9, where is that big it he sa he speaks to the fact that they were They had God's special place and special person. Let's just go there. Romans 9, turn your Bibles there. For they are Israelites, and to them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants. The giving of the law, the worship, and the promises, to them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ. Who is God over all, blessed forever. Amen. This same concept right here in Romans chapter 9, Paul jumps into here in verse 2. Not only are you guys despicable Gentiles, but on top of that, um You have no hope of the Messiah. You're alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. You're strangers to the covenants of the promise. You have no hope And you're without God. That's pretty bad. You know, in verses 1 to 10, he just basically said, you're dead and you're serving Satan. Here says, oh, and by the way, you're hopeless. And without God. Strangers and aliens. And for me When I come to a passage like this, and I don't know if you guys can relate to this or not I think the whole idea of being dead in my trespasses and sins hits me more than necessarily being a stranger and alien. And and I don't know. I was pondering over that myself because maybe it has something to do with my iner internal Satisfaction of being an American citizen, so I'm not really looking for citizenship someplace else. You know, proud to be an American and stuff like that, which I don't really want to mock. But but that's that's something that's a truth that's kinda inside of me that I'm like, yeah, let's you know And I feel like I'm, you know, in this weird in-between. This is important for me to sink down into And to remember the importance of our citizenship. And this is a citizenship that rises above who your parents were. Did you want to say something, Daniel? I do, if it's okay. Yeah, please. I think the I think We're tempted to go the route of citizenship with regards to countries, because I think in terms of like what we're reading here, that seems a natural place to go. But I think I would probably go towards being at home in the community believers. Are you in a local assembly, in a local gathering Do you feel like like of the main type is actually the the place that holds our heart Do you feel like you belong? Yeah. Here's a way of asking that question. Have you ever gone to somebody else's family reunion? If you've been married, probably in the first month or so, you know, early in your marriage, you probably did. You went to your spouse's family reunion and you're like People on the recording can't see my arms crossed and my you know trying to be a wallflower. And and you know everybody's chit-chatting, right? What's it look like? Help me out. Describe what that would look like Yeah, Liz Mith. Well I noticed this actually fairly recently where it's like there's this like conversation that's happening and it's in English And I speak English and yet somehow we're not speaking the same language. Yeah. I don't know the joke, I don't know the history, I wasn't there when so and so was three years old. What is happening? Or when Roy did that thing, right? Why does the food taste like I don't get it. Tell me about it. Yes. Yeah. Help me out. What else does that look like? Well your first thought is I don't belong here. I don't belong here. Yeah, and there's something inside of us that wants to go run away and hide And I think to add on that, your your mind goes towards, well what would make me belong? What would make me belong? What's the standard that if I met that standard? Fan reunion is a little tough, right? But what's the thing that if I did it just this way, I would belong? And I think that's a thread that a features like that parallels the last really well. Yeah What would make it so that I would belong? And and and that I don't belong here is what Paul's trying to help the Gentiles to see. And for us, right, you know, we're in the church. This Jew-Gentile thing, to me, also doesn't feel like real and tactile. A little bit. But when I start to draw pictures like that, I know that if there's a party going on and I show up late and everybody's having a good time and you're like, okay How do I belong? And the gracious host invites you into the conversation And that's uh but God. And it's deeper than that. On top of that I I like the family reunion because prior to your wedding you didn't belong in that place. And we also experience what that's like because prior to knowing Christ, we don't belong in the family of God. We really are strangers and aliens. And without hope, and without a messiah. And And there's an aspect here too, Paul's talking to Gentiles and he's writing this letter, but kind of there's a subtext that's underneath this. that he's going to get to in just about a minute that says, I know I'm talking to you Gentiles, that you are hopeless. But the Jews were hopeless too. They're also sinners. And just because They God revealed to them by his prophets that there was a Messiah coming. And God revealed to them that they had a hope. Many of them hadn't latched onto that hope. And they were just Jewish. They weren't really of the family of God. They hadn't seen their hearts circumcised. They went to their Bamitzvah. And that's as far as it went. But the reality is too, in what Paul writes here in these five things that he describes, is the promises That are in the Old Testament for a Messiah are very Jewish They are a hope for the people of Israel. The covenant, if you go back, you know, we read at Christmas time, unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given, and we think, yay, Jesus is in the manger. The reality is the us there is Israel. And when you read it in this context and you see that, you realize that you're outside And it might make you feel a little jealous when you realize that. Wait a minute, what makes these Jewish people so special? Me too, please God? And Jesus says, I came to the lost children of Israel. And the woman says, but even the dogs. That's who we are. That's who we are because God has made a distinction between Israel and everyone else. And we can't run from that, and we can't hide from that. We can't argue with that. Because God's good, God is right, and He saved Cornelius. Like praise God. For Acts chapter ten. And even here for Ephesians two thirteen. Because it says, but now. But now. And that's why in chat in verse 11, God says, you Gentiles, formerly. Formerly, you were at that time separated. You were at that time aliens. And strangers, you had no hope. But now, in Christ Jesus, you who are far off Come on in. I have robes for you to wear. I have clean garments. Take off your dirty turban. I have a clean turban for your head Because there is a fountain. And you've been brought near by the blood of Christ. Just makes me want to do a ridiculous dance, you know. When Jesus talked to the woman at the well in John four twenty-two He says to her, you, talking about the Samaritans, worship what you do not know. We, speaking of the Jews, worship what we know For salvation is from the Jews. Romans 9:13, Paul reminds us what God said back in Genesis. Esau I hated, but Jacob I loved And so this we were. Remember who you were. It's really important, and it's just life that you were dead in your trespasses and sins. But God, because of his great love. You are far off. But God, in Christ Jesus, you have been brought near by the blood of Christ. What's more important? What's more exciting? To be given life for people who were dead, or to be brought near for people who were aliens and strangers. It from what we read here, the testimony of Scripture is it's good enough. Because you are in the family of God. He has circumcised your heart. He has given you adoption and redemption. And forgiveness. Praise be to God. Look at the pronouns in this passage. From verse 11. What are all the pronouns in verses eleven and twelve? You. You. You Gentiles. What happens at verse 13? And verse 14. Yeah, he himself is our peace. Why is that pronoun changed We all need peace. Why else is this pronoun changed? Great In 13 he says specifically you were far, now you're close, and then he switches to us. You've been brought into us. Yeah. Yeah. And then we're about to go to he's broken down this dividing wall. You know, um those distinctions no longer matter. Yeah. So Paul now what you're saying is this Paul has drunk the Kool-Aid of God's program. Because he now can say our and us and we when he's thinking about Jew and Gentile together, where he didn't have that growing up. And in fact it was drilled into his head the opposite And even so much so that Paul was persecuting the church and what it was that they were doing. He's completely submitted to what God has and embraces it, but he still acknowledges it I mean verse eleven and twelve, you know, when I I wow, tall. That's not very nice. But it's important to remember, and so he brings our memory back to who it is that we are apart from Christ, especially as Gentiles. Going back to the other question, what's more important that you would be raised from the dead because of God's love or brought near? Maybe it's not a fair question. Is there a difference between the two? That's a good answer. Let me ask the question a little bit different. Because I agree with you, I don't think there's a difference. What feels more important to us? And so I'm not asking doctrinally What when you read these two passages, I've already said these are parallel illustrations. What hits you more? Dead to life. Brought to life. Yes? Yeah, brought to life. Who's the brought year to Ah one another or not? That's a really good question. Look at verse eighteen. I think verse 18 answers the question. The question was, who were we brought near to? Verse 18 says, For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. I'm ready like 19. It it changes. Yeah. You are no longer strangers and aliens. But are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God? Sure. But it doesn't say they're fellow members of the Jews. It says fellow members in the household of God. Which I love having that kind of conversation and digging down under the nuts and bolts. And I you know There is an aspect of we're brought near to the Jews, too. We are. There is in verse 14 What does it mean when it said, made us both one? One with Christ I think it's the I think it's near to God because I think the identity if you say those who were near And it's not near to themselves, it's near to God because they were the chosen peoples that God revealed himself to. So I think the object of distance is God Sorry. And you're right. You're absolutely right. Because otherwise it's am I brought this way this way to one another? And the argument would be in a worldly place, we're always trying to figure out conflicts between people. And his solution is your solution is supernatural. God brings you close to Him and that unity in Him will make any wall between you broken down as God. Gone. But isn't that an important aspect of it? displayed by this one. Yeah. So you can't have one without the other because one is being antelopius. Yeah. You know what? Uh look back at Ephesians one ten. Look back at Ephesians 1. 10. I love this conversation and digging into it. Let's go. Ephesians 1. 10 says Uh by the way, we need back up to the start of the sentence, which is in verse three. So I know we're not gonna do that. Um We're going to back up part way into verse 9, which is making known to us the mystery of his will according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ. As a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. Who taught this one? It wasn't me. You? No, Scott, what's that verse mean? Sorry, that's not fair. Anyway, just that it says, All things, yeah. Which I think here is a hint towards what Paul's talking about here in Ephesians 11 to 22. Because where he's going is the so that statement, right? So that, which we're not going to talk about today, we're going to talk about that next Sunday. So that the church is built. By that we're not talking about a whole Bible church. Although, yay, praise God, more people and more fun and more work and stuff like that. But the universal church, because it says the foundation is the apostles and the cornerstone is Christ. Christ. I can't talk too much or I won't have anything to say next Sunday. Distinctions are no longer important because we're all together in Christ. It's like fast pass. That's okay. No, it's it's not like fast pass at all. It's uh um yeah, but It's a Disney thing, sorry guys. We'll probably have to erase that from the thing too. Pretty soon this is gonna be a twenty minute lesson. Alright. Look at Ruth, the book of Ruth, chapter one. Go ahead. Yeah, I know some of you guys have patience to turn it. It's in the Old Testament. Probably the sixth book in the Old Testament. No, seventh book in the eighth book. Eighth book in the Old Testament. Ruth chapter one, verse sixteen. Ruth Ruth chapter one, verse sixteen. How many of y'all had this in your wedding? Sorry, single people, I'm not trying to cut you out. Yeah, it was on our wedding, um Verse 16 says, But Ruth said, do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you, for where you go, I will go. And where you lodge, I will lodge, your people shall be my people, and your God my God. So what we gotta believe here in the intervening time from her wedding to this point in time is that she'd seen Naomi and the family and she'd come to love God and and everything like that. But she doesn't say, your God will be my God and your people will be my people. She says, your people will be my people, and your God will be my God. And I think the order is important illustration to us. In order to be near to God, you had to be Jewish. In a covenantal sense. Right? Um I I s you know uh sorry people on the recording, there was some pushback to that statement. And it was non-verbal. It was Daniel. And it wasn't Daniel this time. But there's an aspect of there's an aspect of uh God's general volition has gone out to everyone as Romans says Everyone is responsible for their own choices and stuff like that. And so there is an aspect where it makes sense to go, oh wait a minute. Wait a minute. And that makes sense. Because in the Old Testament, we see hints and clues and information that lets us know that God's plan is going to go beyond Israel. We also know that God's reason for choosing a people was so that they would be a light to the nations, included in The promise that came to Abraham in the covenant in Genesis chapter 12 was, and you will be a blessing to all nations. And we see that happening in the Old Testament. But there was an aspect that Israel became not that light, but kind of it closed itself in. Well also they didn't really seek after God, many of them, except for the remnant. But I think Ruth understood And it's right here that in she had to first belong to God's people. Um And it's a picture to us, it's a small picture to us that reflects back into what we're seeing here in Ephesians chapter 2. You were separated. But God brought you near, and he did it by the blood of Christ. Put a little mental footnote in the fact that Israel became covenant, God's covenant people also through blood. And maybe we'll come back to that another day. And it says in verse 14, for he himself is our peace. And this is peace not just for the Jews, but this is peace for all believers. And I think that's why it says in Romans 5. And by the point in Romans 5, Paul's already lumping all believers into one group. He says, Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. For through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. And he has made us both one. We need new life And the Jews need new life. And when I see this, part of the reason why I think Paul put these two pat illustrations in the order that he put them in. Is in order to have this new identity, we needed new citizenship and we needed new birth. You get to be a citizen by changing your citizenship or by being born as a citizen. And God doesn't proselyze us into becoming believers. He puts us to death with Christ. So that we died with Christ and were buried with him, and now we live a new life. This plan about making these two people The Jew and the Gentile into one is something that's talked about in the Psalms. You can write this down, Psalm 2. 8, Psalm 2227. Psalm seventy-two, seven to eleven, all of Psalm one hundred and seventeen These are psalms that talk about God bringing blessings to the nations and his people being implied beyond Israel. Zechariah 2. 11 is pretty strong in this, and Zechariah 8, 20 to 23, which is interesting because this is after the exile. And he and he's broken down this dividing wall of how oh by the way, there's a lot more. We could go on and on listing references in the Old Testament that improved the That God has a plan for the nations. So much so that when we get to chapter 3 and Paul refers to it as a mystery, there's an aspect where I kind of go, really? I mean it's easy for me on this side of the mystery, the great reveal has happened, right? But you look at that and you go, Paul, you're a Pharisee. How did you miss this? Um and I think it speaks to no, I'm not going there. I gotta focus. Um he's also not just not just um He's not only our peace, he's not only made us one in Christ, but he's broken down the dividing wall of hostility. And here's the question: what's the dividing wall? Anyone want to guess? Yes? I mean my first guess would be the different balls in the temple. Yeah, fantastic. And in fact a lot of people agree with that. Uh Horner, who like I really respect, doesn't agree with that. Sorry. And I was I I even wrote that in my notes. I'm like, oh yeah, it's gotta be that wall because the Gentiles and Jews were separate And you couldn't draw very near to God. You could only kind of get close to God as a Gentile. And and there was even other dividing walls because on the Day of Atonement only the priest could go Right. And then there are certain duties that daily the priests could do but none of the Jews could do. There's dividing walls there, right? And what else? Any other thoughts about what this dividing wall is? Yes? Well some dividing Wall of that still is not just I mean there's the physical walls of the temple and and the city itself, but there's also like years and years of occupation and atrocities and laws and ordinances that separated Jews and Gentiles. So there were there were menace this Wars like between Philistines and and Israel and Moabites and Ammonites and all the other rights. Yes. Diamonds just read two. Okay. We'll mock you if it's wrong. And the blood of Christ solved that problem. Oh we're supposed to not walk in our session. It's that's that's a very interesting statement and I think it is worthy of engagement and thinking and talking about. So let's come back to that potentially if we have a minute left over Because I want to hear some other thoughts about what the dividing wall might be. It's a very clever insight, thank you. See, I didn't mock you at all. Anyone else? Dividing wall of hostility. We have some for dividing laws between Jew and Gentile. That dividing law would be between people and God. Any other thoughts Walls of Jerusalem? Some people would say the dividing wall is the curtain that was turned into. But that's not really a wall. Maybe that's being nitpicky. There's also an interesting thought. That the dividing wall of hostility, this kind of gets into what you're talking about, is the law. If that's the case, then what the law does is the law makes us, and Paul writes about this, I didn't know I was going to be an adulterer until the law said not to be an adulterer. And I couldn't stop being. I didn't know I wasn't supposed to steal, and then I had to steal when the law told me to be not a thief. Sorry. I know that seems silly. Um And so then the dividing wall of hostility is the potentially the judgment that comes. But I think then in that case it still may be related back to our sin. that puts enmity enmity between us and God And it would fit with the idea that God's, that Christ's blood brought, took care of that wall, and would also fit with, as you continue to read, The dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances. So we no longer have any give it thought I'm gonna ask is the bottom wall that he breaks down the same hostility that he then kills? Good question. The question is, is the same hostility in fourteen is fourteen hostility the same as the hostility in fifteen? Sixteen, yeah, thank you. Because if he's explaining that in his flesh he breaks down the dividing law by abolishing the law, and they continue through that, therefore by thereby killing the hostility Does it be further explanation of what happens to that thing? Yeah. I I didn't think about that a lot. So I would give you the answer of maybe, and next Sunday I will But I think that's I think that's valid in what you're saying there. It makes sense it's in the same context. than killing. You can't kill a wall. I think it's it's possible that it could kill a lot of those things all at the same time. It could be a lot of hands there, but I don't care. And if that's the case, then the wall is potentially a metaphor. And the law itself was an issue, right? Yeah. So some believe uh Jews Um believeding with living by the law, but it was alienating other thank you. How, let's hold that thought just one quick second. How, and this is important to us, how Did he abolish the law of commandments? And I'm assuming it's Christ. In his blood, abolish the law of commandment Yeah, I see where you're going. So you're saying it's man's attempt to become right with God through their own means. And That's ultimately not going to be successful and it's going to create hostility. Yes. And in fact, in the story of Martin Luther, which is kind of appropriate in the in the month of October In the story of Martin Luther as a good Catholic monk, good Catholic monk, there's air quotes I put up. He was furious with God. He said, I keep working I and I know that I'm not satisfying God. I still see my sin. It's still there. It's not taken care of. Uh I think that it's potentially tied in with that. Because it is also tied in with the concept of the commandments expressed in ordinances. And that would also create a division between Jew and Gentile. We didn't have that. So it's an interesting thought. It's worthy of holding on to. I'm going to go back to the question that I just asked and thank you for your contribution, which is When God abolished how what did God do to abolish the laws the law of commandments expressed in ordinances? Scott. Well I'm not going to answer But Jesus said he came not to abolish the law but to fulfill the law. So we have attention. We have so but the second part of that is really important to start with. He came to fulfill the law. Right? And we can string a few concepts together to know that Christ fulfilled the entirety of the law. Why is it that the Bible says There is now no condemnation. That's Romans chapter 8, verse 1. For those in Christ. What? For those in Christ. For those who are in Christ Jesus. How can there be no condemnation for sinners? Because we're in Christ, and Christ fulfilled the law, His righteousness has been imputed. And His righteousness has been imputed to us. And our sins are imputed to him. That's true. Although, yes. He took our condemnation. He took our condemnation. There is no more it's been paid in full. God's wrath is satisfied So I don't have to obey the law anymore. Hallelujah. No. May it never be, right? That's what Paul says. It's not just commandments explained. expressed in ordinances, which is kind of an interesting way of putting it because it doesn't just say the law, it doesn't just say the law commandments, it says law commandments You know what? I'm gonna put a pin in it right now because I just realized what time it is. We are going to pick it up right here. We left off at verse 15. Next Sunday. We will start at verse 15 and we'll go to the end of the chapter. Heavenly Father, thank you so much. Oh whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, before we pray, homework. We have homework for this week. And I'm gonna check this. I am going to check this homework. Memorize Ephesians two thirteen. Now, don't just be a memorizer. Be a meditator. Meditate on these things as you memorize Ephesians 2. 13. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for your kindness towards us. for the truth of your word, for the hope that we have in Christ, and thank you, God, for these two amazing illustrations of the love and your immeasurable grace towards us. Help us, Heavenly Father, to enjoy these truths even as we go to get more teaching. And let our praise and worship of you be fueled and funneled by the things we see and hear in your word. Amen. Ephesians two thirteen. Memorize that. Okay, that side of the room over there, I'm gonna separate you guys. Oh.