Ephesians six, starting the last chapter, and again I always want to kind of refresh what our summary statement of Ephesians is The eternal purpose of God for his church to be reconciled to him in Christ and unified with one another, which is ultimately for his glory. walking faithfully and obediently as his children. And as we learn to walk obediently as his children, we are Focusing on a passage about physical parents and children in Ephesians 1 through 6. Last week Daniel tackled wives and husbands last couple weeks. He's been uh Daniel talked about uh those two passages The Paul is in this mode of giving us examples of authority and how we are to act. Whether we are in the person in authority or the person under authority. And these examples are to help us not only in Earth but into helping us. Learn how we are to act under God's authority. So let's read Ephesians 6, 1 through 4. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother. This is the first commandment with a promise, that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land. Do not, fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. So although uh this is a passage on parents and children And Daniel said a similar thing when he talked about husbands and wives. This is not a parenting class. We have Resources at the church, classes at the church that offer a more comprehensive teaching on parenting. We're just here to look at the context. And even though I may be a father of ten children, that doesn't necessarily make me an expert in parenting. Yes, I have plenty of experience, but Not necessarily an expert. I praise God that each of my children have some sort of relationship with him, but it's by God's grace. I don't know what I did in in that. Um so yes. Don't don't look at me as the expert, please. Um As I mentioned before, this is the second of three types of relationships that Paul is writing about. The first one was husbands and wives Second one is children and parents. And then next week, Doug will be talking about slaves and masters. And just a little note on that. In each of these examples, Paul addresses the group that is under authority first It's the wives, it's the children, it's the slaves. But that doesn't mean those in authority escape any instruction for themselves. Paul has uh the God has through Paul's writing a plan, a message for those in the in authority. So as we start down this passage, I do want to read a little section from James Montgomery Boyce in his Bible, or in his book, sorry. That kind of gives a little bit of the culture of fathers. Uh what what fathers did in that culture. Um back in Paul's writing. And I read this from a couple different commentaries, so this is not just from voice, but under the Roman law of Patria Potestas, the father's power. A Roman father had absolute power over his family. He could sell them as slaves, he could make them work in his fields, even in chains, he could take the law into his own hands. For law was in his own hands. He could punish as he liked, he can inflict, he could even inflict the death penalty on his child. Further, the power of the Roman father extended over the child's whole life so long as the father lived. The Roman son never came of age. There was also the matter of child repudiation leading to exposure of the newborn. When a baby was born, it was placed before its father. If the father stooped and lifted the child, the child was accepted and raised as his. If he turned away, the child was rejected and literally discarded. Such rejected children were left To die, or they were picked up by those who trafficked the infants. These people raised children to be slaves or to stock the brothels One Roman father wrote to his wife from Alexandria, if good luck to you, you have a child, if it is a boy, let it live. If it is a girl, throw it out. So pretty harsh circumstances in that Roman culture back in when Paul was writing. The father did have absolute authority. And and yeah, when a child is born, he could decide whether he wanted to keep it or not. For those who watch the movie Wicked There's alphabet and the father says, Oh, as soon as the b child is born, get it away from me. I I don't want it. And and that's what we see here in in the Roman culture. So as we work through this passage, kind of keep that in mind as Paul's writing, saying, hey, we're we're talking about fathers who are to be demanding, and what other the fathers say. Goes. They are the ones who lay down the law. So we start out. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. I found it interesting as I look at the different translations of this verse, except for the New Living translation. Each version was word for word on this verse. There was no no uh variation in phrasing, variation in different types of words. So, children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. So, yes. I I'm a literal thinker and then I get those children obey your parents. I understand that. But what is how does in the Lord fit in with that? Well we'll we're gonna get there. We are gonna get there. Okay. So If Paul is saying, children, obey your parents, what does that imply? As the letter is being read to the church. Children are in the audience. That's right. Children are listening. They are present. So Paul knows that I'm going to write this letter. There's going to be little ones, those that can hear, those that can understand. They need to hear this, that they need to obey So Paul evidently expects whole families to be coming together for public worship. And he says Children obey your parents in the Lord. So there's two different types of obligations for children to obey that Paul states in this passage. One is a spiritual obligation of in the Lord. Um Obedience is to be done in the manner of the Lord, and that word obedience comes from a phrase to hearken. It's as if one on who one who on the knock at the door comes to listen to who it is. So if someone knocks the door, you have your butler or your porter. They hear, they rush to the door. That's The knock is their their um signal that I need to do something. And they go and listen to see who's at the door. see whether they should let them in or not. And for children they need to listen and get that signal from their parents and go and uh and obey them in that manner. So when Paul says obey your parents in the Lord, this is a spiritual obligation. This is saying, hey, children, as Christians, as believers, as children of God yourselves, you have a Christian duty to obey your parents. Whether your parents are Christian or not, you have that spiritual obligation to obey them. Now I would imagine, we don't know for sure, but that most children in the audience had parents who brought them to to the institution, to the church. But but there could be some cases where their parents were not believers. So it's a Duty, Paul is saying, hey, as a believer, even though you're a child, you still have an obligation to obey your parents, whether they are Christian or not. Now does that mean and Paul doesn't necessarily get into this, but that does that mean that If your parent tells you to do something wicked or do something evil, do something against God's command, are you supposed to obey your parents in that? I get some headshakes now. Okay. That that that's that's correct. I mean our ultimate authority is God And that is who we are to follow, that is who are we are to obey to obey. And if a fallen man instructs us otherwise We are to follow the commands of God, the um versus the commands of man So it's not an absolute obedience that the parent is encouraging a child to do a wicked or evil task, something that violates God's law. So, in the Lord means as a believer, you are spiritually obligated, you have that spiritual duty to obey your parents. And then he says, not only are you supposed to do it in the Lord, but you are, but this is right, for this is right. So not only do we they have a spiritual obligation, but children have a natural obligation. And and what is this natural obligation? They were created, children were created by their parents. And you see in creation in the natural Order of law, even in animals. The baby animals follow Their parents. They listen to their parents. You can even though there may not be any verbal uh instruction going on There's ways for those parents to teach their children. And that's what we see here. It is natural for children to obey their parents because they are the ones who the parents are the ones who created the children. And if If there was a separation, who would take care of the who would take care of the baby? They'd be on their own. Babies, infants, they can't take care of themselves. They need a parent. And so it's the parent that raises the child. And in this natural order. As the child begins to learn, as they understand, they realize, oh hey My parents are are are good people. I need to follow them. And there is this natural intuition that, hey, I need to listen to them, I need to obey. Now, obviously, we know it doesn't take long for children to not want to do what the parent tells them to do. There is that sin nature, but they understand the the laws of God's universe that they have had, that they have been placed under authority of their parents. Um Warren Waresby, he says, There is an order in nature ordained of God that argues for the righteous Rightness of an action. Since the parent brought the child into the world, and since they have more knowledge and wisdom than the child, it is right that the child obey his parents. Even young animals are taught to obey. We also see Um that God places a lot of infid infasis on children obeying their parents. We uh if you want to turn to uh Romans one Paul starts off this letter with People do not have an excuse for following God. And he says the in verse 18, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. And he he says Men disobeyed God, and so in verse 24 he says, God gave them up to the lust of their hearts. And in verse 26, for this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions. Um and then uh in verse twenty eight, and since he did not Since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind. So Paul is saying, hey, there's a progression. Of evil. And God, men disobeyed God, and so God gave them up to the lust of their hearts. And they continued to fight and rebel against God. So he gave them up to dishonorable passions. And even still they rebelled. They did not turn away from their sin. And so then God gave them up to a debase mind. And then in each of those categories, he gives examples of what dishonorable passions are, what uh lusts in their heart are. And when he comes to a debase mind, the worst of the worst, in his list, he says in verse 29. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, malice. They are gossips, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty Boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. In there was disobedience to parents. And you think, well, everyone does that. Um but there is a there's a level of disobedience to parents that we see even in Today's culture we we see a rebellion even more and I consider myself young but I've been on this earth for five decades and I've seen a progression of rebellion. And maybe those of you who are older have seen even a progression of rebellion of The youth, and in fact, even the adults today, their mind has changed where it's like, yeah, I should let my kid do anything they want to do. And instead of Laying down the law and making them obedient to their authority, they they've let them go to their own desires. So disobedient to parents is part of a debased mind. Um just That that's what God thinks of disobedience. And if you want to turn over to 2 Timothy, We see a similar list as Paul writes to Timothy In verse 1, understand that this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty, for people will be lovers of self. lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless Unpeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen, with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God. And he goes on So Paul's warning Timothy, in the last time, there's going to be a lot of evil. And I'm not saying that there wasn't evil back in Paul's days. There certainly was. But that level of evil is to be heightened as we get to the last days. And again, what's in there? Disobedient to their parents. Um obedience to parents is Um something that Paul puts a lot of weight on. And we can Think not only of our relationship to our physical parents, but obviously our relationship to our Heavenly Father. The importance of obedience is is uh is one that God wants us to live by. So after he talks about children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. He then says, honor your father and mother. This is the first commandment with a promise, that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land. Yes. Did in the study that you did, did you kind of come to a conclusion about age parameters on these children in disobedience. We'll get there. We will get there. in the commentaries about it. There were some hints here and there. And so I kind of took the hints. And actually That reminds me, I forgot to look up a passage that I was going to write down. But I I said, hey, you know, I'm going to come to this conclusion, even though I haven't heard a lot of the commentators talk about it And I mentioned that to my wife and my son yesterday. And Amy said, oh, I was just talking about this with one of my friends. And they came to the same conclusion as I did. So um yes, we'll get there So honor your father and mother, that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land. This is the fifth commandment of the Ten Commandments that Paul quotes here. Honor your father and mother that your days may be long in the land that the Lord is giving you. Um that's the comparison there. And Paul talks about command in verse 1 and honor. He uses quoting the Ten Commandments, honor in verse 2. And there is comm uh obedience in verse 1. But honor which is an action. You uh obedience is an action. You say, hey, can you I'll tell one of my children, give me a glass of water. That's a command. There needs to be action. Now, there's an attitude with honor. I can say to my child, can you give me a glass of water? And they can go, really? Again, oh, you're you're only 20 feet from the kitchen. You you can walk there. Or they can say, sure dad, I'd be happy to. And trust me, I get I get both. And sometimes both from the same child. It depends on what day it is. Um but there is there is an a there is an attitude that Relates to honor, to revere, to show love and respect, to care, to seek and bring honor by the way we live. So, not only with our parents are we to obey them, but we are to show them love and respect to them. And Doug had to walk out because uh so he doesn't get to hear my answer. So good thing this is being recorded. Um I kinda came to the conclusion that Uh the verse one, the children obey your parents. That's as long as a child lives in the house, um, that you're under their roof. Adult children, you know, if you have an adult children living in your house, you'll have to work that through maybe a little bit more. But The obedience, yes, as long as they are not of the age of majority in our culture, if I would take this verse and apply it to our culture, um uh uh once they are Um under the age of authority, obey, but honor is a lifetime. You are too. Honor your parents. And part of that honoring may be obeying them, even as adult children. Uh we'll talk about it a little bit later, but adults, we need to realize that our children have lives of their own. And we are not to impose our preferences and opinions for their life to be how we want it to be. So that that's the conclusion I came to. But honor, you can disagree with your parents respectfully. If it comes to that, but you are to always show them honor. Um The fifth commandment here well we I guess before before I move on I did just make a statement. I sh does anyone have any comments or questions about my conclusion? Yes. Just to probe a little farther. So you were kind of saying like as long as you would say as long as children live at the home. But that as they become adults, you're gonna have to adjust that. I just maybe like It'd be interesting hearing kind of your thoughts, okay. Like so you have if you have adult children living at the home, to what extent would they have an obligation to obey Especially given that sometimes I've seen in co like I think I've seen the principle of views w particularly among young women sometimes, where like authors are like Not really like are very strongly encouraging their daughters until they're married to stay in the home and then kind of exercising a certain amount of like I have authority, but now it's becoming someone who's like twenty-two, twenty-five, twenty-eight. And then to me that in a way that does not seem wise and probably seems to be ignoring the whole don't provoke your children Like but where I seem to maybe some young women feeling like they have some sort of obligation to submit in ways that might be taking scripture too far in that So uh Daniel last week, or maybe two weeks ago, uh had his the authority book by John Jonathan Leisman. that you referenced. And in that book, there's it gives examples of different types of authority and submission. And with government, there is a clear delineation of hey, government is a command type of authority and um person under authority, I'm subordinate, where you know you have to obey the law versus Over here, like elders of a church, yes, there may be formal church discipline, but the elders work as a form of counselors So there's a distinction between command and counsel and in different types of authority. And a husband-life-wife relationship is over here where it's a counsel Type relationship of authority. But smack smack dab in the middle is parents and children, where as they are younger There's going to be a lot more command type authority where you're giving them instructions and you're guiding and telling them what to do. And then as they get older And you've instilled wisdom and instruction into them, then it turns more into counsel. And I think that's the balance that somehow we need to figure out with adult children is you know, where along the way does that command authority turn into council authority? And yeah, we certainly have uh little patches in our culture, more conservative Christians, but say, yeah, daughters You should have a man above you, and so as long as you're unmarried, you should be in my house and you should be following my instructions. I I I see that. Is that taking it too far? Again, at some point, they need to be able to live their own lives. So do I have a good answer for that? No. I I but I do think it's it's a delicate balance. I mean at some point Parents need to realize I need to turn over the reins. Now, if they're living under your house, there are rules you can set. Like as I I've seen this with other families in this church and I'll probably impose it myself. But if you're going to live under my roof you will have to go to church. That's going to be one of the rules. Now I can't make you believe what we believe, but I, you know, that's something that you need to re at least get some spiritual um uh food into your bodies, it's up to you whether you accept it or reject it or not. Um so Yeah, I think the there's that balance of you can set rules, but um But yeah, you can't run their lives for them. They're gonna have to say, hey, dad, I love you. I know you want the best for me, but I do have to live my own life. And that can be done respectfully and honorably. But um but yeah, hopefully that answered your question. Any other comments Um we know we know um like when it'd be like Paul wrote these, but like did he break them and then give them to the um to people to read immediately or was there like a little turnaround um in between in between that or exactly The Yeah, so Paul was in prison uh at this time and he we know that we believe he wrote four letters at the same time. Uh Uh and th there would have been some travel. It probably I don't know how many days it would have taken to get to Rome from Rome to Ephesus, but I would have imagined, you know, probably a couple of months after you wrote these Yeah. And and for Ephesians it's for it's written uh if you go to the um to the saints who are in Ephesus. So there might have been a few churches in that area in the Ephesus region. Any yes. Uh hi, I'm an adult woman who lives at home. Hi, adult woman who lives at home. Uh so clearly that's the trick. Although I think she comes on her own will. things that I uh environment. Yeah that that that that's great because being at home is there's benefits to being at home even though benefits to serving money but then there's also like the challenges of the to do that. Yeah. Yeah. Uh I'm I'm already looking forward to uh to to the children being out of the house. But uh we janged one back. Jim is 12 but Good. All right. So, you know, we we have been fortunate that most of our kids have been easy. Um you know there there's there's one right now that that honoring piece of it Uh we're we're struggling with a little bit. It's not awful, but um i you know I I think I think the way we've tackled it, and again, there are different ways to go about this, we're definitely not perfect in this, but just To remind them that, hey, y you're treating me in this way um that's ungodly, that's does not please God, please think about how, go through your mind, how would how should you approach me, how should your attitude be to me? And sometimes it's not in the moment because in the moment it's just going to frustrate them more at times. But is it is going back to them and saying, hey You treated me unrespectfully here. You know, and you need to think it through. And if you do need to apologize, you need to apologize. And I would encourage that. But that that's kind of been our pr approach to it. Alright, I need to get to parents. But quickly, quickly, um You mentioned the first tablet, uh, which which is interesting because in what I've read, they put the fifth commandment on the second tablet as as top on the second tablet. So when it says It's debatable. We don't know. We don't know. Uh when it says this is the first commandment with a promise, I've read that, hey, the second commandment actually has a promise to it. And if you read the second commandment, and I don't have time to go through with through it, I read the second commandment as uh A declaration of God's character, not necessarily a promise of if you do this or if you don't do this, this is what will happen. It could be that first commandment is a primary or chief commandment. This is either the first commandment on the second tablet or just the Chief commandment that has a promise to it. And when Paul goes that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land, there is a qualitative and a quantitative Aspect to this promise. That it may go well with you, the qualitative, and that you may live long in the land quantitative. A couple quick things on that This is not a guarantee, like Proverbs. Not all Proverbs are a guarantee. If you do this, this is what's going to happen. It's a general uh statement. In general, if you obey your parents, you will live a long life and you'll have a quality of life. So from that aspect it's more works more like Proverbs. And uh when it talks about the land In Ephesians, what the reference to land could refer to earth. It's not talking about the promised land. In Exodus for the fifth commandment, the land means the land that God promised the Israelites. Versus Paul's not talking to just Israelites, he's talking about to Gentiles as well, so they would live long on the earth So, let's move on to parents. Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the instruction, discipline, and instruction of the Lord. As I was saying earlier, there were four letters that Paul wrote in prison about the same time, and Colossians and Ephesians were two of these letters. And you'll see a lot of parallel passages. We've done it already in this class. But this is another parallel passage. And he talks about all three relationships in both Ephesians and Colossians, the husband, wives, the children. Parents and the slaves and masters. He just puts a little different emphasis on each letter. So fathers Although the word really is fathers, some of the commentators didn't actually back off of saying yes, it's only directing the fathers, but some of them said It could be mothers as well, parents. When the term brethren is used, it doesn't talk necessarily mean all men in the church. It means the entire congregation And some of the commentators said yes. As brethren is used, fathers is used in the same way, where it's fathers and mothers. J. Vernon McGee says the emphasis, I think, is on the father because the disciplining and the training of the child is his responsibility. But it does include the mother also. There are plenty of bad father examples in the Bible. David, Eli, Samuel. And then Isaac and Jacob and uh favorite showing favoritism to uh their sons. So this is something, even though we have plenty of bad examples in the Bible, Paul is encouraging us, hey, even though these men were godly men and followed the Lord. They were bad fathers, and I'm telling you, follow the Lord and be good fathers. Be good parents. God uh created the family as his example of of how of the design of life and uh And the next generation is taught by their parents. And in order to continue the instruction of the Lord to spread the gospel, we need to be good parents to our children. So it says, do not provoke your children to anger. The word provoke And anger there is not necessarily two separate words. It's actually one word. The way this should read is Do not provoke to anger children your. Or do not provoke to anger your children. So that provoke to anger is one word. You are not to needle your children. You're not to push them to anger. And I know as a parent, your kid may disobey you, and you may not take it very well. And so you push back, which just then frustrates the child and now you're in a snowball of of uh not necessarily chaos, but uh a strong disagreement, let's just say. Um It is our responsibility as parents to keep the children calm. It's our responsibility to maintain calm and peace ourselves And in our training and instruction of our children, teach that to our children and not to provoke them to anger. As we can see in Colossians, Paul says, do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged. The opposite of provoking your children to anger is encouragement. I've been working with my youngest child on math recently. And um straight out algebra. He he loves uh he loves geometry, but he does not like algebra. And um there's definitely some times of frustration. And uh and he's he's frustrated with me at times. And Amy was telling me, Scott, do you know that he does a whole lot better if he has a reward to shoot for? So don't just get on him when he messes up. Give him some encouragement. Don't provoke him to anger. Encourage him. And you know, each of our children, they have their own little different identities, and they respond differently to different types of instruction. But this is one way where I'm now learning this passage personally where I need to encourage my child and not say, do you not know that you're supposed to multiply here and not add? Um and get on his case. Bring them up is the same word as encourage or nourish is the same word as Nourish. Jonathan Lehman in that authority book that I talked about, if a husband's authority centers on cultivating oneness And a government authority centers on cultivating justice. A parent's authority centers on wisdom, both exercising and teaching it. And if you look at the notes that we have for this lesson, the verse the corresponding verse that we Started the lesson with is Proverbs 1, 8, and 9. Hear my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching. For they are a graceful garland for your head and pendants for your neck So here not even though this is written to children saying, hey, listen to your parents, it's also saying, parents, this is what you should be doing. You should be feeding your children wisdom and training them up in good instruction. We are not absolved ourselves. We have a responsibility and obligation to our children to bring them up. And you can see here that there are a couple limits that Lehman also says again, we can think of two limits on this passage. One, a parent should always remember that he or she is not God. And two, a parent should remember that he or she is not the child and that the child's life is finally his or her own. Both limits are implicit in Ephesians 6. 4. So again, as the children get older, as we get these adult children coming up, We need to realize the children are the children's life is his or her own, and we are to just bring them up in discipline and instruction. Um the word discipline there um talks about chastening, correction, chastisement But it's also a word for training. This word is the same word that the author of Hebrews uses in Hebrews 12 And if you want to turn there quickly, he uses this word three times in Hebrews 12, verses 5 through 11. And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline. If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not Sons. Besides this, we have a we have earthly fathers who disciplined us and that we respected them for Shall we not much more be subject to our Father of Spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best. to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant. But later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. So the same word that Paul uses here in discipline the uh I believe three times in this passage the word discipline is used. But The point I want to make here is that if you turn over just a few pages to 2 Timothy 3 The same word for discipline is used in Second Timothy three sixteen. When it says, all scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. The word training is the same Greek word. So when we talk about discipline, we're not talking about punishment. We're talking about training. We are to train our children, to nourish them, to nurture them into the instruction of the Lord. Now When we think of discipline, we we think of, well, if you do something wrong, you're there's some sort of discipline that you must face. And surely there is an aspect of that. There's a part of training that involves some physical pain at times, some sort of punishment, but it's the training aspect that we're talking about. Paul wants us to train and instruct our children in the Lord. So when you see that word discipline, I would like to think of it as training and and not necessarily heavy-handedness. You know, we want to train 'em up in the Lord. And then the word instruction Means admin admonition. It's a mild rebuke or warning. We see this in Proverbs all the time. Again, in Proverbs 1, 8, and 9 of which we just read, listen to your father's instruction and your mother's teaching. Um because there they will be a garland around your neck. Um so as parents We need to teach our children up in the Lord, impart wisdom to them. We need to know the scriptures. We need to have a good relationship with God. so that we can teach them to have a good relationship with God. I'm going to wrap up and then I'll take questions quickly. But I forgot his name. Uh Stot. I forgot his first name. He says the obligation is not merely on the child side of the child who must obey, but also on the side of the parent who must enforce the obedience. This is because the parent stands as God in relationship to the child. To teach the child to obey the parent is to teach the child to obey God. To allow the child to defy and disobey the parent is to teach the child to defy and disobey God with all the obvious consequences. So as we teach our children in the Lord, one, we need to have a good relationship with God, that they see our example. And that if they see us obeying God, we are becoming an example for them to obey God. But they also learn How to obey God partially by obeying us as parents. Any other questions or comments? Yeah. Just as a study along with you guys, it really impressed me that you get the first twenty-one that really leaves it all off. And then you have wives, husbands, children, fathers, slaves, and masters. There's a brief submission exhortation to women, followed by an extended and scary challenge to husbands. There's a brief exhortation to children, followed by a scary warning to fathers. There's a brief exhortation for slaves to obey their masters, followed by a scary warning to the masters before God. And it's always before God and every one of them. You fathers, you men in authority will be responsible. And you must fulfill your roles in the right way. And I just it for me It's one of those it it takes the whole message that we usually go through in these three uh house tables, right? And and it turns them upside down and it says all of these relationships will be in right order when you men do what you're supposed to be doing before Christ in right order. Yes. Yes. Thank you for that. Those who are put in authority have been put in authority by God. And we need if you are in A position of authority, remember that. I'm not here because I put myself here. I am here because God has put me in this position And it is before God that I am going to give an account. And as as Scott mentioned, Paul's saying here is he wants to Guard against abuse of authority and keeping our keeping a right mind of hey, God put me here How do I best please him in exercising my authority? That's going to help prevent us from abusing our authority. Because as sinful creatures, it is so easy to do so. All right, let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we just uh thank you for this passage. Um Just the short four verses, but there's a lot in here. And you have expounded on the parent-child relationship throughout your Bible from Adam and Eve with their children, Abel and Cain and Seth, to today. There's instruction that you have for us and examples, both good and bad. And Lord, you've created the family. Um, you've designed it to work in a way um that's pleasing to you and but Lord because uh we have flesh and that it's so easy to uh follow the sinful desires of our flesh. Um w we tend to get this design in order That you've structured to out of place, and we tend to abuse it or not use it wisely, Lord. Just help us, whether we are a child or a parent. We're a grandparent. Help us, Lord, to use wisdom from your word to honor our parents and to instruct and train our children in you. In Jesus' name, amen.