This is on the little slab before we went up together. Yeah, it's run. It's run. Uh it was uh So many things. Last week Scott brought us to Ephesians chapter three and explained to us how From verse 2 to 13 in Ephesians chapter 3 is an excursus. It's an interruption. And you can look at if you got turn turn to Ephesians 3 if you're not there already. Paul starts off, for this reason I call the prisoner of Christ Jesus on your behalf of you Gentiles. And ESC puts a hyphen there. To help us understand, Paul, wait, wait, stop. I've got to explain to you something first. And he goes through this explanation that goes from verse 2 to 13. And uh I don't know this because I'm not enough of a Greek scholar, but that's one sentence. And so it's almost like Paul gets into this start of this thing, and he goes, oh but wait, and he just rattles off this Verses 2 to 13. He's going to say these things. And uh Scott got us going last week and helped us to focus on the mystery that Paul wanted to tell them about and talk about, and I get to finish that up. Even though it's kind of one thought, we broke that into two thoughts because it was one it was one more than one lesson's worth of material for us to talk about and think about And you get to pick up next week, Daniel, with where Paul started us off in verse 1 and explain to us why and what and stuff like that he was going. Let's pray. Dear Lord, you're good to us You're kind to us. You're sovereign. And no matter what's going on in our lives, you're in control. Whether it feels like it or not, you're in control. You have purpose, and that purpose is clearly demonstrated. Oftentimes in hindsight. Your word tells us that you have purpose. And so we trust that, but we don't always see it. And sometimes God, it's hard when we're in the midst of difficulties and trials to see and to understand that From the dude who drives like a maniac around us and scares us and makes us angry all the way up to Congress who can't figure out how to fund the country, and people who are dying and stuff like that. God, you have purpose. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would help us to understand how that impacts our lives. How, based on this truth, we are to live. I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would help us to love you more and to walk by faith. Dear Lord, you are very kind and we know that's true. You are good and we know that's true, and you love us, and we know that's true. And we know, Heavenly Father, based on what your word says, everything that happens happens for the good of those who love you. And sometimes, God, we admit that feels like a greeting card, but it's in your word and it's true. So I pray, Heavenly Father, that That the truths in your word would be real to us today, that we would rightly appropriate them I pray, Heavenly Father, that you'd help me to speak with focus and clarity, and that your spirit would overshadow the things that are said. And that it would be used to your glory and your good purpose, God. Thank you so much for your word and its treasure. Amen. Ephesians 3. We'll be focusing today starting at verse 7, but I want to read the whole passage so we can see it in its context. It says, For this reason I, Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, on behalf of you Gentiles, assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you How the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I have written briefly. When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ Which was not made known to the sons of men and other generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs. members of the same body, partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel, of this gospel I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace which was given me by the working of his power to me, though I am the very least of all the saints This grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And To bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things. So that Through the church, the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. This was according to the eternal purpose that he realized in Christ Jesus our Lord. in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him. So I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you Which is your glory. So last week Paul started explaining this stewardship that he had on behalf of the Gentiles. And today we're going to pick that up. And what we see here when we look at this is Paul finally at verse 13 explains to us why he interrupted himself. So that you do not lose heart. But we pick up here where Paul is going into describing what he has as a minister. He's a minister of this gospel, and this is what Scott was talking about last week. And you can see there's a threefold aspect of this ministry. And this can be summarized in the fact that the Gentiles are grafted into the hopes and promises that Israel had. Fellow heirs, members of the same body, partakers of the promise. By God's grace, we're Gentiles who are grafted in to the hope and promises of God. You can leave that door open. Unless it bothers people in the back of the room. And so here's Paul, he's a minister of this gospel And the Gentiles now, and he's been going from place to place to place and seeing the Jews passed over and the Gentiles grafted in. The Jews passed over and the Gentiles grafted in. He sees this happening again and again. And to us, this may not be a big deal because here we are in the church. Raise your hand if you're Jewish by background. Okay, there you go. Most of us are sitting here like Gentiles, and that's just assumed that that's what the church is. And it feels to us often like this is just the the norm. But in Paul's day this was breaking news This got people's attention. This is a big deal. And Paul has the privilege of helping people understand this big deal. This plan that God had that was hidden in the past and now has been revealed and is going out like wildfire across the Mediterranean and continued When when we have a big deal happen, like I don't know, there's been a few um in our recent past, it's a thing we want to talk about. And that's analogous to what's going on here, on top of the fact that it was God's calling on his life. The fact that Paul and this is something that I think Paul enjoys And relishes and glories in, but also has an aspect of humility about. And you see this here is the fact that Paul is a minister of this gift of grace. There are two aspects. When Paul says grace, there's I think he's talking about two different aspects. And there's more, but he's focused on two things right here. One is the grace. To be given a purpose and a ministry. Psalm 84 talks about the sons of Korah say, I'd rather just be a doorkeeper in God's house. I think when I read that, I think I'd like to just have something that God would purpose me to do so that I can be near to God, so that I can serve Him, rather than to be Outside, purposeless. So there's a grace to be given a purpose in a ministry, and there's also a grace to have power. To be able to explain, to be able to preach. And so Paul addresses those two things first by saying, he's the least. This grace has been given to me, though I'm the least of all the saints. And we might think Paul's suffering from imposter syndrome right here, but the reality is Paul knows his background. And it's already been laid out for us in the book of Acts. And the fact is that Paul was a very aggressive persecutor of the church. I can't help but wonder if Paul doesn't look back at some of the things that he does, I'm sorry, did with pains of regret. But God brought him to life. Those things that Paul did were things that he did in ignorance, as he says. But he still thinks of himself as the least. And what he sees is God's Power, not just bringing him to life, but God's power tasking him with this responsibility and stewardship and granting him the privilege of this ministry. Have you ever had a situation where somebody has done something wrong and you're just done with them That's how we kind of deal with one another. Oh, you've you've broken the last straw, you have crossed, you have done that thing. I'm just gonna move on. There's other people I can That's not what happened with Paul. God said, No, I'm going to show you. I'm going to show you. I've got work for you to do still. And God, through his grace, puts Paul to work. It's a deep privilege to be used by God. And Paul knows he doesn't deserve that privilege. And he sees it as a gift of grace. And he abounds in love and gratitude. Because, as Christ said, he who's been forgiven much loves much. It's important for us to see that all of us are serving God based on His grace. Based on what He has done on us And it's a privilege. But it's not just a grace that brought Paul up from basically what he deserved, but it's also a grace that empowers Paul to be able to serve. And Paul then says, and and he makes mention of this, this This is something, this grace was given to me by the working of his power. And this power then is reflected in the things that Paul is able to accomplish. And you see that in verses 8 and 9. Though I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. So that word unsearchable means uh boundless Weird my word, remember, remember. Unmeasurable. It means unending or untraceable, unfathomable. And we'll see some of these concepts in Paul's prayer next week. So he's got the power. God's graced him with power. To be able to explain the thing that's too big to explain. Yesterday at the men's breakfast, we were talking about God's faithfulness. How it's incomparable. And the reality is, is when you try to explain something to somebody, you we oftentimes try to give an analogy. You know that cold thing, it's cold just like ice. Or That that that thing, that tender thing is is like you know a puppy or something like that. What's the analogy for God? Unfathomable, unmeasurable When I try to picture something that goes on, I go to geometry. I think of a plane and doesn't end in any direction. Anyone here, mathematician? Okay, thanks. We we can talk later. But when I picture that plane, I picture it going on for a while and disappearing into the fog because I can't picture beyond that. And just imagine that it keeps going. Unfathomable. How do you describe the boundaries of a boundless thing? This is something we need grace for. And Paul needed grace for. And God empowered him to have that grace, to be able to do that thing, to explain the unexplainable and teach Here's a fancy word, the transcendence of God. And from the beginning of this book, this letter to the Ephesians, he's been struggling. I wouldn't say struggling, he's been, by the Spirit of God, doing that thing. Look at the praises of God that you see in Ephesians chapter 1. Blessed be the God and Father who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing. And then he goes on to explain. Those blessings. And then he prays that they would understand what it is that God has done so that it would impact their lives, and then explains how the fact they were dead. And they've been brought back to life, how they were apart and separate, and how they've been brought near by God's grace, for Christ's glory. And then Paul from all of that amazing glory stops himself and explains who he is. There's an aspect of what happens here in the beginning of chapter 3 where you're like, this this is is not just disjointed, but it's like, okay, Paul, thanks for telling me about yourself, but I want to get back to knowing about God. And when we think that way, we're forgetting that all scripture is inspired by God and is profitable for us to be taught, to learn, to be reproved and corrected in righteousness. Because what we have here is Paul explaining his purpose and how that purpose. In his life. I'm getting ahead of myself. I'll come back to that in a minute. Transcendence. How'd you do that? That sounded like my voice. Are you recording me? No. All right. 'Cause that's happening up here already. I wouldn't be there. It'd be okay. So there's there's three groups of people that are being impacted by Paul's ministry. The first person group is the Gentiles. Paul's preaching to the Gentiles. The unsearchable riches of Christ. Paul's also bringing light to everyone, the manifold wisdom of God. And finally, I'm sorry, Paul's bringing to light to everyone the plan of the mystery that was hidden. And finally, the manifold wisdom of God is being revealed. That one we'll have to unpack a little bit. But Paul's not only speaking of the unsearchable riches of Christ to the Gentiles, he's also speaking to everyone. When Paul showed up in a town, the first thing he went to was the synagogue. And he went to the synagogue and he would say, I'm going to explain to you this mystery that the Gentiles are now included. You even see this happening when Paul is on the cusp of being arrested He's in the temple grounds. There's been a riot. The Romans come. They intercede. And Paul says, hey, can I talk to them for just a minute? And you see this thing where Paul says, hey, hey, hey, and he starts speaking in Hebrew, and everybody gets quiet. And they start listening to Paul, and he starts off explaining, he's got their attention, their wrapped, and then he gets to the point where he says, and I was sent to the Gentiles. And they riot, rah! And the Romans have to pull him back inside. And you've got to ask yourself, Paul, you probably knew what was going to happen there. Why did you not just talk about Jesus and not about this plan that he's got for you? Because everywhere Paul went, he explained this mystery. Even at that point where he knew It's maybe suspected. It might bring that riot back out again. Because there's a truth here that Paul is explaining to people that's glorious. That's God's purpose. It's been hidden, but now it's come to light. Praise God the Gentiles. are being grafted in and now part of these wonderful blessings that God has prepared for His chosen people. So he explains these riches of Christ to the Gentiles. He explains to everyone else whether they accept it or not. The plan of the mystery that's been hidden from hidden in God for all the ages And finally, there's a so that statement in verse ten so that through the church The manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. And this is one of those ones where you're like, whoa whoa wait a minute. I didn't see that coming. Maybe like to people, right? But it transitions from Paul's work and preaching to the church doing something, it seems like, and it's going to these rulers and authorities. How did that follow? We gotta take it apart. How and we might need, yeah. How does the church make known The wisdom of God. Because a straightforward reading of here is so that the church, through the church, the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known. How's the church doing that? And we need to know how that reflects back to everything that Paul has just said, because there's a so that statement that starts this off. I'll just say this. The so that statement could be pointing back to the mystery. It could be pointing back to the preaching of the gospel. The grace that's found in the gospel. But I will say this, I can say this with certainty. The so that statement has to come forward to the impact that happens in the church. That makes it so that the church is making known the manifold wisdom of God. So how does the church make known the manifold wisdom of God? Is it the church that makes known or That's a very good question and important to answer. Is this the church actively doing something, like going out and preaching and teaching, or is this the church just Living in sanctification and being an example of like a city on a hill. Oh, somebody wants to say something? Okay. Could be both. How spread the dot four also called key right called the part two worlds. It could be. I ha if I had to pick, I would incline towards the second one. It it seems like and and and it seems like I would tend towards if I had to pick, and I don't disagree with you saying it's both. It seems like The implication is it's just the church being faithful. That which could include teaching, by the way. It seems like the church being faithful Is demonstrating the manifold wisdom of God. So, what I think I heard you say was In this instance, we're living the way we are, and that's an example, but it's not necessarily an example to the rest of the world. And and that's in you're leading me to the next part of this because there are other places in scripture where it says our example does go to the rest of the world. But here Paul says It's going to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places And so we gotta ask ourselves, what is that? Because that's that may be a ministry that we're not thinking about or aware of. In our lives that are going on. So we've got to stop and ask ourselves, what does Paul mean when he says rulers and authorities in heavenly places? Anyway, anyone start us off Oh yes. So th there's that bit about the angel getting held up. Um in battle before he could help us. It's in Daniel. Daniel there's a there's spiritual warfare that's going on in the heavenly places. And it was going to come to Daniel sooner, thank you. And uh and couldn't because they he needed fight to get there was there was fight and he needed help to get there. Yes. It does. So the the first thought here in Daniel is there's spiritual warfare going on. The second thought is the other time that we see this phrase used in Ephesians It seems like it's talking about evil forces. Does this look like this is talking about evil forces? Yes, it could be both. Somebody says it could be both. It just says, yes, it could be both. Any other thoughts? I know this is a toughie, but I wanted to see what we've got and what Off the cuff of your head. I know this is kind of like a pop quiz almost. And so guesses are oopy at this point in time, Elizabeth. Good. That's 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 12. It's probably worthwhile reading that out loud. Ephesians 1. 12, at the very end of that verse. Is where you're talking about. It it was revealed to them, that's the prophets, by the way, that they were serving not themselves but you and the things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven, things into which angels long to look. Cool. I'm glad you brought that reference in because I think that is an important reference in trying to take this apart. We also know that when one sinner repents, heaven rejoices. And so there's some interesting things that we know that are kind of revealed about what's going on in heavenly places when things happen here on earth. Because this passage in Ephesians 3. Seems to be saying the things the church is doing are being observed by beings in heavenly places Wow. How often do you go down the street and think about the fact that me as part of the church are being observed by heavenly beings? I I don't I'm so glad you stopped me and asked that question, Angela. Thank you. So the question is, if I could say it my own way, tell me if I'm off base. What's the church doing? That's being observed. And I think it does go back to the mystery. I think it does, and that mystery is wrapped up inside a grace. I think that the church In when the churches, Gentiles and Jews are walking in unity. They're displaying God's grace. When the church, when people in the church grow in sanctification God's grace is glorified when The church demonstrates effective working because it relies on the grace of God. Heaven sees that. And I I think that's what's being talked about here. And there's an aspect of, yes, this may be all heavenly beings that are looking at this, but I think the ones who are looking at this in wonder are the angels. And God's glorified no matter what. When you go back to chapter 1, all the things that are talked about in chapter 1, there's a refrain that happens to the praise of his glory. To the praise of his glory. And here Paul's reminding us individually, but speaking to the church at large, is that when we walk in our sanctification When we're in the grace of God living based on the purpose that He has for us, God's glorified. And haven't sees that. Since um since this uh um section that uh did not say specifically just angels. I wonder whether when he says rulers and authorities, do we know of anywhere where um the Bible talks of Um God's angels, that is the one that uh whether referred to as rules and authorities? That's a good question, Henry, and I don't know if one of those places But what I I and I'll come I don't think I wanna add anything yet to that. Diane, you have your hand up. Sure. I I'm I'm glad you asked the question. The mystery that Paul's talking about here, if you look at verse six. It it depends on Christ dying on a cross. It depends on that. But specifically what he says is the mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs. Jesus wrapped up in it. Right, right. Jesus had to die to make the to to bring about Gentiles becoming fellow heirs. You're right, absolutely. But the mystery itself is that the Gentiles now share In the promises that God gave. In the covenant, they're members of the same body and partakers of the promise. Which couldn't happen without Christ riding on the cross. It does seem like Paul's bringing to the table an assumption that the people there already s sort of understand and know. But remember too that Paul was if was somebody who was brought up to the heavenly places and sawing the things that he's not allowed to talk about And so it it could be that there's something going on here that they knew, but it also may be that Paul's referencing something that he knows. And it is interesting in what Paul's talking about here is that he's pointing at and bringing to light that the things that we've got going on aren't just impacting the people that are around us, but they give glory to God and they impact heaven as well. And that's a powerful place to be. Of what it is that we're doing. I could The things that I do that I feel like are in secret are things that are being seen. And and that's important for us to hold on to and remember. I think that We can think, oh, nobody's gonna see that this thing that I'm doing for me, and the the fact is no, that's not true. these things are are seen. And to the to the extent that we're in the business of bringing God glory He's praised. He's praised in heaven. And there's an aspect here of You know, the angels in heaven, the angelic beings are around God going, holy, holy, holy, and singing his praises. And those who rebelled Are continuing to be ashamed because they rebelled against that glory But based on what Peter says in this aspect, and even what we read in the Gospels is that the angels here have an interest in what's going on. They have an inclination to want to see and to dwell on God's glory and to understand God's plan. Which fits in here into this context and what Paul's talking about when again and again he speaks about the wisdom of God, the plan of God, the purpose of God. that that we've seen since the start of this letter, even to this point now. And so the church in humble obedience and dependence on God, I think is Giving glory and testimony to those beings that see and watch. And that testimony gives praise to God. Yep. One quick thing. Please. I think for for Henry, occasion six twelve. gives us a little bit of context that those rulers and authorities are likely to goes in where we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers. So sort of this present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places is sort of it it ties in across Ephesians, so it gives Yeah, and one thing that I mentioned too here, and this this also touches a little bit on what you were saying, uh, and that's important for me to say as well, is that just because there it's referring to The wicked forces doesn't mean that here in chapter 3 it's also referring to wicked forces. The context helps us to know and to understand that. And uh anyway, uh I I think yeah, I've said enough. Yes, uh then one other real relevant reference, Romans A thirty-eight. Because I'm persuaded that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities are powers. Yes. Yeah And those there in Ephesians 8 are working hard to separate us from the love of God And here it doesn't look like this is necessarily looking to separate us from the love of God. It seems like they're observing and Observing. I think the amplify your point, Paul in the same letter later in Ephesians, is giving a qualifier to the kinds of posts, right? There is evil, darkness, whatnot, he gave all these sort of like additional adjectives, whereas here he doesn't. So I I think that's sort of like I appreciate that addendum. Thank you. And again, it's a it's an aspect that we have little experience with. The only way that we know what we know is what Scripture reveals to us as well. And Scott, you're making a really good point. Whether it is to good holy angels or whether it's to demons The end is still the same. The church is displaying God's glory. Manifold wisdom is on display in the church. And so whether that is to the shame of demons who rebel Or if that's on display for the angels to give praise and glory to God, it's still on display in heaven. And whether God is glorified in judgment or God is glorified in reconciliation and redemption and grace, God's still glorified. Thank you for that. Yeah, you can ask your question. Whoever them happens to be true. Whoever them happens to be is it for them? So why does Paul like what's the pastoral or epistolary focus of Paul's? Yeah, what's the point here? It it feels like we're on a Not only are we on excursus, but we're on an excursus that's like way out here. And I think it's the point that Paul's gonna get to, which is don't lose heart. And just backing up, right This is according to God's eternal purpose. It's God's plan and purpose. And in many respects, well, okay, that's good enough for me. That would God wants the church to bring glory to the angels or demons in heaven? Yay, I am an active participant in God's holy, glorious purpose. And I'm like, I'd rather be a doorkeeper for God, right? I'd rather have some little aspect that God has glorified in that He's purposed for me to do. than to be outside, to not have the ability to share in the family of God, to not have the ability to participate And I think that starts to tease at what's going on, right? And it gets back to the idea that we now have access to God as well. And that's why Paul goes there next. What last time I taught, we introduced the idea of we have access. Does anybody remember, by the way, top quiz, the verse that we memorized? Ephesians two thirteen. Anybody? Peek at it, peek at it real quick. I bet it starts the word FUT. Let's read it. Let's read it together. Now in Christ Jesus, you were once far off, have been brought near by the blood of Christ. Right. We have been brought near. And All of this stuff, this unsearchable riches, the plan of the mystery, the manifold wisdom of God, that's on display, the eternal purpose of God The boldness and access that we have brings about God's plan, purpose, and his glory And is part of the reason why Paul wants them to not lose heart. But there's even more here I want to talk to. Ah, I got I got thoughts running around in my head. Hold on a minute. I want to answer your question with more clarity, Scott. Well um thank you. Uh So God. Yes. Scott. So I I mean I I I don't know if it's really to Paul's point here, but it just goes to uh the glory of God that He is the only one who is omniscient. And it's His wisdom is so far greater that not even the angels and not even the demons know The plan. They don't know what God's working on. And here we have the mystery of the church being united, the Jews and the Gentiles that we have been given this gift of this mystery that not even the rules and authorities knew of. That also frankly is how shocking it would be to even us, but that he would unite his people, the Jews and and the Gentiles. Yes and yes and yes. I I need uh let's let's focus down here and we'll we'll see how closely this circles back to the question that you had asked. And that is Paul has one request in this whole escursus, and that is that you not lose heart over what I am suffering for you. So, first of all, Paul's suffering. Help me out. Why is Paul suffering? I'm sorry? He's in prison. Why else might Paul be suffering? Any other things? Because he would like to be there with them. He would like to be there with them. That's potential as well. Also, let's ask ourselves real quick the question, what does it look like Paul's ministry is all about? How does Paul execute his ministry? He writes letters, right? What else? He gets in a boat And he goes places. It seems like Paul's ministry is all about going to towns where the gospel has never been before. But if you remember your story from the book of Acts, Paul's been in chains for a little while now. And he's there because he's suffering on behalf of the Gentiles. And he appealed to Caesar. And so Paul's been suffering shipwreck and chains. And a lack of mobility. And and all of this stuff, the churches know about this. They're aware of this, and Paul now wants them to not lose heart. In fact, he says something kind of similar to the Philippian church in Philippians chapter 1. And the way he says it there is, God's used my imprisonment for his glory. He doesn't use the words, don't lose heart, but what he does say is that even though I'm in chains God's still using me for his purpose And through me, the imperial guard is made more bold to speak without fear. And so Paul here says, I don't want you to lose heart. That word is translated a bunch of different ways. I don't, it's also translated, I don't want you to faint. It's to tire or to become feeble or discouraged. And Thayer translates that's a Greek guy. Well, he's he writes a Greek dictionary. He writes, translates this word as to be utterly spiritless, to be wearied Out, to be wearied out or exhausted. Paul's concern that the church might become unaffective Because they're looking at Paul's sufferings. And so Paul jumps out. He says, Whoa, I gotta interrupt myself here. And I need to let you know something about my purpose. That God has and how that purpose is being fulfilled in the church. And so that's what's going on here. You know, Paul, when you think about the context of Ephesians, he starts off with this phrase, you've been blessed He goes on to praying that they would understand his purpose. He talks about their salvation. He talks about them being drawn near and included. And he's about to, which is where we're going to go next week, he's about to pray that they would understand God's love for them. And before he does that, he says, and I really don't want you to be discouraged. I don't want you to lose heart. Don't lose momentum. You know when you watch two sports teams play and the momentum suddenly shifts? And the other team, they're they're dragon, they can't lift their hands up anymore, and stuff like that. That's what Paul doesn't want for this church because they see him. It could be that Paul's assuming that because they see him in chains, they will also now be afraid of being in chains. Hebrews Chapter ten speaks in a similar way, where the author there says Ephesians 10, verses 35 to 39, he says, I don't want you to be ones who shrink back. And I know you're not ones who will shrink back. And it's a similar kind of context here, Paul doesn't want the church to shrink back because he's in chains and suffering. But there's more that Paul's got going on here because Paul is saying to them, similar to the Philippians, in my suffering, I'm still being affected for God. I still have purpose. I know that I'm in the midst of this, but my ministry has not ended because I'm in chains. And it's clearly spoken in the book of Philippians, where he says the whole Praetorian guard has heard the gospel. And do you know there's an aspect of when we know that we're in a purpose, when we have a purpose, a goal, and objective. There's a lot of difficulty we can put up with. If I know my children need me, I'll wake up and take care of them. If I know, let's make it more real. If I know that I'm an essential personnel, maybe I feel like I can go to work. But it's discouraging to know that I'm not an essential person. And it gets back to the purpose. Am I digging a hole that somebody else is just going to come and fill up behind me so that I can go dig the next hole? Am I building software that somebody's just going to throw away? Or has it got purpose In my suffering, in my suffering, because I'm serving an eternal purpose that's on display in the heavenly places. I can suffer for that. You know, I can wear chains knowing that God is glorified in heaven, even though nobody else sees it. When I'm mocked because I believe in Christ, I can put up with that because I know I've got a bigger God. And I think that's what Paul's pointing to because he's concerned they might get discouraged. They love him and are probably heartbroken over the fact that he's in prison. They might be afraid. There's Paul seems to know That God has him where he is, and where God wants him, and because of that What we read here in the book of Ephesians, what we read in the book of Philippians, is I will rejoice. I'll say again, I'll rejoice. He has blessed me with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. So I can praise God. You know Paul tells us, I'll just tell you a story. I went and visited Ricardo back when he was in the hospital, thinking I was going to go and encourage him. And um Ricardo said to me something that has stuck with me. He said, you know, Doug, I've decided every day I'm gonna start looking for the good. He said, because God's promised me good. He said, you know Romans eight. Romans eight says that Everything works out for the good of those who love him. And Ricardo had made up his mind to start looking for the good even though he's dying of cancer. And I'm like, oh in my life, I want to start doing that too. You know, this past week and a half, we've had some difficulties at work. And I'll tell you it has been God teaching me to learn to look for the good. There was the and there's been other things that have been going on as well. But the fact is, the fact is, because God says it, I believe it, all things work together for good. So where's the good? Where's the good? Even when I don't see it, I know it's there because my God hasn't changed. His word doesn't change. And so he asks the church to not lose heart because they have purpose and because God's good. I I just want to say it again. I think it's so much easier to suffer with purpose than to just suffer And so when we know and see that God's good and He has purpose for me, I can put up with a whole lot more. And that's What's this last little phrase? Which is your glory? Because he could have just stopped, don't lose heart over what I'm suffering for you. And he adds this little last piece on here Is it referring back to what Paul did? Is it referring back to the mystery? Is it referring back to the gospel and disgrace? Or is it just by its own self? If you don't lose heart, that's to God's glory. When I'm gonna back up just a little bit and I'm gonna ask a question here. It says here we have bold access. We have bold access. And if Paul said this in the previous chapter, what do you expect to find when you draw near to God? When you exercise the bold access that you have to the heavenly places, to the throne room of God, what do you expect to find? Sorry Peace. Peace. What do you mean by peace? I agree with you by the way. It is a privilege. Anyone else? What do you expect to see? When you look by the way, thanks for going first. What do you expect to see when you draw near to God to God? When life is hard, draw near to God When life is easy, you better draw near to God. Because you're in dangerous waters at that point if you don't draw near to God. And he'll make it so that you uh anyway, God's good. Yes Yes. Yeah, we. Which which gets back to what Paul's been talking about and the thread and the idea and the concept about the mystery and everything like that that we have. I would Submit to us that when you draw near to God, you're going to see the fruit of the Spirit as well. Galatians 5 speaks of what the fruit of the Spirit is like to grow that in us. I would expect that God's Spirit would be displayed also when we draw near to Love, joy, and peace. Patience. Anyway, that's a thought to not respond to because we don't have any more time. There is real struggle that we have in life. Knowing that we're going through this life with purpose. Knowing that we're going through this life in the service of God changes what we're doing from just stirring the, you know Telling the soil, planting new plants, to, I'm in the business of glorifying God and building his purpose And that brings meaning to the little things that we do and the big things that we do. And that changes us from a position of I'm just working. I'm just digging a hole so that it's going to get filled back up again. I'm raking leaves because next year they're going to fall off the trees, right? But the reality is, the reality is there's purpose. There is purpose and plan in what God has for us. And it's important as we go about living our lives to see that otherwise we might be tempted to lose heart. Yeah, that's how And to grow slack. And to forget that God's in control who loves us and has purpose and work for us. Ephesians 2. 10 lets us know that God has work and purpose for us. He didn't just save us so we can go to heaven. He has purpose and work for us. Now. I have so many other thoughts running through my head, but I want to be respectful and I'm going to close this in prayer Thank you guys for your participation and for looking into things that are amazing and wondrous. Thank you for your word and how it challenges our minds. Thank you, God, that you display for us a kindness that And a love, and a mercy, and a grace that's so much deeper than I anticipate So much more full than I see, and is rich. I pray, Heavenly Father, you'd help us to know you better. I pray, Heavenly Father, that we would understand the fathomless glory of who you are. Dear God, I I pray that you would take some of what we talked about today, that you would use it. There's aspects of of what we've talked about that um anyway, dear Lord, thank you so much for your kindness that you show us For the body of Christ, I pray that we our church and your church universally would continue to do what you've called it to. To your praise, we ask. Amen. Thanks, guys.