Um Ephesians chapter four, starting in verse thirty-two. Can I get a volunteer to read all the way from four thirty-two Five tenth. Thank you. Let all bitter holy instead be kind to one another, tender hearted, graciously forgiving each other, just as God has also Graciously forgive me. Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children and walk in love, just as Christ also loved us and gave himself up for us an offering and a sacrifice to God as a fragrance of Roman. But sexual immorality or any impurity or grief must not even be made among you as it's proper among saints nor filthiness and foolish talk, or coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving a thing. For this this you know with certainty that no one specially immoral or impure Or greedy who is an idolater as any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ in God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the subject of disobedience. Therefore do not be partakers of them, for you were formerly darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, for the fruit of that light consists in all goodness and righteousness and truth. Trying to learn what is pleading to the Lord. How far down? That's perfect. Thank you. The section that we are going to focus in on today is um Verses one to five in chapter five. But that context is important because of where and how we got to the idea of I did. Okay. Um you mean the recording? Yeah, yep, we're good. Thanks, Doug. Um We started in verse 32 to get us to the concept of what does it mean to be an imitator of God? What does it mean to walk in love? And then as we continue going, why is it that Paul immediately starts going into The warning of sexual immorality, and he describes it in different ways. And then a really solemn warning in terms of don't don't let this don't let this be indicative of your life. Did any of you um look at the notes online before you came to class? Okay. That's okay. It's alright. Um getting in trouble here, don't worry. Um If you had seen, we had put these notes together earlier, and sometimes we put reference verses there as something as way of introduction. And I had put Deuteronomy 6, 4 to 9, just based on a reference. Does anyone know what that is? Shama. That's correct. Um and what does that word shema mean? Uh it means to hear. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And these words that I command to you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and you shall talk of them when you sit in your house. And when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise, you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as the frontlets between your eyes, you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates The reason that I in particular wanted to start there is because of the idea in in terms of what the Shema is that You in loving the Lord your God, that will permeate every aspect of your life. The way that that permeates every aspect of your life will be with regard to What you teach your children, what you're willing to pass on to those most important to you, how you interact, whether you are Coming or going, whether you are in this place or in that place as a sign that never leaves you, it is something that just permeates you entirely. And as we're going back through Ephesians, right, we've been going through this whole section in terms of how is it that our theology Our doctrine, what we believe, informs who we are And by that, what manner of life that we live. And Paul cares very much, because the Lord cares very much, that we would understand there is no separation between those things. So I'm actually going to read to you a quote from John Stopp that I really like. So this is on his in his commentary on Ephesians. It's one of those where I was like, shall I paraphrase it? No, I'm just going to read it directly to you, actually. Chapters 4 and 5, the theme is the integration of Christian experience, what we are, Christian theology, what we believe, and Christian ethics, how we behave. They emphasize that being, thought, and action belong together and must never be separated. For what we are governs how we think, and how we think determines how we act. We are God's new society of people who have put off the old life and put on the new, and this is what He has made us. So we need to recall this by the daily renewal of our minds and remembering how we learn Christ as the truth as in Jesus and thinking Christianly about ourselves and our new status. Then we must actively cultivate a Christian life. For holiness is not a condition into which we drift. We are starting here first with a concept. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children And walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. So, in the class, you hear the word imitate God, be imitators of God. That word imitate here literally means to like mimic. To copy, what sense of bearing does Paul give us in terms of what does it mean to imitate God? Yep, he gave us some context or some clues as to what he means imitate God here. Sorry. Yeah, yeah, sorry. What uh I'll be let me just choose better words here. What direction does Paul give us? What context does it give us? No, no, it's good. Well we're doing it as children. Okay, excellent. As children. I mean and then our focus should be on the Lord because I Children imitate their parents. Excellent. So right off the bat we have a picture of those imitations on as children, but there's a adjective to children. What kind of children? Yeah, the love it is a yeah. Um do not participate in sexual immorality. And yeah, and you said that a couple of times my my definition is foolish or filthy words. Yeah, I think that um as he continues he's definitely going to express aspects of what does it what does it look like to in walking in love, in being children who love God, in those who have a direct focus then how does that play out in your life? And he immediately goes to sexual morality. And it's pretty important, I think, that he starts there. But still sort of staying with this idea of imitating God. What is it, what aspect is it that for instance we were copying here? Going back to thirty-two, being kind, tenderhearted, and pretty longly. Possibly well. Yeah. Yeah, and he and he and he gives that as as God in Christ forgave you So there's a clear picture right here where he's saying, the imitators of God as beloved children, so expressed in this relationship, God is the Father, we are as children. And walk in love as Christ loved us. Why is it important for us to consider if I am walking in love, that is, if I am living out love with others That my frame of reference is God's forgiveness of us in Christ. Wha why is that the important reference? Probably a part of it is because we are made sons of God and we're being made into the likeness of Christ. One of like the Um central things otherwise universities press for humanist for us. Well, that's pretty another Yeah, that's excellent. Our first frame of reference is as beloved children. Well, how are we children? And you go back to chapter one In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself, as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness fullness of time to unite all things in Christ, things in heaven and things on earth in him Our frame of reference in terms of who God is is exactly who he has said he is. This is the Lord. This is Jesus Christ whom he sent. We are loved. Our ability to walk in love is entirely based upon how he has loved us in Christ, how he has forgiven us in Christ. The reason this is particularly important is because you can take the expression walk in love, or love is kind, and it can be fairly vague. Do you get what I mean there by it can seem vague if you just say the words walk in love? Because what is a way I I see you give me one second, okay? Um if I if I give you the expression walk in love What what could you mean by what could you mean or what's a wrong way that you could interpret walk and buff? You could be very um Like, well, I understand that like you're you're actively sinning, but like I don't want to always bring it up and be loving it. Yeah, and and and I think that's a that's a good example. You know, I I think in each of these conversations we'll want to be careful in terms of like, yeah, but still there's probably a loving way for me to express it. But I think to the point you're saying, not at the expense of God's holiness, not at the expense of God's truth, not at the expense of well no, that that's just not right. So we can take the concept, the vague concept of love, as I I think you use the word permissive, right? As just, well anything goes. I don't want to be unloving, so I want to forsake holiness or righteousness. Well I was gonna say when Paula is speaking to uh next congregation of both Jewish and Gentile believers, you know, there's gonna be different cultural expectations of what love looks like. Um and sometimes it's permissive, sometimes it's a much stricter or like dutiful, like this is my duty towards you. So I do these things out of duty. Not because I actually really like you or care about you in a particular way, but that's just what I'm expected to do and that's how I show love. And I think it can be challenging to kind of break down where those differences in understanding are when they're just sort of like cultural assumptions. So when we're both looking at God as our model of what love should be that kind of helps to unify our understanding and to point out those areas where maybe like I think of love as being particularly obedient to my parents because of the point where they could ask me to do anything and I do it. But that's not actually the picture of love that Christ shows. That's not how we're meant to demonstrate love to each other in quite the same way. Yes. I think I I think I'm following all the way there. I mean it's it's just to say like we can sometimes have assumptions of what love looks like or what love is meant to be. And if we're using Christ as our model of that love, then that helps to take those cultural assumptions I I think that yeah, so I think thanks that that was like helpful. I think it helped turn back. I think that's a good point in that Christ is not only our model and our example for love, but he's also the source of it itself, right? And that's the point that's very much here. It all has to ground in who Christ is and how he has expressed love to us. And in particular, for what we have here, it's As Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God. Yeah. Did you I want to come back to you? Yeah, yeah. Well I mean I I was just going back to your your like original question about like how is God's love like different than ours? And I think this feels like God's love is ultimate it he he won't he he will love us and that will never go away. And just like I mean like we can like like say we love somebody and they'll break up or Or you know, get angry at them, have a fight, and then not not love the other person. But God's love is eternal. That was my that was what I wanted to get in there Yeah, and I and I think something that we've talked about a lot before is the the picture of God's love in terms of agape love, is that it is one that comes from him. So it's not one that looks at the object in front of it and says, based on your worthiness I will love you in this way. But rather because of who God is, that is how he loves. And then we in turn, as imitating Christ Himself, say, we have been loved and forgiven this way, so we can go and love and forgive this way. The how is that? How is what? How how have we been loved and how do we turn that around to love for others I I I just feel like we're using words that we all agree to because of the ones we've been talking. I mean about you in specific words not criticizing you for sure. But your first question about why is the forgiveness of Christ foundational in how we treat each other. I'm like one to really dig in on that. Yeah, does that work? Yeah. Yeah. I mean what's the first place that you go to in terms of your position before God? When he chose to forgive you. So the Romans. Go for go for Romans on it. Uh I don't Scott, I'm not trying I would never need to lead you in a conversation for it. Yes, thank you. That's perfect. That's perfect, right? It it's a position. Can you expand on that a little for us? I mean but I mean it's an EC2. Yep. Um Um but God rich in mercy we were enemies of the cross who were hostile against him and he still chose to forgive us. Yes Sons of disobedience, we walked in darkness. This is what we loved, this is what we cared about, this is how we hated God And yet in that It just tracks really that tracks really well with these, right? What you were before, how you walk before and now walk. So I'm I'm with you. Yep. What's the next step? So the next step then God, in his good mercy, did not look at you in that position and say, well, you deserve to be loved. He, right? It was our first section right there. Oh no. Yep Predestine us for adoption of himself according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace. Here's who you are. Here's what you were. In that position, a good and holy God, who is love, his attributes, not just something he puts on. Take that, please. Like appropriately that's how I mean it. But I mean it is his essence, love. And it is in that position that he comes and he says You are forgiven, but let's be real careful what accomplishes forgiveness. I I know, right? This is basic Sunday school, but uh if I if I say nothing else that you ever remember, you do not grow up past the gospel. Does that make sense? You never mature beyond the foundation of the gospel. In this same section, where does he place it as to the manner and the type of God's love? It is actually when you were reading it, what was it? Um the it's the new thing. Um not the um the L legacy. Oh sorry. Um a fragrance, the um and walking love just as Christ also loved us and gave himself up for us in offering and to sacrifice to God as a praise of us. So what does it look like? I'll come right to you in a second. So then what does that look like? That looks like God himself giving himself Ultimately in sacrifice. As, right, you have this reference towards an offering and sacrifice, which are both direct references into Leviticus. with regard to a type of offering, one in devotion and thanksgiving, and a type of sacrifice, one in terms of for the forgiveness of sins, that is what? A pleasing aroma, a fragrance that God delights in. And this is the manner of forgiveness. This is the manner of love with which Christ has loved us. Do you want to go? Yeah, and you know, so we're thinking about um You know, um we love because we love because he you know he just loved us. And Jesus said all the law and the prophets has summed up and love the Lord Lord, you got the holy heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love of your neighbor as yourself. And here we're following Christ's example as a response to the love that has been expressed Yes. We are and he Jesus gave himself as a sacrifice. Now we are going to offer every day. So that putting off of the self and putting on the The new clothes that we've been given, the outflowing of that is now going to be how we love other people and how we respond to them and sacrifice ourselves daily To show that one. Yeah. Yeah, they're they're love it, by the way. Thank you. Um There's a there's an origin and a purpose. And we're discussing the origin, which is fantastic. You gotta know who you are because the whole argument to feature, right? Your identity first and your walk second. And yep. Um but the wall part you snuck up on I thought in your last your last um response or However, that should be phrased. And you read it several times, right? Those first chapters, first verses in chapter one, purpose of his will, purpose, plan, purpose. It's over and over again, right? There's an origin, and that's the forgiveness that we have in Christ, and the purpose is the restored relationship between the individual and their God. often through a always through a mediator. And that mediator is ultimately Christ. But the love that we show others, same deal. Same deal. Yes. Right? We get to be not like Christ, obviously, but we get to imitate that in order and that that's helpful to me when you talk about loving somebody that's un by definition unlovely because of Romans or because of the Ephesians IV or wherever you want to go. Right to look at another person, and thinking you be getting in less trouble than looking at my wife to say as a solid choice guy. That's a sinner. And he's just sitting against me, and that was actually wrong obviously you know that was just wrong. But to get a look at that person to go, but I want to find a way to demonstrate Christ such that they are drawn into right relationship. with Christ. Because that's exactly what he did while I was in the midst of my sin. That is so clarifying in the moment with what words should be spoken and what action should be taken. And it's one I think we miss all the time when we talk about, well, I'm just gonna love you. I'm supposed to have loving thoughts. No, I'm not. You just sinned against me. I'm actually pretty angry about the whole thing. But with my mind, I can purpose to do my best to try to restore right relationship with Christ. That has been crazy helpful to me. And frankly, particularly in the context of marriage. Yeah, w which I mean I think right we are gonna continue in five and Paul is going to I mean not right now, I just mean in chapter five, he's gonna make his way and navigate through every relationship you have. Marriage, parenting, work relationship. Right? He's gonna sort of like hit everyone and be like, no excuse, no excuse, no excuse. Here's what it looks like. So sort of a question. Um in thirty-one, oh somebody mentioned that yeah, this is a church of Jews and Gentiles in it. You're not used to being with each other. And they're all new Christians and just supercultural etc. He said, let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you. Be forgiving. um in Christ and then he goes, Therefore. So it's tough but then he goes into and of course all these other things you don't do So those things I guess I feel like he's partly speaking about that don't be evil speaking, don't be bitter about something, don't be angry because of what they with these people what happens. But yeah, I used to build this on these ideas. Thanks for my middle Yeah, I mean I I think it's a good point and I think it it comes up again in five and in the same touch in in that The way and the manner with which we express what we treasure most, what we believe. who we are in our identity comes out in our actions, but also very much in our speech. That's right. You are more likely to not to be like reductionists here But you're more likely to speak against someone in a bitter way or express words angrily in a way that just is mean, unkind, then you are you're you're more likely to do that than you are to just walk up and punch them. Right? Uh you know, not to be silly, but like That's likely true, and yet that's indicative of something going on in your heart and going on with your um Your walk, really, is what is the way I'm going to say that. Now, there's something really important. Let me come right back to you. Sorry. Let me come right back to you. One thing that I I want to be very clear as a reminder Here is Paul is encouraging you not to make this thing true about yourself, but do this thing because it is true of yourself That sounds semantic. That sounds like it's just a a different like way of ordering the words. It is not. It is incredibly important with regard to if I walk up to a temptation of sin in front of me. If my identity is one as, well that's just who I am, so I might as well indulge You have lost the battle there. If you walk up to somebody who's like, whoa, whoa, that's not who I am. Joseph and Pharaoh's wife, whoa, whoa, whoa. That's not what I've been given. That's not who I am. That's not who God is. Why would I do this against him? You walk in a manner worthy. Because that's very much sort of what The bookend is here, from the beginning of chapter four and one, to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called. Right? And then he will come later in the section we're going to finish here about something that's not fitting to be named among you. It's that same concept. And that's that's not who you are. Do you have them? Yeah, yeah. Well I mean um I mean myself, like I'm sure a lot of other people, um We're internalists. Um like we don't we don't say things to be rude, we don't yell at people, we just let it all all build up inside and think and think um like I guess not think as it does, but like just like vent vent our anger or frustrations in a different way, not against the people. You know, and so like is that is that like basically the same thing here? Like two six of one half a dozen of the other, or is that different or how how do you how would you um think about that? Um I'm gonna be careful on how I answer this. Um Spurgeon has a reflection on someone who he warns that you should not look at the natural temperament of a man and assume because of that natural temperament that that one is necessarily progressed in holiness versus another. Some people express bitterness, anger, or it wasn't even really in this section, but it's useful, right? They express those sins very boisterously out loud in your face and others sin quietly in their hearts. And the Lord sees all. And so it first starts in the heart And then it proceeds from there. Now, I want to be careful in that, right? Because sometimes sanctification looks like Just that time you held your you held your tongue better than you did the time before. And that is can also be sanctification But what the Lord desires is that you get to the point, and I think maybe a little bit about the fake scenario between Scott and Joe, is before it got out to your tongue, before it got there, when the thought entered your mind, what was captured there was You have sinned against me. Have I sinned against Christ worse than you have sinned against me? I have. How did he how did he maintain this? So this love, a love that is expressed In in the way that Christ has loved us and gave himself, right? So we briefly sort of like covered these topics and we talked about it in terms of in terms of um The picture of an offering and a sacrifice there. Something that I really want to make sure that we're clear on is that This expression is the Lord in the right relationship. So Jesus Christ the Son in the right, perfect relationship with the Father and with the Holy Spirit. We talk about this, right? We talk about the idea of Trinitarian relationship and the perfection of that relationship. The reason that's important, though, is because it holds all things to be true and in the right order. From the, if you'll go back for a second, from the Shema, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. That's the right order. A love that we express towards God and towards one another is one in the right order. Why do I keep saying it like that? Eating order as a light. Yes, sorry. I was not going to the order of Shema, but that's really guys, anytime I say something that seems confusing or vague, please jump in and help clarify. That's great. Nope, did not mean the Shema order. I'm sorry. I meant with regard towards the relationship itself. The reason I say that is because the very next thing that he goes into is, but sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not be named among you, must not even be named among you as is proper among saints. Do you know what the opposite of let me get to my let me get to my note here. Do you know what we could consider as the opposite of self-sacrifice And well-ordered love, a love that is oriented towards God and that expresses itself in terms of us being sacrificial towards one another? Selfishness. Selfishness. Right? And how can that express itself in one of the most damaging ways? Self-indulgent love. Sexual immorality, impurity, covetousness The perversion, sexual immorality, is the perversion of the right order of love with regard to an aspect that God has designed into us. We do not hold to a position that is Bear with me on this. We do not hold the position that all sex is bad. We hold the position That in the context of marriage as God has designed it, there is a part of the design that has both purpose in relationship and purpose in terms of How life continues. And the perversion of that that takes itself out of the context of relationship, God's order, holiness, righteousness, is expressed in What do I get in terms of self-satisfaction that does not care about anything else in front of me and will use and abuse it to whatever extent? And that's the picture of sexual immorality, impurity, and covetousness. Covetousness is interesting here. So let's define our terms a little bit. The word here used for sexual morality, the root of that word is from what you it's pornea, it's the word from which you get Pornography, it is that word for broad, it's a broad word for sexual sin. That word for impurity is one in terms of uncleanness. It can be physical or moral. Uncleanness, filthiness. And then covetousness, what is that? What is that? I mean we know that word, right? But what is that word? Sorry, or some some other, right? Right. Somebody else's or something else. That's right. That's right. Yeah, uh a greeniness and desire for something that is not yours to have. And in this context, likely is still referring to sexuality. I don't think that it's the mistake that Paul I mean, oh okay. Obviously it's not a mistake. Let us appreciate the significance of Paul immediately going from walk in love as Christ loved us, in righteousness and holiness, and a relationship with one another in its right state. and immediately to a warning of sexual immorality. There is a significance to that in terms of the clear damage Both to the individual believer and to the community, that sexual morality can have it. Please. Um I love the direction you're going. And I agree a hundred percent I think it may be worthwhile to look a little bit bigger also in the context. Sure. Because where we start in chapter four is walk worthy of your calling. Yep. And here it says walk as imitators of Christ. And I think in this, and please tell me if you think differently, this is this is getting to all the aspects of our sanctification. Because you see it here in the sense that you are made new. It's something we've been we were taught in the first three chapters over and over again. You are made new. And because of the fact that you're made new, it's not proper. It's not proper for you to live a certain way. And there's words here, it's not proper, it's out of flavors. Yep But now you are. So that that made newness uses a new definition of who we are. But there's also the in chapter four there's the the growth that's going on. It's this kind of daily command expectation and and there's a hope that we have as well of being trained up in maturity. And I think all of that stuff is wrapped up and and it and And it's cool to see how Paul continues to interweave these concepts of speech and sex and and stuff throughout all of these things. And so in this near context, thinking about love branches out again into all these concepts of of our sanctification because A it's not proper And B, as we're walking like Christ, he would never do that. It's it's just not, you know, because I might be like, hey, I'm I'm hanging with the guys, it's funny for me to make crude jokes Yeah, yeah. Sorry. No, that's perfect. I so if I I mean I I completely agree. I I guess your point here is to make sure that we're keeping the major theme of Paul is now going to start working through all these different aspects of your life and how they should reflect who you are and who God is. Is that is that fair? Yeah, yeah, and and it's we imitate God because it's proper to do so also Yes, I totally agree. The proper to do so I think is uh I think is interesting too. It is interesting. Because I would also say It's fit for purpose. Our purpose as saints And and it's shaped between the case. Right. Exactly. It's it's hey, this is what you were designed to do This is who you're designed to be. You have been set right as a new creationist, right, as you said. And now Don't be participating in things that are not fit for that. Like you're still that broken tool, broken thing that has not been set right. This is worship. And we're talking about so um sexual immorality is a feature of pagan idolatry in every single cultural And so that is the final thing. Like that's not what you're doing. Your life is to be in worship to God every moment every part of it, this is this is every part of you is is an offering to the Lord. And so this is how you have to live. Not offering yourself to the the idolatry that you want Yeah. Yeah, and I think, you know, I think you make a really good point, right? Poll in writing this letter, it hits in ethics. well because of exactly the culture in the day. And in 2025, almost 2026, it hits just as well here. And if you survey The Old Testament. Looks like it hit each one of them as well. I put here my like my like tiny little list of like if I wanted to go through biblical characters, just the most prominent biblical characters sort of like taken down in one way or another by sexual morality. Samson, David, Solomon. Right? And sort of in each one Your strength gone and robbed of you because your heart desired after something to satisfy yourself in its own time. And actually that's something that I particularly want to point out. So completely agree, right? We are walking through and Paul is Paul is navigating for us. Let's go through all aspects of life, and he's really going to go through every aspect of life. And he wants to be practical for us. That's not who you are. That's not your identity. Don't let it look like this Because that's not right, but let me give you the really frank warning about it. In those things, particularly around the sin of sexual morality, Or really, actually no, I'm going to take this back. Expressed in sexual morality, but really at the heart of sin, is that picture of I want it now, and I don't care about what came before or what comes later. I want it now. It's a gratification that says, I don't know, it's a fruit of a tree. Maybe he didn't really say that Maybe that's not really the consequence of what he said was going to happen. Is that really what he said? You see where it starts? It's the immediacy. It's right there. And then it's that willingness to sort of like, yeah, this. This is what I want Expressed in sexual morality is one that is can can really go far in terms of consequence not only in terms of how it can overtake a person, but rather but also just the the impact that spreads out Once I get enough I'm right back to you. I always start with, I mean, consider David on the rooftop And then all the actions he was willing to do to conceal that This and then the ring and let me send you to the front line and let me try to get you drunk and let me do this. And in the face of every time trying to cover up that sin and chase after it, you had an example of I mean would you arrive for it? It's like a a righteous man who's not willing to sort of participate in those same things. What do you got? So um so live what you say In Ephesians 5, we're being imitators of God. It's God working through us, sanctifying us, making us holy, because he is holy. So as he's doing that, if if we're not pursuing holiness, the total opposite, the extreme that Paul went to was fornication. was on cleanness and covetousness to make a point that if you're not if you're not perceiving holiness, you're not one of gosh, you're not one of the call, you're not one of the believers. then you are going the opposite way, just like in Romans 1, talking about giving them over to the week to lie. It's an extreme to make a point. Brian, I'm almost with you. I'm almost with you. Well I want to be careful here. So let me try to navigate this in the right way, okay? We need to not dampen that Paul is writing the saints in this one right here. Because he's saying, don't let it be named among you. Which means you're a saint. Don't let this be the reflection of your life. And in every warning that we're given in Scripture, the expectation is that we can receive the warning and through the goodness of Jesus Christ and the power of the Holy Spirit, if we are in sin, turn And step into that right, that right place. Okay? The reason I want to say it like that is what I don't want to do is that we take something like this and be like, yep, that means you were never a believer right off the bat at this verse. Because I think the better thing to do here I I'm not saying that's like what you're implying, so please take that the right way. Um if he's given them over to the lead up Live, they're continuing to go down the road. They were not a belief in the first place. So I think that there is an example of that where you get down to When it talks about not having the inheritance in the kingdom of God. But I think that that is the picture of and and Guys, if you want to jump in with me on this, please. I think that that's the picture of continual rejection of the warning, continual pursuit of the sexual morality that never That never gave it up and never wanted to give it up, and that's a mark of you were you were not a son. I think that's what verse 5 is saying. I think what verse 4, uh 3 and 4 is saying If I'm a believer, an actual believer, and there is a sexual immorality in my life, there is adultery in my life I can read this. The Holy Spirit can convict me of this in my sin. And I will turn from this as a part of my sanctification. And I am still because I belong to Christ. I can receive this warning and be changed. Does that make sense what I'm saying, or is it does it seem funneled? Scott, what do you got? Then then please are they not a belief I I would just stick close to Paul's writing thesis here. The entire narrative thesis of the argument is that there are people that were confronted by God. And there are a group that rejected that, Romans 1, 20 and 21. And there are a group, Ephesians 1, whom God chose through his love and all the things we've said earlier to redeem. So we've got people going opposite directions, well I guess opposite directions from God. One toward, one away. Paul in Ephesians 5 is addressing people that he has called saints and that are moving toward Christ. Now are there these other people and are there fakers on the road to Christ? Absolutely. But that's not in the text here. Right. What Paul is talking to here, and this is kind of, I love this actually, Paul is addressing people whom he said God has saved you. And you are walking into a purpose, which is him at the end, right? The the the teleological argument, I hate to use a stupid theological word, but it's important. Argument for design. here, right? Is that he he saved you for a purpose to walk toward Christ. And I love that after he has established that as the cornerstone of his argument, he says Now, there's this super important thing that you need to do. Caution. Do not walk in sin. Do not walk in an unloving path. He's not talking to those that have already rejected Christ. That imperative, that caution, that warning, that motivation, that pastoral intent, if you will, is for us. Right. And for us to hear it and be like, it's okay, I'm settled in Christ. Right. You're against Scripture in that thought. You need to take that in like the fire that it is into your life and into your heart and into your mind and live it out. Now Does he come down and say, hey, let's be clear, if you don't ever respond to this fire in your breast, you're outside the kingdom. Right, absolutely. But that's not what Paul has, just face value right here. We're importing tension from other places. And which I think sort of like emphasized that point to a certain extent is that in verse 6 it says The wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. There is an identity, not us. That's right. Which, I mean, very much like thank you. Is very helpful in that is Read the verse and don't, as in the don't let this be named among you, and we're we haven't even gotten to the don't read the verse and dismiss it out of hand. That's not me, that's somebody else. Read the verse and examine. Read the verse and say, Do I have this? You don't need to read the verse, examine, and think I must not be saved. You read the verse, you examine, and no matter what, you go to Christ first. The mirror is important. You don't read the verse and go, well, I'm saved. And so this fire is not permission. Right. Right. First four. The notes are all over the place though relative to the conversation, so. Let there be no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving. Alright, let's try to I'm gonna try to land the plane here a little bit, right? You start with sexual morality, but then you still continue with filthiness, that uncleanness Nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are are why why are you why are you doing this? Why are you talking about this? Why do you care about this? That's not who you are That idea of foolish talk is like a it's like a it's it's the expression is like an easy turn of speech. It is this idea of like, oh you could be really witty or really clever with words. But you don't care about anything to carry more weight or significance. You're willing to sort of just be clever in the moment and turn anything. It's not saying don't be witty, don't be funny. It's saying Let the serious things be serious and don't mix it up. That vulgar joking or that crude joking is this idea about to cheapen something that has worth To replace that which is important with insignificant. What is it? It's that same concept that we talked about with sexual morality, but it just distills down a little bit towards the idea of I'm taking what's important, I'm taking what is set in its right place and in the right direction, and I am just sort of cheapening it and making it for the sake of anything else to sort of Really sort of like unimportant, i is is what I would go for. Why do we care about this? Why do we care about this? Say again? Um I think let's let's let's say it is indicative uh it is disc it is appropriate Based on who we are as saints in God's kingdom To not let this be like our mark. I guess I don't want to say something like it's our way to heaven, because Christ is our way to heaven. And I'm not trying to be um I'm not trying to pick on words, but also particularly because this is the verse about it. I want to be careful with words. context but um in second corinthians thirteen um I was struck um the other day where he um is saying Or do you not realize it's about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you? And it just and then if you read other passages about who Jesus Christ Jesus Christ is and you meditate on that and let that go in. That's why, because we represent that Christ Yeah, I think that's that's great, right? Because one, it is a representation in terms of that identity towards others around us. Absolutely. And I think the other thing too is that it's a reflection of our hearts In Luke 6. 45, the good person out of the good treasure of his heart produces good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure produces evil. It's the Lord speaking. For out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks. What you hold to be important in terms of how you talk and how you conduct yourselves, take the whole thing, is a reflection of your heart's desire. It is one who is, oh no, I don't want to do that. You can think about it, and the easiest way to think about it in terms of words that you let go loose are Hey, would I ever make that joke? Would I ever make an inappropriate joke like that? Take that how you roll, about my wife? I would not. That is not how I hold my wife. That is not a reflection of who she is to me, what marriage is, what God is blessed with, how I love her. That's not something I'm going to do. I'll give you a clear example in that. In the workplace, take take this if it comes with a warning or a correction or whatever it is. In the workplace, there can be a tendency to find that people like to complain about their spouses a lot. For whatever reason that is, there is something where people will come into the workplace for, well really you should just be doing your job And yet there's something where because they're removed but they're in sort of like a public space, that's a thing that you commonly find. As a very simple example in this, and guess what? As the mark of believer, as a man in the workplace, or as a woman in the workplace Don't talk like that. It's a very specific practical example, right? But when you talk like that, it reflects what you believe and what you think is important. And if you believe godliness and holiness and purity to be important, well you're certainly not making crude and sexual jokes. You're not participating in that. But also you're not talking foolishly about things, about things of God or things that you hold to be important. You see how it is just a reflection on the outside, because uh I think very very um it's really coming back to the point you're making, right? People's personalities can be different in terms of what they express or how they express themselves, and yet the Lord cares deeply about our hearts So the good news is that Doug and I talked about Wait, is it Doug you're teaching next week, right? Yeah the good news is that Doug and I talked about that verse five is kind of an interesting pivot verse because You could really, well I mean you would just do the whole section together. You could really do five alone, or really you could do five, six, and seven together. It just depends on the way we're going. So um Doug gets to spend more time in verse five. But I do want to be clear about this. This idea about both walking in love and this idea about not letting sexual morality, not letting uh a manifestation of sin in all these different directions, right? One is the positive. Hey, this is who you are. Walk in this way. As you've been loved, so love. And don't walk in this way, because that's not who you are, and that's not your identity. In all of those things, you do not do it in the absence of walking with the Lord Himself, empowered by His Holy Spirit, and in community with believers. And why is that important? Because there is this tension here of this is who you are because of what God has done. Now walk this way where you will discipline yourself. To be empowered by the Spirit to work this way. Why is that important? Because it cannot work where it is just you by yourself trying to do it. It is you reflecting a life of walking with the Lord daily. And it is you being sharpened by other believers who are pursuing holiness and love and let the right thing be the right thing in your life. and let the cheap and worthless things not be in your life. And that's all related. Because I don't want to lose sight of Paul has been working through in Ephesians. It is very much about this walk that we have in life. Both in ourselves and relationship with God and in community with God. Um hopefully. Um I I I uh thrown me here a little Doug. If there were to be homework, what I would say is to Uh you know what I would say? Okay. Yeah, this is what I would say. Go back to chapter 4, verse 1, and read it all the way through 5, 14. That's my homely case. You good with that? Is that right, all right? It's your class today. Today. That's fantastic moment. I can't wait to read it. Um Okay. It is ten thirty-three and I want to be respectful of time. Hey, um all, I very much appreciate the conversation. I appreciate everyone jumping in. Um thank you. Heavenly Father, um Forgive me for where I have failed in the things that I stand up here and I teach. And while I know this not to be about me, um Let me confess it first, on behalf of myself, that God, I'm so thankful for who you are. I'm so thankful that you've seen me. and have loved me through Jesus Christ. And though I do not deserve it, I have you as my Lord and Savior. I thank you, Lord, for the forgiveness of sins through Jesus Christ. And I thank you, Lord, that we are made new and that we belong to you. And as much as I can confess this for myself, Lord, I pray for those in the room for the same thing. Forgive us, Lord, of our sins. Forgive us of the way in which and times in which we have walked. That does not reflect our identity in you, that is the greatest gift we will ever receive. And yet, Lord In a forgiveness we have through the good work of Jesus Christ on the cross and a power that raises him from the dead, in that same way, Lord, let us be forgiven and let us turn to continue to glorify you. that your name would go out, that people that know you would be spurred on to even greater works in your name, and those that don't know you would have their consciences pricked, and the Holy Spirit would do his good work, and that they would be saved and you would be glorified. We thank you, God, that you give us good work and you design it for it. Please help us to do it so. We pray, Lord, for continued worship this morning. And we pray this all loving Jesus Christ, and in his good name we say, Amen. Thanks everybody.