So good job memorizing Ephesians 213, everybody. Uh why why did we start off with this passage? What's the importance of this verse to the passage that we have? Fantastic. Wow, I think you said That we've been brought together with Jew and Gentile in Christ. That's fantastic. That's really important. And that verse, that's really good. Uh why is this verse important? In the context of Ephesians 2, 11 to 22, why is this verse important? We're gentiles. What does it mean, Paul says, to be a gentile? Far away and excluded. Yeah. Hopeless. Far away, excluded, strangers and aliens, and hopeless. And we talked about this the last time. And one of the things that I mentioned last time is that Ephesians 2, 1-10, and Ephesians 2, 11-22 are both illustrations of what Paul wanted the Gentiles, the people that he was writing to to know. There were three things in the end of chapter one that Paul prayed for That they would know their hope, their inheritance, and the power that God worked in them. And then he gives these two illustrations which illustrate these things. The first one talks about the power that God put in place to save us, to bring us from death to life. And the second one talks about even more so what God did to inherit us And to establish the hope and to draw us near. Raise your hand if you've ever been in a fight with somebody. Now now anybody been in a real fight with somebody where it like went on And then you weren't sure you were ever gonna get that relationship back. What was that like What I mean, how did you feel about that relationship? Did it ever come back? It did. And what was it like when the relationship came back? Uh something blissful. Blissful? Like instantly? No. No. It was kind of awkward at first? Yeah. Yeah, I've been in that situation. Can anybody else relate to that where you've had a fight and it was bad and then you restored that relationship? And you're like, oh, you know that first kind of conversation, you're on eggshells, not sure it's actually going to last What does that feel like when you're in that moment of trying to restore that relationship? Uncomfortable? Anything else? Uncertain. Uncertain. Humbling. Humbling. Did you say humbling? Yeah, humbling? Yes. Yeah. That's the position that these verses are talking about. Ephesians 2. 11. Picture this if you continue the illustration I was giving. We're in a big fight with God. That's an understatement. Now, Ephesians 2, 1 to 10 says, good job, you've been brought back to life, but that doesn't solve the whole problem. You've been brought back to life, but you and God are still like this. But that's not an accurate picture. Because what happened was God brought you back to life and immediately welcomes you back into his arms. And a lot of us are like, really? We're still on the eggshells. We're still trying to figure out this relationship. But the picture of the prodigal son is where God is at, where the the father sees the son off in the distance and he runs Towards the sun. And Ephesians two, eleven to twenty-two is saying God's already run to you. He's already got you in his arms. He's already put the ring on your finger. He's already slaughtered the fatted calf. There's a party going on in the house, and you're like I really still want to apologize for what I did. I'm not sure I deserve to have this relationship with you right now. I I don't know if God I can really draw near to you yet. And that's not what God is saying. In this situation. And I want us to see that, to understand the riches and the glory and the amazing goodness of God in what he says here in Ephesians 2. 11 to 22. You who once were far off have been brought near. You are hopeless. You are a stranger. You are an alien. You We're a Gentile. And God grafted you into the promises that He's given to Israel. And made you same part, same part as if. And made you God's chosen, chosen, elect people. And he planned to do it all along. Let's read the passage. Sorry, verse eleven. Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now In Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace. who has made us both one, and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace. And might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to those who are near For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then You are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God built on a foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. There are a couple of unanswered questions left over from last week. One question related to this word hostility that's in verses 14 and 16. And the question was, are they the same? And the answer is the Greek word is the same. That's the easy answer. But on top of that, I think, yes, basically, they're being used in the same way. with the same intent. Um and what's this dividing wall of hostility that's in verse 14? And ESV renders it dividing wall of hostility, but other translations render it differently. Something like maybe the middle wall of partition. And there's some commentaries that say this is the wall that was in the temple, the physical wall that was in the temple. It was still standing when Paul wrote this. He's in prison in Rome, and the temple is still standing, and that wall still stands. It could be a reference also to the veil that divided the holy place from the most holy place in both the tabernacle and the temple. Neither one of those maybe really fits in the context of this passage. If you look in the context of verse 14 It says, for he himself is our peace who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by and you kind of gotta not stop at the verse marking Because the doesn't let you. By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace. So this dividing wall of hostility Is tied to, is removed by, abolishing the law. And that's an important relationship to understanding what Paul means when he's talking about this dividing wall. The division here is related to the wall, its ordinances and and commandments And so we need to ask ourselves too, what does he mean by commandments expressed in ordinances? That's an important question in understanding the previous question. And I think that it's the whole law. It gets back to the entirety of the law. Some people say it's the ceremonial law, other people say uh other things, but I think it is actually the whole law And Christ, when he was on the Sermon on the Mount, said, I didn't come to abolish the law. But Paul here writes, he abolished the law. And there's two different references that are being talked about right here as we think about this. The law is what separated us from God. It helped us to see our sin that created this division between us and God. The law also set up a distinction between Israel and Gentile. It's the law that sets this division in place. Paul asked the question: Well, does these things mean that the law is bad? And he says, No. It teaches us. It helps us to see. It helps us to understand. And Christ came and fulfilled the law, satisfied it at the cross. And imputed his righteousness to us so that we no longer need the law to be righteous before God, to be holy in his sight, and to draw near to him Like when you read the book of Leviticus, you're seeing all these ways to restore your relationship with God. And remember, when we're in Ephesians 2 here, it's talking about this thing that kept us from drawing near to God. And in our sin, we're effectively separated from God. This gets back to a problem that started in Genesis 3. In Genesis 3, at the fall, there became a division between man and God and cast us out of the garden Out from God's presence. And the entirety of Scripture is explaining to us about how we can get to the place where we can again draw near to God. And you see this division illustrated when God tells Moses to build a tabernacle and put a veil up there. And I'm going to be in this place of meeting, but I'm going to be on the other side of that veil. And and only you can come to me by blood. And only once a year. And only if you're a special people. And we Gentiles don't even we're not even close. We're without God. And so the law sets this division. And Christ came and satisfied that law. Paul says he abolished it. Abolished its ability to cause division and looks towards a new covenant. We're look at this is so exciting. Let's go to j Jeremiah 31. There's a couple of favorite passages I have in the Old Testament, and this is one of them And in theory it should be an easy reference to remember because it's Jeremiah thirty-one thirty-one. And you remember in Jeremiah, Darren Jeremiah is not um Israel's in sorry, Judah is in a big, big pile of trouble. When the book of Jeremiah is being written. Israel's already had theirs. Judah's got it coming. They're in trouble. And God says Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant that they broke, though I was their husband, declares the Lord, for this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord. For they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun for light by day, and fix the order of the moon, and the stars for light by night, who stirs up the sea, so that its waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name. If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the Lord, then shall the offspring of Israel cease from being a nation before me forever. Thus says the Lord, if the heavens above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth below can be explored. Then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, declares the Lord. We're grafted into that Covenant. That's why here in Ephesians 2, 11 to 22, God says, I'm making one new man. God's making us belong to Israel. I'm not saying the church replaced Israel. That's another conversation. And might take a few more minutes. But there is something going on here. So the memory verse that we were in is the turning point, is the linchpin, is the focus point For the problem that's set up in Ephesians 2, 11 to 22. And the basic outline in these two illustrations that Paul gives is: here's a problem. But God is the solution, so that. That's the outline. And that outline is the same in these two sections. And so today we're going to be looking at the solution that God provided and then the so that. This passage here, I would say even both of these passages, all of chapter two of Ephesians speaks to this eternal problem of sin. And division. And if you read through scripture, you see God comments on this a couple of times. That was an understatement, a gross understatement. God talks about this problem a lot. In fact, I would wager that this problem of separation and our sin is something that that Bible spends the majority of its time, if if not speaking on God's glory and holiness, this might be a close second. Speaking of our sin and our problem and our separation by implication or directly And this means this is something that's very important to God. It's a big deal. It gets back, it strikes at the heart of God's eternal purpose for us. And that should make us sit up and pay attention a little bit to what God says here and what he reveals You know, this whole drawing near thing, I kind of asked this at the tail end. Because I have a sense, and I may be wrong for all of us, but I have a sense that when we come to Ephesians 2 We could think, oh, 1 to 10 is really important because I was dead. I mean that sounds really final and And permanent and stuff like that. But when I get to 1122, it's just about relationships in the church. And I think it's deeper and richer than that, and we miss something important to us. When we let the rest of this chapter go by without realizing, this is getting down into God's heart. Because think about it like this. Yeah, you were brought back to life, but you couldn't talk to God. You know the story of David and Absalom? Absalom, you know, he does some stuff and he gets exiled, and Joab talks David into bringing him back. And he brings him back, and their greeting is like, hi. And he doesn't go talk to Absalom ever again afterwards. And Absalom's like, what? I'd rather not be brought back. Can you imagine you've been brought to life? Yeah, God brought you to life because He's really gracious. And then he leaves you there. He leaves you in the outer court. He doesn't let you come into the inner place and draw near to him because you are so Such a stinky Gentile. And he leaves you there. That's not what God does. This gets back to the whole thing that we started in Ephesians 1, verse 3. He has blessed us. With every spiritual blessing. And we're still seeing those blessings here. It's a big deal to draw near to God. Yesterday Diane and I went and saw um Michael Jr. Anybody here raise your hand if you don't know who Michael Jr. is. Okay. Uh he's a he's a comedian. He happens to be a Christian also. And he and his wife are kind of developing a ministry and marriage and stuff like that. Quick introduction. Anyway, he's kind of YouTube popular and um and makes him a quasi-celebrity kind of guy And so we went to this church and we listened to him do his thing and and talk and stuff like that. And when we were there at this place, we were six rows from the back, I think, in this church. If you wanted to raise your hand, he probably couldn't see us. He did, you know, he's a comedian, so he called on some people, he interacted with some people and stuff like that. And so maybe they had like another layer of maybe nearness towards Michael Jr. But there were some people who paid a little extra. Well some I don't know how much they paid extra. They paid extra and they got VIP passes And after it was all done, they got to go talk to Michael Jr. , which was a pretty cool thing Can you imagine being able to go meet the person that you kind of think is a cool person and have a conversation sit down and say, you know what, that joke was good, but maybe it didn't quite hit Uh I wish you'd done this, maybe that. Um I got a joke over here if you want to add it to your repertoire or whatever it is that you talk about when you have a chance to go do a VIP thing And eat cheese and, I don't know, grapes or something. But um this is a picture for what God's doing here We were Gentiles. We were kind of seated in the dark back corners. And that's where we were. But God paid extra and gave us all VIP passes. So we can go sit down and talk to God. Have an opportunity To get to know him one-on-one and relate to who he is. And let him explain to you who he is and reveal himself to you. That's a treasure. In fact, some people would pay extra to just do that with Michael Jr. And there's people here in this room who don't know him. God paid his son's blood to buy our VIP passes. That's what it required to restore our relationship. Because our broken relationship with God, as Paul goes on to say here, needed redeeming. It needed somebody to broker peace. It needed us to be brought near and integrated somehow into a people that we weren't before. So that we died with Christ and came alive again as new people, new chosen people. With a new citizenship, with a new identity, with VIP passes, to come into the presence of the creator of the universe. I saw some people with VIP passes yesterday. They had lanyard ons at VIP. I was like, I want one of those. And I'm like, God gave me one and it's better. It's fabulous. He didn't, you know, God brought us near And united us with Israel, which some of y'all be like, well, I mentioned this last time. Okay, but I'm an American. That's pretty cool, right? And you're in your mind you're thinking today and and what's going on right now, and you know The reality is is this is being integrated into God's chosen elect people. There there's That right there is intended to be for us a VIP pass. And it goes all the way back to the covenant that God made with Abram. Where he says, I'm going to bless you, and you're going to be blessing to all the nations. You're going to be the father of many nations in Genesis chapter 12, God says to him. And this right here is how God rolled that out. He made us one. You know, Romans 11, 17 says, we all stinky Gentiles, right, were wild olive branches. And God took this wild olive branch and grafted me in to the olive tree so that I could produce fruit for him. And there's more things about Romans 11 we don't have time to go into today. But now we share we share in this nourishing root. That God's already set it up by being grafted in. On top of that, not only were we grafted in with the Jews and made one new person. God made peace. And this peace that God's talking about is peace between us and Israel. But it's also, and it's really cool how Paul does this. He layers on top of this piece. He talks about this hostility that we have with Jews. And then underneath of that, the pronouns change so that it becomes not just Jews. Paul changes it from you Gentiles to we had hostility. We had peace. To the place where Paul says, and Christ came and preached peace to you who were far away. And to us who are near. The order's wrong. But right, what he's saying is Jew and Gentile needed to have peace preached to them. There's something cool there about the word peace in the Greek. It's the word we get evangelism from. Christ came and gave good news to the Gentiles and good news to the Jews. Because even though they were the left people, they still needed to be redeemed in Christ. And the beginning of Romans talks about that. So he abolished the law and he did it in several ways. He fulfilled the law. Christ fulfilled the law and imputed to us. His righteousness. And isn't it interesting that God, when you take this and you start to see this peace, this hostility is both between Jew and Gentile? And the hostility is between us and God. That there are two, you can summarize the all the law in two commandments. Love God and love people. And so Paul here is essentially shining a light on two kinds of hostilities. It's the people hostility and it's the God hostility. And what he's saying is he abolished the law. He satisfied the law so that he's taking care of the God hostility and he's taking care of the people hostility. And we're made new in Christ. Jesus unites with us. And removes the enmity. And then he redeemed us, which means he bought us. He bought us out of our bondage. Because we've been building up, we inherited a debt, we've been building up a debt of sin, and that needed to be satisfied, paid for, and Christ redeemed us. He did that on the cross. And there's an interesting overlap that happens between Ephesians 2, 1 to 10, where we are brought to life, and Ephesians 2, 11 to 22, because this bringing to life and this. Restoring of relationship, both are tied to the cross and redemption. And so they're both happening here at the same time, even though Paul shows them side by side There's sometimes when we talk about the order of salvation and when things happen, we get kind of tangled about when, you know, did I choose God or did God choose me? And Paul and Paul separates them so we can admire them and enjoy them, but the reality is there are things here that overlap on top of one another in time and events You were far away, you were dead in your sins and trespasses, but now you've been brought to life and you've been brought near. So dead we have access to the Father One of the things I love about this is God, you know, you can you can give somebody a gift. You run down to the dollar store. And you can find something real quick. You can drop it in a bag. Here you go, I was thinking about you. Well you can run down to Tiffany's. I'm just gonna run down to Tiffany's, right? And while I'm at it, I'm gonna pick you up a Cartier watch or something like that. And I'm gonna I'm gonna wrap it in gold foil and I'm gonna put a bow on it and I'm gonna put chocolate on top of it. Right And this is a this is my my treasure to you, my blessing to you, that God has blessed us with. There's no halfway going on here. God didn't say, yeah, I'm going to leave you in the outer court, leave you in the back row. No! VIP access! Woo! We have access! Not just to the Spirit, not just to the Son, we have access to the Father Which confuses Trinity a little bit, but whatever. But the the picture that Paul is saying here is Is like that. Hebrews chapter 10. In fact, there's a lot in Hebrews that talks about the problem that we have with drawing near to God. And what he did. And Paul here doesn't even talk about some of the stuff that Hebrews illuminates for us. But chapter 10 says, Therefore, brothers, I'm in verse 19, by the way, therefore, brothers, since we have confidence. to enter the holy place by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain, that is, through his flesh And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith. With our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water. In Christ, we believers have what no one, no one else has had Since the sin of Adam and Eve, humanity has been begging for the opportunity to draw near to Christ, and believers since Christ have had that privilege. It is a treasure The God's just I paid for your VIP pass. Y'all come on. And then he says, You've been made part of the household of God. You ever had one of these moments, maybe it's a contractor or something like that, where they they have to come into your house? And maybe they put on little booties or something like that. They come in your house and and you're not really sure who this person is. You're kind of watching them a little bit. And then compare that to what it feels like, maybe when you start to have a conversation, you realize that person's a Christian and they love Jesus. They go to church. They were in the Bible this morning. How does that change in your relationship with them? But even more so, picture what it's like when your family or friends come over They just walk in your house. Maybe they take their shoes off. Maybe you're not that kind of people, but whatever. You know I I like Daniel gave this illustration. If you're family, you walk in my house and you go to the fridge Paul's saying the same thing right here. We're part of the household of God. We're at that relationship level. We can come to him and go in the fridge. Hang here with the door open. Oh man, you didn't bring my Coca-Cola. But you know God's got it. But I'm sorry, I'm distracted right now. Let me get back The point is, we have changed in our relationship from being the contractor with booties on his shoes. To being part of the household of God. Are you living like you're part of the household of God? Doug? Yeah, sure. Could you help me with that a little bit? Yeah, absolutely. I so glad you asked the question. So the question is, hey Doug, your metaphors seem like this is a casual relationship with God But you're also saying that God is high and lofty and and you know uh uh awesome to behold and stuff like that. Is that kind of where you're going? Yes. And so I think there's an aspect of both. I think that There is an awe and reverence and a privilege that comes with being with just the fact that who God is You know, and you see this when Daniel, who loves God, right, has this prayer relationship, has already met with him, but then on one of these occasions he just falls dead When he meets with God. John, who walked through Christ and leaned on him, but when he sees him in Revelation, he falls flat. I think that there's a time when We see the spectacular glory of God and it's unapproachable. And and we've just got to get on our faces about that But there's also an aspect here that's going on where God's on his throne, but he wants us to come up and say, hey daddy. Will you play with me? And I think both are going on and there are times when we need to be we need to understand He is God. And he's, you know, he is he's seated on his throne, and the the pillars are filling with smoke in God's heavenly and and at that point You know, we're going to stand back and we need to be respectful of the fact that God's pouring out bowls. Right? But at the same time, that's not really, that's never going to be directed at us. When we can have a relationship with people who are in authority. When they need to do their authority thing, and we've got to give them the space to do their authority thing. See it and admire it for what it is. Glory But there's but there's we know that that's never towards us and that there's going to be a moment when This is a relationship. Our relationship hasn't changed and it's who I who I am with God. I think that there's some aspects of that that we see the psalmists wrestle with. Knowing the loving kindness of God, but saying, why are you what are you doing right now, God? And have questions and and confusion. And that's kind of normal. And I think that there is a A depth to our relationship with God that includes a holy fear and reverence and includes a close personal relationship of you've been adopted as my child. Um anybody want to add some thoughts to that? Because that's a very good question and I don't want the thoughts just to come from each other. Yes. It's a useful analogy like if you're a like if if your dad actually is a king on earth or something, then sometimes there's a time to treat him in a regal manner in a court presence, and other times it's more of an informal situation Sure. And and there's wisdom that comes with knowing each one of those things. But I and and Yeah, yeah. That's you know, understanding the difference between God God but but at the same time it doesn't change the fact when God's wearing his regal robes Um and majestic that it doesn't change the fact that he's still Abba's father toward us. And in my mind, I can picture what that would mean is, you know, a king on his throne with his scepter, right, and and stuff like that crowned and and and majestic and and looking over at his son and giving a little wink. You know, because there's a and and m maybe that's not completely accurate, uh, but that's kind of how I formulated in my mind Um yeah, go ahead. I think there's a a bifurcation or a connection between position, which is what Paul tells us we have, and brought in your extra position and relationship. Which is developed over time. My relationship develops because I spend time with God, but my position is wrapped in. There's a joke that I have with people in our small group where I say, look At 6. 30 the door is unlocked, which means you get to walk in without ringing the doorbell. That's you've got access to the house, however you want to come in. And the third time you come in You've got access to the refrigerator. You've got access to wherever you want to come into. So I shouldn't have to hear, hey, can I get something out of the fridge or where's the bathroom? Because now you have access To all of those things. It's not just a position of being in the small group. The area is yours. But you still need to grow into that position. And so just because you've been brought near doesn't mean you know how to act in that position yet. But the aspect of a relationship is still important Because we'll have friends over for a friendsgiving and they're brought in and they know they have all the access in the world and they enjoy going into the fridge and wherever else they want to go, but they don't disrespect my house Maybe they go do the dishes. Because now they do feel like they're part of the house. And so serving you is an aspect of what I do now because I have position and relationship And so as we grow into that understanding and you take Ephesians 1, we have all that you need. Here's all the blessings that you have. Let me at least introduce it to you. Let me tell you how you got it so that as you approach God, yes you have access, but I don't disrespect the access with a flippant approach to a holy God And there is there's the growth and understanding that Paul introduces, but then I have to live it out because I know the attributes of God, I know the access that I have, but I know what he sacrificed to give me this. And in worship of the access, I respect God as who he is, so I know I can come to him as Father. But I don't disrespect that access in the way that I approach him in a public matter. I I I think we would put both of those position and relationship together we'll talk about the question. Yeah I appreciate the way you said that, Chester. That's that's really helpful I think. Um and it gets back to the question that I was starting to ask. The question that I was starting to ask is We have access in one spirit to the Father. How? And you started to say this, and maybe you said it well enough. How do we want to live our lives now that we have access to the Father? Yeah, and so what you just said is to satisfy our curiosity By enjoying who God is and recognizing the need that we have for Him. And what Paul hears saying in Ephesians is, you have the access to go talk. You have the access to go seek. And you can draw near to him now. You can. The way is open. So then, I'm looking back at Ephesians 2. So then, verse 19, you are no longer strange in aliens, but you are fellow citizens. With the saints and members of the household of God. And what Paul's going to say is he's going to let us know that we are being built into this. Church. This group of called out people you are being built into. And the building started With Jesus and the apostles. They're the foundation. Anybody know what a cornerstone is? Anybody want to tell us what a cornerstone is? It has the straight edges for both direction, and so it takes the building on its It's a setting stone and you're doing this thing with your hands, and that's approximately like a 90-degree angle. And by the name of it, it implies that it goes in the corner and and it's a stone, it's a place that starts the building. In this illustration, it not only starts the building, but it tells you the direction this way and the direction that way that the building's going to go in. And then the apostles form the foundation. And that it says everyone else is built into this. Above the foundation. And continuing to be built in. So there's some interesting things here in verses 19 to 22 That you can see here there's some words that are chosen, but it looks like the father And the Spirit and the Son are all kind of doing different aspects of this work. When we first introduced the class, we said, hey, we see some Trinitarian themes that are going on in the book of Ephesians And this is one of those places where we see some of those Trinitarian themes continuing. And in fact, I kind of moved through it in the previous section also. That last verse we have access, anyway. That last verse 18, through him, that's Christ, we have access in one spirit. to the Father. Even there we see aspects of the Trinity going on as well. Here excuse me We're household we're citizens of the household of God and members. And I think that God here gave us a clue that this was going to happen when he was speaking to the prophet Hosea. And he said to that prophet, I'm going to make the people who are not my own, my own And I'm going to have mercy on the person who has no mercy. And people who are not my people, I'm going to make my people. And they will say, you're my God. Which is in Hosea 1 and 2. Zechariah also says, and many nations shall join themselves in the Lord in that day. And shall be my people, and I will dwell in your midst, and you shall know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you. So this is temple. And let's back up and remember where we started ish. There's this cosmic problem that started in Genesis chapter 3. where people are separated from God. And the first attempt, the first corporate attempt to draw near to God again was when God said, Build me a tabernacle, and that's a place where I will meet with you. And later on that got replaced with the temple. But that still was a place where people went to meet with God. And now in this passage that's talking about you Gentiles were far off but had been brought near, Paul ends this section with, and you've been built into a temple. Which means we're permanently in the place where we can meet with God I go. That's so cool. The the concepts, the pictures, the types that God has been using in the scriptures from the Old Testament coming forward start to get tied together in hope. me to understand God's purpose and plan that He's been gradually revealing throughout time And go, okay, that's really cool. The structure that's been built starts with Jesus as the cornerstone, and there's no surprise that this is the case because Psalm 18 and Isaiah 28 and Zechariah 3 have all been hinting at concepts of cornerstone. That there is one coming who is the cornerstone. And on top of that, this this this cornerstone is Christ, but not only is Christ in involved in the cornerstone in setting the direction where it would go But the building is joined together in Christ. And and I so you know in my mind I think you have a tool, use it for one purpose. You have a thing and it it's doing its thing, and God's not that way. God does God stuff He is the cornerstone for the church. He sets the boundaries and decides where everything's going to go, and then he holds the building together at the same time. So this foundation, First Corinthians chapter three, says It is unique. There is no other foundation that can be laid except for the foundation which is Jesus Christ. In Matthew 16, 18, when Paul's talking to Peter, and Peter reveals who he is, God says, I'm going to build my church. On you, Peter. And then Paul explains it to us when he says this church is founded on the apostles, not just Peter. But also the prophets. And it grows. There's an organic growth that's going on in the temple, A holy temple. And isn't it interesting that God would say in Revelation chapter 3, verse 12 The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it. And I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the New Jerusalem, which comes down from my God out of heaven. and my own new name. There's an aspect here of Developing relationship but positional truth, like you said, Chester. We're here You know, we can it's the relationship is open, the communication is ready to flow. The curiosity is waiting for us to express it and to draw near to God and to have this relationship that God intended From the moment he put Adam in the garden, we're fulfilling God's eternal purpose as we draw near to him. And it says here that Christ is joining it together, but the Spirit is the one building the temple. And so there's a, and and again, 1 Corinthians, when it's describing this, in verse 16, says, Don't you know that you're God's temple? And the Spirit of God dwells in you. And so again, God is doing work inside of us, but building the temple at the same time. There, again, this gets back to the concept of the peace that we have, the relationship that we have is a people relationship, excuse me, and a God relationship. That's going on at the same time as this temple is being built. The spirit is Sealing and building and gifting and cleansing and leading and convicting and all of that's happening to put this structure together correctly and right. And beautifully in the way that God would have it. And so there's an aspect here of purpose and fitness and beauty that's going on in the church Where if you want to use this metaphor a little bit more, we're being changed from just a pile of bricks Into a beautiful structure. If you know what it looks like when you see a building being built, the trucks come and they dump off a pile of sand and some pile of rocks And forklift will put down a pallet of bricks or two. And then the craftsman comes along. Start more, you know, they they put the footers down and then the structure starts to come together. And at first it it doesn't have much form. But over time it starts to take shape and you start to see what's going on and you go, oh, oh, this is what God had in mind. This is the purpose that God had and how He planned it. And so for right now, in God's time and in God's purpose, he is building together those who are in Christ into this structure. To be his bride. To be his and to bring him glory. I want to stop for a minute because I want to give you guys a chance to go, wait a minute, though, I've missed something here. Right. Um Baptism of the Holy Spirit, uh there's just one of those. I'll just start with that. Um and uh there is an indwelling of the spirit that happens individually that each of us have on the moment when we are saved. In fact, you see that back in J uh Ephesians chapter 1, verse 14, where there it talks about the Spirit sealing us. And guaranteeing our inheritance. There's aspects of that that are going on. But as this verse, these verses in passage right here are talking about There's a spirit of there's the spirit of God working in the universal church as well. that's an interconnectedness and I may that that I think creates a unity that's being talked about here in the book of Ephesians. and oneness that God's doing in believers. And to me it almost seems mystical or supernatural, I should say. But it feels like it's something that is not, wouldn't naturally come from me, but when there's a drawing together that God does in his church. Um that I see as a reality and as seems to be described here in Paul's writing. So yes, both Yes. You can see that like the first part in 1 Corinthians 6, 19, where Paul says, Or do you not know that your body singular is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you? that we have from God or that you are not your own. Uh so I think you can find scriptural explicit scriptural support for both like the Holy Spirit living in an individual and living in the church as well. Yeah, and I I just want to make sure I say this explicitly. When Paul's talking about the church here, um as cool as our church is, he's not specifically talking about Hope Bible Church. Okay. But I just wanted to say that out loud. These are very good questions. Any other thoughts or questions? Church Apostles Prophets. Where Paul's gonna go next Is Paul's going to switch and he's going to talk about his own mission in chapter 3. How he is contributing and how God has called him to his purpose. And it's going to be exciting to see uh Scott's going to be teaching next week. But it dovetails with what we've seen right here where These blessings that are poured out, that we started with chapter 1, are blessings that Paul wants the readers here, and I'm saying readers. To know and understand deeply in their heart, and then he gives us these illustrations, and then he's going to say, and I have a ministry. And that's where we're going next. For this week, um I really want to leave you guys with a question in your minds and and myself too. I want to leave us all with the thought and idea that I was asking before, and that is, you have access to the Father You've been invited to draw near. How do we want to live our lives based on that truth? Serious, important, deep, life-changing truth. How do we want to live our lives? Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the day today, for your mercy, and for the kindness that you've shown us. Dear Lord There we are, I'll go out on a limb and say that I believe that we're all at different levels of drawing near to you, dear Lord, in reality. And I pray, God, that you'd help us to draw near, Ur, to get to truly understand the riches and the sweetness that we have with you. Heavenly Father, thank you that the way has been made open for us, that we can draw near to you. And thank you, God, that you're patient with us when we get self-centered and just are about ourselves. I pray, God, that you would help us to Again, be ones that thrive on your goodness, that can't wait to see your glory and enjoy who you are, God. Thank you so much again, Heavenly Father, that you did not leave us as strangers and aliens. Thank you that you gave us a hope and removed our hopelessness And that you demonstrated your amazing goodness in these things, dear Lord. In your name we pray. Amen.