So uh some people notice in the notes there's no song this week. Sorry. So w when we when we broke out when we broke out the the schedule We got Ephesians 2, 1 through 10. Ten verses of some very meaty stuff. And so I thought We probably don't have time for a song. The handles are out, so as I said in my lack of preparation, if we have time at the end we'll we'll find a song to sing. But for now, um No, no song this week. We'll um we'll be back singing next week. Are you teaching next week, Doug? Yes. Yeah so we'll sing. So yeah, the the passage this week is Ephesians two verses one through ten. Um That light is out. So I'm sorry for this size of the group, but I need some light over my Bible, so um I'm over here, not there. So Daniel last week wrapped up chapter one, and in chapter one, it started out with all the spiritual blessings. Paul just rattles off. Thing after thing after thing that God has done for us. He has predestined us. He chose us. He redeemed us. And he goes on and on. And then he gets to a point where he's thanking God, he's glorifying God, and then he turns to Ephesians and he says, I thank you. And he says that In verse 16, I do not give cease giving thanks to you, remembering you, and my prayers that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ The Father of glory may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which He has called you, what are the riches of His glorious inheritance in the Saints. And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power towards us who believe? So Paul's praying, hey, I want you to know Christ. And I want you to know Jesus and the greatness of God and his power. And so Paul now shifts from This prayer of Ephesians, this is what I want for you, and starting to give a backstory. Paul gives thanks for the Ephesians and prays that they will increase in knowledge. James Montgomery voice kind of Summarizes this transition in chapter one, Paul looked at salvation from God's point of view, showing how he has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in Christ. And how one day all things will be subjected to him. In chapter two, he talks about salvation from the perspective of us, the individual Christians. So we're making that transition from how God views our salvation to How our perspective of salvation. And from proclaiming the benefits and blessings of salvation to describing the process. It's it's like some some books, some movies they're written where you kind of see the end. And you see what the end result is going to be, and then they kind of backtrack and start giving you the backstory. And so that's what Paul's doing right here in Ephesians 2. He's given us the backstory of how did we how were we saved? So Let's let's read. I'll read all ten verses uh one through ten and then I'll reread Verses 1 through 3, because that's where we're going to start our focus on. But it says, and you were dead in the transpasses and sins in which you once walked. following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. Like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love, with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ By grace you have been saved and raised up with him and seated with him in the heavenly places of Christ Jesus in Christ Jesus so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not of your undoing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. Alright, back to verses 1 through 3. And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following in the course of this world. Following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived, in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. So Paul just ended with this prayer And he says, hey, he ends chapter one with, and God put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things. to the church, which is the body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. That is the end goal that is How the end of the story is. Everything on heaven on earth will be brought under subjection to Christ. And then Paul starts with and And now he starts the backstory. And it says, you were dead in the trespasses and sins in you once walked. Now, that phrase, you were dead in your sins and trespasses in which you once walked. What is the I mean there's some conflicting information in there. What's the conflicting information in that phrase? You were dead, but we were walking? You were dead, but you were walking. So I'm not a Horror movie guy, to say the least. But when you think about dead and you think about walking, what do you think about? Zombies Paul is basically describing zombies here on the world. He he says, and you And we talked about this a little bit in chapter one. When he talks about you, he's talking about the Gentiles of the church. And when he talks about us or we, he's talking more about the Jews. When he says all of us, it's everybody And I don't think that's a key distinction here, but I just wanted to just bring it out just a little bit because the Gentiles They're following a lot of these pagan practices and um and doing very immoral things. And so Paul's just reminding you, where did you come from? You came from this immoral place in in the pagan world and yes you were walking in these place in this place but you were dead You were a zombie. Zombies have no soul. They just kind of walk around aimlessly. Um And he's saying, you were dead. That is us. We all were dead. He talks about trespasses and sins. So trespass is um you know you're you're walking around s some property that you Aren't familiar with if you're walking along the street and you say, private property, do not trespass. No trespassing. Trespassing is an active Active action. It's where you're crossing the boundary, you're crossing the line, you're going where you're not supposed to go. Stott says it's a false step involving either the crossing of a known boundary or a deviation from the right path. So Trespasses, taking that step, crossing that line that you're not supposed to cross. Sins. So we've got trespasses and then we have sins. Sin is falling short of the standard. It's missing the mark. It's a passive action. It you you just didn't get there. You you didn't hit the perfect bullseye. You you missed the mark. So Paul is saying Hey, you were dead not only in your actions, your sins of commission, but you were dead in your sins, your Actions of omissions, your sins of omission. So we see a passive, we see an active, we see commission, we see omission. Is everyone tracking on that? That Paul's covering the gamma here. Okay. Okay, so he s he says that you were dead. And then he talks about three things that we were enslaved to. He starts off in verse 2, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. And then in three, we all once lived in the passions of our flesh. So we have three sources of bondage, three forces that are enslaving us. It is the world, it is the devil, and it is our flesh. He starts off by s saying you were dead once in which you once walked following the course. of this world. When you when you hear that, the course of this world, what what do you think of what types of sin? What what are you doing when you're following the course of this world? Yes. You're not that bad. Yes. You're you're doing a subjective standard rather than an absolute standard. Yeah. I believe that when you're doing what the world does, you don't see this thing. Okay. Yeah. You because Kind of like what Debbie says, if if the world's doing it, then it must be right. It must be okay to do. I I do find it interesting when he says, you, talking about the Gentiles, when We have an example in 1 Samuel with the Jews saying, Hey, all the other nations, they've got kings. We want a king just like all the other nations. Or all these other nations, they've got cool gods like Baal and Astareth. And and let's follow them. But but Paul Paul kind of attributes this to to the to the Greeks here, to the Gentiles. mainly because of their pagan ways, but the Jews are also included in this. We all are following the the course of this world. Um The course, it says course of this world, both of those words talk about a social value system that's alien to God. It's what It's not what God intended for for the world to be. Um So the world following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. Who is the Prince of the Power of the Air? Satan. Satan. Yes. So Paul is specifically describing Satan. A couple things about Satan says that he's the prince of the power of the air, which Kind of ties back to what Paul was saying at the very last verse of chapter one when it says And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church. Um Which is his body who fills the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. Um That is that is what will happen in the end, that God in the end will bring all things under Christ. But right now, God has allowed Satan to have some some influence in the world. Um what what does it say that what we are doing here. What's what are non-Christians doing in this passage? They're with in relation to Satan They're following him, yes. So we often think of Satan coming to us and tempting us. And but what do we know about Satan? Is can he be is he omnipresent? No. No. No. So he can only be at one place at one time. So we say, hey, Satan's tempting me, or maybe some of his minions, his demons are tempting me, but That's them coming to us. What does it say that we were doing when we were dead? We were following. We were the ones following. It's his influence in the world that we were following. So he doesn't he can still be at one place at a time because if you're following a leader, you're going where he's going. Um again, I got a lot of quotes this week, sorry, but um This tells, uh James Montgomery Boy says, this tells how the devil enslaves men and women. It is not that he is personally present. He is only one creature and can be present in one place at one time. is rather through the evil spirit or outlook in the world that he rules us. So We we it is through his influence that unbelievers follow him. And it says that he is now at work in the sons of disobedience, which is anyone who has not been saved. And then Paul says, among whom we all once lived. So now he's including the Jews and everybody else in this conversation, in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and we're by nature children of wrath. Actually, before we go there, uh going back to, hang on one second, going back to the Prince of the Power of the Earth. Some eschological questions came to mind this week with that phrase where In the millennium, a thousand years, Satan is going to be bound up. And Christ and the saints will be ruling on the earth. And there will be peace on the earth, but there'll still be sin. So how does sin look without Satan involved? I'm not going to answer that question today. But if you if you ever thought if you ever want to go to a deep dive, that's that's going to be an interesting study for you. So it is one of those questions where, okay, so instead of having three things we're in bondage to, will there only be two things that people will be in bondage to? Again, one of those abstract questions out there Um actually you have the question. That's is that gonna be part of your canon? There's a little bit of Vegas and all non-bullyers. Uh I don't think we'll say that on Sunday. But yes, yes, thank you for for that. Um So yeah, yeah, and and you're transitioning us to the next part, the passions of our flesh carrying out the desires of the body and of the mind. We can flip back a couple pages to Galatians Um Galatians five verse starting in verse sixteen. But I say walk in the spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other. To keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, forgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. So This just gives us a description of what the desires of the flesh are and the passions of the body and the mind. You can see that there's sins in there that affects both the body and then there are sins in there that affect the mind. Um and the um and jealously maybe more mind captured and orgies and drunkenness may be more body, desires of the body But but just thinking back in our own lives before we receive that grace of God and before we receive salvation. Some of those uh desires of the flesh we we followed. We we okay we may not have done everything on that list, but there were certainly desires of the flesh that we did gratify towards and that we um And and that we committed. So um So again, there's those three things that we have been enslaved to, the world, the devil, and our own body and flesh. John Stott says we cannot conveniently shift all the blame for our slavery to the world, the flesh, and the devil. We must also accept Responsibilities. We are identified, we are are ourselves identified as those who are disobedient. We're not we can't absolve ourselves from responsibility. We are responsible for our own actions. That is the will, the free will that God gave us. And without Christ, we will always choose The wrong thing. We will always choose to go against what God says. So after all this Paul then goes to, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. He says, You were dead and dead men were were were zombies. Dead man zombies. And when you're dead, you can't breathe on your own. We were enslaved by the three The forces, and now he says that we are children of wrath just like the rest of mankind. Stott says, after the description of these verses, we find ourselves wondering if anything worse could possibly be said about fallen men and women. It seems as if nothing more could be added. Yet Paul does add something, so something so horrible, so overwhelming, that the other descriptions actually fade into the background when placed next to it. He says that in our sins, by nature we were objects of wrath. It's one thing to be dead, it's another thing to be enslaved, and it's another thing to be an object of God's wrath. And how did we get there? It he says by nature we were objects of God's wrath. If you turn over to Romans 5. Verse twelve. It says, therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, so death spread to all men because all sin. For sin indeed was in the world before the law was given, but sin is not counted for there is no law. Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses. Even those Even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type of the one who was to come. So Adam sin and sinful nature was delivered and sat into Adam and then passed down through all mankind And we'll talk about this a little bit later when it comes to Christ, because we'll get to a little bit later in this passage, but we are by nature, when we are born. We are sinful. And we are born dead. We are born enslaved. And we are born As a child of wrath. Um, when it says children of wrath It means as it being born under the wing of God's judgment, not born out of Brahma. Yes, I would the former. The being born out of g into God's judgment, yes. So I'm not going to go into too much depth about the wrath of God. That's a study that you can s get into and study about hell and just what separation is. Do you have a question? Yeah, I'll let you know. No, go for it. Um kind of bounce me off of what Liz just asked Children of breath, is that saying something that is like is that referring to something that's being done to us, like wrath is being done to us, or is that like something about our identity? So so that is that's who we are. That is who we are. We are children of wrath, but If we die as the children of wrath, then we will receive all of God's just judgment against us. um if we do not um receive his gift of salvation. Does that make s sense? Yeah. Okay. Okay. Um Doug and and that's actually the one thing I was gonna say about Doug Raff. No, no, no, that was perfect transition. Um when we think of man's wrath, we think of Uh it's a roller coaster. It's it's a lot of emotion wrapped around in man's wrath. And um you know For those of you who are parents, your children can get to you um at times and they will feel your wrath. And it's an emotion it's usually um an emotional uh outburst, but not with God. Uh the Greek word is orgy, which not the orgy that we think about, but um and it comes from a root meaning to grow right for something and indicates God's gradual, gradually building and intensifying opposition to sin. These passages indicate that God's wrath is consistent, controlled, and judicial. And that's what makes it so frightening. is it's calculated. Our wrath is usually just very emotional, but God's wrath is I'm patiently waiting, as Doug said. I'm patiently waiting, and at the right time, my wrath will be poured out. And until his wrath is poured out Um we are under his grace. Under his common grace, the world is. Yes. Psalm 711 says God is angry with the wicked every day. Yes. So that's starting out that point of that wasn't new, that's a that's continuing on. Yes. Thank you. So after Paul just says that we are Children of Wrath and says just how dire of a situation that we are in. He then says, but God You can probably sum up the gospels in one word with Christ. You might be able to sum up the gospel in two words and say Christ died, but you could also sum up the gospels with but God. You think about the dire situation that mankind was in and that we ourselves were in. And yet it's but God that turns the conversation completely around. And the but is that transition from That contrast from bad to good. And what was the result of that contrast, or what was the um source of that contrast? It is God. And Paul is going in verses 1 through 3, the contrast of what we are by nature, to verses 4 through 10, what we are by grace. So just part of your homework this week. I I I think I had something else for homework, but just Meditate on those two words, but God. And just think about everything that He has done in your life, in the life of your friends, in the life of the world, the history of the world. Um this is Joseph kind of said, hey, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. But Paul here uses it in a little bit stronger context because we were children of wrath. And then God stepped in. As part of his plan. So it says being rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us. This is where we're going to talk about his mercy, we're going to talk about his love, we're going to talk about his grace, and I feel like I'm going to skip over some of that. And I We we talked about some of this in chapter one, so I am going to skip over some of some of his grace and his love and his the his kindness. But we know that God being rich in mercy, because of his great love for us. When we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. And then he goes, By grace you have been saved. And he'll repeat that phrase, by grace you have been saved in verse 8. But He says, we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places. So the whole thing are three things that God has done with us here. He has made us alive, he has raised us up, and he has seated us. These three words made alive and raised us up and seated us. Paul invented some words here. He he he uh The make alive, the raise us up, the seated with those were words, but it's made us alive together with Christ. Raise us up with him, seated us with him. This is where Paul made up some words. He, if you know some Latin Greek, you know sin. S-Y-N means with. And so he attaches his prefix in front of these three words to make alive, to raise us up together, to sit down. So everything that he is doing to us is done with Christ. We have this union with Christ. And if we just flip back to Ephesians one twenty. As Paul is praying for the Ephesians and telling them, I want you to know the riches of the glorious inheritance of the saints and the immeasurable greatness of his power. that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him in the heavenly places. So Paul is saying, yes. God did this to Christ. God made Christ alive. He raised him up. And he seated him in the heavenly places. And here Paul says, you know what? He did this with Christ, and now he's doing it with you. And he's not doing it just to you, but he's doing it for you with Christ. And again, as we've gone through chapters 1 and chapters 2, that phrase in Christ, in him, repeats itself over and over. That is the union that we have with Christ. And that's something that we got to keep reminding ourselves of every day. That we are united together with Christ. And uh There's two types of a union that we have with Christ. One is a federal or a covenantal union. And let's go back to Romans 5, because I said we were going to go back there. And uh just starting in verse fifteen, but the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus abounded for many And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. For if because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness. Free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, so by one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Now the law came to increase the trespass where the sin increased, grace abounded all the more, so that as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. So, in summary, Adam sinned, and that one sin brought sin upon all mankind, and we are born into sin. But Christ, in his righteousness, died for us that those who believe Now we see that free gift of righteousness. So we have this union with Christ. It's a federal union. It's similar to Being an American. If you're an American citizen, you receive the benefits of being a citizen in the United States. you receive some of the risks or exposures and for those of you who are working in the government and unfortunately maybe not working in the government right now You're tied to the United States by through your citizenship. Our citizenship is in Christ. And our identity is through him. Just like um just like we are Americans, we are sons of God, and we have that union with Christ. We also have a vital or a experiential union with Christ, and that's similar to John fifteen with the vine and the branches, that if we're tied into Christ, we feel the the nutrients flowing from the vine to us, the branches, and we have that experience and we can flourish and blossom and produce fruit. being tied to the divine. So through identity we have union with Christ and through experience. We have union with Christ. And Paul is saying, hey, God has made you alive. You were dead. Now you're alive. And he raised you up. seated on the right hand or seated with Christ in the heavenly realms. Again, as we talked about in the past, Paul uses the past tense. He made us alive together in Christ, which at this point, as believers, we feel that the Spirit has come into our hearts and has regenerated our spirit, so we feel alive. And we have been raised up. We are no longer dead, but we are spiritually alive now. But he has also seated us with Christ in the heavenly places. Again, past tense. We may not see it yet, but in God's eternality, We're there already, and we're seated with Christ in heaven. Um But it's very interesting because in verse seven he goes on to say so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. So even though he's placed us in heaven at this point, we have not seen the immeasurable riches of his grace yet. That is something for us in our own timeline to come. And that's where faith becomes sight in the coming ages. And now we we get to the most uh uh very well known verse. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not of your undoing, it is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one can boast. We um I have a quote here from Warren Wearsby and it's kind of long. So um but I think it ties I I think it summarized very well this concept of being saved by grace. Um He goes on and says, theologians, and there's a little background, so that's why it's a little long. Theologians call love one of God's attributes. But God has kinds of attributes, those that he possesses of himself, intrinsic attributes such as love, life, and holiness. And those which he relates to his creation, especially the man, relative attributes. For example, by nature God is truth But when he relates it to man, God's truth becomes faithfulness. God is by nature holy, and when he relates that holiness to man, it becomes justice. Love is one of God's intrinsic attributes, but when His love is related to sinners, it becomes grace and mercy. God is rich in mercy and in grace, and these riches make it possible for sinners to be saved. They come as a shock to some when people discover that we were not saved by God's love. But by God's grace and mercy. In his mercy, he does not give us what we do deserve, and in his grace, he gives us what we do not deserve. And all of this is made possible because of the death of Jesus Christ on the cross. It was at Calvary that God displayed his hatred for sin and his love for sinners. So It's God's love that's the driving force behind his grace and mercy, but it's not love that saves us. If it is his grace and mercy that save us, it says, by grace you have been saved. For those of you who were in the uh fathers of the faith class last year. Whenever whenever it comes to I I said this in that class, whenever it comes to grace and mercy Newsboy song comes to mind. And this is an older newsboy song and we got like a fairly young crowd in here. So you probably this probably before a lot of your time. But it goes um when we get what we don't deserve, it's a real good thing. It's a real good thing. If we get what we don't deserve, it's a real good thing. So one one talks about mercy and one talks about grace. When we get what we do not deserve, grace. When we get what we don't deserve, mercy. Just to keep that in mind. And here, God has saved us By his grace. And this is done through faith Yes. Grace how his love unfolds. Sorry, what? Yeah. Yes, because he says just earlier, it's because of his great love in which he loved us. Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ, by grace you have been saved. So yes, it is out of his love that he offers that grace. And it's out of his love that he offers mercy towards us. Yeah. Yeah. No, it that grace is given to us from God. The faith and you're going right into my next My next point, uh we have been saved by through grace by grace through faith, and this is not of our own doing, it is the gift of God. Um That gift. What what is the gift? Is it the grace? Is it the faith Both? Okay. So so my interpretation of this is that Um the gift of God. And I think being made alive is a result of his gift. But I think he's specifically referencing what he just talked about by grace you have been saved through faith. My interpretation is it's both. It's both the grace and the faith. And it's interesting because like when I was studying this a little bit last night, I may have to go to Scott and say, something you said doesn't match with what I studied. So I'll I'll I'll have to go back to him. But I'm not gonna say what my argument is until I've checked it with him. Just I I don't he's not here to defend himself. When we start dissecting all the parts of salvation I think your perspective is very good to have when you walk away from your study of the dissection of salvation. When you're doing a deep dive, there are times where it's good to know what exactly what parts are we talking about. But when you come out of it, it's look at what God has done for me And look at this gift that He's given us. But I do think the gift of God is both the grace and the faith. It's the whole buffet of salvation. um that that Paul is talking about here. Um It's the saving that is the gift of God. And the parts of that saving is the grace He's given us and the faith that He's given us. Um excuse me Scott. Yeah. Also you can look at it as um a metaphor, right, to eternal life. The grace and the Salvation, being saved, being saved through faith in Christ. Yes. Being saved, being made alive, that is the means of salvation, yes. Yes. Um When we talk about faith, what is faith and what isn't faith? Faith is not subjective feelings. It's not like, oh, I have a gut that I'm saved. I've got this gut feeling that I'm a child of God It's not credulity, which is the attitude of a person who will accept something as true apart from the evidence, simply because he or she earnestly wishes it to be true It's not saying, oh, I want to be a Christian, so I must be a Christian. It's not that. It's not optimism, which is a positive mental attitude as a result of which the thing believed is supposed to happen. It's not like uh example I read, it's not like a salesman who has goals and he's optimistic, okay, I'm gonna reach this goal, and he works out, works at it, and he's able to achieve his goal Faith is not anything that we've done. It's not subjective feelings, it's not credulity, it's not optimism. But what is faith? It's knowledge, it's a heart response, and it's commitment. It's going back to the illustration of a chair. It's I believe this chair will will hold me. I I know how it's constructed. I've seen other people sit in it. So I believe this chair will hold me. That's the knowledge. The heart response. Alright, I am going to go sit in that chair. Because my legs are tired and I need a place to sit and that chair with my knowledge is going to hold me. So I'm just I'm going to go sit in that chair. And then there's the commitment. You actually sit in the chair and it holds you. Our faith in our in God, in his gift of salvation, comes from the knowledge of the Bible. It comes from our heart response to that knowledge, and then it's the commitment that, yes, Lord, I believe that you died on the cross for my sins. And I will live my life for you. And as it says, this was not our own doing, it is the gift of God. Not by works so that no one may boast. Who who's uh who does the HBC Bible reading plan? Okay. A couple of you. So just reading along this week in in Jeremiah, for those of you who are not doing the plan, we're We just finished Isaiah and now we're starting in Jeremiah and Jeremiah 9, 23. Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in his riches. But let him who boast in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice, righteousness in the earth For in these things I delight, declares the Lord. Very similar to First Corinthians one. Where Paul is writing to the church of Corinth and says, But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. God chose the weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not. But to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. And because of him you are in Christ, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption. So that, as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. Those passages don't necessarily talk about salvation, but it does talk about if we're going to boast It's nothing about what we've done. Everything that we can stand on that for boasting has to be done in the Lord. It's you should be boasting that you know God. and that he saved you from your dead state. Um I want to just take a couple moments and we're running out of time here, but who who's here familiar with the five solos? A few of you. Okay. Okay. About half of you. Five solas. So uh during the Reformation time, uh these five phrases, five solas, um I wouldn't say became a mantra, but was was relied upon. And we have sola scriptura, which is the sole and final authority for matters of faith and practice And then the other four solas, we can see this right here in Ephesians, Ephesians 1 and through the passage that we just So you've got sola gratia, which is by grace alone. Sola fide through faith alone. Sola crus Christus in Christ alone, and solely Deo Gloria for the glory of God alone That is our salvation. By grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, for the glory of God alone. As Pastor Gabe preached last week. Everything in this world is for God's glory. God is orchestrating everything for his glory, and our salvation, especially, we should give God all the glory. For what he's done for us. So finally, we get to verse ten. For we are his workmanship created in Christ for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. We are not, as John Stott says, we are not saved because of works, but we are created in Christ for good works. I got a few passages here, but I'll hit a couple of them. I won't do all of them. Matthew 5, 16. Jesus and uh the Sermon on the Mount. In the same way, let your light shine before others that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven. Another newsboy song, Shine. Um if you don't know a newsboys going public album, uh I I encourage you to listen to it. But um So, yeah, we are to do good works, shine a light to others for our good works. Another passage that was in our Bible reading this week came from Titus. Two. No, it's Second Timothy, Titus. Did I not write down the right? I'm at chapter three. Titus 3, verse 4. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness. but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ, our Savior. so that being justified by his grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. The saying is trustworthy. I want you to insist on these things so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. These are things are excellent and profitable for people. So here as Paul's talking to, writing to Titus, He kind of gives a little summary of what we just read. It is by grace you have been saved. Um it's the goodness of God by his own mercy. And here he gets in a little bit more about the regeneration of our spirit and being made alive. in in Christ. But then it says, hey, because you have been saved, now go and do good works. We're not Conforming to the Catholic theology of faith plus works equals justification. We are abiding by faith equals justification plus works. I won't go there, but James 2 talks about that. Verses 17 through 19. You know, I'll show you f um my faith through my good works And it says that we are God's workmanship. That word workmanship is a Greek word. Poema, which is where we get the word poem. We are God's poem. He has written our life story. And uh and he knows the state that we were in. He knows how he saved us. And now he has prepared in his poem of our life he has prepared good works for us to do. This is probably a bad analogy, but um but God is Put the flour, put the sugar, put the eggs in the bowl, put chocolate chips in the bowl, he mixed it all together, he dumped Spoonfuls on an oven tray. God has prepared us for good works. We just have to put it in the oven and let it bake. God has a plan for our lives and we should walk in his will and fulfill his plan. So I encourage you all. In light of everything that God has done for us and his gift of salvation for us, the faith that he's given us, the grace that he's given us Go and do good works. Any questions before? Alright, let's let's pray. Dear Henry Father, we again we just thank you for your goodness to us. And we didn't even get to the immeasurable riches of your kindness and your mercy and um We know these attributes are full in you, and we cannot comprehend all of it. But we feel it in our lives that our spirits are no longer dead. Your spirit has regenerated us. And we are now your children. Thank you, Lord. Help us to continually remind ourselves of that. And help us, Lord, to glorify you by doing good works to others, that our light may shine before men. In Jesus' name. Amen.