I decided this morning that I would turn on the recorder after we sing so that it didn't pick up my voice too much in the recording. Um That's not true. That was real. I really did think through that. Okay. So we are back in Ephesians 1. What I'd like to do is read 115 to 23 together. Um and then I want to talk for a quick moment um just about what did we What did we discuss a little bit last week? Again, as like by way of reminder. Before we read, one quick thing. in terms of how you study or read scripture sometimes. When I'm going to tell you what what I do in a person and you should apply it in whatever makes sense for you. I find sometimes in the really sort of um rich sections Where there is like just a lot of theology, you know, like every couple words is sort of that's a big topic, that's a big topic. I personally have one of my Bibles, or Like dedicated to this, or I will actually print out that section of scripture Whatever makes sense for you. And as I'm reading, I will actually just circle words. What do I see? What do I remember? I have a question about this. I might encourage you when you're doing your own study to use a little bit of principles like this when you're doing sort of like a deeper dive. The reason is You may have a tendency to sort of gloss over. I don't need to say it like that. I'll say it for myself. I can have a tendency to gloss over words Where I didn't realize, oh hold on, I want to pause for a second. That word popped up again, or I didn't think about that, or something that is particularly important to me as we're going through this is don't lose sight of the bigger passage, don't lose sight of what Paul has been talking about the whole time in Ephesians. Sometimes doing it by hand or we're going to do that is is really helpful. So just as an aside, incidentally when we were um like a couple of us when we were going through the class This was a practice that they had sort of like greatly encouraged when you're sort of going into a deeper study is literally just start circling words and finding it. So we one time in class spent I mean there were twelve guys in the class And we spent uh I think it was like an entire two hours on one burst doing this. Just circling it, going, what does this mean? What does this mean? Okay. So, um chapter one, verses fifteen to twenty-three in Ephesians, can I get one volunteer to read it fairly loudly? Thank you, Bill. So in the section today, we're going to go through all these topics, and what I want you to remember is this is a prayer. These are the topics that Paul is praying for people. And so really the question would become, why, of all the things that we're going to talk about today and kind of work through, why is this something that Paul feels is important not only to remind the saints of, but to bring in petition to God. So there must be something in what we're going to work through here where Paul is saying This is important for you. It's so important for you. I need you to know that I'm giving thanks for you all. And as the expression he used, I do not cease to give thanks for you all and remembering you in your prayers That the Lord God our Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him. And then in the knowledge of him continues on through the topics that we're going to go through here. Again, one long sentence. Paul likes really long sentences So first question, we talked a little bit about it last week. When we say knowledge here, what do we mean? That's really helpful. So the Greek word that's used there in verse 17, that word, epinosis. Refers more towards the idea of such a thorough knowledge about the object or the thing in front of you, that it actually has an influence and a powerful influence on the person that knows it. So it's this it's this idea of a deeper idea, a deeper concept of knowledge that has influence on the person. So here's my analogy. We're gonna see how this goes, okay? Because I came up with this one and sometimes they're good and sometimes they're not. Um ETC with the youth is a great way to figure out if you have good analogies or bad analogies, by the way. Because bad analogies just sink and you get nothing out of them. So, by way of this, um let's say that you picture a friend's house. If you picture the friend's house, do they have a kitchen in their house? Yes? Okay, they have a kitchen in their house. So if you am thinking about your friend's house, or let's say you think about my house, for any of you that have been there, or actually maybe more useful for those of you that haven't been there, in my house, you can't picture my kitchen Right? But you know well we probably have a kitchen and we do. You're right. And in our house we in our kitchen we probably have cabinets. Right? And in the cabinets, depending on what like you look like to have like as a warm drink in the morning, you may have coffee, you may have tea. Right? If you're coming over to our house and you're friends with us, you might, in confidence, knock on the door and kind of walk in. But if you know us more You might say, well I know like I can knock or like if the door is open I don't even need to knock, I can just walk in. I get a little more comfortable. As you notice even more, you say, well I know where the kitchen is, I'm gonna go to the kitchen. As you continue to know us, what you might say is like, well, I know where you keep the coffee and tea. It is a relationship though. You're such a close friend that it's not just that I know you'll come in, I know you'll come to the kitchen, I know you'll find the tea, but it's I know what kind of tea you like and we keep it in that box right there, and I know you like that mug And that sits in that kitchen. So that when you come into the house, when you come in, you know all these things. It's not just that you know these things to be true in the kitchen where the tea is, where the cabinet is But what you find there is that you're also known so well and you know it so well like, hey, that's the tea I really like. Oh, they keep it for me. And this is the mug that I always say I can use. So I'm gonna go in and make a tea for myself You transfer between the idea of just what is abstract knowledge or knowledge about things which will be true no matter what. We have a kitchen With my my wife likes to drink a lot of tea, so we have lots of kinds of tea, which is a a surprising amount sometimes when people come in. What kind of tea do you want? No, no, no, no. You've got to look yourself. We're not listing here. Um but But in in more and more and more intimate knowledge, it's not only that you'll know all of those abstract things to be true, but what you'll find is like, oh no, in that in that deeper sense of the knowledge There's something waiting for me, or there's something that is sort of related to me, or there's something with me in mind that I find there that would be abstract truth. So um our sister-in-law, so like my wife's brother, really likes um um But like they're like through ET. My what did I say? Your wife's brother. Yeah, sorry. Switched it. I met my brother's wife. Um Thank you. She really likes fruity tea. And Keith and I do not like fruity tea. So there is always a box of fruity tea that is for her, and it's just for her, and we keep it for her. But also it's just by by manner of like that's waiting for you when you come in the house. And I know what mug you like, and that's that knowledge and knowledge and knowledge goes beyond what are just true things and come now into okay well because I know that's true I'm gonna act a certain way dependent on that truth This is a this analogy will only go so far, right? But the idea in here is that in that example, our sister-in-law would know And they have a key to the house. They'll walk into the house, they can come into the kitchen, they can turn on the kettle, find the tea they like, find the mug they like, and they know that's all set for her for them. There's a difference between abstract knowledge and what Paul is praying for the saints here, because he's about to go through What he hopes that these saints would gain even deeper knowledge in, such that it would manifest in their lives because it's true I don't want you just to know there's a kitchen. I want you to walk into the kitchen and make yourself a cup of tea and know that like you're at home here The one is an abstract truth that I could describe to anyone in this room, but none of you can necessarily taste that tea or know what mug I'm talking about unless you've experienced it yourself. Paul is not looking for abstract sort of just knowledge that is going to sit in your brain and you walk away from. He's looking for knowledge That drives what he will say here and work through a a deeper unity, an influence on your entire person. So, when we start, in verse 18, he desires that you would have the eyes of your heart enlightened, that you may know Three things. So the eyes of your heart enlightened That you would know. One, two, three. So before we even talk about what those three things are, which are listed out right here, I want to ask, what do we think Having the eyes of your heart enlightened means. So Start to put those together a little, right? You have this idea of like your dis your decision making, your will. There's a concept here that um things are things in terms of like how you want to live, be, think, or driven out of here. But then he has this picture of enlightening. Just to give you an idea here, the Greek words here literally are just Like the word for light, the word for heart, and the word for eyes. So like the words are just it's the literal translation is sort of like you put light on the eyes of your heart. Later in Ephesians, by contrast, we actually have a concept about when you're alienated from God in 418. That there is a blindness, or sometimes in translation, a hardness of the heart that relates to a darkness when you don't know God. You shine light into something Or more, it's in the light. The concept here is that your whole person, your Intellectual, emotional, willful being is affected by these truths. Hey, I want you as a person, not just your brain, but your heart, what you desire, you, all of you, to be illuminated, to have a light shone on it by One, two, three. So right out the bat, Paul is saying, not looking for head knowledge out of you. I'm looking that you would be changed by this. Now what are the three things That he is looking for us to grow in knowledge of. Now these are already saints He's already given thanks for them and their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So the concept here is that this is not talking about a knowledge that is simply I say simply as if When I say simply here, I do not mean this in a like a diminutive way, but what I'm saying is he's not just talking about saving knowledge. He's talking about saints that are growing in knowledge Right? And the reason for that is he's already talking to people who have a faith that he's thankful for and praying to. But what he's saying is that I want you to gain even deeper knowledge in this because it's important. So what are the three things? Hey, I want you to be illuminated as a person by this, by this, by this So remember I was saying that um uh by manner of study a lot of times I like to just circle words, look at it, come up Hope of the calling? When would this have happened? I've given you a hint. I want you to think a little bit in terms of time. When did we already know in Ephesians when the calling happened? Right. When does one receive or when will we receive the glorious inheritance? Future. Future. And how do we know the surpassing greatness of this power? In the present. If you sort of take a step back And consider, oh Paul, what are you saying here? What you're saying is that from past to future there are truths That God has given to us, one that has called, there's a hope in this calling, that will be culminated in inheritance. Got to talk about that one again. This is going to be the quiz from last week, incidentally. And all of that is accomplished by his power. And We're going to go have to go through it because when we get into this section, what you'll find is that Paul uses every word for power that he could possibly come up with in the Greek language. This one, this one, this one, this one, this one. And when he works through all these, he culminates into what is God's greatest demonstration of power? And then what do we know about Christ who has accomplished all these things for us? So that's the general flow, sort of what we're talking about this morning. So I want you to zoom out and I want to think, okay, well Paul, you want us to be changed by this truth. You want us to consider it in terms of What you have already accomplished, what in your masterful plan you have promised, and how it will be accomplished. And how you've essentially done it the whole way through. So hope of the calling We talked about it, uh that was great from verse four, the idea of being called before the foundational world. Um is that call uh Is it sorry, is the plan that that calling is a part of, is it a personal plan or a universal plan? What was that? Oh. Oh. Right? Right? And and that's important. This is the plan That God has revealed, and there is a personal aspect to this because he foreknew the individual saint. So it is not simply, again, this concept of a truth removed from me, but also an intimate truth that is all related. Why do we have a hope because of that? Now hope is a hope, right, is a is a future looking The concept of hope is also future-looking, so that obviously connects with how it will be culminated. But there's also a hope that just comes from the fact that we are called and that truth. Why? Last week we talked a little bit about the concept of trust. And as people, even not in sort of like a not even in a Christian theological context. But just as people in the way that God has designed us, we align trust with the idea that a person before us that we trust is who they say they are Does what they say they will do and has the power to accomplish that. And when people break that, as people tend to do, it's usually in one of those spaces Well, you didn't say you were going to do, well you're not who you said you were, or well, you can't do the thing that you said you could do because you're not even able to. Which is a remarkably depressing way to sort of summarize all of that. But it in terms of the way that trust can be broken, it comes through that. But God, who is the ultimate one in terms of being trustworthy and good and perfect. In calling us, has demonstrated who he is already through the gospel. And what Paul worked through in the beginning of Ephesians was exactly how that plan. Unfolded Not only that we were chosen, but that we would become holy and blameless through love, and that we're adopted to We are adopted to himself as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of His will, to the praise of His glorious grace. We are called, and there is so much hope in that because of the one to whom we are called, and to what that means. Because it is not just a future tense. It is a present that has been since the beginning of time what he desired. In 1 Peter 5, verse 10 to 11, and after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, Will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be the dominion forever and ever. The connection and the hope that we have in that calling is the one to whom we belong, and the fact that he's faithful and that he's with us. God, this is always your plan. God, I'm called in to participate in your plan. You are so good that I I'm thankful for this that I can look towards the future and think, yeah. This this uh I trust the one who holds the days. So when Paul is working through it, he goes from hope of the calling, the next verse. It's the same verse for the next clause. That you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints? This is eighteen. So that's the future inheritance. Now pop quiz. What was the interpretive fork in the road? What is the interpretive fork in the road you can take with regard to inheritance? We discussed it last week. His inheritance versus our inheritance. That's right. That's right. There is the Old Testament concept of we are God's inheritance. We are He is coming to claim us back. Or it is an inheritance such that we would receive it at the end. No, I'm gonna ask you, which one do you think is the best? Oh now put you on the spot. Okay. I think this one's just kind of the program is Uh makes that you know clear in my mind. Yeah, what uh translation are you in? Oh uh I think I'm in ESB, Um but let me check. I I boun I bounce back and forth between USB and NASP. Okay. I mean USB right. Yeah. Um let me do a quick thing here. Oops. So across from King James, ESV, even into the NIV, you find it's the riches of his glorious inheritance in his holy people. It keeps those pronouns the whole way through in the in the original. It is probably likely that in this one we have even more confidence that this is God's inheritance So what what Bill is describing with regard to we are his possessions that he will claim in the end. Yeah, good. Um I I keep running my head around this idea that this is in the future. There's an aspect where we're not Yes. And so I I keep um wrestling a little bit with that You know, and especially with this being God's inheritance and him being outside of time, it's squirrely in my head to wrap this around the idea to peg that firmly on that's the future. There is a day in the future where, you know, the pride comes to Christ and stuff like that. Um but there's also a a sense of, you know, and it ties back to the first point that you made that we've been called from eternity past. This uh yeah, I'm I'm just wrestling with that a little bit and I I don't I don't know if you've had a chance to wrestle with that too. Yeah, um I mean it's excellent, right? Because I think the final point when I the final point that I want to accomplish out of What is his present power is that as much as we want to bucket this only past and only future, well, we enjoy the hope of that calling from previous time to now The inheritance that we have is a future inheritance that we already have now. There is a final culmination of this It started in the past, and yet all of it continues to directly be at play in the present. So it's exactly right. Even in working through it, what you want to do, or sometimes our brains want to do, is make it into a really tight little category. Your only past, your only future. But the real point of it is, wait, hold on a second. I am a son now, and I'm participating, and I'm God's possession right now. There will come a time where it's done. There was a time where it was simply what would become the calling, or even really to Doug's point, outside of time, before time. And yet all of that is something that we enjoy right now because of how God works his power Even to that, the I I think that the right-downness of this uh is is important from the perspective of Paul's prayer too Because he's not praying that you would know this stuff. And you've been making this point, right? He's not praying that this is academic that you would know that this stuff happened in the future, you know, past But that this would impact your life now. Yeah. Yeah. I I mean just in an just to sort of like uh even like amplify that, um I want you to consider the comfort or the joy or sometimes what you need as a deep peace where in the midst of just a really hard time, either because of circumstance or maybe your own sin. You need the affirmation, but God, do I belong to you? No, I do belong to you because of the good work of Jesus Christ. How do I know I belong to you? Well, because you called me Well God, how do I know you're going to be faithful today and tomorrow? Because you said you would, because you showed me in time past, and because you promised the future. So to amplify that point, what sustains that truth in us? Oh please And I was also thinking so to me here also the word riches he because he's saying, okay So what are the bridges? And that is the present too. So if I can't remember that, then you know I And also, I guess the first sentence in the prayer, he's asking the Father to give us the spirit of wisdom above revelation. So it's not coming from us at any point. You know, it's all God given us. And that is Paul's prayer for this church and for us is that the Lord will give us the spirit of wisdom and of revelation because there's no way that we can know these things if it's not coming from him. So That's a great point. I didn't interrupt you, I'm sorry. No, I was just reflecting on this first, just because because I have read this over and over and I have made this prayer to myself and to you know brothers and sisters. And I'm thinking, well this is a true prayer for everybody Yeah. For me or that I may remember daily. And when I read the word, I'm thinking, okay, am I looking for you know, am I having the spirit of wisdom And it and the Lord reveals to you as you read the Bible um the hope, the richness you know, the uh his colleague. So I mean it's just such a good prayer because this is what we are to do and then your and then your problems are sold little when this becomes True. Um yeah, break that out a little bit more. Why why? I totally agree. Um because We're looking at the heavenly and not the earthly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Uh can anyone think of a passage out of Colossians that might That might sort of like anchor that one for us. Read one? Yep. Okay. Or read it, whatever it works. Therefore, since you have been raised with Christ, strive for the things above, but Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Verse 2, set your mind on things above on earth and things. Yeah. For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ. In God, when Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. It's the same it's the same it's really interesting because there's an aspect here and I'm not we're not going to like pivot and I'll work through Colossians right now, but in Colossians Paul is working through some really sort of like thematically similar things in a different context But in that big pivotal point, he makes that exact point of, well you know this is true, this is your identity, this is who you are, and then he transitions into this entire Put off, put on, put off, put on. Because you know this is true, because this is your identity, well then live this way. Be like this. Put that on, put that off. That's not who you are anymore. This is who are, because you know that's true. Because you know that's true. I I think it's just such an can you can you run me your name? I'm so sorry. Carla. Carla. It's just such a great point, Carla. I really appreciate it because um Coming back to the idea that Paul here is saying he wants the Spirit to help teach you these things. So really just let's connect those points, right? Because Paul's saying it's not just about head knowledge. It is knowledge that should transform you, and yet not because, hey, do it all on your own, but because the Lord truly promises, I should I've given you my spirit, and He will teach you these things, guide you these things. There is a confidence that we can have in the same way that Paul is confidently praying these things. There is a confidence that we can have that when we ask God To not only reveal, but affirm, confirm, remind, impress all these truths on our hearts, that they would play out in our daily lives. He will do it. Because he's faithful, because he does what he says he will do. One point um out of that I I gotta double back to Colossians, give me one second. I mean Ephesians. Um One point to make sure that you gather there is inheritance in the saints, not just Not just the idea of here sort of like that individual possession, but that communal possession. Because there is a thread that runs here that Paul is making the point that this is You in the body of Christ belong to God. So in the same way that it is the personal truth In the universal plan, it is also at play in God's community, that is, his saints that are called. And there's an aspect here where he's making the point that this is all of us together. He's gonna keep going with this point. It's not gonna be the end of it. So um we come to the third one The surpassing greatness of his power. So if we um or uh depending on the translation, it can also be immeasurable or exceeding. Um And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might? that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. I'm going to pause there for a second. The commentator uh Boyce uh it's um James Montgomery boys. Yeah, James. Yeah. Paul is convinced that God's power is sufficient and he accumulates words to convince us. He has here a number of different sort of like words for power. Each one is like slightly different. One, that concept of that immeasurable. Does anyone have a different word for immeasurable? Instead of immeasurable? Same? Same? Exceeding. Do you have exceeding? Exceeding. Okay. Just it's it's beyond limit. So right that that concept of it's a it's a power that is not contained, it does not have a definition or some sort of like at capacity concept here. Who is the power torque? The us here, the saints. So you remember we had that brief transition earlier in Ephesians that was us and also you, or we it was really we and you also. Here, we're now we're just an us. Why might it be relevant to Paul's here that it's a power toward us? He goes on to define it as being the power of the resurrection, salvation. That doesn't apply towards anyone who he elect. Okay. Um if you were to take that and say So that's that's very useful. I don't really like doing the theoretical if you take these words out of scripture. It's not my favorite sort of like mental exercise, so I'm not gonna do that. Um but built on that built on that definition, I think there is an emphasis here towards it is not a vague reference to power. I mean you really sort of like So like drove it down in terms of he's gonna connect this ultimate power towards resurrection, sort of the resurrection power But it's also that it's not just a vague attribute, but it is one that is also applied towards us. You got something done? No. Alright, you're leaning. I'm just excited about this passage. Yeah. It's it's like on the edge of your seat. Yeah. And it gets bigger and bigger and bigger. I feel like there's gonna be a balloon that's gonna pop. Just keep going. Um Okay. So according to and then what he has here are Great power, effectual working, superior strength, natural power. The different words that he uses here in terms of its power in the ESV, it's the power, might. Greatness, power, might, and then that word for working also. Each one of those um It is just another word for power and strength and might that has like slightly different ones. He's essentially saying it's the power of power with all the power that you could put you know what I mean? Like he's it's a it's just repeating it over and over. And then um Grace? Okay. And then just like Grace said, he lands it in one specific place. The resurrection. Um, F. F. Bruce has a quote that I really love. Um, but it's a death No. But if the death of Christ is the chief demonstration of the love of God, the chief demonstration of his power is the resurrection of Christ. And it's especially important that believers should know the power of God, because the power by which He raised Jesus from the dead is the power that worketh in us, Ephesians 3. 20. And the power by which we are enabled to repudiate the dominion of sin. and walk with Christ in newness of life. Um Gene and I had a friend who um who um loves Tarville. Um was a card carrying, she I mean she's a good friend. Just Did not believe in God or Jesus Christ or any of those things. We worked in labs together, but would want to be in the conversation And at one point we got onto the topic of miracles. And she wanted to just sort of like, okay, let's talk about the idea of miracles. And um Raised in Germany, familiar with like biblical concepts and stories to some extent, knew about Like the miracle of um like the fish in the loaves, knew about like various of the changing of the water to the wine, knew about a number of these miracles. But In the conversation, and and I didn't sort of like drive the conversation here at all, but she actually did In terms of, okay, but like if if God like really wanted to like show himself, why not like just really show himself? Well no, he he did. This is this is man. And I don't mean this by by way of like mockery towards Christine at all, because we know I mean exactly the point you were just making, we know because God illuminated our minds and hearts. And we are dead in our sins and dark in our minds unless he did the work. So there's no mockery for anyone else who doesn't believe, right? It's just how do I face my own conversation? But she naturally got to the point of like, okay, well if he came But he's doing these miracles, why not like the big one? Like something that would just be like you cannot sort of argue against. And in that one, we pause because we say, well, what is the thing that unifies all humanity? We die. There is no arguing against that. There's no advancement in science, technology, medicine. intelligence, philosophy, or anything, we prolong death, and we're thankful for that. There's grace in that. We can ameliorate the sufferings that come with What will still end in death, but there is no fighting death. And yet that's what God Through Christ, just overcomes and destroys. And we see an outworking of power there. It's amazing because what is something else That we many times point to to demonstrate God's magnificent power. My hints for you, the book of Job. What in the book of Job does God sort of come to Job with, very gracefully, I would argue, in terms of he answered Job. What does he walk Job through? Creation. Creation. Right? Creation is his clear demonstration of God's design and power, it's magnificent, to the extent that people darken their minds, mix it up and start worshiping creation instead of the creator. And yet, even in the midst of all of creation, by God's design Things die. The demonstration of God's power here. So it in that conversation with friend Christine, it was a nice conversation at that point because There was at least one aspect where we were sort of like, yeah, and he came back from the dead. And that that counters all natural understanding of the world and everything because God is the great designer and he's over everything. And then now you want to connect that with, but hey, it's not a It's not just a power over death. It's that in the resurrection that accomplishes God's great plan, death, burial, resurrection of Christ, that is the gospel. That is the truth that allows us to participate in his plan to enjoy him to know that we have an inheritance because we're we're adopted because of that great power, that good work. So the demonstration of this power that we have here accomplishes actually there are three areas that this power, or as Paul works through here, um There are three areas that relate to Jesus Christ. It is the resurrection, which we just talked about, and then In being resurrected, the Lord Jesus is not, again, I'm not saying not simply, it's not that he is only resurrected, but he is exalted. Right? So what we have here is that when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. It is not only the resurrection of Christ, it is that he is also exalted in this state. He is the one who is King above all. Psalm 1610. I think a couple of these references would be very familiar to us. For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol or let your holy one see corruption Psalm 110, 1. The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The exaltation of Jesus, the being placed at the right hand of the Father, the being given dominion. Much like his power, much like his power that accomplishes this, has no bounds. You don't have to work through actually rule and authority, power and dominion, like they're each individual topics, but rather take those as They cover all aspects of any sort of um any sort of power, governmental structure Spiritual or natural order, there is nothing that is not under God. There is nothing by which Christ is not ruler over. There is no when you take that every name that is named not only in this age or the one to come. There is not any new structure. There is not any old or new kind that will surpass his greatness or authority. So you can take any philosophical idea that would try to dethrone Christ. By some new knowledge or new concept. We are 2,000 years out from his resurrection, and not one of those has or will surpass Jesus Christ. This is what you this is the one we worship. Right? So Paul is saying these things, and he's saying, Hey, you know this hope. The inheritance, the grace, the power, and the one to whom this all points to, he is seated at the right hand throne, and he there is no end for his rule to come. The sovereignty of Jesus so so when you get to twenty two What you find is that it's a it's a similar concept that you put all things under his feet. What's that concept, all things under his feet? What do we think that means? Yeah. There's an aspect of victory here. There's also an aspect of um dominion, as in out of Genesis 1 with the first Adam. The idea that Adam was supposed to fulfill dominion over all that God had worked through, but failed in that. And as as by way of reference, that you know the concept of Christ is the second Adam, he accomplishes this perfectly. 1 Corinthians 15, 27. But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For as by a man came death, by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all shall be made alive. But each in his own order, Christ the first fruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ. Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom, the Father, after destroying every rule and every authority and power, for he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For God has put all things in subjection under his feet. But in 22, he adds a new topic. And it's the first time that Paul will use the word for church. Ecclesia is the Greek word here. The translation, if you were to sort of connect that to the Hebrew term, would be assembly. What is he of the church? Yeah. And he's ahead over all things in the church, right? Paul here, and he will build on it more a little bit later, is introducing a topic not just of dominion and authority, but now here of being joined. to the one who rules all things. And we know that because he says, which is his body. The fullness of Him who fills all in all. It doesn't change God's position of supreme authority. As Lord, but what it does is it ties the body of believer and the saints to him in a way that a head and a body are intertwined. That we would be the ones In submission to him, but also belonging to him, and accomplishing his good works, because that is to what we're called. When people ask who is the head of a church I heard it whispered. Where was it? Thank you. That response Is an excellent immediate response. Not a thought of, let me describe to you my local church's sort of like governing structure There's nothing wrong with like talking about that. But truly to be able to say worshipfully, who is the head of the church? Jesus Christ is the head of the church. Who do we all answer to? Jesus Christ. This concept of submission, authority, how does that influence our relationships? Paul's really going to work through this more in Ephesians because he ties a lot of things to it. But the concept here is one that understand that we're tied to him and we belong to him. This very last part of verse 23, the fullness of him who fills all in all. is a very challenging actually uh clause in a sentence to translate to to like really understand what it means. So um There's a lot of different commentators that weigh in differently. I'm not going to work through all of them for you. I'm going to give you the three sort of like summary positions, and I'm going to tell you the one that I think makes the most sense. Doug, Scott, Bill, whoever, anyone who's studied this, if you want to weigh in, I I I invite in. So the three ways that that could be translated are one The idea of Christ actually filling all things, as in like God's presence everywhere There's a slight trickiness to that because there is a little bit of a problem with the idea of Christ filling the Godhead, because that's not actually something that's ever described in Scripture. So that one's a little complicated. Two, um, listen, I think for the purpose of this morning, it's not uh I want to sort of like introduce it to you so that if you are studying or reading it, you know, hey, this one's a little tricky to understand. But in this time, I'm not going to dedicate a huge amount of time to sort of like work through why each concept would be one or the other, just for the sake of sort of our time. The second would be the idea that The church is the fullness of God, like of Christ. But we don't have a picture anywhere in Scripture as we complete Christ. And so That one is a sort of like a it's most likely not that, because it doesn't sort of synergize with um other aspects in Scripture. And the last is literally just that Christ fills in the church and completes it with his power. And that's probably the like what I would say is like a favorite interpretation in terms of, and it's Christ who fills the church. such that the church would accomplish its good work. And that sort of connects thematically with what we've seen and where we're going to go. But technically, and because the way that you can read it, the Greek itself doesn't allow you to sort of just get there right away. So we are rounding out here and I want to ask By way of thought for you to sort of walk away from or consider an application. How can we connect Actually, I'm going to ask it, but to be entirely honest, I think Carl, you sort of already said it, right? There is a question here, well, how can these truths connect to our daily lives? In terms of how do we come to God in prayer? How in the midst of our daily circumstances can we say, oh God, but I know this is true, and I know this is to come, and I know this is how you work? Teach me, spirit, how to trust you more in this, how to rely on this more. How sometimes to take my mind off the immediate or myself and look to the future or look to the facts or the past. Or look to how it's all connected. Or look to you and simply say, well, I know you're the one to hold it. So I see no out of this circumstance, but what I do know is that you might sustain me in it because you say you will. I think that concept that this is not just about filling our heads with knowledge only. But taking that back to God and asking Him to apply it and to teach it to us is incredibly important. It's incredibly important that we take these things and say, well God, you're the one that can teach me this. Teach it to me in my daily life. I want to be able to go into a difficult work week, a difficult parenting week, a difficult fill-in-the-blank week. And say, oh, but God, I know you're faithful. Oh, but God, I can connect that your promises are accomplished with such a great power that you say is at work today. I I should be able to trust that now. I think it's I think I think Doug said it really well and just it is a really sort of exciting passage to sit with and just think Oh God, you've promised and done so much, and there's so much more to do, and how great you are Okay. Um any questions, comments to the last like two minutes? Otherwise I will raise this in prayer. Just quickly um going back with uh first twenty uh The the concept that God seated Christ at his right hand, seating on a throne Gives that picture of rule again, it it just extends that uh illustration of his rule and and authority over everything. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I I wonder if sometimes we don't picture it as well because we don't we don't really sort of like operate for the most part in With thrones and to be clear, I grew up where there was a monarchy, to be honest. I I grew up in Saudi Arabia. We still had thrones in a monarchy, but sorry, please. No, just in thinking about this, our minds are finite. Um and he is always just it's encouraging us. I mean how great God is we we need to keep thinking about that and reminding that over and over and over again. Yeah. Yeah. We don't even know where a Mark is. Yeah, what a actu And the idea of somebody having power over life and death. That is so foreign to us. We need to be we're we're trying to know it all. Yeah, there's no end to this prayer, right? There's never a point in your life you're like, I don't need this prayer anymore. Like that that doesn't happen