Okay, we are now recording. So just curious, anyone do the homework? Were they blessed by the homework? Did they was one of the phrases more meaningful to to uh you then some of the others. Okay, yeah. Yeah, I mean none was like choked out, but it's just encouraging to have something really small to focus on each day. Just just something one little tidbit to focus on each day. Yeah. Good, good. Anything anybody else? Okay. The holy and blameless was kind of an encouragement to me. That's the purpose that we've been called for. And um and I I definitely focus that on on Wednesday, that hey, uh my the life I'm living is to be holy and blameless for for God. Alright, so let's get into the text. Ephesians 1. And uh today uh we will be focusing on verses 7 through 12, but Again, because it's all one sentence, I want to read the whole passage from verse 3 through verse 14. So blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ According to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has blessed us in the beloved. And then our passage today, in him, we have redemption through his blood. the forgiveness of our sins, or of our trespasses, according to the riches of His grace, which He has lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of His will. according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is a guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. Amen? Amen So I mentioned last week that there's different ways to outline this passage, and we're going to focus more on The Trinitarian outline where God is playing a role, Christ is playing a role, and the Holy Spirit plays a role in the spiritual blessings that has been given us. And verses three through six talks about God's role of choosing us, of adopting us, of pre Predestinating is that a word? Uh us. Um predestined us. That's a British word. It's a British word. Okay. So Now we kind of turn from God the Father's role in our salvation to Christ's role. J. Vernon McGee, he says, back in eternity past, God chose us, predestined us, and made us accepted in the beloved. And now we move out of eternity into time, where the plans of God the Father are placed into the hands of Christ, who moves into space and time to construct the church. So that's our focus today is God who chose us and predestined us before the foundations of the world. Turning the plan of salvation over over to Christ in this world as we live in space and time. And he starts off with I love what you're saying here, and I completely agree with what you're saying. I I think it's also cool in this to see that even though this the passage last week has a focus on the Father and this week has a focus on the Son But it's kind of blended together in a way at the same time. It is. So it it's not completely clean and I think that in some ways that also reflects the Trinity in a sense of it's easy to say God is three persons, but then when you look at the fringes it starts to get muddy and not completely clean. And I think that am I still much go for it. Okay, I I think that the wait, there's an aspect of the Trinity that's easy to understand in kindergarten. And there's an aspect of it that's hard to understand for the doctoral student. And that I think in some ways is even reflected in how God had Paul write these words down in that, you know, just even verse one, verse one is like the God, the Father, the Son, the Spirit, and then, you know, it's it's brute, but it's It's it's intermingled. Yes. Um and especially because In verse 3, he talks about blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us in Christ. And that phrase in Christ. We see that throughout this entire passage where everything is in Christ. But yes, it gets muddy. There are roles that each of the Trinity the pe the persons of the Trinity play. But yes, sometimes there are roles Get intermingled. Yeah, yeah. It's cool. Sorry for interrupting. You're good. We're good. This is discussion time. We had great discussion last week. So it starts off with in him being Christ. Last week, the very last word of verse 6 is beloved, and we discussed that beloved is a reference to Jesus Christ. So in him We have redemption. And this phrase in him, I'll kind of review what we talked about last week. It's a unity that we have in Christ. Through our salvation, we are united with Christ. And that term is a referring to a variety of relationships between believers and Jesus Christ. in which we enjoy the benefits of salvation. When we talk about redemption, um there are three Greek words, and I'm told you last week I am not a Greek scholar, but there are three Greek words used for what we say is redemption. So the our word for redemption has three different Greek words and they're used differently in the Bible here. I was telling Amy um this week that one of the commentators I was reading talked about each of the three Greek words, but the one that's used in this passage was the one he spent the least amount of time on. It's like, what? But there's one word talks about buying at the marketplace. So you go to the market, you see some apples, and you buy some apples. You bought it. Great. The second one, the second word is buying out of the marketplace. So you first you bought at the marketplace to buy, second one to buy out of the marketplace. So you bought some apples and you're going to take those apples and you're going to go home and you're going to use these apples to make pie or apple cake or apple butter. You're taking them out for your personal use. And then the third one, and the third one that we see here, is to Take out and set free for deliverance. So when we talk about slaves, if there was a slave market, you can go to the slave market and you can buy a slave there. You could go and buy the slave and take it back to your property for your own personal use. Or you can buy the slave and set them free and deliver that slave. And that's the picture that we have here: God is buying us. And setting us free from the bondage of sin and death. He has delivered us from from sin. And that's the picture that Paul is bringing out here. That's the word that he uses is to deliver and set free. And that is just a blessing that we have. But when you go to the marketplace, you there is payment required. You you just can't go and take something or else um the vendor there will uh chase after you and say, Where's my money? There was a price to be paid. And this price was the death of Christ. The blood of Christ was the payment for our sins. Hebrews 9. 22, without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sin. Um and let's turn to first Peter one First Peter one, eighteen and nineteen Verse 18: Knowing that you were ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. The blood of Christ We were ransomed not with money, not with gold and silver, which are very valuable We were ransomed for something more valuable than that. And that was the blood of Christ. His blood spilt on the cross. Pay the debt that we could not pay. I was thinking this morning, a a song came to mind that uh That a former church of mine used to say it's only a chorus, but um do you do you know uh okay. Um he paid a debt that I could not pay. I owe a debt Or he he paid a debt that I did not owe. I owe a debt that I could not pay. And it goes on from there. But but we in our sins We have our our sin demands payment. It demands punishment. And we could not pay that for ourselves. And Christ, our Lord and Savior. Did not owe that, but he paid it on our behalf anyway. Um Jay Vernon McGee, I he he talks about uh and while I was reading, he talked about human forgiveness and divine forgiveness. And I thought I I didn't have time to really make sure what he said was a hundred percent true because he uses the word always. And I when when whenever someone uses the word always, it's like, okay Maybe there's an exception out there, but I I I I want to read this because I thought it was very interesting and and I don't necessarily think When he uses the word always, I think you probably can come up with an exception or not or so. But talks about human forgiveness versus divine forgiveness Human forgiveness is always based on the fact that a penalty is deserved and that the penalty is not imposed. But God is holy and righteous. Therefore, divine forgiveness is always based on the fact that there has been an execution of the penalty And the price has been paid. Human forgiveness comes before the penalty is executed, but God paid the penalty and then he forgave. So I I thought that was very interesting where we have a level of forgiveness. Yes, I can uh forgive my children for for uh disrespecting me Um and they may I I may tend to enforce a punishment if I mean if they if I punish them then they have met that punishment. Uh I could um I could say, Oh, you know what Just let you know, don't do that, and and forgive him and not have him make that punishment. But God is just. God is holy, God is righteous. Any Uh any sin, any trespass against his rules, any offense against his laws require payment. He will extend grace, but it still requires payment. And guess what? Christ made that payment on our behalf. He paid the penalty, and then God forgave. The going back to Ephesians So we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. Again, forgiveness, we have offended God, we have missed the mark. Uh Here, trespasses means an offense or a falling aside. It did not hit the mark. We did not hit the mark in our lives. We have been born with a sinful nature And we have not lived perfect lives. We have missed Mark. And yet God has pardoned our sin and let them go. In this word of forgiveness, he has let go of our sin. As in considering that they had never been committed. So after he has after the payment has been made, he has forgiven us and views us as As holy and blameless because he views us as not having committed sin. Just as we look into the depravity of our own lives, that's just amazing to just contemplate that. The penalty that was made, the price that was paid, we are forgiven, and we are free from bondage of sin and death. Excuse God. Yeah. Y yeah. Yeah, why if God paid the penalty, why didn't He just Forgive everybody's sin. And yet we see here, and and yes, the world does not understand that. The gospel is uh from 1 Corinthians, I'm gonna mess this up, but is foolishness in in the eyes of the world. And um Yeah, people would think, well, if he already paid the price, why didn't he just forgive everybody's sin? And yet it is to the praise of his glorious grace that He has not chosen all of us. And that's something we just can't fully comprehend. But it is according to his purpose and will. And as we get into this, it's With all wisdom and insight that he has offered salvation to his chosen, to the church. I want to take step aside a little bit. You have a handout called Ordo Salutis. And I just wanted to bring this up because there are so many terms that Paul uses when it comes to salvation. And Ordo Salutis is Latin for the order of salvation. And there is an order of salvation, there is a timeline. of when certain things take place um for for the redemption of our lives. And It's helpful at times to kind of keep this in mind, especially if you're reading a passage like Philippians 2. uh 14 I think is work out your salvation with fear and trembling. It's like, well, if God is the person who saves us, how can I work out my salvation? Well You know, he's not talking about the justification of our lives. He's talking about the sanctification, where we may have a part in our sanctification. So I wanted to Just go through this a little bit and introduce this to you for those of you who may be unfamiliar with this Um I actually put into Copilot uh when I was planning this a couple months ago, I put into copilot. bingo cards and I thought maybe we'd play Ordo Salutis Bingo today. But I didn't have enough time to it threw in some other terms and and I didn't have enough time to clean it up. But I just wanted to go through Some of what Paul has talked to us, but go through this as well. So it starts off with election. God chose us before the foundation of the world. He foreknew us, and again, foreknowledge is not necessarily that he knew ahead of time. He foreknew us as in He knew us intimately and said, Oh, you are my child. I am choosing you. And it it's It's like I know my wife better than I know President Trump. President Trump, I know who he is, but I don't know him. I know Amy, and God knows us. Intimately. Uh so foreknowledge, predestination, he chose us That was before the foundation of the world outside of of time, and now we go inside time. And we have the atonement, Christ's death on the cross. It was his sacrifice that spilt the blood out on the cross to cover our sins He was the propitiation for our sins. He paid that debt to us, and he has redeemed us. But that was the work on the cross, and that was 2,000 years ago, and here we are living today. So, what has happened in those 2,000 years? There is a calling. The Spirit calls to us, and you may hear there's a general calling and an effectual calling. Everyone in the world hears. a calling. They hear the gospel. They hear about Jesus. But not all of them it sinks into. For those who have been chosen, that calling sinks into our hearts and our minds. And then we are regenerated. The Spirit regenerates us. And then we have our actual conversion: faith and repentance. Faith in Jesus Christ, repentance of our sins. And at that point, there's a whole buffet of things that happen upon our conversion to Jesus Christ. the imputation. Our sins have been imputed to Jesus Christ. Christ's righteousness have been Righteousness has been imputed upon us. So when God looks at us, he sees a holy child, not One that's been blemished by sin. We have been forgiven. We have been reconciled to God. We have been adopted into his family. We have this union in Christ, which is key in Ephesians We have been indwelt with the Holy Spirit. We've been baptized by the Holy Spirit. We have been sealed by the Holy Spirit. And then we get into Now that we're Christians, what are we supposed to do? How are we supposed to live life? Well, that's the sanctification process. And that sanctification process, uh assurance, the filling of the Holy Spirit, perseverance. to get to the end. And then finally when we die, there's glorification. And we get rid of our sinful uh bodies and we are made whole and we are we have union with Christ. We see God our Father In in having getting back to this gentleman's point over here ago. Yes. Like, you know, there are at least two reasons why like non-believers have such a hard time with God. At least two. One is that we tend to picture God as just like sort of slightly better than a human. Like a Marvel Comic Test. Right? Yes. We don't picture God as magnificently infinitely superior being, right? Mm-hmm. And the other thing that causes the problem with people, well, they have such a hard time believing Is this process here, whether you believe that these are exactly in this sequence or not, we can see that to say a human being, it is not just a simple process It's a work. It is a work. It's a work. Yes. And so we underestimate that. Yes. No, absolutely. I mean We we we s simplify things as best as we can, but such knowledge is too wonderful for us. And only God could accomplish this. Yes. Yes. Yes, Marquise. Do we start with some of the generation objects there and why isn't it going to be So we'll we'll probably talk about regeneration a little bit more uh next chapter when we get to Ephesians 2. But we are dead in our sins. We Um are uh well let's let's read Ephesians two. Um Verse four, but God being rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses. God made us alive together with Christ. We are dead. There's nothing alive within us. And we need our spirits to be regenerated, to become made alive. That we can then have the capacity to repent of our sins and to have faith. Regeneration precedes salvation. Yes, regeneration precedes salvation. By the way, I just saw this. We have a couple birthday cards and an anniversary card for Ricardo and Uh Dorina and if you could sign them and pass them around. Sorry. No. Well I mean all of you. No, I'm sorry. Sorry. For our missionaries, Vana and Ricardo uh Morales from Columbia. Sorry, I I saw Ricardo and I immediately thought Whitaker, not or else. My bad. Anyway. So coming back to the Oreosolutis, did I answer your question, Marquita? Yes. Okay. Terrific. So I just wanted to just read again When Paul says, Blessed be the God in verse 3 of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing. These are the spiritual blessings. Even as he chose us, which would be predestination election, before the foundation of the world, this was done in the past. That we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us again in the past, before the foundation of the world, for adoption. He has adopted us. In that justification process, we are part of his family. After our conversion. According to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us and the beloved, in him we have redemption. Again, part of the justification process. Christ Or sorry, part of the atonement process. Christ died on the cross and has redeemed us out of the marketplace and delivered us. Um the forgiveness of our trespasses, part of the justification process. He has forgiven us. In in the next few weeks, we'll talk about the calling. Next week, Daniel is going to talk about the sealing of the Holy Spirit. We'll talk more in Ephesians 2 about faith, repentance. So and I wanted to add a few things to the slide, but look at how much is it in the past. So much, as as you were saying, this whole work of God. Um it's just not one little action. It's several parts to salvation. Maybe you could even add one more to that is is his incarnation becoming. Becoming. Right? I mean that would be the Greek of our time. Yes. God would not become a man. Yes. And I'm going to talk about that in just a few minutes when we talk about the mystery of his will. And and I could have I wanted to add more to this and and I just didn't have time. But election God the Father. Atonement, God the Son. The calling, the regeneration, that's the Spirit's role. And all that's God. And where do we come into play? Well, we need to have faith and conversion. And yet, that faith is not just from ourselves, it comes from God. It's a gift from God, that faith. So it's a response of what God has done to us. So conversion, that's a combination of both God and us. Justification. All those things and justification. That's all God. That's nothing that we've done. Sanctification. We have a rule in sanctification, but again, God has a hand in our growing in sanctification and our growth in Him. Again, it's our response to help us become more Christ-like. Amy. Uh God, yes, as you said, God does not punish us. Yes, he disciplines us because he loves us. And yeah, we do miss the point a lot. We we do live in fear, and yet There's no need to live in fear for a God who is our Father, who wants the best for us. As Matthew said Matthew five, six, seven I'll find it. I think I'll find it. Where is it? Oh, here it is. Yes. Um Everyone who asks receives, one who seeks finds, and the one who knocks will be open. Or f which one of you, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone, or if he asks for a fish, will give him a servant. If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father, who is in heaven, give gifts to those who ask them? Our father is good, and he wants And he wants us to love him and draw near to him. And there's no need to live in fear, because he will give us good gifts. Um before I leave this, any other questions on Ordo salutis. It's interesting to see how these words that are used here are in the picture that you talked about here. the effectual calling is what he says when he says, hear the word of truth. Because anybody can hear the evangelist But the person who's been pretestined by God will hear the word of truth and be changed. Yes And it talks about In verse thirteen, yes. Am I jumping ahead of you? And it talks about uniting all things here And that's the adoption and the union with Christ in the picture that you gave us. And it also talks about the guarantee, which I think we're going to talk about next week, so we'll stop. But that's tied in with our assurance. That's tied in with our assurance. Yes. The assurance, the filth the ceiling. There there's a lot going on there. So there's just so many facets of salvation that Paul talks about here. And so much that we can be thankful and grateful for according to the riches of his grace. All this is done by the grace of God. Any other questions or comments? Alright. I'm gonna change it so you don't Keep studying it while I'm trying to teach. Um but yes. Redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, has been according to the riches of his grace. Grace that is lavished upon us with abundance. Uh Henry uh old I d I don't know what century he wrote in. That's a little old English. Matthew Henry says, God was satisfied by Christ as our substitute and surety But it was rich grace that would accept of assurity when he might have executed the severity of the law upon the transgressure. We deserve death. We God could have easily executed his wrath upon all of us, and yet out of the abundance of his grace, he chose us. To be adopted as his children. And it's done in all wisdom and insight, which Hearken me back to Romans eleven. O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, how inscrutable his ways. For who has known the mind of the Lord? Who has been his counselor? Oh, who has given a gift to him who might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. So, as Paul is running on talking about all these spiritual blessings of salvation and everything that he's lavished on us. With his wisdom and insight, he says, making known to us the mystery of his will. What is this mystery? We see it at the end of verse 10, to unite all things in Him, things in heaven and on earth. Um and if you flip over to um verse twenty two He explains it again. And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. As we put together a summary statement for Doug, Daniel and I put together a summary statement for Ephesians. This verse just Screams out the summary statement. The eternal purpose of God is for his church is to be reconciled to him in Christ and united with one another. which is ultimately for his glory, walking faithfully and obediently as his children. The mystery of That Paul wants to tell everyone. That's the surprise birthday party. He Paul has orchestrated the surprise birthday party, and now he's telling the Gentiles, hey I've got a secret. And when we say mystery, mystery means secret. It's I'm about ready to tell you what the secret is God's kind of held it behind the veil for for thousands of years, and now he has revealed it to us. And that is to bring all things under Christ. Schofield gives eleven different mysteries in the New Testament, but I think so many of them are tied together. So Can I get five volunteers? Joe, can you turn to Romans 11, 25? Kayla, Ephesians 3. 6 Rachel, Ephesians 5, 29 through 32. Martita, Colossians 1, 24 through 27. And Daniel. First Timothy, hang on. I have first Timothy sixteen, which three sixteen. Three sixteen, yeah. First Timothy three sixteen. Thank you Alright, so there there are different facets of the mystery, but they are part of God's full plan. So Joe, you had Romans eleven twenty-five? Fullness of the Gentiles has come So the the fullness of the Gentiles will come in. And we'll talk about that I uh throughout Ephesians, about the Jews and the Gentiles coming together. Because the Israelites They think salvation is only for them. And yet, most of us who are Gentiles, hey, this was part of God's plan that we enter it as well. Okay. So again. In ESV it repeats the word this mystery. Yeah. So again, the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body and the Church of Christ. Rachel, you had Ephesians 5, 29 through 32? Okay. There's a lot going on in that passage, and I'm not going to go down there. We'll talk about that in a couple months. But again, the bride and her church, the church made up of Jews and Gentiles, we are being formed to become the bride of Christ. Again, a mystery. Marquita, you had Colossians 1, 24 through 27? Mystery of Christ being with the Gentiles. Um yes, another another just facet of this mystery. And Daniel's gonna read First Timothy three sixteen. But it may be helpful if all of us are turned there because I think this summarizes a lot of what these other passages have just talked to us about this mystery that Paul has talked to us about. It gives the bigger picture, the bigger plan of the mystery. Picture of Christ. That everyone expected a Messiah, they expected a king, but not in the way that God planned it. He planned that God himself would become flesh. And save us and be proclaimed not only to the Jews, not be a savior just to the Jews, but to all nations. Proclaimed among all the nations, believed on in the world. And so God has taken his creation and going to unite it under Christ. It's interesting, the phrase to unite, there's a little prefix, in the Greek, there's a little prefix of an a. And that means to that means again. So God is going to once again unite all things in heaven and on earth. Under Christ, which means they were united under Christ at one point before. And we don't always think about that. But The world was in harmony, and then sin. And then once sin happened, there was um A disconnect. Um the fallen world had become disunited with a holy God. And it is God's plan to take all things under heaven and earth, make them holy, those unsaved will be um Restricted. Any evil in the world will be restricted to hell and confined there And everything will be perfect and be united once again under Christ. This is the mystery. As um Boyce said and and Anthony, this kind of goes to uh your point When it says all things being united in heaven and on earth under Christ, some people may take this as, oh, everyone will be saved. This is not universalism. Where some people believe, yeah, everybody will be saved at one point. No. As Boyce says, it is the teaching, rather, that all things will be subjected to Christ Some willingly, as those who have been redeemed by Jesus, joyfully exult in his rule. Some unwillingly, as evil, is nevertheless restrained, and all are forced to acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord of all. Every knee will bow, every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord of all. And Some will do it willingly, some will do it unwillingly. And those who are who do it unwillingly They are restrained. They no longer have that free will in in their lives. Um They have chosen not to follow Christ, and they will receive their just due. And when will this when will this happen? The fullness of time. come together when he has when all things in Revelation basically have taken place. He's got his own timeline. God will unite all things in heaven and earth to be under Christ. So the thousand-year reign is interesting. At the beginning of the reign, it seems like, hey, there's going to be peace on the earth. But over the thousand years, people will still have that free will. Not all of them will follow Jesus. 'Cause when we get to the end of the reign there's going to be a reb rebellion against uh against God. But um but Christ will be ruling. I I don't know if the unite the uniting of heaven and earth will have taken place during the thousand years of reign. I would I would take the argument it's probably after. But that is a good question. Because we normally think the thousand-year reign as a peaceful time, and I think for the most part it will be peaceful because God will be the ruler, but not everyone will even still there will be people who do not follow God during that time. Which Sometimes mind-boggling. If you see Jesus ruling as your leader and ruler on earth, the perfect man and God. Even even seeing them will not be good enough for some people. Alright. So most translations just end with a paragraph here, but As I've already said, Paul, he just keeps going. I mean, this is just one long sentence. So in him, again, we have that phrase in him, in Christ. All of this stu is done to people who are united with Christ. Keep that in mind. Um, because we we tend to gloss that over, but all these spiritual blessings, all uh the forgiveness of sins, the redemption, all that happens to people who are united with Christ in him. We have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things, according to the counsel of his will. The phrase obtain an inheritance, this is the only place in the Bible that this phrase is used. In some translations, uh, if you have a different translation, you may say Scott, you're reading inheritance and I don't have inheritance in my Bible. I have we were also chosen. Which seems like where's the connection there? We were also chosen and we have obtained an inheritance. Um it so th there is some debate uh I guess as to how that should be translated. But what is the inheritance? If you turn over to 1 Corinthians 3, 22 through 23. We we get some hints, one from Paul, one from Peter, as to this inheritance. What was that verse? 1 Corinthians 3 Twenty two and twenty-three. Um backing up just a little bit into twenty one. For all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future, all are yours. You are Christ, and Christ is God's. We are we are Christ. We have been um God, the Son, is the Father's love gift to us, and we are the Father's love gift to the Son. Um I think that was voice. I didn't mark that on my notes for some reason. Everything that Um the present, the future, life or death. All of it is ours. We don't necessarily think that death will be ours, but victory over death. is ours. Um and then Second Peter, if you turn over to Second Peter one. Second Peter one, verses three and four. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. through the knowledge of Him who called us to His own to His own glory and excellence, by which He granted to us His precious and great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. Having escaped from the corruption that is in this world because of sinful desire, God has given us everything that pertains to life and godliness. and granted to us his precious and great promises. Everything that he has promised to us, that's our inheritance. You can take time reading through the Bible, looking at God's promises, and saying, God is faithful, he keeps his promises. This is true. I can take this. Um But he has given this inheritance to us again in Christ. And and it was predestined. Again, this word predestined comes up. He has adopted us as sons, and as sons we have we are heirs of God, co-heirs with Christ. And he has given us He has made us part of our family and everything that God gives us is ours. That is our inheritance. A relationship with the Father and life everlasting. Um, all of this According to the purpose of him who works all things in accordance to the counsel of his will. God's wisdom and knowledge. We already talked about it. Paul tends to repeat himself here, but he is this wisdom is too lofty for us to attain. We cannot So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. So you may say, well, who who who's who are the first to hope in Christ? And Daniel will probably get into this a little bit next week because it says we in verse 13 and then in verse 14 it talks about you also. So In the letter to the Ephesians, Paul's writing to a church or churches, as Paul was, as Doug mentioned in week one. And the church is full of both Jews and Gentiles. And in here when it says we were the first to hope in Christ, Paul's saying the promise was first given to the Jews. Abraham and and the nation of Israel. And uh so Again, Paul saying, hey, all of this, God's plan, God's wisdom, God's counsel, this was his plan to first give it to the Jews. Most of them, the nation rejected it. Um but there were some that remnant. We always see a remnant throughout the Bible. God has saved a remnant. And That nation of Israel, the Jews, is were the first to hope in Christ. And that is according to God's plan, according to his glory. And we praise him for that. We may not understand all of it, but we praise him for it Any um I want to go back As I talk about the praise of his glory, I want to go back a little bit to verse 7 when we say according to the riches of his grace. Again, God's abundance, wisdom, grace. Um for those of who attended uh the Lost Words class last quarter, um Scott Mahoney made the observation about grace. And we'll probably talk about this more in verse in chapter two when we talk about Is by grace you have been saved through faith. But the noun grace is always used anarthros Meaning, without the definite article. So it's never the grace. It's never a grace. It's always grace. And most authors attribute the significance that to this in that grace is not a thing. It is God's disposition as a superior to initiate relationship with inferiors who act only as covenant breakers. So this grace that we have been given, I again I want to go back to the spiritual blessings. All these spiritual blessings, all these um Definitions of salvation in the Ordo Salutis has been given to us by God's grace. It's his disposition for us. It's it's he is perfect and he will always treat us with grace. It's not a thing that you can grasp. But it's his mannerism towards us to initiate relationship with us. And that that's the thing. We we think about blessings and we don't always think about Hey, these blessings are to initiate a relationship with God our Father. He wants us to glorify Him, to praise Him. All of this plan is for his glory. Any questions before we wrap up? Yes. A comment? Comment. It's interesting in the um in the layout that we have for this sentence that each one of these ends in a micro phrase. Yes. Yes. Do you want to add more? No, no, go for it. Go for it. At the end of verse 14 is to the praise of his glory. At the end of verse 12 is to the praise of his glory. And also what you were just saying at the end of verse at the beginning of verse 6. is to the praise of his glorious grace, which is a marker that also helps to divide the sentence into three different chunks and three different parts. And uh bears you know the whole points back to the whole purpose, blessed be God, at the start of this just exciting to fit to see and puts me on the edge of my Yeah, um yeah. Again it's a mini doxology that he's got here. You know he he says, hey, look at what all God's done for you, praise him. Look at what he's done for you, adore him. Look at what he's done for you. Give them glory. And just to remind ourselves that Every day we need to be talking to God our Father and just praising His name and adoring Him. Next week uh we'll be Daniel will be looking at the next section. Um From thirteen, verses thirteen through seventeen. You can just for homework, just meditate on those uh verses those five verses and take your ordosaludasheets with you. Look about how is the Holy Spirit working in my salvation and how is how is the Holy Spirit having an impact in my life as I go, especially in the present. Right now we're in the present, the sanctification process. And how is the Holy Spirit working in my life? Let's pray. Generally Father, again, just your plan we don't always understand it. We cannot comprehend it. Your wisdom is far above ours. And yet You have given us salvation. And yes, you have not chosen everyone, and we may not understand that, but you are God and your plan is perfect. But Lord, we thank you so much for the salvation you've given us, the blessings that you've given us. You've redeemed us. from sin. You have delivered us and made us free. And we turn around and serve you joyfully. And uh and Lord I just thank you for Everything that you've bestowed upon us. I pray that as we go out this week, um as we listen to the sermon in a few minutes on Psalm uh 73, about you being our portion and our satisfaction, Lord. Lord, just help us to just throw away the cares and worries of this world and focus on you. that we may draw close to you and rely on you, depend on you, and love you more each day. In Jesus' name. Amen.