Okay. So what are we saying here? We are talking about how the Lord wants to establish and has established his church. starting in the New Testament and how that church is defined today, but then also how that we are as individual believers supposed to participate with one another to grow as a church. And we have a purpose in it. So starting in verse 7, but grace is given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift There's a transition here as we go in this passage from verse 6 to verse 7, where it goes from all. He says, and one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. This is in the ESP. But then Paul transitions a little and says, but grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. So, right off the bat, from that passage alone, who is the giver of gifts? Sunday school answer. Yep. And who is the recipient of gifts? Us. Us? But what about us? Each individual believer, that's right. So each one of us is given spiritual gifts from Christ. Right off the bat, right off the bat, for any spiritual gifts that as a believer you might have, that you would exercise in the church. Is it by your developing of that gift? Is the gift because you developed it, you made it happen? Right off the bat, no. By grace you were given it. From the beginning, even in this There's no stealing glory. And I'm going to use that expression quite a bit here, at least in the beginning. There's no stealing glory, there's no misplaced glory. Any gift that you would have comes from Christ Himself. And Paul really makes that point by going into this quote. From verse 8, where he is referencing Psalm 68. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives and gave gifts to men In the New King James, actually Joe, is it useful that you read that? Can you read what it says there? Because it's not hosts of captives. Yeah, he led captivity captives. Right. Right. Psalm 68 and the reference here is this picture of God Himself rescuing and vindicating his people. If you go through that psalm, you find that the Lord's enemies are scattered, they flee before him, and the very earth trembles before him. He's a triumphant king who rescues his people, his enemies are defeated, and he, in Psalm 68, receives gifts among His people as he marches triumphant. Now, Psalm 68 is this picture of a king who is triumphant, who has destroyed his enemies, and as he marches He is in his glory has rescued his people and defeated those in front of him Why this picture? Why this picture, if we are talking about establishing a church? I say a church, I mean the church. Ideas? It's about building. Okay. Okay. It's about building. Build uh that's what you said, right? Yeah, building a community. Okay, building a community with what kind of a focus? Or what kind of a maybe focus is an interesting word. Um What is a clear who is the clear head of said building? Right? Why? That's right. He is the triumphant one. That's great. It's a great reference to early in Ephesians. Paul has made it very clear. He is the triumphant one. Everyone will bow before him. Every name That is named not only in this age but the one to come. It was actually it was right before it is 121. Yeah, it was right before where you could is perfect Paul connects this so that um sorry, lost my spot here. Paul connects this verse 9 and 10, and he says, in saying he ascended, what does it mean, but that he had also descended into the lower regions of the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended, far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. Paul is using Psalm 68 and then connecting it here in terms of the analogy from Psalm 68. to Christ himself in terms of his dissension and then ascension. Now, a couple things in terms of what dissension or ascension could mean. It could be his literal dissension, meaning his incarnation, that is his coming to Earth. Some interpreters take this to mean the dissension with regard to the Peter passage in terms of the spheres in prison, so that's Hades. And then ascension is fairly clear in terms of it means is literal ascension back to heaven. There's potential you could take this to mean Paul is talking about Christ's humiliation and exaltation, so what we get in Philippians, that is that he made himself lower than the angels in terms of position. That he would be exalted above every name. I I tend to lean towards the literal incarnation and ascension in terms of how I'm reading the passage just because of the way that Paul has used the language. But I think either way, what you understand in terms of what Paul's making the point here is, through the work of Christ, through God Himself. Who, by the nature of his plan, how he accomplished his good work, this is how he establishes the church And this is how he decides that the church will unfold with regard to him blessing his people with spiritual gifts. He is the triumphant one. He is the one who is willing to come on behalf of sinners. That he would go to the cross, that he would take that punishment, that he would die, be buried. Rise again and then ascend into the heavens. So the very basis of the gospel is that truth in terms of the nature of the triumphant one, and this is how he establishes the church. Paul is connecting this with that's the one who in building his church gives gifts amongst the church that it would be built. No stealing glory. No misplaced glory. It is to the one who gives these things that all our gifts return. I know that seems like a strange thing for me to hammer on a little bit, but We are really, really good at trying to steal glory. We try to do it all the time. We try to do it individually, we try to do it corporately. And there's an aspect here of just recognizing in humility, oh Lord, this all belongs to you. And the reason that's particularly important is because Paul is making the point here that he desires That we would strive to maintain a unity that we're blessed with. Which is a very interesting way of saying something. You're blessed with unity in the Spirit, strive to maintain it. So Paul starts working through well what is what what is some of the ways that the Lord has done this. And he starts first in, and he gave, so verse 11, and he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers. To equip the saints for the work of ministry for building up the body of Christ. So verses 11 and 12. So right off the bat, we get a reference of some positions in the church. I'm just going to say it like that. Positions, or we could say like offices in the church, or we could say roles in the church. Apostles and prophets, evangelists, and pastor teachers. Is this every New Testament office in the church? What is one that is missing? Oh, I thought I heard it quietly. Yes. That's right. Deacon's not mentioned here. So it's not an exhaustive list. But there's something unique about this list. Can anyone pick it up? Okay. Okay. I'll take that. I mean potentially. Um evangelists sort of depends. Some someone given the gift of evangelism isn't necessarily at the front of the church Right. Right. Each of these is related actually very specifically to some aspect of either proclaiming the gospel or teaching, sort of what we say almost like word ministry. Now we know that there are other spiritual gifts because they're named throughout other New Testament epistles, and we know that they are As as equally gifts, if you will. But here he starts with a description of gifts in terms of teaching. So, apostles and prophets. So apostle um literally means like a sent one, an ambassador, and prophet is one who speaks forth. Paul has already used one and then both of these expressions in Ephesians a couple times. So one Verse 1, right, in his opening of the letter, he describes himself as an apostle, right? So he cites it as a title for himself, which he doesn't always do in all of his letters. But he gave reference earlier to, in Ephesians 2. 20, a foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. And then a little later in chapter three, talking about the mystery, which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. Ephesians 3. 5. There's a little bit of a parallel here to when Paul's talking about gifts in the Spirit, to when he's describing in 1 Corinthians, and God has appointed to the church First Apostles, Second Prophets, Third Teachers. I contend here that what Paul is talking about in terms of apostles and prophets is more related to the establishment of the New Testament church. In its time, and not necessarily a position that continues, because of the way that he has used it in Ephesians each time. So you can take the word apostle, you can take the word prophet and use it just in terms of its literal, well, it means an ambassador, it means one who sent or a messenger, or prophet, one who's been given a word But in the way Paul's using it here, I think there's an argument to be made that he's really talking about a New Testament establishment of the church, because it's how he sort of said it in terms of revealing the mystery and revelation. So then you have apostles and prophets that lay the foundation of the church in truth. That's how the Lord first set up his church. And then you have The spread of that truth, a little similar to what um Elizabeth was saying in terms of there's a gift of evangelism. How does the word go out? Literally by spreading of the gospel. Now, we're each given a responsibility in terms of spreading the gospel, correct? Not only to spread the gospel, but also to make disciples of all nations, right? But yet there is a gifting in evangelism. Because in each of these, there's a gifting here, where some people truly have a gift in evangelism that they know how to put Claim God's truth in such a manner that it is received by the work of the Holy Spirit, received by people. It is put in context for people that they would just understand it a little bit more. They would hear to be turned just a little bit more. Again by the working of the Spirit through gifted people. So that gifting, although you might have a gifting in evangelism, doesn't mean that it's reserved only for those people. If that makes sense. So if I think about the church and its establishment, we have its first foundation set by apostles and prophets. The gospel goes forth, and then how do you continue for everyone to grow in that truth that has been laid in revelation through God? A closed canon because we have scripture that is spread by people in the gospel, it's by pastors and teachers. Now the expression here, and and I think each of us, whenever we teach, we sort of like give this caveat. Um, this is not my individual interpretation of Greek This is leaning on people who understand and have studied Greek more. That expression, pastor, teacher, could actually be used as a sort of like a conjoined word. So really sort of like a pastor-teacher. And that's really what we hold to, for instance, in Hope in terms of our own church leadership, is that that role is pastor-teacher. That expression for past there you consider as one who shepherds, right? There is guiding and there is protection. And yet, very much so it's still connected with the thought and the idea of teaching. So it's through the Word of God. There are gifts given to every individual believer. Who is the one who gives these gifts? But the triumphant one who will establish his kingdom through the church. How will he do this? By laying a foundation that is entirely Set on his truth and his word. When I was studying this, I sort of I was drawn very much to Psalm 119, just in terms of What is this what is this how how does this relate to me individually or to us as a body? And it's funny because I was reading in Psalm 119 and I was like, oh yeah, maybe this one. Oh maybe this section. And then I was just like, well I'm not going to read all of Psalm one nineteen. So I narrowed in on just one small section. Psalm one nineteen One twenty nine to one thirty-six. Sorry, let me Your testimonies are wonderful, therefore my soul keeps them. The unfolding of your word gives light. It imparts understanding to the simple. I open my mouth and pant because I long for your commandments. Turn to me and be gracious to me, as is your way, with those who love your name. Keep steady my steps according to your promise, and let no iniquity get dominion over me. Redeem me from man's oppression that I may keep your precepts. Make your face shine upon your servants, and teach me your statutes. My eyes shed streams of tears, because people do not keep your law. So Paul says and he gave apostles, prophets, evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers for a purpose. They have a purpose. What is that purpose? Equipping the saints for the work of ministry. Okay. To equip the saints for the work of ministry. So right off the bat it's very Sunday school question, so don't worry, it's gonna be easy. So then does that mean that the only ministers are those in the formal office? Evangelists, if we would call that a formal office, pastor, teacher, those apostles and prophets? It does not, right? So, right in the beginning, even though we've gotten reference to these roles, we have gifts are given to every believer, every saint. The purpose of those in these teaching roles who might have been given a special gift in terms of how they can give the Word of God. Is very much for a purpose to equip every saint for the work of ministry. There's no glory stealing. One, anyone who serves the body in a teaching ministry Is there that people would be built up in the Word of God and in community, and that they would get out of the way. It'd be better for you to be affected by and really had truth imparted on you that changes your heart and your life by the Word of God and forget that teacher's name and the other way around. There are aspects where you can feel like ministry seems top down. What am I supposed to do? Only what I have been told to do or I've been taught to do. And and I and I want to be careful here, right? Because The Lord in His grace establishes church community with leaders in the church. There are leaders in the church. Elders are given that they would, and scripture is clear, rule. And that's important. But not that it would be that only they would do work and minister, but rather their entire purpose is to help saints. Grow, mature, serve the Lord. Saints is an interesting word here. Saints is an interesting word because that picture here we have is being set apart. Scott Mahoney. I don't mean to call on you here, but I'm going to if that's okay. You have a very distinct definition with regard to holiness that you hold to. What not that you hold to, but that is I remember it quite well. Would you be able to share it with us if that's okay? Sorry to put you on the spot. Right. The reason that's particularly important is that it is not just one to be separated, but with purpose. And that purpose is really important. It's really important because it is the very aim of our lives. And it's the aim of our lives individually and corporately. Equipping Literally just means to prepare like like to prepare well. Right? It's essentially to build a house well. So, if that purpose then is to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ. There's even a goal in that. Until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Yeah, yeah, it it is, right? Um yeah, that's really helpful. Thank you, Scott. Um Because if any of you have broken a bone before and you reset it, what is the and maybe I'll just stick with you, Scott, if it's okay. What are you pointing to your finger or your hand? Oh yeah. It's hard to straighten back out to that full measure again. And when it's broken, what is it not doing? It doesn't work. Yeah, that's exactly it. It doesn't function well according to its design and purpose. You were made for this thing. going to put you back into the right place that you would function properly. Have you ever thought about um why we strive to work hard. Like some of us have just a really like a strong desire to accomplish things, to get things done, maybe not even in the context of the church, but just in life. There's an aspect of that of purpose in life is is built into our design When it's not there, it wreaks havoc on lives. Yeah. I I'm looking at this and I I I'm not I'm typing, listening and stuff like that. I don't know if I missed this When I'm reading this, I see a whole bunch of reasons. Yes. Yes. Not just one. Yes. Okay, cool. Just want to make sure that one. Are you talking about Are you talking about for thirteen? I I think or altogether. The the purposes that you're linking back to are linking back to the equipping the same Saints, okay. Not the gifting. Yes. Okay. All right, cool. Thanks. And 13, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So, first of all, he doesn't say each one of us. He goes back to we all. There is a corporate picture here. But he has already described unity, correct? In verse three He asked and urged that we would be eager to maintain the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. And then he says, there is one body and one spirit, just as you call to the one. And he's talking to believers, right? That's our assumption. We're comfortable with that. But he says the knowledge of the Son of God So does that mean that there is no unity and no knowledge of God? Or there is, and you should grow in it Do you get the point I'm making here? It's not a distinction that there is no unity and there is no knowledge of God. But it is that you would you have those things that are true already because you are believers and unity is made by the Lord. And yet, you need to grow in it, maintain it, and that is your purpose. Excellent. Actually, let's park it there for a second and remember who the contact uh who the recipients of the letter are. This is a church comprised of Jewish and Gentile believers who, in terms of cultural and communal practices, would have been incredibly separated. And yet their unity is exactly that built on Christ. Doug talked about this in weeks past. I think Scott touched on this too. It can be a little hard for us to totally appreciate unity amongst Jewish and Gentile believers in the New Testament church. because we don't live in a world that would have a combination totally like that. In years past, uh my wife and I, um very briefly when we were married, but before we were married, I had attended this church The church in Baltimore that um that I attended and then we attended um for a brief time that was a really interesting um community. Because half of the church were Bhutanese refugees And half of them were sort of like from Baltimore. It's a gospel church in Baltimore. And Because of the way that a number of the Bhutanese refugees had sort of come to the country and then come to sort of like refugee centers. they would find each other and they had become believers in a refugee camp in Nepal. So Bhutanese refugees in Nepal. There were evangelists that had spread the Word of God there. A number of them had become believers. When they came to the States, They found each other and then they would find a church and they would all come to the church together. So in this church, you had half the church were folks who had grown up in Maryland, and half of them were Bhutanese. So they had to have a translator because the language was still a barrier. So they did um it was in English. But they had someone who sort of like helped with the translation a little bit because a lot of refugees were still learning English. And then community-wise, it was really this mixture of like pretty different pretty different uh like cultural groups. And they would call out hymns. Because the the the church was like a little different in terms of like the practice of the church, so you would just call out a hymn and you pray you'd sing the hymn. Guess what? They were the same hymns. It was the same Lord. We broke bread, it was each of us together, and it was because of a salvation gifted through one Lord and Savior. The unity in that church had nothing to do with cultural practices, community, life backgrounds. We we We did not grow up in a refugee camp in Nepal where their citizenship was stripped from them and they had to be sent they had to flee the country. That's not the life we had. And yet on a Sunday morning, we worship the same Lord. Why is that important? In light of what unifies us in Christ, the things that divide us are incredibly dim. Your unity with another believer is so much stronger because of the truth you have in Christ than anything else that you have that divides you. And Paul cares about that a lot. He cares about that a lot because that is a mechanism of division in the church. A way to weaken the church, a way to attack the church, is to try to highlight differences that diminish a unity built in Christ and Christ alone. And Paul recognizes, and the Holy Spirit is teaching us here that a part of that is Holding, and really the foundational aspect of that is holding to the truth of God together. Because who God is What he has done and what he says is what keeps us close to him and to one another. So Paul desires that as a community, it's not just that you would stay in an infancy, but he describes that you would mature. That you would mature, and he describes it here as to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ In a lot of commentaries or a lot of expressions, really they describe this as like a new humanity. It's a community that is defined by Essentially looking like Jesus. It's growing individually and it's growing communally in this way. And the way that I wrote this here is the mark of the church is a community that interacts with itself and the outside in the same way the Lord Himself acts. A singular preoccupation and dedication to loving God and His glory and His truth. A resounding and completely set-apart holiness that's jarring, and a love that is shocking So the mark of a church being, you are very different. You are different in terms of how you act with one another, and you are different in terms of how you act with me, both as individual believers and as a community of believers. The sense that Paul has here and where he's going to keep going Is that this is very much connected to what are you thinking about? What are you learning What are you centering yourself on in truth? And how does that play itself out in your relationships? And he's really going to build on that later in the chapter. Sorry, in the in the book. He says That mature manhood, he then gives you sort of the opposite of that, right? He wants you to grow, he wants us to grow as individuals and as a community So that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes. So remember, when you read an expression, you should put that expression in the way that the author is using it. So why am I saying that? I'm saying that we get a reference to being childlike in our faith somewhere else, correct? So in the book of Matthew, the Lord refers to the idea of coming to him like a child. Humble, trusting our Heavenly Father with obedience. That's being childlike in faith. That is the expression the Lord is using in Matthew That Matthew records in the Gospel that we would use. Right? Here, Paul is using an expression of childlike against the idea of mature manhood. And being childlike in maturity, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine. What is that? What is that expression? Like w what are we what is he using with that metaphor? What's that analogy? I think here, if this is helpful, in 14, when he says by every wind of doctrine, he means Doctrine here meaning teaching, what he's saying is that you're not going to get thrown around by teaching that is incorrect. Is that is that helpful? Um I think the way that we can connect that is it goes every wind of doctrine or teaching by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful scheme. So it's all with a negative angle towards you're thrown around by anything that comes your way. Because like a child with no maturity, you don't know how to discern what is good. And we're supposed to be stabilized in the truth which comes from the Bible. Right. Not someone coming up to us and telling us things that it's not in the Bible Right. And how do you know? Oh do you want to say something here? Yeah, the the analogy of you know being tossed from a pro ties into you know a ship When we use in that illustration, a ship is supposed to stay its course, and we're in that ship, we are that vessel, so to speak. And false teaching ideologies, the the the ever-changing directions of the culture that we live in, all of those things can easily divert uh the Christian that's not mature, that's not focused. Um when you think of the connection of a child, um Uh for those of us have interacted with children, whether we have them or not, we know that they can easily be distracted by things that come their way. Oh it's cool we go what's cool we go look at that look at that you know but a mature person is not swayed by those things they they stay their course their their focus and they continue to go in the direction they're supposed to go. Yeah, that's helpful Um yeah, so I mean specifically, right, you know, Artists Rolls, John Piper, John MacArthur all have doctors Yes. But they gathered together, they did gather together to have, you know, to go forth with the gospel. And so that's what I was saying about doctrine. But that's that's a good example of specific I I may I think I I think I'm I'm picking up what you're putting down. I think I got it now. I think I need help. Different interpretations that fall within conservative biblical orthodoxy, but godly men don't absolutely agree on them. That's not the picture here where there is space for that, but rather doctrine that is literally deceitful cunning, scheming. trying to pull you away from the central truth of got the gospel. Yes. Yes, and yeah, I I think that we would not discount Brothers who disagree on Armenian or Calvinistic doctrinal differences as not being in the faith Because the disagreement there is not on salvific major doctrine. Yeah, heresy. I uh particularly. I mean at least with the Colossians, I think there's There's an aspect there of heresy that he's interacting with, but also weak and poor doctrine that just distracts you from serving God and loving God well. Did I land it? Right. Right. Which which honestly is an excellent segue to what Paul says is the answer in verse 15. Rather speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ, from whom the whole body joined and held together, by every joint with which it is equipped When each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. It is how do you keep yourself From being tossed around doctrinally, you are planted in church and you're in a community where people Um the verb there is actually truth, which is like a little funny. It's truthing in love. We use speak because that is our major m form of communication, but But really take it as, I'm going to love you back into the truth around anything that is throwing you around. Did you have something? Yeah. Kind of on the aspects of kind of delaborate the point. But do we have something that kind of like sets the boundaries of what's okay to like disagree on or like how far we can go what Who um uh uh I can Rosana then say you still need an answer. Yes. I Honestly that's a great question, right? Uh honestly is a great question. What's okay? I want to give you an answer that I feel is useful. Does that make sense? Yes. So I'm going to start with the basics. You don't mess around with who the Lord is. You don't mess around with what he's done. You don't mess around with the Trinity. Because in church history Every heresy that's ever come up has always interacted with one of those aspects, and as soon as you try to mess with one of those doctrines you get yourself into a place where your faith is called into question because it's heretical. So that's where like I'm planting the first flag. And the second one is, is it grounded in truth that you can find from Scripture? That's in Scripture and is confirmed in Scripture and is then Oh then it gets to the idea of like how is it confirmed in community and teaching. And that's where you're going to get yourself into, okay, well what does that mean and which teachers and who whatnot I think there is a place for orthodoxy and conservative biblical Christianity that has your faith planted in the Word. And then you pick your head up and you look at your believers next to you, and as long as the two resonate with one another in terms of how you're trying to treat the Word of God as the authority in your life, that's your best starting position. Now, why am I giving the answer like that? Diane, you referenced R. C. Sproul, John Piper, and who's the third one? Oh, you're right. who do not agree on some like major things, and yet each of them we would hold to be serious teachers in the faith who we like their teaching, but every single one of them, anything they teach, you go back to the Word of God and say, do I believe this agrees with the Word of God? The Holy Spirit is the one who teaches us. He is the one who we go back to to reveal his word to us. And so I will say that we we lean on him in terms of his. We lean on God Himself in terms of how we understand His Word. Now, you probably want more of an answer than that. I don't know that I have one to give this morning But I will speak to how you disagree. And I think that's really important. Because Paul has described that here. And he describes it in the end, starting with the beginning of chapter four, which was Humility, gentleness, patience, bearing in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. And so there's one aspect of holding fast to the truth of God and not letting go, not being tossed around, but the manner in which you do that still reflects the truth that he has laid out. From the beginning. Because what is your purpose? Your purpose is to maintain a unity, but not over the truth. Does that make sense? As soon as you want to maintain a unity over truth, that's where you start to get yourself into trouble. Because you might say, well, we don't want to disagree on these things, so let's not talk about it, or let's not find that as important, just to make sure that we are all okay How far down do you go with that? That's what takes practice community. That's what takes a maturity in relationship to be able to say, no, I offended you, no you offended me, but what was the truth? We we think this is the truth. That's really important. It's really important because Paul is starting from and talking to, again, Jewish believers and Gentile believers who up until receiving this letter may have been completely dumbfounded by the idea, wait, you're saying that The plan was always that we were going to be one body together? Because as Jews, we were the chosen people. How is it that they're a part of it? That was always a part of the plan. Or as Gentiles, they might say, why would we keep doing any of those practices? That doesn't make sense. They understand there's there was big differences that he's dealing with here There's a distinct uh let me check the There's a distinct measure of truth and community here that does not oppress people with teaching in an unleving unloving way. But does not elevate people above the truth of God. If you prioritize community above truth, you will shift from orthodoxy and find yourself far from the Lord. But if you shift from community, you will find a cold body That is not strong, well exercised, or joined together. You can be doctrinally correct and not in community well. And that is not a healthy place to be either. The last couple minutes. We sort of already used it, and I think the metaphor plays itself out really well, and that Paul is talking about a body That is well-connected, well-functioning. It is one where every different part of it fits and serves its purpose well. And the reason it's particularly useful is because it speaks to the idea of the diversity of Believers and their roles and their gifting in the church, and yet how they all come together for the sake of the body to grow in Christ and to serve him. In this room There are a lot of people that serve in this room in really different capacities in really different ways. It does not need to look the same. And yet it needs to have a singular purpose, which is in terms of loving and glorifying God. The issue that we can sometimes take with the idea of diversity is the idea that diversity for the sake of diversity is the priority. So the fact that we're all really different is the most important thing. So that's not what the Lord says. What the Lord is saying is Yeah, you are really different because I called each of you individually out of very different lives, different backgrounds, and you will continue to be different in the body. And yet joined and unified again in that single primary focus of who the Lord is and how we love and serve Him. And then you might have switched it up on me. Alright, let me so let me say it back to you in this last minute and see if I'm getting it. And if we need to spend more time, we might have to do it outside of of this. But are you asking, is this a proof text for the cessation of the office of apostle and prophet? Or are you asking, have we attained the unity that he discussed? Okay. So that's what I thought I thought you switched on. So I'm going to give you the real brief answer that I think I can get to. I don't think this is the proof test text for the close of the office of apostle and prophet, but I think that's how Paul is using it. Does that make sense? So I'm interpreting it as apostle and prophet is closed here, but I don't think you would make that argument from this passage here. I think that's how he's using it. I don't think this is the one I would say and that's how we know. Because I don't think that until we attain refers to the close of those offices because evangelist, pastor, and teacher continue on. There's no close to those in the New Testament or in the continued church. And I don't think that is something Past fancy saying, because he says, well, in the way we have translated in English, until we all attain so that we may no longer be children, we are to grow up in him. present and future in terms of like what are we supposed to be doing. Does that make sense? So I I don't believe that to be past tense either Anything on that, and I think we got it. Okay. Um I am going oh, do you have one last comment and then I need to wrap for us? Thank you. I'm gonna close us. Um Lord, I thank you for um Lord, I thank you for a good conversation uh amongst your saints. I thank you, Lord, that you desire that we would grow with one another by pushing one another in terms of our thoughts and how we fix ourselves to your truth. And yet, Lord, that it would be done in love and with grace, and that it would be that your community would grow and that you would be glorified You are the one who deserves glory. You are the triumphant one, and it is only because of you that we have anything at all. And we thank you for this great faith that we have, that you loved us while we were yet sinners. We thank you, God, that we can continue in worship this morning, and we pray just that your name would be praised and that we would love you and worship you more. We pray this in Jesus' good name. Amen. Thanks everybody.