We are at a book of Ephesians, and um okay, so today uh because uh this is a two-quarter class, this is week seventeen, um we I just this past weekend hosted the notes for the class in Hope Book in the current Hope Book group. At the change of the quarter, we uh changed hopebook groups, and so I just reposted the notes. So there are some updates there. If you've been here in the previous quarters, there's some updates that are out there. Uh Uh it's it'd be good to go take a look at what's there. Let's look at Ephesians chapter 4. And yes, today we're in we're s the passage we're studying today is specifically Ephesians chapter 5. verses 6 to 14. But I'd like to get a running start at it. We're going to start at Ephesians 4, 1. As we go through this, look at the times that it says. In God's word, walk. Look at what it says and try to, as we're as we're reading through this, Try to think about how those impact the flow of thought that the Spirit has given Paul to instruct us with. In other words, in verse 1, it says, walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called. Here we go I, therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience. bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says When he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. And saying he ascended, what does it mean, but that he had also descended into the lower regions of the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to equip the saints for the work of the ministry. for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves, and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes. Rather Speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into Him who is the head into Christ from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up and love Now this I say, and testify in the Lord, that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to their hardness of heart. They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. But that is not the way you learn Christ, assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him as the truth is in Jesus to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor. For we are members of one another. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger and give no opportunities to the devil. Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for the for building up as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you along with all malice. Be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another as God in Christ forgave you. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children, and walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not be named among you as is proper among saints. Let there be no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral, or impure, or who is covetous, that is an idolater, has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore, do not become partakers with them For at one time you were darkness, but now you are a light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true. And try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret. But when anything is exposed by the light it becomes visible. For anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, Awake, O sleeper And arise from the dead and Christ will shine on you. Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore do not be foolish. But understand what the will of the Lord is, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit, addressing one another in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. God's word is good and amazing. So we're in a passage here that Kinda starts at f at chapter uh chapter five verse one and I think goes easily down to fourteen As kind of one section. And for convenience of the class and for us to be able to have chunks that are manageable in the time that we have, we've split it here at verse 5, 6, or 7. And it's interesting, the one commentary that I really enjoyed had a whole section about, and they don't do this very much, about where this did where this division should be Should it be on verse five? Should it be on verse six? Should it be and and and all these different reasons on let's just the fact is we're starting at verse six today. I have a quote for you. I, you know, when we were reading through that, it was to think a little bit about what it means, all these different walk passages. Um a quote from um Harold Horner says about the passage that we just read, God's children are to walk in unity versus Chapter four verses one to sixteen. By preserving the unity they already have in Christ, as modeled by the Trinity. Therefore they are to walk in holiness. That's verses seventeen to thirty-two Because they are new people in Christ and their lifestyle should reflect their new position. This lifestyle manifests itself by walking in love, verses 1 to 6. Which is what he says one to six, but whatever. As Christ demonstrated by his sacrificial love, this walk also includes abstaining from evil practices of unbelievers. In the next section, Paul exhorts believers to walk in the light. which pleases God rather than to participate in the works of evildoers. And then he finishes up by saying the last section is to walk in wisdom. Which includes the commands to husbands and wives, to children, to slaves. Think you see all the way into chapter 6. Here's a question for the class. Describe light. What's light? What what is light? Yeah. Darkness. Absence of darkness. Okay, cool. That's a start. I like it. The reason why I'm asking this is because the passage that we're looking at today, starting at six, and I saw you doing that, um, is uh Talks a lot about walking in light. It talks about who we are. So, in that context, in that sense, and this is a good start, the absence of darkness is an interesting start for a couple of reasons. What's another, what's more definition? Help flesh that out a little bit. What's it mean, light? Righteousness. Righteousness. Okay. Brian, do you have a a reference or something that made you say r righteousness? Okay, cool. That's fine. What else? Anybody else? Yes. Yes, God said he is light. Jesus said that. Yes. Yes? Light is where you can see? Okay? Yeah, in fact, I think it says in the scriptures that God is a light to our path. Yes? Anybody else? Light. Oh, there's joy. Okay. Light can bring joy, yes. In fact, I saw some spectacular sunrises that um yeah. It was just like, wow, the sky's on fire. Which is light. And there's physical properties of light. Some people did. I'm sorry, what? Cleanliness. Cleanliness Ooh, so along with that, I would also tack on light is associated with holiness And purity even with that. And in fact, if you look at John chapter 1, it says there, let's go ahead and look there, because we can trust our memories, but Uh let's make sure we're all kind of right right in the same place. John chapter 1, the first three verses talk about Jesus as being the word and that he's God and that he's with God. But if you look at starting in verse 4, It says, in him was life, and the life was the light of men. There's an association between life and light, even. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. Back to the first definition we got, the absence of darkness. How you want to chase away darkness is you shine, you turn the light on. And that's both a physical and kind of a spiritual concept, too, at the same time. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness. To bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world, which supports the assertion Jesus is light. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. He came to his own, but his own did not receive him. Typically Typically. Where do people sin? In the darkness. Which is synonymous to what? Yeah, in secret. Yeah. If I'm gonna sin, I'm gonna be usually doing it where I think people aren't seeing me, or I'm with my fellow sinners who are gonna smile and wake at my sin. And so Jesus, who's the light of the world, comes in and he turns on the light on sinners. And they're like, whoa And they rejected him. Yes. You know. Ross been on my heart. All this sleep. Well then I think about it, Jesus Christ on the cross and the two strangers or votes side at him. And he this one guy was entering, you know, jabbing at Christ. And then the other one said, Leave this man alone. He did nothing wrong. And God said, This day, this day, you will heal Paradise was me. But you know, it's just that where I'm trying to go with this is that even then he was showing light, even though he was on cross dungeon. Yes. Yeah. It all and that he was the light. Yeah. He showed he was light on a cross after all the torment and everything when his strength was failing, he was still showing light. And you know that's an example for us, because um on a Sermon on the Mount, which is in Matthew chapter 5, Jesus says to us, you are the light of the world. Which is very, yes. He says, you are the light of the world. You don't light a lamp and hide it. You set it up where it lights up the room. And these are thoughts and ideas that feed into the passage that we're looking at here in the book of Ephesians. You know, there's another aspect, and It gets into what we were just talking about, and that is light is illumination. And from that perspective, light is truth as well. I'm sorry, yes? Yeah Um everything you're saying, I was thinking of um First John chapter one. Oh, thank you so much. How about we go to First John chapter one? In fact I w I almost didn't do that because I was like, I don't know, we don't have enough time, but let's go to first John chapter one. What verse would you like to start at? I would love to start at verse five. Would you please read for loud enough verses five to seven? And this is the message we have heard from him who declare to you that God is light, and Him there is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with Him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and you not to the truth. But if we walk in the light as he himself is in the light, we have fellowship with my mother and and the blood of Jesus his son cleanses us from all sins. Fantastic. Fantastic truth. Look at this. We heard a message. God is light and there's no darkness at all in him. So it's one thing to assert, you know, Jesus said, I am the light of the world, but it's another thing that John asserts here that says, not only is he the light of the world, but there's no darkness at all in him. Which is pretty cool. And if we say that we have fellowship with him and we're walking in darkness, we're not telling the truth at that time. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship. And it this is interesting. It doesn't say we have fellowship with God. It says we have fellowship with one another. I think that's an amazing little turn that John did there where he says, when we're walking in light, we have fellowship with the brethren. with one another, which is so cool. And the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Praise God. So, light is the absence of darkness, which gets into what we were just talking about. Light chases away darkness as well. Jesus is the light of the world. God is light. And light represents life. It represents truth. There's joy in it. There's holiness and purity in it. Light. How often different question. How often are people trying to influence you? Every day. Commercials. Yeah. How often are those people that are influencing you trying to deceive you? Yeah. All the time. All the time, every day. Have you ever been in a situation where you're hanging out with a group guys, people, friends, and somebody says something and the group laughs? And your conscience is pricked, and you're faced with a choice. Should I laugh alone? Should I assent? Or have you ever been in a time when the the group is like, hey guys, I got an idea. Let's go do this thing. And like and your conscience goes, oh, uh oh, wait a minute. That might not be the best idea. That's kind of what this passage is about. Let's look back at Ephesians chapter 5 Verse 7. Therefore, oh I I guess we should get a running start. Verse 6. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Therefore do not become partners with them. For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord, walk as children of light For the fru the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true, and try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. Take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret. But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible. For anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. Bless you. Bless you. Verse six says, Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Who is it that could deceive us? Anyone? Is there can we be more focused than anyone in this passage? It could be people close to us. What do you mean by that? It could be professing believers. Let's go back and remember, the book of Ephesians is written to believers. And Paul says to believers Stop stealing. He says, stop doing coarse joking. He says, stop doing sexual immorality. He says, and and on and on. He's saying this to believers. So yes, believers could deceive you. Your friends could deceive you. And you could deceive your friends. But it says empty words. And when it says empty words, these are words that don't have any value. They hold a promise. But they can't deliver on their promise. In the book of Proverbs, it says, if sinners entice you Don't consent. Even if they promise plunder, they're setting a trap for themselves. That's Proverbs chapter one. In Proverbs chapter seven It talks about the prostitute that entices the foolish, promising love, but it leads to death. And deception is something that's been that's that's revealed and talked about throughout scripture from Eve in the garden, all the way to the book of Revelation, when Gog and Magog are going to be deceived by Satan after he's released from the pit, and they're going to gather to war against the saints Deception from the beginning to the end is something that plagues mankind. And so Paul leads Paul in this passage says: let no one deceive you with empty words. For because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Proverbs agrees with that when it says you're setting a trap for yourself. You know, we've read the whole passage in its context, and back in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 14, it talks about people who have deceitful schemes. In in verse 22 it talks about our former lives that were corrupted by evil desires. There's a there's a aspect inside of our flesh that's like That deception makes sense. I like that. Let's go. And so Paul says, no, don't do that. It's easy for our flesh, as Psalm 37 says, to fret because of the wicked, to look at the prosperity of the wicked and go. Wow, God. You you gave them that? And I'm struggling over here And it's the honest testimony of the psalmist. And if we're honest with ourselves, we think it too. And when you hear your brethren say, don't throw in your lot with them. Don't go along. The passage just before this And the stuff that we talked about last week warned against covetousness. And they're strong words. This is a strong warning that Paul gives us in this passage. It says, these things bring wrath, the wrath of God, on the sons of disobedience. And verse 7 says, Therefore do not become partakers with them, for at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. This is a very serious warning. It's sobering and it calls to mind two warnings. You used to be sons of disobedience There's an aspect where you in that's all you did. Ephesians chapter 2 talks about that But then praise God, it says believers have escaped the wrath of God. I mean, really, that's an amazing rich truth for us to just enjoy. And and and a treasure. We have escaped the wrath of God. It it says here, do not become partners with them in the ESV. It's The word there is implies the idea of sharing in a plot, a scheme. It's just like that passage in the book of Proverbs that says, throwing in your lot. with somebody to go you know go get plunder to do the wrong thing beware of that don't don't partner with people who are pursuing darkness It is interesting to then go. I feel like there there could be a a a temptation for us to take this too far. Because we're not to be of the world, but we're in the world. We're to be lights in the world and shine light. And we're going to talk about that as this passage goes on. But there's an aspect of this that points back to do you guys remember the story in Chronicles? There was this king, his name was Ahab. And remember his wife's name? Jezebel. Jezebel. Okay, good. So there's a number of people in the class, and for you guys who maybe haven't read in a while, Ahab was not a very good king. In fact, he was the archetype of wicked kings back in the day, and his wife was even more so. And there happened to be in the kingdom of Judah, just to the south, another king, Jehoshaphat. And Jehoshaphat was a king that was good and pursued God like David. But he still didn't remove the high places that Solomon had set up. And so here we have this really good king that's in the in the kingdom of Judah, and we have the epit epitome of the wicked kings in the north, Ahab. And Jehoshaphat makes a covenant of marriage with Ahab. I know. I know. It's like you read that, and it's in it's in 2 Chronicles 18. You read that and you go, what? This doesn't make any sense. Why would Jehoshaphat do this? I've always been tempted to think that he was trying to reunite the kingdom somehow. And doing it in his own strength with his own wisdom. And maybe they'd reunite the tribes. But what wound up happening was a disaster. He had no business doing that, and God said so after the debacle was all done. You shouldn't have been doing that. And that's the same thing that Paul's talking about here. We have no business partnering with sons of disobedience. Don't throw your lot in with them. Even on the days when the brethren are throwing are going and doing something worldly and foolish. Just because they're your brethren, don't throw your lot in with them. Because we do foolish things sometimes through your preferred. Yeah, peer pressure. And it can be the pressure to feel to go along Because a lot of the time you can trust these people and today they're making a foolish choice and you gotta call them out Matthew 18 talks about that. I mean we talk about that in membership class a lot because we know that there's times when we need to have spiritual discipline. And it's just a fact. And one of the things that I don't want to do is call any kind of I don't want to normalize it or call any, you know, sin any kind of It's not that bad, but at the same time, I also don't want to call sin so scandalous that we can't bring it up and deal with it in love and patience and tenderness. And Paul is very kind to remind us that we used to be darkness, but we're no longer. And that's that's the promise that we saw back in Ephesians chapter 2. And it's the reminder that he gave us back in Ephesians 4, 17 to 32. Don't live like you used to, Gentile. Live like you're a Christian. Now you are light in the Lord. So it makes no sense to partner with sense of darkness. You know, when you think about it, we've already asserted this, light chases away darkness. So if you're gonna shine your light If you're gonna be representing God in glorious and and you're around people who don't want to be exposed There's going to be conflict there. So you've got two choices. They're either going to run away, I've had enough of this, or you're going to have to dim your light. It is sweet when Paul says, you are light in the Lord. Because there's days when I don't feel like that. I see my sin. I'm embarrassed about the things that I do. And I'm troubled with the uh things that I know I should and shouldn't do. And it's a treasure to me being reminded about who I am in Christ. Light in the Lord. Yes. Can you go into a little more detail on the mechanics of Dimitri for that scenario? Compromise might be a good word to think about. Pretending like you don't see what's going on Not calling out what's wrong. Where we're gonna go is it is gonna say it's it's shameful to even talk about the things that people do in secret. But rather to expose those things We can pretend like those things don't exist. So we could get along. I don't know what Jehoshaphat had to do to get along with Ahab. One of the things we read is that Jehoshaphat went into the northern kingdom to try to t to explain to them God's word and to bring them back. I think they probably tolerated each other. A little bit. It's important to remember that God is the source of light, it's not me. But then it quickly says, Because you're light, walk as children of light. How do you do this? How do you walk as a child of light? Yes. The leaving that God is the ultimate center of everything Believing that God is the ultimate center of everything. I love it. That's a really good start. How you walk is light, rest of the class. It it's interesting, I don't know what your commentary said, but I don't know if there's anywhere else that it talks about the fruit of light in scriptures. Fruit of the spirit. And then the similarities of fitness, righteousness, and uh true truth. Yeah. Yeah, because right here it says the fruit of life is Goodness of righteousness and truth, which immediately, I'm glad you did this, made me think of Galatians 5, 22, where it talks about the fruit of the Spirit. And Those two things are like right on top of each other. Walking in light, I would assert then, I think it's not a very far step to say is the same as walking by the Spirit. Because when you look at Galatians 5, it talks about two different kinds of walk. You can either walk by the flesh or you can walk by the spirit. And those two things are orthogonal to each other. Those are moving in opposite directions. And if you're walking by the Spirit, you have love Joy, peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, self-control, all those things which fit right inside of goodness, righteousness, and truth Yes. I just want to say that the Holy Spirit is ruined Jesus Christ, if you don't believe and have that, knowing that you have that, that's a gift he gave to us, I believe you have to have that first to walk in. Peace, joy, and love. Absolutely. Absolutely. You've got to have Jesus first. And in fact, this passage right here, if you ignore the verse markings for a minute, says Now you are light in the Lord, walk as children of light. That in the Lord part is exactly what you're talking about. What's it mean to walk in light? Yes. You know, just do just do just be generous and nice in my dealings. Loving people. Which gets back to what it talks about in ver in verses one and two. Right. Yeah. What else? Yes? Um trying to work Oh that's powerful. We'll come back to that thought. Yes? Um John fifteen five, I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me I in him. He it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. And just What a um the other woman said, apart from in Jesus, we can't bear fruit, so we have to be uh in fellowship with Christ in prayer, deal with gradual disciplines, which, you know, we know all these things, but That is we have to discipline ourselves. I think um Daniel said this last week. We have to discipline ourselves to be empowered by the Holy Spirit. There is no branch that's been cut off from a tree, except Aaron's rod, that's gonna bear fruit. And the reason why I say it, apart from Christ, you're not going to bear fruit. And that's exactly what that talks about. Abide in Christ. Have you ever had a time when one of your tomato branches tomato plant branches broke off? Yeah. And let's say there's a tomato out there. That tomato is is it's done. You might as well set it on the counter and hope it turns pink. Because it's done at that point. You might get a day. Yes. Um I was gonna say uh chapter two or uh Ephesians says for mere his workmanship created things to use for good works which God prepared for him to walk in them. I I think it's kind of different piece like He's not necessarily not providing it like a complete list of things that are implied by this, but there's a degree to which it's it's impossible for him to get an exhaustive list of all that it implies to walk in light because each one of us has works that God has called us to do. Yeah. So these more giving principles as that how that looks. But like God might be calling you to do one specific set of tasks that He's not called anyone else to do. And you're not going to necessarily understand what those tasks are if you haven't Already inflated. Committed yourself to follow it and to be in wiporexis. But then as you are walking in You know in your walk that why those things are revealed to you, like maybe the situation comes up where you're supposed to say something to this person and you wouldn't have known what to say to them unless the Holy Spirit was empowering you to say that. thing. But Paul's not going to give you exact words for his job. Well the Spirit's giving him exactly what to tell us, right? And I love where it goes next. It says try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. Some translations say approve, which in other words is saying prove out What is pleasing to God? How are you gonna figure out what's pleasing to God? Yes. Absolutely. Like completely Fellowshiping with somebody else. Deeply rooted in God's Word, yes. Um and fellowshipping with God. And because God says the second greatest commandment is to love people. I think that there's an aspect of know it we get to learn God by seeing the godly example and the people who are around us as well on display. Yes. earlier it's like sometimes I might be blinded to a carrier of sins I was but if I can fellowship with the sub with the body of believers someone else should hopefully be able to see that and tell me out about that. Absolutely. Absolutely. And loving, tender, kindness in the ways that are appropriate and right. With wisdom. Yes, absolutely. The um You said you've got to know Scripture. And I want to say that this passage, when we go back and we start at verse 6 And march forward requires a knowledge and understanding and wisdom that's founded based on scripture. The only way I'm going to know that I'm being deceived Right? Let no one deceive you with empty words as if I know what the truth is. And to be founded on the truth, I gotta be deep in God's Word. To be able to discern what God, what is pleasing to the Lord. There's an aspect that God's Spirit is informing me, but God's word is really what's going to let me know and inform what's going on. There's a treasure of knowing that God has given to us in His Word. Um that, yeah Have you ever you know we just had Christmas. You ever had those moments where you're like I'm talking with my wife and I'm like, what are we gonna get so and so? And she's like, I don't know. We have a gift card. And then and then there's somebody else and you're like, oh, I know the perfect gift. I know what I'm gonna do. And you can't wait. You can't wait to open that gift and give that gift to that person because you know you have nailed it on the head. That's a picture of what I think is trying to talk about here. Discern what is pleasing to the Lord. Know God so well Did you know in your heart what is pleasing to the Lord? Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. talks about letting our bodies being a spiritual act of worship. That's that that that's what Paul's talking about there too. Knowing that God wants my heart to be full of His praise. Knowing that God wants me to love on other people. Richly, deeply, knowing that God wants me to walk by faith and not by sight. Knowing that God wants me to be filled with wisdom So that I can speak and exercising the gifting that He's given me, knowing that God wants me to be telling people about Christ so that they can come to know Him. And give glory to him. And that's just a tip, right? There's a lot of ways to love God. Because God's awesome. And then it says, and take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness. Paul comes right back to this. It is interesting that Paul here in three different ways is telling us to be careful about the influence of other people. Don't let them deceive you. Don't be partakers with them. And don't take part in the unfruitful works of darkness. But expose them. And I submit to you that we've already said this is potentially unfruitful works of darkness. In the brethren And it may be appropriate also to expose our own unfruitful deeds and confess. There was a time a few years ago when I lied to cover up an embarrassing mistake that I made. And I walked away and my conscience said, Doug, what was that thinking? And as soon as I had an opportunity, I went back and apologized for what I'd done and confessed my lie. And they said, I'm glad you confessed, because I was about to call you out. It felt a whole lot better to get to them before they got to me. And so that's what I mean here is all ex ex Expose it doesn't say expose their unfruitful deeds. It just says expose the unfruitful deeds of darkness. And it just told us not to do unfruitful deeds of darkness. I think it's both potentially. There are things that we do, people, that are shameful to speak of. And there's appropriate venues for us to confess sin to God and to people who are aware of it. Daniel, you want to ask something? You've got that look on your eye. Go ahead. I probably need some help here. Go ahead. No? Okay. Really? You looked at that. You had that. I'm about to say something face. All right. I get that too. Don't worry about it. We'll press on. If it becomes if you think of a a way to share it, feel free. Why do we expose unfruitful works? Well, once it's in the light, once it's revealed. I think there's cleansing in there that Okay. There's yeah. Yeah. It's okay because there's cleansing you can get to You can get away from doing the unfruitful deeds. You can also reach for frig forgiveness, thank you. I just heard from the Yes. So when I think about it in response to my children, I expose their unfruitfulness in hopes that they will change their behavior because what they're doing is not being fruitful. If I expose how he behaved shape. So yeah, I'm glad you said your children, Erica. We're also um talking when we were you started and four talking about the unity of spirit and the Yes. So if we are going to expose the unfruitful works either in ourselves or in other beliefs and churches so that we can glorify God more as a body together as well as individual Yes. This whole passage from chapter four to the end, well, to midway into chapter six, is speaking about our sanctification. And our children are a great example to the adults in the room, right? Because if you've ever been a teacher and you call out the foolish child And you correct the foolish child, the wise will see that and they'll gain wisdom. And the naive will know they can't get away with it. And there's an aspect of you need to know who it is that's going to be your troublemaker so you can step on them in love Understand the the pi figure I'm trying to say there. Walk in love. Jesus chapter one, verse five where you guys said. So that essentially so that you can get ahead of that and help everyone grow in sanctification. At least on the outside sometimes. But there's an aspect of that that's going on here. When you think about all these different walks, What we do, you know, walk worthy of your calling, walk um not like the Gentiles, imitate God and walk that way. Walk You all you know as children of light, it's growing in our sanctification. Um hold on a second. Don't forget your thought. The No I'm gonna go ahead. Go ahead. Okay. I was just hoping I said with my old age I might forgive. Amen. We also need to remember with walking in the light that we when we do morning things because Jesus To grieve. Yeah. And the previous passage, two passages ago says don't grieve the Holy Spirit. Absolutely. Why why is Paul uh maybe this is too weird a question What's the motivation for our sanctification? Here in chapters four. I'm sorry, what? Yeah, to bear more fruit. To walk in love. To walk in love. In the context of the book of Ephesians, what's our motivation for the adopted into the God's family. And that's our identity now. Yes. We've been to live in accord with that identity. Yes. Because of all that was talked about in chapters one, two, and three. What God has done for us enables and motivates our walk in sanctification. And so the the last thought here is, awake O sleeper. Awake and rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. Isn't that an interesting passage to pull out of the book of Isaiah? It's kind of Isaiah, it's really not exactly clear. But to pull out of the book of Isaiah, right at the tail end of this, your children of light walk as light, walk in the light. And then he says, Awake, O sleeper. Why is that there? Yes? I think you can see whenever you're surrounded about the world to become lazy or sleepy and not be constantly on guard against Like really subtle influences from haywalt or um like sins of other believers and just Well call it to be vigilant because it kicked not only that but like our adversary the devil walks about. Yeah. Yeah. Don't be caught sleeping. And that's not in a God's coming, don't be caught sleeping. That's in a in a daily walk. In your daily walk, stay alert. Be on your guard. Watch. Watch. Watch your heart and see what's going on there. And Sir Paul here is telling us not to let ourselves be deceived. And one of the ways that we could be deceived is when people say, oh, it's not that bad. Nobody's gonna see it. It's not that big a deal. It's just once. And it may be a very big deal. Um or you know, somebody says, no, no, no, don't tell anybody, I didn't mean it. I didn't need it. I'm sorry. Don't tell anybody. Or right? I'm just thinking of things that I've heard in my youth and childhood and and even in my adultedness, right? But the reality is it's it's important and precious for us to guard our hearts, to try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord and do those things. Take this life seriously. Where Paul is going is we're in the midst of a war. You don't want to be sleeping when the when war is going on around you. You don't want to be playing patty cake when people are coming at you with swords and knives. This is this is for real stuff that's going on and they're not gentle or nice or gonna pull their punches when they come at you It's gonna be for real. And the sons of darkness are storing, have stored up and continue to store up wrath for themselves, and you have no business associating with them. And when it's your brethren, you need to take them aside and say, I want to rescue you out of the fire that you've gotten yourself into. Come on back. Come on back. Let's be serious about this. Because I know God has better for you than this. Any last questions, thoughts? Or just a little bit over. Yes, Ms. Lid. I I love this. The verse 21 in chapter 5, where it says submitting yourself one to another in the fear of God. And that has to be in the mind all the time because God see they know everything. Neither sleep nor slumber. Yeah, there's no secrets. There really is no secrets. God knows. And one day everything the books are gonna be open And people are going to be ashamed at what gets read. And praise God, there's going to be a day when he sees people's names in the Lamb's Book of Life. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for the day today, for your mercy and grace. Help us, dear Lord, uh to be awake. Help us, Heavenly Father, to resist deception. That can be challenging because there's a lot of people that are very practiced in the art of deception. And we're even good at fooling ourselves. So I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would your Spirit would show us the truth in your word, and that when we see it, we would take it to heart and be serious with it. I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would make us walk as children of light. You already made us children of light in Christ. Make us lights. That could be set up so that we can shine your glory and your love. In your name we ask, because we want to give you glory, and it's the best thing for us. Amen.