So we are back in Ephesians 5, 22. 22 to 33. This is a part two. Of the class. We want to continue in the section. What I'm going to do is because we had already talked quite a bit about sort of the what was given towards the wise. I'm going to start in and focus in terms of what's given towards the husbands and then how Paul rounds it out. So we're going to spend more time there. In the passage. Can I get someone to read this whole section for us, 22 to 33, please? Thanks, Quirk. Wise, submit to your own husband as to the Lord. Well the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of a church, his body and is himself its baker Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without swatter wrinkle, for any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ loved the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is fulfilled, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the Church However, let each of you love his wife as himself, and let go by see that she respects her husband. Thanks. So as a reminder, right, we went in this section and Paul is talking to wives and wives specific in terms of their relation to their husbands, and then he talks to husbands, and then he reveals And talks a little bit about what is the mystery of the relationship between marriage itself in design by God and as a picture of the relationship of Christ and the church. And he's drawing on the principles and the truth of each towards each other that we would understand it. He wraps it back up then again with a final sort of like summary in terms of so husbands, here's what you're doing, wives, here's what you're doing. It's pretty clear, right? It's sort of this conversation, this conversation, a truth that sits here. In summary, back to you. We talked a lot last week about the concept of authority. And the reason for talking about really the idea of authority was why. What was it? What's the like what's the word that sort of like required us to talk about authority? Right. Submit or did Yeah. Well I mean the so translations like could be like in subjection to come under. Because that word doesn't allow you to think about it without thinking about the concept of authority. But is the purpose entirely of the section or even Ephesians just about authority? It is not. Scott shaking his head. Why not? It's gotta be the entire passage has to be moderated in the context of first twenty-one, which is submitted one other out of reference, and there's no required authority in that. Uh except for our to God. Yep. Yep, absolutely. So you have to deal with authority because you've got to deal with the word properly, and if you try to not deal with it, you're going to You're gonna essentially like abuse the word and abuse the concept a little, but what we don't want to do is precisely what Scott is saying, well in in the opposite, is you'll get it here in a second. What you don't want to do is Accidentally make this entire section just about the concept of authority. What you want to understand is like, well, hold on a second, but Paul, why are you talking about this? And what is the reason that we are talking about this? And the reason I want to talk about this a little bit, as I disrepeat myself though, is Paul kind of he kind of introduces that self with the concept of, well, husbands, just think logically here. You wouldn't even do this to your own body. So don't do this to your wife. Right? He he immediately extends it towards well there's a natural logic to like, well, you wouldn't do this way, and that should be obvious to you, right? I think that's the implication of what Paul's saying here. So for the whole section Marriage, parenting, slave servant, uh sorry, uh master slave. W Why is he talking about all of these things? I introduced it a little bit last week, but I really want to sort of make sure we sit In this is a context. I'm not sure where you're headed to this, but I a few weeks ago you had made a comment that is Oh, so on point and it was go all the way back in chapter five. He talked about the contrasting the walk out the unsafe versus the safe, but you really did. I thought a a very poignant point about the section there three and you know three through six or something. Like each one of these Sinful actions can ultimately be summarized. That is uh uh an idolatry of scheme. Say it this way, I'm not forgetting your exact words, but an idolatry of self. The sexual immorality is I'm gonna use you for you know good And then it contrasts that with taking all that those people invested themselves, saying, in Christ. You've got to turn that around with all that same energy and with all that same investment be loving one another and walking in a loving way. And that submitting is just fundamental to that image. And that is where I was going. It is the concept of if I try to take the order That the Lord has set in terms of the way things work, the way the intertwined relationships that we have in the church consider it as a body If I try to over-exert one area or another, or I try to go against its design, or more importantly, I don't try to really seek to Live through a godly design of relationship of the body. That body imagery is really important here It's going to be warped. It's going to be broken. It's going to be not functioning the way it should function. That's what he's going through the sections here. He wants marriage, I want your marriage to function in a healthy way, like the way it's designed. Here's how that needs to happen. Terrence, I want it to work like this. Master slave, I want it to work like this in so much as, I'm gonna let Doug go through all that, insomuch as you are a believer, here is how you need to operate. That's important. Because what it does is it brings us all the way back to the very beginning of Ephesians in terms of Who is the designer? Who is the one who has a purpose for his church? Who is the one who has a glorious Albeit mysterious plan revealed in progression through time, that we are to participate in. I want you guys to be reminded that The shock factor of the letter for the recipients is probably still really jarring in terms of Jew-Gentile relationship, right? So like we talked about it at this point, like months ago. But like the recipients of the letter are a very sort of split community in terms of people. Guess what? That split community of people also have probably really different concepts as to marriage. Because if you go into a historical perspective. Not every culture, similar to ours today, has the exact same idea of marriage. And yet what Paul is saying is there is a design, there is a purpose. This is what I want it to look like, not Paul alone, right? Because that's right functioning, and it means that the body is functioning properly. If you go and consider husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her That he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with a word, that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish In that same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. He's weaving in between this is how Christ deals with the church. Husbands, this is how you should love your wives. That idea of body, if we pause for a second, he did say In 23, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its savior. He he talked about that earlier in Ephesians. Can someone find where he talked about that and then give us what exactly Christ did for the church? You don't have to go back super far. You got it, Rick? Uh by two. Yes That's definitely important because that will connect with the type of love and the type of consistency that Christ has towards us. Go up a little earlier and find for me, please. Do you mind reading that for us, Chris, please? But exceeding the truth and love may grow up in all things into him who is the head, Christ, from whom the whole body joined and knit together by what every joy supplies. according to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself and love. Yeah Well we had already just worked through. Hey, the body is entirely supplied by the head. Christ, who makes sure that every aspect is working properly. When we go down to the section again, husbands and wives, We come back to this idea about like Christ is the head of the body. Husbands love like Christ loves the church. And yet you you want to not go that far from understanding And Lord, what you're interested in is that everything functions properly. That it functions according to purpose, that it is seeking its purpose. But not just for the sake of let me let me see how I can word this well. Because meeting your good purpose is important and it glorifies God, but also it is the good thing that we delight in and that God delights in. So right, why why do I want to say it like that? What I want to say is it's not just about meeting your purpose as a believer, as a husband, as a wife, as a as a member in community, as a member in a church. It's not just about meeting your purpose as if it's just about purpose. It's about, well God, this is how I love you, and this is how I walk with you and this is what you delight in. So if I walk in love and I abide in you, what does that look like? It looks like me it looks like me functioning the way I'm supposed to function. And delighting in it, and delighting in you, God. How can I understand that? How can I see that picture? Because a godly marriage A marriage that's functioning properly with two believers, a husband and wife who are both focused on Christ loving each other properly, a husband who loves his wife sacrificially, I want to talk about that here soon. And wives who are respecting their husbands and supporting their husbands, but also are Real active members in the marriage together. That is a delightful thing. You can tell that when you come into the home of a marriage like that, people are impacted by it. Children raised in a marriage like that are impacted by it, the gospel spreads with love like that God delights in his good design functioning properly. So let's talk a little bit about this idea about husbands loving your wives as Christ loves the church. We talked about it, heavy standard. I was thinking about this over the week, right? I'd read it in a commentator and it it's like a it's like a very funny, it's like a funny little line. I'm just gonna say it sort of it it's great it I think it was something sort of I think the line was like, um, it's great that you're willing to lay your life down for me, but could you please help me with the dishes? Right W which which like I appreciate I I appreciate and I think this is a really important point, right? Because it's not about the individual actions, it's about the heart of the entire thing. I don't think that was sort of like a Snarky one. It's sort of like it's like well said. When we think about Christ loving the church, part of the temptation is to just come to Christ on the cross. Please don't take what I'm about to say in any way minimizing this. I think you'll understand where I'm going with this. There's a part of us that wants to just go to Christ on the cross, dead, buried, resurrected, and say this is how Christ loved the church, which is absolutely true, and is You know, huge sounds incredibly stupid to say here. Awesome in the term of a real use of that word awesome as an awe-inspired. But the sacrificial love of Christ started one before time. In the entire design. Now hear me correctly. I'm not saying the sacrifice happened before time, right? The sacrificial love happened before time. The sacrificial love happened when he knew his people and called them out, not because he knew what they were going to choose or do, but because of his good mercies and who God is. And he said, this is how it's going to go. And then you have a design that unfolds through eternity. That's the beginning of sacrificial love. And it is related to Not simply how God acts, but who God is. And then it plays itself out throughout eternity. If you need a picture of God's mercy, it is on display throughout Scripture. Why do I say that? You do not need to simply find yourself in the New Testament to find a merciful God. You can find yourself right in Genesis and say, hey. Adam and Eve, what did you best deserve? Where did those clothes come from? What animal died that you would get this wait a second. How are you not absolutely destroyed from the beginning? Don't get me wrong, right? There was punishment versus sin and everything, and yet God is incredibly merciful and long-suffering in it. So Sacrificial love is one. Really, love is an attribute of God, right? In terms of God is love. And second is not fleeting. It is part of and intrinsic to Who God is and how He acts in all things. So when God is being being, when God and His justice are on display, when His holiness is on display, when His Any aspect of him, it does not detract from his love and it does not detract from who he is. There is not a part where God's holiness surpasses God's love. The attributes are Overlapping entirely. That's difficult for us to understand. I know we've talked about it um we talked about it before. It's difficult for us to understand because we are not perfect in each of our attributes. Right? We have a spectrum of we can be more of a better attribute, and sometimes we can be more of a less desirable attribute. And it's hard for us because what we want to do is take our model, put it on God, and say, was that what it's like? But it's the opposite. We take God's model and we put it on us. So you say husbands love your wives like Christ loves the church. It is a sacrificial love. It is a love that seeks the good of your wife More than your own good. Scott mentioned something in terms of when we were going through that contrast of sins earlier and then what it desires. There is an idolatry of self, and there's a selfishness that can be on display. Keep in mind the recipient of this letter are believers, but there can be a selfishness on display That perverts itself into sin. That is very much true in marriage And it's very much true both for wives and husbands, but right here on display where, husbands, don't be selfish. Don't seek yourself first. The love is sacrificial, and the love is constant. Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. You see that? You see the the trajectory of sanctification that the Lord is talking about here? He's talking about What will become a perfect presentation without blemish, without spot? How does that work if you give up If Christ were to give up on us, that is heretical. That is not what I'm saying. But if you were to consider the idea, if you were to think that your That God's willingness in your sanctification is fleeting, and He does not desire it with love and constancy. It would become one incredibly damaging to your psyche, just to be clear. You you could not trust. You would say, well, what are your purposes, Lord, if you don't always want that? Well, Lord, are you going to love me all the time, or am I not going to be loved by you at some point? But that's not how the Lord interacts with us. I'm not talking about consequence of sin here, so I want to be careful. I'm not talking about consequence of Um abusing that relationship and abusing that love and trying to reject the Lord, that's not what I'm talking about here. What I'm talking about, because this is the direction for the husband, is There is a constant desire for the goodness of the church that comes from the Lord, where he would desire Do this good thing. No, be be holy. No, don't do that. I if he didn't have that desire, we wouldn't have imperatives littered through the epistles for us and the Old Testament for us to understand, no, do this thing, no, walk with me. No Be close to me. No, don't hold on to that thing. Flee that sin. Do not submit to the devil. All these different things. So in marriage Not to the extent that the husband is the savior of the wife. There is no biblical set for that. Not to the extent that the husband is The one who he himself sanctifies the wife. It is not that. Yet that's his desire for his wife. His desire for his wife is that she would grow in love. Grow in holiness, grow in spiritual maturity, grow in terms of her own role, in terms of the goodness for her, and his objective and desire for her is um characterized by that. Trying to think how to say this. What I don't want you to take away from this is that it's an overly romantic, noble idea that's not rooted in no no no like you just need uh Have that idea at the forefront of your mind and it needs to play itself out in terms of how you behave yourself in a real way every morning, every evening. Through the day. What about yeah, you're ready to explain that more? Yeah. Yeah. Um I think that we can take a passage like this and kind of like I was saying before, make it a grand motion in terms of how I'm going to love sacrificially my wife. Look at this thing that I did for you or look what I've set up for us. And not that that's not important. But I think what it really means is to make sure it plays itself out in the small details of everyday life. Uh I'm contrasting I'm contrasting trying to live in the ideal and losing sight of the daily practice Yeah, I I want you to have and this is how it always works, right? I want you to have the truth of scripture and the ideal and the large big picture in terms of what my purpose and role as a husband is in mind as you play it out in your daily life, in a spirit-filled life where you are going to the Lord and asking for help. Where you are going to the Word and saying, Lord, I am failing this area. I need your help. How do I love my wife better? How do I lead better here? How do I learn to listen better? How do I learn to XYZ? It's down to those little details. Um In a hypothetical situation, there can be a husband. In a hypothetical situation, there can be a husband who um Tries to do a grand gesture in terms of a weekend away that's romantic that's Hey, this was a thing, I organized it and it did all these things, said the husband. Um and In the midst of it, in the comfort of it, your wife wants to talk about because she's feeling very comfortable. Something that's kind of on her mind and has been bothering her. And you've created a space that was comfortable, was for her, and everything. How did you respond? I mean, the foolishness of the husband in this situation. Is to have prioritized the idea of a romantic or whatever like nice weekend That means you don't need to get into the gritty details of like, hey, we have kind of like this conflict going, or this is the thing that's bothering me. Can we talk about it? Because It prioritized the ideal, and the husband did not listen to his wife in the moment of just saying, I feel comfortable and safe, and I want to talk about a thing. Well, guess what? That thing was important to talk about in that moment. And loving all the way down from the big picture, the grand notion, to the this is how I'm going to act in the moment in the day was important, right? It was both things together. It turned out okay later, it's fine. Right? Why am I saying that why am I saying this? Like I and I and really I'm not trying to sort of necessarily make light of it But I think sometimes we want either or. We want just the big picture or we want just the little details. But what we really end up needing to do is have a constant approach. And really for the men in the room Whether you are husbands or not, or seeking to be husbands in your life, it's that consistency of sacrificial love. It's having in mind What do I desire for my marriage? What do I desire for my wife as an incredibly important thing? Without spot or wrinkle that she might be holy and without blemish. That doesn't look like pointing out the sins of your spouse It does not mean and it does not preclude that there need to be hard conversations about sinful patterns or things that are going wrong. That is a part of leadership. But it does not mean it looks like this is wrong, this is wrong, this is wrong, this is wrong. What it looks like is seeking to love your wife in the midst of An area where she needs to grow. And the truth the truth is in the opposite, right? Men carry sin too that wives will want to bring up. Wives in terms of bringing up husbands should not bring it up in a way that is trying to rule over their husbands, and yet absolutely you still need to bring it up because it is a purpose of a purpose of holy marriage. There's a I thought you t bell fly. Please think it might be worth poking at smidge there. And It it's and I I don't know that I've got all the right words, but I think there's an aspect there of husbands and wives bringing the gospel to one another. Um and you know, one kind of best. And if your wife is uh Being uh there's a book that we read recently, being prickly. I think it's very important in this book brought out that you remind her in the prickliness If you still love her like God loves her. And um there there's an aspect in there and I I'm I don't feel like I'm saying it very well, but there's an aspect of the gospel in there that when we're in a when we're in sin The blood of Christ still covers that. And it's not that I'm not I'm not dying for my wife, but what I am doing is I'm saying, hey look, there's a blood that was shed for you And let's remember that and I'm gonna still love him because I've got prototype drummed. Yeah, um So we in class um we in class um for like a few of us uh Doug Scott and I have to in this class we had to read this book. It's called Authority. It's actually written by a pastor who's pretty local here on Chevy Chase It's a it's a good book. I like the book. Um he has a couple sort of in the marriage section he has a couple sort of like examples, but one of these I think relates to that directly that I really like. Um in terms of the husband responsibility, you take the initiative and ending arguments by choosing gracious, if need be, apologetic words. You have nothing left to prove. You are done with self-justification because you are justified in Christ. Your ability in terms of as a husband leading in the home is to is to Steep yourself so deeply in God's love and his truth and the gospel that you know, Lord, I belong to you. If there's a sin, it's my sin in front of me, I bring it to you in confession. Life with you, I'm willing to sort of go through the harder conversation to bring it all back because there is grace extended, there is gospel truth here for each of us. I might read a couple more of these if you guys are okay actually, because they're quite good if if you don't mind. This is going directly into application, which is sort of like a little jumping slightly ahead, but we also don't have a huge amount of time. You take the initiative, again directed as towards husbands, you take the initiative in spiritual leadership in the home by having cleanse served by the washing of water with a word, which I want to talk about a little bit more here in a second. You don't have to require perfection of her today. You're playing the long game. The question is not can you get her to be a perfect wife today? The question is can you help her to look more like Jesus over the next fifty years by acting like Jesus? yourself. I'm going to pause here for a quick second. Tim Keller a long time ago wrote a book called Oh Meaning of Marriage? Meaning of Marriage, right? And one of the points you talked about was the concept of a consumer consumer marriage, a consumer relationship. What can I get out of it? What is in it for me? If you consider back to what we were talking about a little earlier in terms of like what's your purpose in terms of not selfishness or seeking myself, but seeking the good of the one in front of you here, husband and wife. You understand that his part of his concept there, and what he's trying to draw out from scripture, is that You're seeking the goodness of your wife. They're seeking the holiness of your marriage. That it glorifies God more than just what you want and you desire. And then this last one. Even when your wife is behaving toward you in some way that is frustrating, perhaps sinful, you take the initiative in exemplifying the patience and forgiveness of Christ. That is how Christ has loved you. Has my wife wronged me more than I have wronged Christ? It's my husband's wrong me more than I have. No. But in this one, a part of the role of leadership is That initiative, it's seeking that thing first. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it just as Christ does the church because we are members of his body. Paul is drawing on simple logic here, right? Like it is the same before. He's just drawing on simple natural logic towards You're gonna feed yourself and you're gonna take care of yourself. He mentioned before what taking what that um that idea of Well, let me pause for a second. Let me stay here. So nourish and cherish. Nourish and cherish. Feed, supply, take care of, hold with a special with our Christ towards us has a special love towards his church. He has a special love towards believers. He has a desire, and if you go back to where we were in Ephesians 4, that idea that the head supplies every joint that it would function properly. That's his desire. In that same way, husbands then have that purpose towards their wife. That natural logic is, well, you would do it for yourself. Your wife is also your one flesh. He parks that in Genesis. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. That is Genesis 2 24. If you go to verse 23, the one right before it says, The man said, This now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of my man out of man. Sorry. This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. It's not Adam saying Yeah, I mean okay, I I think this is a social contract, we'll sort of figure out what this looks like. Right? This is not him saying, okay, yeah, I I mean we'll we'll figure it out. Maybe I'll do these things, you do those things, and like we'll you know, we'll share a mortgage. Don't get me wrong, the covenantal relationship does cover all aspects of your life. The reason that's important is the idea that there is nothing precluded from husband or wife. But he's really making the point You're now one. So when Paul is drawing on that section, he is not making the point, I want you to think about your wife like she is your flesh. He is reminding from biblical truth from the very first book, you are one. The time and culture, and the recipient of these letters. Wives are horribly mistreated relative to today. That's a gross statement, so I want to be careful because there is still a lot of mistreatment of wives. And so please don't think I'm painting with a broad stroke that things are okay now and they were bad then. That's not what I'm saying. But what I am saying is that there is an aspect where this letter should have been jarring in the same way that for Jews and Gentiles it was jarring jarring towards nope you need to love your wife as she is one with you you are a believer you hold fast the scripture and this truth that is true for you So what does nourishing and cherishing look like? Part of it is that cleansing by the washing of water with a word. And I think Doug, that's uh very much what you were talking about before. That is an incredibly practical aspect. It is leadership looks like Steeping yourself in the Word, fixing yourself to Christ, walking with Him in your personal walk as a husband. That it is a natural extension of yourself that you are walking spiritually with your wife. There are two extremes in terms of the failure of leadership of husband in a home and terms of how to not love your wife like Christ loves the church. One extreme is to go incredibly overbearing that by mechanism of control use and manipulation You are trying to lead by exerting control over every aspect of something That's not the picture we have here. The picture we have here is that by loving your wife as one of your own flesh, she is thriving as a person in terms of who she is. The other, which I I believe I would make Yes, I'm comfortable making the statement. I would believe the other extreme in terms of failure is particularly indicative of our day and our current culture here. is a complete forfeit of the role of leadership and just not participating in trying to lead whatsoever. These are extremes, I think, in terms of society, right? It's the Well, I don't nourish and cherish myself in terms of I need to choose to make a decision, I need to understand what is a priority, I need to know what the purpose is and strive towards that. It's the, I don't know I don't know. What should we do? That inaction, that failure to do anything, that only omits that role of leadership as a husband. But it then invites your wife to effectively have to, depending on personality, character, and whatnot, try to assume more of that role. And then has that conflict there. There's a quote in that book. Yes, that book frame there. The author asserts pretty early in the book, the remedy to bad authority is not no authority. Yeah, I think that's yeah what you're talking about. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's it's like the concept that Um apathy is almost worse than hatred or or a lack of love. It's this c I'd be careful of that. But see, see what happens? But a save it out there and you're like, oh well. No no no but but that that If you were to say a husband being apathetic towards his wife, the actual draw you might have in this like that is not loving your wife. Being apathetic is like being numb, being just not caring. And there can be all sorts of reasons behind that, but uh what I will tell you up front is that it is selfish Is that that that apathy or that not willing to assume the responsibility is um is not loving your wife. I want to be I w I want to say something here. Paul is describing what is a true state. And then encouraging believers to step into that true state. He is not saying, husbands, here's how you are going to make yourself the leader in your home, or make yourself has to do these things. He's saying the husband is the head of the wife, so act properly in it. Do you get the nuance there? Do you get the slight difference? It's that same concept of My identity is in Christ, so I am going to act this way. This is who I am. This is how it works. This is what it should look like. I'm so then going to act. That's important, and it really connects us back to the concept in Ephesians of the unity that we have in Christ, the purposes that we have in Christ, the church as believers. The I the I think I said identity already. Um is a truth that God has made and has extended and is gracious so as to reveal, is gracious to encourage us, to teach us how to live and to walk in it. So do so. This mystery is profound, and I'm saying that it refers to Christ in the church. However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. He wants to understand that this picture of marriage that we have is this really sort of, it's this really beautiful design from the beginning of creation. That connects with how he will interact with us as a church. Constant sacrificial love a willingness to follow the leadership, a willingness to submit, a willingness to understand. It's more than just me. So that really is a big picture of what you want to see in terms of how your theology plays out. It's more than just you. It's not about you. It's not only about you, but really it's not about you in its entirety. You want to be careful with that. Because that is our tendency in the culture. We talk a lot about how culture like influences in one way or another. Guess what? The sense of this is about me and the importance of me is something that we can sometimes try to put on to scripture in terms of like, yes, this is what scripture is saying about me and the truth of me like, nope. No, what what the Lord said is that he has a glorious plan that is on display and he loves you personally, but you have a part to play in terms of the whole. He takes that and extends it into marriage and he says, and look, that marriage and a holy Christian marriage is a picture of what is the grand plan on display, and it's a beautiful thing in that direction. So he summarizes and ends it here then with, however, let each one of you love his wife as himself and let the wife see that she respects her husband. One of the commentators made a point that says, like each one of you. Nobody gets a pass. No husband gets a pass, be like, ah, I'm not really like, that's not really like my personal. Nope, no, no, that's your responsibility. That belongs to you. And that wife see that she respects her husband, that word respect there is a is an actually very heavy word. If you were to take, I see Scott, you're nodding, probably looked it up or studied it, right? That word correlates close to revere, actually. Or f yeah. Or fear That is not changing the dynamic of the entire passage in terms of like, oh I gotta like rethink how this all means. Really what it's saying is You love and respect your husband to the extent that it's sort of like, I'm really like willing to follow you because this is how much I like honor you in this way. Last few minutes. Ephesians 5. 2. Walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God. Hey, walk this way. 417. No longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardness of their heart. 4-1. I, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. Humility, gentleness, patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. 222. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Speaking of the church. Why why do you think I'm surveying these as we went through them? Paul has been working through scriptural truth. Deep theology. And then, as we've talked about numerous times, he really wants to bring that theology out to bear in your lives In a practical way, walk in this way. Walk in this way. Minds that aren't darkened, minds that are enlightened, God's truth and state focused on Him What did that look like? Humility, gentleness, patience, patience. What did that look like? Bearing with one another, seeking a oneness, being built up together Finding your good purpose for works that God had prepared for you ahead of time, that they would be on display for the heavenly hosts to see. Take that picture of walking in obedience and in love and say, well, I'm a husband that walks like that, or I'm a wife that walks like that. It is and clearly would be a very easy and natural, and I'm going to use the word natural here very specifically, tendency To want to submit to a man who walks like that, and for a husband to love his wife who walks like that. Do you get what I'm saying here? And and uh and again, I'm not painting uh uh a picture like you're not going to I really I hope that's for none of you. But like I'm not painting a picture like you're not gonna get into an argument because you're tired on a Sunday afternoon, came out of church and sort of like one of you said the wrong thing and one of you sort of like you know what I mean, responded and sort of like You need to work past it, right? I'm not saying it like it needs to be some glossy picture that we don't believe, but really if that's what you're striving for. Individually and in the relationship, it will function naturally this way. Wives who want to be with their husbands because the husband leads well, loves well, seeks the goodness the protection, the well-being of his wife, and husbands who love well, sacrifice well, because m my wife loves me and respects me, and why would I not want to do all these things for her as well? It works incredibly well in moments where, for those of us that are married, we we can and and I hope more and more than not. There are moments and times and seasons where you can sort of think to, yeah, God, you are so great because it is really wonderful here. And for the spaces and time where that's not true, where it feels like you are struggling in those areas, one the wife or husband or both. Be encouraged that God's good purpose for your marriage is one that He is invested in His Holy Spirit is here to help us through any desires that we have community with one another to encourage in that space. So a couple moments of application if that's okay. Scriptural truth first. Hold the scriptural truth. How does that play out in your daily life? Maybe that looks like husbands or wives, you needing to call out the scriptural truth to yourself a little bit in the moment or in the day. Hey, am I leading well here? Am I making good choices here? Am I loving sacrificially? Am I respecting my husband here? Am I trying to make not necessarily like am I trying to overstep in terms of too many decisions or are we discussing Am I figuring out that we're communicating well? That's aspects of that. For those of you that are not married, or for those of you that are outside of marriage, my encouragement is twofold. One, for those of you that are desiring marriage for yourself, Learn these patterns now. Understand the scriptural truth first and understand that it will play out in a practical way, but you always fix yourself to the scriptural truth. But second For those of you that are coming alongside those that are married, that are either struggling or not struggling, Take and learn from the good examples that are next to you. Pray and love for those that are struggling, and seek how you can always encourage the holiness of a marriage. I have a friend who When he was married, they were married very young. And he had patterned himself in terms of wanting to talk to his parents a lot about Okay, so this is really not me. Okay, just for the record. This is really the the clue there is we were not married, yeah. We were married like later in life. So this is really not us, right? Um he had patterned himself in terms of and he had great relationship with parents, he would seek to talk to his parents about stuff a lot. He was married, very young, and early in the marriage, he went to his parents to ask some advice, and his dad essentially sent him packa and said I'll give you a little bit of advice what you need to do. You need to go back to your wife and you too need to figure this out amongst yourselves. And really have the full conversation. He wasn't saying you can't seek wisdom outside of the marriage, but he's saying you're not giving up responsibility in terms of this marriage because you need to learn early on how to take in. And I thought that was really, really good advice. What does that mean? It means seeking the goodness of other people's marriages is also a part of what it looks like to live in candidate. How can I support you in your marriage? How can I love you that it looks like this? It's not a throwing stones from outside, it's not a pointing out failures here, but a coming alongside with like goodness and wisdom and seeking the good of another. Okay. It is ten thirty-two, so um we are gonna wrap. This moves us on from marriage and we'll go Into children, which um Scott, you are next. But the good thing is parenting is really easy, so it shouldn't be a problem at all. This is a solid joke for a lot, for the record. Um okay, I'm gonna close in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you. I want to thank you, Lord, this morning for your good design. I want to thank you that you were a God that deeply cares about the people that you have made and a people that you love. That you would remind us what is good and how to seek that goodness first. We thank you for who you are. We thank you for your constant love. We thank you that our Lord Christ Is so faithful in all things. We pray, Lord, as we go into this Sunday, that as we would continue with a worshipful mind and heart And that you be glorified and our cells would rest in you. We pray this in Jesus' good name. Amen.