We are working through Ephesians. We are on Ephesians five, verse fifteen. And uh last week Doug started out with walking in the light and how we should continue to walk in the light and how light exposes darkness. And Just to remind ourselves, the summary statement of Ephesians. The eternal purpose of God for his church is to be reconciled to him in Christ. And unified with one another, which is ultimately for his glory, walking faithfully and obediently as his children. And That term walking w is intentionally put in there because Paul uses that term several times throughout Ephesians. In fact, Doug started his lesson last week with talking about walking. And when he started his lesson last week talking about walking, it's like, that's what I was going to start with. So anyway, Paul uses the term walk six different times in Ephesians, and these are the the six references that Paul uses of the term walk in his uh in this epistle In chapter 2, verse 2, you were dead in sins and trespasses in which you once walked. Uh past that that's more of a past tense. And the third one there, chapter four, verse seventeen you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their mind. So Paul kind of has two uh two references of how you used to walk. You were dead in your trespass in your trespasses spiritually, and then physically on earth, as he's writing to a church with both Jews and Gentiles, and he Puts a little bit more emphasis on the Gentiles here. You know, don't walk as you used to do. You used to walk as the Gentiles did, and in the futility of their minds. The second and fourth one kind of pair together was we say, chapter 4, verse 1, walk in the manner. worth of the calling to which you have been called. We have been called as children of God. And what does that mean to live our lives as a child of God? And then walk in love as Christ loved us and gave him that's for the typo there, and gave himself up for us. Christ is our example. And we should be following Christ's example. One, we have standing with God, and we are to walk as a child of God, but how does that look like? We can follow Christ's example. And then last week, Doug talked about walking as children of light and what that means. In in verse 8 there, walk as children of life, for the fruit of life is found in all that is good and true. And try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. So we are to be a beacon of light to the world. Let them see our example as we follow the example of Christ. And then this week we're going to say, look carefully then how you walked. And that is where we are going to start off today. So let's look, let's read. Chapter 5, verses 15 through 21. And I'm just going to start, let's go back a little bit. For it is shameful even to speak of these things. that they do in secret. But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible. For anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says, awake, O sleeper, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine a light, will shine on you. Look carefully, then, how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. All right. So we start off with look carefully, then how you walk. The literally um it says look therefore carefully how you walk. So uh I I don't necessarily like how the ESV uh translates this. It says look carefully where the carefully, the adjective or adverb carefully should be more on how you want, not how you're looking. You can be walking and you can be looking carefully. Okay. I need to go there, I need to go there. And you're so distracted with how you're looking That you don't have your eyes fixed on the direction where you're going. We can go to Hebrews 12. Fix your eyes. Uh now it's I'm blanking all of a sudden. Let me just go there real fast. Therefore, since we have been sur since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and sin that so That clings so closely and let us run with endurance the race that is before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfector of our faith. So fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfector of our faith, as another translation would have it. Focus on Christ and walk carefully. Towards him. Yes, we can look carefully, but let's walk carefully. And Paul uses this idea of looking. And in the verse before, he says, Awake, O sleeper, arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you. So he's saying, hey, wake up. First of all, wake up, and if you're awake, Your eyes are going to be open. If you're asleep, your eyes are going to be closed. Warren Wearsby says, Paul appeared to be saying, don't walk in your sleep. Wake up. Open your eyes. Make the most of the day. It is sad to see so many professed Christians drift through life like sleepwalkers. Never really making the most of opportunities to live for Christ and to serve Him. So we are to walk carefully. And how does that happen? I mean, how does Paul explain that further? He says, not as unwise, but as wise. Some translations may have not as foolish. And when the Bible talks about fools or foolish, they don't mean Stupid. They don't mean intellectual limits, but they're talking about unbelief and the consequences of unbelief and making unwise decisions as God has commanded us. Um Because we know that the word of God is foolish in the eyes of the world, and yet we know with God They are the ones who are truly foolish. And then So look carefully how you walk, not as wise, but as not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of your time. There are several different Greek words for time. And here it's the word chronos, and it's a moment of time or a season of time. And we are to make the best use of this time that God has given us. And this best use is literally means buying the opportunity. So it's it's referring to merchants running their businesses and they will find what's the best thing I can do for my business. Where's the best products that I can buy at the best value. How should I sell my wares and goods? And one of the commentators I read took it a little further, making use of the opportunity. Some translations may have opportunity. Make the most of your opportunity. And and in opportunity is the word port, and that word port In the English, there's hey, just a port that sailors go to. And the sailors need to make the best opportunity as they sail into the ports, they need to find the best wind. They need to how figure out how to use their sails in order to get to that spot. And and we need to do the same thing. As God presents opportunities to us, and there's questions about Is this an evangelistic uh um sentence or phrase that Paul is using? Hey Make the most opportunity. Whatever opportunity God gives you, make the most of it. Because the days are evil. Here Paul is sitting in a Roman prison. And we know that he thinks he's going to get out. In Philippians, he says, I think I'm going to get out, but I still may die here. For me to live as Christ and to die is gain. So he he had this hope that he was going to get out. But he knows that things have not been going his way recently. The days are evil. And so just to kind of wrap this whole verse up, we're living in a evil world. It hasn't changed. From when Paul was alive 2,000 years ago. Days are still evil. And God is wanting us to walk carefully In these evil times. But to be a light, he's going to give us opportunities to be an example, to shine as a light, as uh Doug mentioned last week. We are to walk as children of light. And let those around us see it. Scott? Yes. Do you think this is evangelistic? Or is it more generic? I would say it is more generic, but again, some of the commentators put an evangelistic spin to it. There is a old Chinese adage. It says, opportunity has a forelock. So you can seize it when you meet it. Once it is passed, you cannot seize it again And so the opportunities God gives us, we need to have our eyes open. We need to be walking carefully and we need to seize these opportunities and give glory to God in those Those moments. I'm so glad you bring this up. This time of year I spent a lot of time, Diane and I spent a lot of time looking back at what we did last year and kind of that includes towards what's coming up next year. And it it's uh But it's a moment to think about what how we spent our time and making some like that I don't know if anybody else has that. Yeah, I I think it was about a year ago. Sean Warnan did uh his sermon and it was about time and making the youth making the most of the time. So So I don't know how long it was a bit maybe five, six, seven years ago, um Sessan was here and he gave the message on that passage and uh at the mess breakfast. So I was sitting there listening and the phrase carpadia came to my mind. I was going Carpet the info price. Remember I ended up making uh magnets, making forty-fifty magnets. I just gave them out. There's a few floating around. But it's related to that passage that we're supposed to see. sees the day for Christ, looking for opportunities to witness, to present the gospel, to bring the light to the world, not shying away from it. Look at it. Yeah. Walking circumspectly. Circumspectly. Is that the translation you have? Okay. Yeah, circumspectly is is one of the words that gets translated, making the most of our opportunity. Thank you, Brian. So do therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. So now we come to the $64,000 question. What is God's will for in my life? Yes. So Yeah, what okay, so sanctification, any any other uh glorify him in everything we do? Yes. Love one another. Love one another. All good. So there are two different Wills that God has for us. There is a general will, the sanctification, to be more like Christ. This is what he has for All of us, and we get that through Scripture. We rely on the Word of God here, the imperatives, the commands. the strong recommendations that come from the Bible. That is what we are to follow. That is what God's will is for our lives. And it applies to each and every one of us. God also has a purpose for each of us that's different for each of us. And we may not find that here in the Bible. We the general principles that can guide us. You know, uh there are some maybe some occupations that we should not be going uh for just because they are vices. Um there are some occupations that are most occupations are good for us to go down. There are some things that we could choose to do that we know, hey, God probably doesn't want us to do that because he says it in his word. But there are some decisions that we have that we don't know exactly what clear guidance is. Pray. Ask other mature, experienced Christians. To to help you through some of these decisions. Um But but for the most part, I mean we we we focus more on the general here of hey, what is in the Bible, what is God telling us to do? And And how are we to uh obey that? But God does not simply want us to know his will. He wants us to understand his will. So, yes, we can struggle with this question. in our lives of God, what is your will for me in this circumstance? What is your will for me in this situation? And we struggle with no, no, no. But here Paul is encouraging the believers in Ephesus to understand what the will of God is. So why is God commanding us to do these things? Why is he having us to go down this path? I was Scrolling through social media, I think it was earlier this week, again, the days are all mixed up, I'm not sure. And I came across It was a sponsored article, and I don't even know what they were promoting. But the headline kind of caught my eye of it was a parent crying out saying My child grew up in the church. And then he goes off to college. And it's out. Now I'm skimming through the article. And I didn't finish it because it was super long and I wish I spent a little bit more time reading it now. Um but my kid went to a Christian college, went to a philosophy class, and then His faith changed and he fell away from the faith. And it's talked about this child being taught: hey, this is what God tells us to do, this is what the Bible says to do. And he knew all the Bible answers. He knew all the Sunday school answers. But he didn't understand why he was following these things. And so he gets to college And realizes, okay, I know what to do, what not to do. I don't know why. And now the why He's questioning his faith, and he fell away from the faith. And this article had like two or three different examples of it. And so So it's just one of those things that, yes, we need to know what God's will is for our life. But let's take some more time and let's go further. God. Why are you commanding us to do this? Why do you want us to obey in this way? We have, I'm just curious. We have several college-age students here. Any de do you did you come across the struggle of Knowing the Sunday school answers, knowing the right and wrong things to do, but not understanding why. Did you ever come to a point in your faith That you said, oh, light bulb flicks on. Now I get it. Now I understand why God is saying this in his word. Any of you want to chime in? Sorry to put you on the spot. At least say, is it an important thing? A couple nods, okay. And And as Paul is saying here, uh understand what the will of God is. He puts this, he tags this on after saying, do not be foolish. And he just said, walk wisely, not unwisely. So all this kind of just comes together where understand what God's will is. And when you understand God's will, that's going to help you walk carefully. That's going to help you Make the best use of your time and seize those opportunities that God has given you. And you will be walking wisely as Paul is imploring us to do here. Any questions on the will of God? Yeah. But you know, um I I think it's a good thing when you teach a child from the beginning. Uh about Jesus Christ. And also the parent won't have to be uh evidence also to the child And even though when they go to college, because I have known a lot of kids go to college and they call themselves walking away, but something stop them being in track, which is Jesus Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior because the blood already been spilled on the cross. And I think they come back that their minds started turning as to, you know, this is not what I was taught. And I think they come back. I I think they come back. I think God don't allow them to be uh caught up in the um and whatever it is that they going towards because I believe once you become once you become a believer and believer expand is very big If you don't believe, if you don't believe, that's the whole thing, believe what you're being taught then you're not going to come back and like I said, it has a lot to do with what the kids see the parents portrayed to them, their actions in the home, their speech. Because somebody s one of those one of those uh uh uh friends gonna ask them, Well how is your parents? Your parents oh yeah, it's gonna bring them back Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, yeah, some of them will come back. I can't say all of them will. I mean there's definitely we we see I don't know what the stats are, but there What, about a quarter of kids who go to church continue to go to church after they leave the home? I'm probably way off in my statistic there, but we do see a majority of children who grew up in the church not come back. So it is something great choice. Yeah, so I was just pondering on my own situation of um I didn't grow up in the church. um started going to church around junior high. My family were not Christians were just going to church. became a Christian and just was kind of slowly growing. But the Lord really is was doing a bigger work in me later in high school and this was after walking through a child parents that I did. And I was really delving into the word. And The Lord began growing my face. So then I go off to junior college with the philosophy class. And then I recognize why? Because the Lord has already been calling my heart to that I can recognize The difference I'm just thinking about is early grenades. Um in chapter two and talking about for by grace you have been saved through faith and then it's not of your own doing it's a gift of God, not a result of work so that no one may both. So as much as we may do within the church And and I don't know, those I I don't know if it's the same kind of article, but at the end it was like and here's a here's a Bible story and you could use So it's almost like a voting. Obviously we know it is an issue and you need to talk with our team, but in the end, it always comes down to the lower cost. Oh yes. Absolutely. Yes. It it is it is the Lord I mean we can't control our children's salvation. Um but we we can again we can plant, we can water the seeds Yeah, yeah, well I mean this goes back to a thing that I I continually suggested in wrestling with. It's like I know God's what you know, like walk and I want to um be like Jesus and all that stuff. And I I'm just I I I interpret that as doing good things for other people and things like that. And then it's just like I mean yes it is it is nice to do those things physically. You know, but it's just like is that is that everything? You know, is that is that the whole I don't I know there is no like real quote unquote correct answer for that, but is that like the I mean w Again, the the fruit, the the work that comes out of us is the fruit of our salvation. Yeah. So so yeah, it's it could be it's serving the church. Yeah. Um but it's not it's not just words of service, it's also what is working with Yes, our faith is not by works, but it's the faith Okay. Correct. Correct. And I was pondering on uh your question as well, I'm not in college anymore, but when you're close enough. But um and I didn't grow up as a as a Christian primarily. I um my family went to Catholic Church on Sundays, but we were just nominally Catholic and then eventually we started going altogether. But I considered myself to be a a Christian. But it wasn't until college that I was faced with the reality that I wasn't. I was confronted with the fact that I wasn't a Christian. Um through going to the bike to the Bible study that if I invited me to you and um and and whatnot. But so I guess it's kinda like the flip thing like I realized, oh, I'm actually not um doing this I or or living this out or um really understanding. Like I knew because of the fact I think we all have a conscience that God has given us. Like I knew um certainly it's like okay this is right, this is wrong and I had an idea of like just do more right things that I weigh the wrong thing. But um yeah, and after that that's when when I did become a believer, that's when I did come to understand why God word was good, why his precepts, his principles, his laws were actually good, not just like these rules, but like why this was this this is good Yeah. Well good, good. Um, yeah, w God works in many different ways and uh And you said something that I was gonna go off of, but uh but you know God's precepts are good and understanding his goodness and his faithfulness. And sometimes we don't Teach that well. We say do this and don't do that, but we don't teach it well as to, hey, God is good and These are, if you do these things, you will see blessings and benefits from following uh God's will. Um I think my question comment is more actually in line with the what you actually have on the screen right now in terms of like God's will for us. Yes. Um and I I feel like one of the interesting one situation that I kind of ran into was in college. Like trying to figure out like what I was supposed to do with next You know, uh because I I guess when you're in school and you're at home with your parents, it's very obvious like, okay, go to class this time, do this study, do this study, go to sports, do this other extracurricular, like you know exactly what you're supposed to be doing when Now as to whether you do those things, it's a different story. You know what you're supposed to be doing. Right? And then you get to college and it's like, okay, do you have to decide what class you're taking You have to figure out like what you're gonna do after school and like some people have a very like solid sense like this is my goal, this I'm gonna be a doctor. And then there's like the arts and sorts of like humanities majors where it's like I have a degree in English, I don't know what I'm gonna do. Um so I feel like understanding what God's will is for your life can be very challenging when it's you're almost spoiled for choice, so to speak. And like as a believer, you're taught, okay, God wants you to do these good things in general. Right? But what does that look like on a day-to-day? How do you decide what career you're going to be taking? Like going forward? Like what are you supposed to do when this person confronts you with like a completely out of the blue situation? Like, what do you say to them? I don't know. Um So I feel like sometimes um you have like a general sense of the direction you're supposed to be headed, but the specific particulars as to what do I do now, should I say yes to this job operation or that No, should I, you know, say this thing to this person or no? Like those those very specific things are I think the the bits where the rubber meets the road. particular answers from the Bible for those particular things. And you know, not everyone can be a doctor because if everyone's a doctor then We don't have any farmers and we don't have uh any engineers and construction workers. So obviously God has a different plan for each of us. And it is at that time where you say, hey, you you you ask your parents, you ask other believers, hey, I'm I'm faced with this opportunity. What do you think? And and praying for sure. Getting some uh praying to God. And whatever decision you come to, you you say God I believe you're heading me in this direction. I'm taking it. And wherever you lead me, just help me to be a light to those around me. Yeah, well on this real quick, like when I was in um college, well one of my three colleges, or four colleges, whatever the count is, um Towson University, um I actually So um Philip on by accident this campus crusade for Christ. And it was just like a young young life. I don't know if any of you are familiar with young life in high school, you know, but it was just like a young lay for almost quote unquote almost grown ups, you know, in in the biblical sense of the word. So and that really helped me focus on, you know, doing doing God's will at that time. Got it. Got it. Damn. I was even people that got laid off for, you know, this year for twenty twenty five who were my age had to figure out now what um people that had raised their kids And now they're looking at do I go back to the workplace? Do I you know and I um got peace this year from reading Psalm 138 over and over again. I every day I read it out loud because in there it says God's purpose for my life will be fulfilled. So I can write in that. And there's other scripture, but I needed to hold on to that. Diane's limited ability to intellectually figure something out about what's the quote unquote set. The Lord has already planned to make that interest. in his love and world man. And I think that's where everybody's Psalm 388, I assume. The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me. Your steadfast love, O Lord, endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands. I've been out of college for over thirty years, but I feel like I'm constantly sweet and think of God's sovereignty over your life starting with justification. Receive the salvation. Right at that point, what starts It doesn't end until you're in you're glorified and you're you're in heaven. So I feel like I'm constantly in school, I'm always learning something every day. Which which is great. We're you know, we we cannot fully understand all of God's ways and his thoughts. His thoughts are higher than our thoughts. And so we are continually learning Hey Lord, what do you have for me in this situation? How can I take advantage of this time? How can I glorify you in this situation? Good stuff. Yeah. Like as I'm thinking about uh like say for example college experience or JavaScript, part of the question also becomes you can learn a lot from things that you don't want to repeat. And so it's like maybe you take that job that Yeah, three months later you're like, oh I don't actually want to work here. Or you take that class and you're like, oh this is this isn't good. And there's tremendous value in learning what not to do in addition to the directions that you want to be going. Yeah. I sort of think back to um Was it Psalm 73 that has to do with uh where you have first the first part you have anger yourself the price, but then you have the sort of two poles of flee from sin and pursuit Christ. I think when you have both of those, like we're never going to perfectly like know our direction, but we can sort of keep those two axes Um I think kind of helps us to know our direction a little bit more and to to realize that like even the bad experiences allow us to learn from those. Oh absolutely. I mean bad experiences yeah, we can learn from that. Joseph uh Daniel was up here talking about Joseph. He had plenty of bad experiences and he still learned from it and held closely to God. Connor, you s had something? I'm kind of forgetting. What is the kind of questionnaire framework right now? Yeah. Deliberating about, hey, what what is God's will? And how does it how is it for all of us together, how is it for us individually? So It may also be worthwhile noting that the assumption is here that you're walking. Yes. You're not sitting on the side waiting for a bright light to shine on. Um what you were saying is that Sometimes what we do is a a lesson in what we don't want to do next. And it it's important to remember that we have tremendous faith on the things that God allows for us. That's for using concepts. Go do these things and value what God teaches you and grow wisdom through all Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. All right. Mark and then I gotta move on. worry too much about like the Bible not being clear about what to do right now, but God's given like freedom to to make a choice, then it's not something that like you have to do exactly this. But you can still often get clarity from like reading the Bible and talking to other Christians about what God wants you to do, but I don't think you have to worry that there's only one exact thing and if you mess up, then everything's ruined. Correct. Because God knows Everything that's gonna happen. He knows each decision we're gonna make. And he has it planned out and purposed. And and y even if we think we quote made the wrong decision God had us go that direction for a reason. Um now maybe we did make a wrong decision and we gotta learn from that and say, God I messed up here. But uh God has orchestrated everything um in our lives. But let's move on as Paul gets, do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the spirit. I'm going to stop right there, even though the sentence goes on. Do not get drunk with wine, but be filled with the spirit. How many of you have taken the Fundamentals of the Faith course? Okay. So for those of you who have taken that, If you did the homework and you listened to the messages, you would have heard on The lesson, the week that you studied the Holy Spirit, you would have heard a message from John MacArthur on this verse. And when Paul here is saying, do not get drunk with wine, he's thinking about the cultural aspect where the pagans, the Greeks They thought by getting drunk, they lose control of their body, and that puts them in a state that allows them to communicate better to their gods and deities. And so Paul is uh pulling on that and just MacArthur says, and I'll he'll do it more eloquently than I will, although Scriffer consistently condemns all drunkenness, the context here suggests that Paul is speaking especially about the drunken orgies commonly associated with many pagan worship ceremonies of that day They were supposed to induce some ecstatic communion with the deity. So they thought if they could get drunk, they would have uh a communication line with with their gods. And Paul's saying, hey, do not let wine control you, but allow the spirit to control you. We see here, Paul says, be filled with the Spirit. And it's an authoritative command. We are to be filled with the Spirit. But while it's a command, it's not something that we it's it's a command to allow something to happen to us. We allow the Spirit to fill us. It's not something that we are primarily responsible for. But if we are walking, Unwisely, if we are walking foolishly, we are preventing that the Holy Spirit to come into our lives and to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Um let me I gotta couple slides down. So As we recap what Paul has talked about, the role of the Holy Spirit in our lives in Ephesians, uh The baptism, the sealed, the indwelling. Paul hits on those in Ephesians, but there are also other references here. What does the Holy Spirit do in our lives? He regenerates us. He awakens our spirit from being dead and makes our spirit alive to where we can Have faith in God. We are indwelled by the Holy Spirit. We have the Holy Spirit in our lives, and it is permanent. Romans 8:9 there. We have been baptized by the Holy Spirit, meaning that we have been called as part of God's family. One time of event. And then as we saw in Ephesians 1, we have been sealed by the Holy Spirit with a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance. Upon our conversions. All all that kind of just happens. Bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, all at once. But then we have This other command to be filled with the Spirit. And this is not a one-time event. This is fluid. It's a continuous thing. It's something that we need to work on in our lives. And yet, as we work on it in our lives, it's still kind of a passive command. We must allow the Holy Spirit to come into our lives. So how does that happen? How do we allow the Holy Spirit to control us? Because as Paul said, hey, don't be drunk with wine, don't be controlled with wine, but be controlled by the Holy Spirit. How does that happen? Well, it just so happens, as God ordained it, that Paul was writing three letters in a prison at the same time. And uh he was and one of these other letters besides Ephesians was Colossians. And Paul kind of writes the same thing to both the Church at Colossi and the Church at Ephesus, churches at Ephesus. of what it means to be filled with the Spirit. Ephesians 5, it says, be filled with the Spirit, addressing one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks. Always and everything for God. And then in Colossians 3. 16 it says, let the word of Christ dwell in you reach richly. Teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. So we have a parallel passage here. And the difference is Be filled with the Spirit, and let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. How can we allow the Spirit to control us, spending time in the Word? Knowing the word, meditating on it, memorizing it, studying it. Let the word of Christ dwell in you. And by letting the word of Christ dwell in you, you will be filled with the Spirit. And keeping that connection with the Holy Spirit to allow you to walk wisely is what Paul is Commanding us to do here. We must never separate the Spirit and the Word, as Stott says. To obey the Word and to surrender to the Spirit are virtually identical. James Montgomery Boyce, he noted, he read in Acts, he said there are ten occasions at Pentecost and afterwards. When an individual or a group of individuals is said to have been filled with the Holy Spirit, in each case the common factor is that the persons involved immediately bore testimony to Christ. So as we are filled with the Holy Spirit, as we allow the Word of Christ to dwell in us, we will have an outward expression saying Hey, look at what God has done for me. Look at the goodness of God in my life here. And we will bear witness to Jesus. One other thing, Warren Wheersby also says, the baptism Of the Spirit means that I belong to Christ's body. The filling of the Spirit means that my body belongs to Christ. I I like like that. Um before I get to what does it mean or what are the four results of being filled with the spirit. Any questions about what it means to be filled with the spirit. This is just one word that I um never seen before, indwelling. I think you hit on it. It was just like Jesus living in us. Yeah. Yeah, I mean we we tell we tell our kids, hey, invite Jesus into your heart. You know, we we have the sp well let's go let's go to that s passage. Let's go to Romans eight. Um I could start earlier, but let's just start in verse 9. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. In fact, the spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of spit sin, the spirit is alive because of righteousness. If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Jesus Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. So here's this indwelling of the Spirit. If the Spirit of Christ dwells in us, we belong to Christ. And and uh and the Spirit gives life to us. Yeah. All right. So there are For consequences, positive consequences, and the consequences don't always have to be negative, for consequences of being filled with the Holy Spirit. First one, communication with one another. Paul says here, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Notice it's Psalms and Psalms which the book of Psalms everything was put to music. Hymns and spiritual songs. We're not necessarily supposed to sing these to each other, but we can address each other with this. Brian, I'm just curious Oh this may backfire on me, we'll see. Uh in your biblical counseling, I'm just curious, what book of the Bible do you use the most or maybe the top three when you're dealing when you're canceling others. Alright, so I go all over the place. Okay. Which is good. But when I was being supervised Um the supervisor was listening. You had to record at least five of the sessions. So he said, he said, uh he said, let me ask you something. He said, when you When you um go to a service, do they start out by reading scripture? I said yes. And he said um you should do that in his sessions. So I tend to when I first meet with a counselee, I'll go to problems. Okay. And because there's so much Encouragement and admonishment in the Proverbs that I'll start out with that. I'll come somewhere else But I will start out with priority. I think I'll go to Psalms. But yeah, with Psalms there is so much emotion, I guess, in Psalms that we can David and the other psalmists, they write from different perspectives of life. Sometimes they are happy, sometimes they are depressed, they're sad, they're angry. And we each have those emotions every day, and we each can address each other with the Psalms. And say, hey, you know, David or or Asah, the sons of Asah, they were dealing with this emotion and and no, hey, you can read the psalm and How did they come out of it? How did they end up eventually glorifying God out of these these Psalms? So when when Paul says Psalms, hymns, and spiritual psalms, he's often saying Psalms is the book of Psalms. Hymns, maybe worship songs to glorify God, and spiritual songs could be testimonial songs. Um we don't necessarily know for sure, but um that's kind of what the commentators kind of Settled on. So we are to address one another with these. Number two is communication with God. Singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart. It's worship. You know, as you're being filled with the Holy Spirit, you're going to be filled with Worship. When we did the first few lessons of Ephesians, you know, Paul's going through all this doctrine and In the end, you just kind of sit back and say, Lord, you are awesome. You are magnificent. Let me glorify you. In going through SLP when we were talking about the attributes of God, oftentimes I found myself, Lord, you are awesome. Let me worship you. So, as you let the word of Christ dwell in you richly and you're filled with the Spirit, one of the results is just worship the God and glorifying Him. Number three, giving thanks always for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Gratitude, thankfulness. Towards God. And then the fourth one is submitting to one another Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. And this last consequence is going to be a launch pad that Paul uses. for the next several sections in Ephesians. We're going to go through several examples of how do we submit to one another. He's going to go through the husband-wife relationship. He's gonna go through the parent-child relationship which I'm teaching on and I'm scared to death about. We're going to uh uh masters and slaves and how does that look like Um and we are to do this out of reverence for Christ. Um Yes, we in in some societies, yes, we should be submitting to one another, but Oftentimes our selfishness gets in the way. But as I'll just use the marriage relationship just to begin, just In a married relationship, yes, you can submit to one another, and that may go a certain distance, and then you run out of patience, and then you blow up at each other. But if we submit to each other in reverence for Christ, God, you put this person in my life, and I am to submit to them, I am to love them. With everything I've got. And even that's not enough. I need your strength to help me in this relationship. That's what Paul is saying. Hey, we may not like it, but out of reverence for Christ, as we deal with other Christ Christians in the body of Christ, let's submit to one another. Um yeah, any Yeah, Mark. I've heard that the Greek for that one to another is everyone to someone instead of like everyone to everyone. Which is probably good because you can't like waste time in your life to to be serving and loving everyone equally. Correct. I did not dig that deep into the Greek on that one, but yes, yes. You can't necessarily serve everyone. And all the examples are kind of make that more obvious, like it's uh like husbands, wives, wives, masters. Everyone everyone else is my own. Yeah, but so y yes, Paul does give specific examples, but as we know the letter was written to the church and it's talking about the building up of the church. what we can do for the body of Christ. We we should submit to one another and serve each other. Well I mean this is coming from like the literal aspect of it. Um what is it exactly that like how Jesus Christ submitted to uh to us? Is it is it because he went on the cross for everybody or is it just more specifically how he like kissed and washed his disciple's feet or is there an answer to that or is it all the above Christ ever submitted. Yes he served. So I mean I just heard you say that and that that that question Yeah, yeah. Um I mean Yes, Christ loved and he served. I don't know if he ever submitted because he never gave up his authority as as God. Okay. As a child he would have submitted to his parents. Um so as as in the human Peace of God, yes, he did submit to his authority that the Father had put over him. I was gonna say, could could you say that he submitted to the plan that was before Yes, he submitted submitted to all the torture and going to a cross for for us. Yeah, he submitted to the father's plan for sure. I I was thinking about other people on earth. So I'm just thinking just thinking for a moment, submitting to all these people that in God's sovereignty Use taken to the cross or torture and stuff. So submitting in that sense in that sense to God's plans. Yes, yes. He could have called the ten thousand angels, but that was not part of God's plan for him. Um I was gonna say Jesus paying taxes Uh so I guess it depends on what you mean when you say condition. Like are you saying, oh, he put himself within the structure of society at that time? Yes. Yes. As far as we're aware, he did all the things that every other Jewish person If you mean submission in the sense that like, oh, there's a human authority that has legitimate authority outside of what God ordained for them to have, he does say at its trial. You only have power because that gave you that power. Correct. Yes. Yes. Did you make a distinction between um I guess the definition of submission and serving? Because I I can see how like So submission I mean serving is Yeah. Is more out of the goodness of your heart you're going to do something for someone else. You're going to minister to them, you're you're going to cook them a meal, you're going to encourage them through through the Bible uh submission does have um and I do have a definition um For submission, it has nothing to do with the order of authority, but rather governs the operation of authority and how it is given and how it is received. So Submission is more we submit to the elders because there is a role there. We submit to our bosses because there is a role there. Jesus submitted to God the Father bec because of God's plan. Um it it is more um is more of a a structure that we must we can glorify God by saying, hey, you provide this structure in my life. I'm gonna serve you in this way, where I think serving is more out of the goodness of the heart outside of a organizational structure. And he's got five examples coming up of different kinds of structures. So that's a good way to figure out what he means by submission because he's about to give a bunch of He is about to give a bunch of examples. Again, slaves and and parents, children, marriage. So Yes. So what does Ryan what does submitting to one another look like in your life? Not submitting to the elder uh but to each other. What does that look like to look like We're supposed to love God with all of our heart, all of our soul, all of our mind, but also love our neighbor as herself. We're taking that as the goal for living our life. We will be doing things to not only glorify God, but edify, bless up all those that are in the body, especially in our marriage. Does that answer the But but but Mark, you make a good point where I mean Paul's saying submitting to one another, not So so you know, yes, Paul's gonna go through the some examples, but even in the context of the church, we need to at times deny ourselves and and out of reverence for Christ. Um Submit to each I can think of quite a few examples just in small things, like a a small group that like they might not be doing it quite how you want or something, but you like submit to your small group to your and like It does seem good and like uh your songs they sing at church might have been going to be like we switch the the worship team and you you sing with the rest of the people and glorify God and uh like your Sunday school teacher or that stuff there's always like nothing's ever quite value. And complain about. And yet Paul says, hey Do everything with thankfulness towards each other. And yeah, yeah, you y you may not like everything that happens in in a church service. You may not like all the key changes that Doug puts in in the worship song. But just kidding. I I like key changes. Um But but yes, do everything with thankfulness without complaining or grumbling, yes. Uh I think also in um questions two, three, two, four. Okay. Nothing from selfish ambition to But you know what we count others who are significant in your place. But you should give up not only to their own interests, but also to the interest of others. So Don't don't be selfish. Look to others interests, not to our own. Absolutely. All right. Back to the question that you asked, is there a difference between beginning and serving the bird No, because we're already eight minutes over. Um but I I think there is a fine I think there is a fine line. I mean I think there's a lot of similarities, but I I would think serving Serving may come more out of a heart action versus, hey, I'm in this situation and these things are happening to me and I will submit. Um uh that that would be my fine line, but we can uh delve through that another time. And uh are you teaching next week or is it Daniel? Daniel gets to talk about marriage. So if if you don't have your spouse with you this week, you may want to bring them next week. As we talk about it. Alright, let's pray. Dear Henry Father, we just uh thank you for just a good discussion, Lord. Lord, just help us to Spend time in your word. Let it dwell richly in our lives. Let it soak into our minds and our hearts. That We are then controlled by the Spirit that we worship you, that we encourage each other, that we are show gratitude and thankfulness to you. and that we submit to each other, Lord, however that looks like, as we've discussed. And we'll we'll probably need to work through that some more. But Lord, we we do know that we want to To walk wisely in your precepts, in your statutes, in your word. And the way we can best do that is if we spend time in it and encourage each other with it. Lord, we just uh pray for Antonio who will be speaking uh to us from your word. Let our ears be open, our hearts Soft to receive your message.