Alright, so today we are in Ephesians six eighteen through twenty. And Daniel Last week talked about the armor of God. And he started his the lesson with my section, which is about prayer and how Yes, we can put on this armor of God, but to do it without prayer is going to be futile. Prayer is is essential in our spiritual battle against The principalities and powers, the spiritual evil forces in the heavenly places, as it says in verse Twelve. So uh let's let's read and I'm just gonna start um Start in verse 10. Our text is verses 18 through 20 of Ephesians 6. But let's start in verse 10. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may stand, be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand firm. Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and As shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. In all circumstances, take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert, with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints, and also for me, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth, boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. for which I am an abas ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. The outline for today, because of snow and inclement weather, the outline was put together by Doug. And I'm not going to follow necessarily his outline. I had studied and I had a way to attack this passage. And then I saw the outline, and it's like, hmm, that's a good outline. But I'm still gonna go my go uh with with my way of attacking the the passage here. Um starting in verse fourteen, going back a little bit It says, stand therefore. And then Paul talks about putting on the armor of God. And between there and um In verse eighteen, there are three imperatives that we are commanded to do One is verse 14, stand. We are to stand firm. And again, Daniel talked about that um last week. But we stand firm having already put on the armor of God. We put on all the different pieces In the spirit, you make understand that this is God's armor. This is not our armor. It's what God has equipped us with and we need to put it on. And having put it on, we stand firm. And then after the armor of God is discussed, Paul gives two other um commands or imperatives. Of what we should do. We should be, as soldiers for God, we should be prayerful and we should be watchful. And the theme the theme of this passage is praying at all times. And Paul says this after talking about putting on the armor of God. Prayer is the manner in which a soldier takes up his armor. I can I read in one of the commentaries and now I and then I was looking through it last night and this morning I couldn't figure out which commentary I fa found it on. But Paul here is, even though he even though football wasn't invented back in Paul's day, uh a football analogy is you can put on The shoulder pads, the shin guards, the cleats, the helmet, and you can be ready to go. And you go rip-roaring out that field. But if you don't have a game plan, You're gonna lose. Yeah, you can take the hit, you can you can hit other people and you know you're you're gonna be kind of safe, but if there's no game plan Your team's gonna lose. And that's where prayer comes into play. We're talking to our coach, God our Father. James Montgomery Boy says, you and I can be clothed in God's armor, having the belt of truth, the breastplate of righteousness. Our feet shod with the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace, the shield of faith, the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the spirit, and yet failed to triumph because we do not call on God Our connection to God, his as Daniel described last week, his power, we have God is all-powerful, His unsurpassing power, and that is available to us. But if we are not asking God for His power, we will not stand firm And that's where prayer comes into play. Matthew Henry says prayer must buckle on all parts of the armor. So, what about prayer? Paul says in verse 18 and 19, praying at all times in the Spirit. with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplications for all the saints. What word do you see there a lot? All Yes. So this is my outline. It's all times, all prayers, all perseverance, and for all the saints. As soldiers, we are on the clock constantly. We are to be praying at all times. I've got a lot of scripture verses today It won't be a lot of commentary. It'll be a lot of scripture verses. So make sure you've got your thumbs ready to turn pages. Um but let's go to First Thessalonians five seventeen Verse 16, rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Pray without ceasing. Always, constantly We should be in prayer to God. And if you just turn back a couple pages to chapter 3, verse 10, Paul gives an example of his prayer life. In verse 9, for what thanksgiving can we return to God for you? For all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God. As we pray most earnestly, night and day, that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith Here, Paul and his brothers that he's that's with them as he's writing this letter, we pray for you night and day In Daniel, we know in the story of Darius signing the law, we know that Daniel prayed three times a day. If you turn over to Joshua, Joshua one, eight and nine. The book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, and you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do all that is written in it, for then you will Make your way prosperous and then you will have good success. Here Jesus is telling Joshua, meditate on the Word of God. And though it's the Word of God that helps us to pray. As we meditate on the word, it allows us to connect to God more and more in our prayer life. And many of you are also familiar with Psalm 1, 2. Blessed is the man who walks not in the council of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. Again, with meditation. Um that should be part of our prayer life is meditating on the Word of God. And Pastor Mike, he likes to read the scriptures and pray through what he reads. And that's part of his meditation practice in his spiritual life. So we prayed night and day, but it's not just just times, it's also places. Some of your passages talk about praying on all e all occasions. This can be done in public, this can be done in secret, it can be done in private, it can be done in social settings, it can be done in solitude, it can be solemn, it can be sudden. Um we see Nehemiah in Nehemiah two four. Here he's Being confronted by the king, he's the cupbearer, and the king looks at him and he knows something's wrong. And um The king said to me, What are you requesting? So I prayed to the God of heaven. And I said to the king, If it pleases the king, and he responds to the king, This is what I've also I've heard a lot of times called the the arrow prayer. You know, I I you just had a quick time to just uh shoot a prayer to God And this is what we can do. Yes, we have our own quiet times. There should be times where we are meditating and alone and having close one-on-one time with God. But then as we go about our day, we can be praying to God throughout our day. So So when do we pray? We pray night, we pray day, we pray multiple times like Daniel. We can pray even in inconvenient times Like Nehemiah, here he is before the king, and he's just praying to God, God, help me to say the words. uh to the king as he wanted to go and rebuild the wall in Jerusalem Back to Ephesians. Praying at all times in the Spirit. So here Here we are to pray not on our own accord, but in the Spirit. We are to take on the armor of God. In the Spirit. It should not be done by ourselves, but we have the Spirit. And let's go to Romans 8, 26 and 27. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes with us with groanings too deep for words. He searches, he who searches hearts knows what is in the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. As we pray, we we sometimes don't know what to pray for. We say, God I don't know what you have in mind for this circumstance. Or God, I'm struggling here. And yet We have the Holy Spirit who's interceding on our behalf. We don't know what the words we should be saying are, but we have the Spirit interceding with God the Father Taking our roanings and our in our words that just may not make sense and lifting them to the Father. And and that is key. I mean, as we put on the armor of God, we need to r realize It's not our fight. Yes, God has called us to be soldiers. We need to be ready. But but if we tried to do it on our own Again, going back to the football analogy, if you try to r run the play, and you're you're you're doing your own thing while everyone else is doing the play that's called by the coach The play is not going to work because you are not following the game plan. Too often we can get caught up in our own wants and desires in our prayer life, but But with the Spirit's help, with the Spirit's strength, we can express to God our concerns. And And and stand firm in that way. So we have praying at all times and we have Praying with all types of requir requests and supplications With all prayer and supplications. What just curious, what um what are different Types of prayers or what are different descriptions of prayers that you hear. Praise Okay. I got a few of them up there. Adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication. Um Contemplation, meditation, praise, blessing, requests, petition for mercy, intercession, crying out, seeking the face of God. We can go to God with with all of our concerns, with everything that's going on in our life. And here we have the acronym ACTS, adoration, confession, thanksgiving, and supplication. This is one way that, one method of prayer, to give praise to God, to adore him for who he is. And give him the praise and glory that he deserves. And then there's confession, going to God, realizing, God, I am a sinner And I do have sin in my life. Please help me to become more like Jesus. I repent of my sin. Let me follow you. Thanksgiving, being grateful for all his blessings that he's given us and his faithfulness to us Supplication. Things that are going on in our life that we have concerns about. God, how are you going to work in this? Um Whether it's job, family, um, other relationships, there are concerns. God wants us to to raise our concerns up to him. Yeah, any Does anyone go through acts in their in their prayer life? Just just curious. Yeah. Yeah. I mean i if you if it if Prayer is something that you struggle with. This is definitely a method that you can use as an easy acronym to remember, adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication, and you can Use this if this is if prayer is something that you struggle with. Yes. Um for a second about confession And you know, we have Romans 8 that we were just in. There's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Then you have 1 John 1 that talks about if we confess our sins, these people forgive us. How does confession play I mean I know the the simple answer, but is there more you know, can we go a little bit deeper because I've heard Some Christians, no, you don't need to do that. We're safe once and for all, and then other people, well, you need to keep your relationships good, but what does that look like? Well, so yes, we are saved by grace through faith. Um But we are still sinners. Christ's righteousness has been imputed on us, but we still sin. There is a sanctification process. We are not glorified. We have not been perfected yet. And And y you know, we are encouraged not only in the Bible but also by our our leaders during communion time. Hey, this is a Communion's a good time to reflect upon your own life and if you have unconfessed sins to confess them. It it's If we say we don't need to confess our sins anymore, then we're kind of going to Roman Paul's argument in Romans seven saying, Hey, if we have grace Then we can sin all we want because grace is going to cover our sins. And that is not what God wants us to do. God wants us to avoid temptation and not sin. And if we do, yes, we still need to confess it. It's it's an acknowledgement of, yes, we were wrong, I need to turn away from this. And And follow God. If we don't confess our sins, I think we lose that humility in our life and we do not strive for Christ-likeness. Right. Psalm fifty one with David is praying to God, a prayer with a sentence. He's he's confessing, but he's also asking God to uh trigger him, to create to me a new heart there. A new view of life. You're not sinning. Yeah. Along with confess and just not doing it. You know, go out and don't sin anymore. Romans 6. 1 and 2. Yeah. Yeah, creating me and hard and renewal right spirit over them. Yes. And I wonder if some of the absence of our confession in more Protestant conservative churches is a pushback from the priestly confession, right? And so You know, even when we spent a little bit of time in a Presbyterian church, it was refreshing that they started their service with a liturgy of confession. And so, you know, even in one of those it says, you know, forgive me for the outward sins I've done Forgiven me for not loving you the way I should, right? It's so easy for us to think of we were angry with our kids or we were jealous at work or whatever But for for the sins that we're not delighting in your ways, right? And so it's a focus that I feel like we've minimized in pushing away from having to confess But it is that dependence of our brokenness. Yes, we're saved, but we're not fully sanctified yet. And so by verbally confessing and saying I don't love Jesus the way I should and I don't um I'm holding on to things that I know that you want, right? Um is that outward acknowledgement to the Lord that says, I s I need you. I'm at your mercy. When um you mentioned the Presbyterian Church, when Gabe came back from his sabbatical last year we made a small change to the service where we started the service off with prayer. Now at first he he started that with a prayer confession. Now it's it's changed a little bit. But but yeah, there is focus of, hey, we are Lord, we are coming to you, we are sinners, let us confess to you our sins now that Uh having that burden of sin lifted off of you gets your relationship with God right. And uh Um just just like parents and children. You know, as parents we love our children, but when they do not do us right, there's friction there, there's tension there. If we are not following God, our relationship with God is not where it should be. Yes, we are still his children. Yes, he truly loves us. But something is not right there. And that's where confession comes. Joe, you had a comment? Yeah, because going back I was just gonna say like would it be fair to say well confession is not like required Should be safe. Do you and we're still commanded to do it as a James and sh kind of should be, you know, calling a spirit Like we should want to confess. It shouldn't be something that the spirit promises. Yes, yes. Spirit has been given to us as our our as a guide and as a conscience, yes. He should be prompting us to to confess. And we should want to do it. So we have praying at all times, we have all types of prayers. How to pray? It says, to that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints. With all perseverance. There are many passages in Scripture that tie prayer with keeping watch or being on guard, being alert. So I I have a few here that um I'd like to go through. Who is willing to read? A passage. Okay. Gloria. Matthew 26, 37 through 41. Kayla. Mark 13, 33. That one's going to be an interesting one. Joe. Luke 21, 36. Got a couple more. Okay, Matt, 1 Peter 5, 6 through 9, Nehemiah 4, 9, and one more. All right. Uh first Thessalonians five, seven through eight. All right. Matthew 26, 37 through 41. And taking with him Peter and the few sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Remain here and watch with me. And going a little farther he fell on his face and prayed, saying, My father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, So Could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. Alright. Dear Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane, asking his disciples, his closest friends to Keep watch and pray. He said it two times. He came back to them three times, but uh they were asleep. Uh when he came back the third time, they were asleep and he didn't even bother. Um he just went back to pray. Um He here, watch and pray. Alright. Kayla, what what version do you have? Um I have nothing. Okay. Let's try it. Um take heed, keep on the alert for you do not know when the appointed Okay. Good. Does anyone have a new King James on this one? Anyone have New King James? Okay. Uh uh Mark thirteen thirty-three. Um By the way, I struggled in my Bible study on this verse because it looks like the word prayer is in there, but New King James is the only one that uses the word prayer in it, and I struggled with why. But take heed of watch and pray because you do not know when pray. Be alert. Alright, who had Luke twenty-one thirty-six Okay. Um watch therefore and pray always that you may be counted worthy to escape all these things that will come to pass in the skin for the Okay. Watch and pray. Uh who had first Peter five, six through nine? Okay. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties upon him, because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him, first in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. Okay. Here we have hang on. Here we have Be Alert, Watch and Pray. And why? The devil is prowling about. This this Peter ties nicely here with Paul in Ephesians, where we are to stand firm. We are to resist the devil. It's only through prayer and watching, putting on that armor of God, that we are able to do so. you mentioned and I was thinking like if someone says to feel alert, keep watch, like you don't have to tell them to keep their eyes open. But with the spiritual realm, like we can't see it with their eyes. The only way we can see it is through prayer. Through prayer, yeah. Textus Receptus versus M G and T. All of ours are using M T and Trick New Testament. Got it. M G and G's as Textus Receptance. Receptus. It's in Texas Receptus. Okay. So for those of you who are uh history of the Bible people um and know textual context, uh That that is why. Um Nehemiah four nine, who has Nehemiah Nehemiah four years. Yeah. Okay. Nevertheless, we made our prayer unto God and set a watch against them day and night because of them. So here, Nehemiah, this is more of a practical thing where Nehemiah and and his team is building the wall and they're praying and they're keeping watch at the same time. In a more active sense, you could say. Finally, 1 Thessalonians 5, 7 through 8. I think seventeen ten two is either about getting drunk or pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances for this is the will of God except those for you. Okay. All right. Why? So here We are instructed to watch and pray, and they're tied together several times throughout Scripture. And if you have the outline in front of you from the notes, the opening question we have was, what actively interrupts your prayers? What discourages you from praying? What distracts you from praying? I know it's tough for me to just focus on prayer. It's if if there's noise around, I'm thinking about the noise. If there's silence, I'm it's too quiet for me. So I mean I get I get distracted one way or the other. Wow. So so yeah, what what are some things that actively interrupt your prayers or what discourages you from praying? What distracts you from praying? What what are you what happens? Yeah, Brian. So when you think of prayer and think about who you're talking to Do you really believe that God is going to answer your request for prayers? Not necessarily how you pray how you want it to be answered, but do you truly believe that the one that saved you, the one that created you, is going to answer these prayers within his will A lot of times we get distracted out of doubt. We we doubt that God's works because I'll request to something. That's not That's not right. God wants us to have a relationship with Him. He wants us through prayer we're spending time with Him He's going to answer through his word, you know, reading God's word along with prayer. So we see that he's answered if he's not If he's not speaking, if he's not answering loud enough, then read God's word louder. So we need to spend time with it. We have without uh lack of faith. Um things I can't think about. Um taking back on that I think it's very vulnerable to ask because it might be the same I think we do that with people too. Okay, I'm just not gonna ask because it might be disappointed. Okay. Yeah, Liz? Um also to kinda think you back on that. I think Sometimes there are things that you ask for and you feel like, okay, I've asked for this and I haven't gotten what I was hoping I was gonna get, so like maybe I maybe I need to stop asking. Um because there's some things where it's like you know in scripture this is something That God will be with you, that God will protect you, that God will give you the strength for every situation. And then there are other things where it's like, I don't necessarily know if this one is a promise It's something I want and I think it's a good thing, but maybe that's not what God wants me to have. I mean I don't have it right now, so I'm assuming God doesn't want me to have it right now So should I stop asking for that thing and maybe focus on something else? I don't know. And especially when it is something that you want, it's hard to keep asking when it doesn't seem like it's coming. Okay. Yeah, yeah. Um, I was gonna say what Brian was saying and also back to the verse that Matt um read about cast all your thoughts on him because he cares for you. catching your cares to the things that you actually care about because you believe you have a theology, you know, you believe that he really cares for you. And I think legalism can really set us back, at least for me growing up it was double acting or um for me that is I'm getting through it. It's it's more I'm gonna check it off my list, I have to have my devotions today or does it not gonna be happy. I grew up with that. So for me it's going back to casting my cares on him. And so whatever that looks like, it can be for a friend, it could be for myself, but it's because I know that he cares for me. And I think what you were saying too about being prepared, having a list, you know, having relationships with people so you can write down what their requests are and then you go through your cards or you go through your paper or whatever it is. Otherwise, I mean if you're not looking at something and focusing, you're I think we all are just going to be everywhere in our brains. Yeah. Yeah. Well I think this is more like a central focus Reason it's just like I think time gets in the way. You know, if you say I'm with you, it's just like wait, should I be doing this? Should I be doing that? You know, and then the only times that I really I mean I'm guilty edge charge, the only times that I really feel close to God, even though I should do it twenty four seven. And then yeah, and then also ninety-nine percent of my prayers are for other people. So um so yeah, that's yeah, that's fine. That's fine. So yeah, so yeah, we yeah, Doug. Um There are times when I'm bored in prayer. And um my struggle I think at those times w which gets back to what Brian said. is to strive in a relationship with God. For for me. Otherwise Um it's repetitive and a list of of things. Um and I I strive to push my heart towards a drawing near to God so that it creates its own hunger for relationship and prayer. And that's a a fight, that's a struggle that that I have to persist in And it's a worthwhile struggle, but it's something that that keeps me from prayer and it makes it so that the urgent things in my life seem more important. Or the fun things in my life seem more important. And I miss out on what is truly satisfying. I satisfy the candy instead of what's meat and potatoes. And I there's a there's a tendency that I have there that holds me away from prayer. And it's something I have to repent from all the time Yeah, colour. I guess mm, I'll be quick like forgetfulness maybe, or just being tired, or Happening to commit to your brain. Like if where it's falsified to forgive others or not to be led into temptation, forgiving that? Or committing to that rather? Yeah. Yeah. Lots of reasons. Again, Paul is putting this passage next to the armor of God because You know, prayer prayer can be tough at times. It it it can be a list, just praying through a list and gets monotonous. Um or you keep praying for the same thing and and it just, you know, w when's when's the answer coming? But Again, kind of as Daniel mentioned last week, keep in mind what is truth. And God wants you to have that relationship with Him. Cast all your cares upon Him. He wants you. to go to him in your time of needs and in your time of blessing, to praise him for that Uh and again as I mentioned, Pastor Mike often refers to praying through the scriptures. If if things are getting a little mundane Take out prayer time, take your re scripture reading time and pray through what you're reading. And and that's something J just something to maybe break up some of the monotony that you're facing The word perseverance here is is only used here in Ephesians. But um but I do want to address a couple verses uh and they're easy. Romans 1212 and then Acts twelve twelve. Um Romans twelve, twelve Be rejoice in hope, patient in tribulation, constant in prayer. Keep praying, be constant in prayer. And then Acts 12, 12. Here, uh Peter was in prison and uh he just got out And here we have an example of the saints praying. It's like middle night or very early morning. And he goes to the house of Mary, mother of John. And when he realized this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose other name was Mark, where they were gathered together and were praying. Here we have an example. People were constantly praying, praying for Peter and and his uh and his release. Uh Warren Weirs Wearsby It says, perseverance in prayer does not mean we are trying to twist God's arm, but rather that we are deeply concerned and burdened and cannot rest until we get God's answer. It's not like the parable of Luke where the widow is going to the judge and constantly bugging him until he says, fine, I'll grant your request. But it is that type of perseverance, but it's not saying, God, I'm just going to keep praying until you give me what you what I want. No, it's God, I am so concerned about this and I am burdened by this that I'm just going to keep praying. And eventually, it may be soon, it may be later, you will reveal your answer to me. So pray, pray with perseverance. And yeah, when when we pray, sometimes the eyelids get tired, but keep alert, be on guard. Yeah. And you speak a little to that the boldness of the window first period and the trend to knock some sort of nice example. Like I know he's not getting at keep going until the end of the career. But like what what is So I'm not prepared to necessarily speak fully about that. Um it was Luke over here. Um It's the parable is about justice and about God giving justice um for the righteous over the wicked. And and we need to be patient in that. We know we know that Yes, it may seem like the wicked are are ruling over us and oppressing us, but we can't have faith in God that his justice will reign. But that was that is something that we see David praying for constantly in the Psalms, for justice. God, how long are you going to allow this to happen? And we can be persistent in prayer in that. We know what the end is going to be Yeah. You want to go further as I are I left there? I'm sorry. You can press on. No no no no go. The comparison is This is not a judge this is a judge that doesn't fear God or respect man. Yes. And then the comparison is to God who uh loves people and takes care of people and brings about justice And just like this woman can come to that judge and beg and beg and beg and finally she gets her mercy, when we go to God, we should expect that God has a desire to bring justice and will bring mercy. Um and it says here in verse 8, I tell you he will give justice to us speedily. Nevertheless. Oh, I'm sorry, backing up. And we'll not God give justice to his elect who cry to him day and night willing to lay in honor of them. That's God providing for us to think that we asked for it. God's gonna do it. Well the promises, yeah. There's an interesting connection actually there. They never named the adversary in the parable, which is remarkable Um but it ties in well with the Ephesians passage, which I'm struggling to get to, right? The whole context of this is you do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers And it's just it's conspicuous that Lute Christ through names the adversaries. just the adversary. It's the same word used in the rest of the New Testament when Christ wants to represent you. And then that context here as well, right? Got it. Yeah. Yeah, thank you. Who do we pray for? Moving on. Pray for all the saints. Um let me get back to Ephesians. How how does the Lord's Prayer start out? Our Father. Our Father, not my Father. Where we are praying with our other brothers and sisters in Christ and and we can pray for them as well. And then as we go on, pray for supplication for all the saints and also for me, Paul. That words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. Here Paul says, Hey, pray for me. Uh I uh last week I think at dinner time at our house We one of my kids who's who was struggling with some schoolwork says, well, you know, you can ask for help. And he goes, No, I don't want to ask for help. That pride was settling in. And and so I continued the discussion about, well, what if you guys are struggling with something? Do you ask other people to pray for you? And I think that's something we struggle with. It's hard to pray for these the saints for your brothers and sisters if you don't know what they're struggling with and what what they need prayer for. Um in here Paul is not ashamed to say, Hey, pray for me. Pray that I may be bold in preaching the gospel and being clear. Here, he's asking for boldness, and yet we read through Acts, as we read through Acts, Poe is a pretty bold guy. And he spoke the word of word clearly in one context. The people and I forgot which city it is said, hey, Barnabas is Zeus and Paul is Hermes, because Paul's the chief speaker. And then when Paul was in Athens, you know, he proclaimed the gospel and the people Said, hey, we we want to hear more about this. And and so Paul's saying he's asking for boldness to proclaim the mystery of the gospel and to be clear in that. And yet you're saying, well, Paul, you're pretty good at that already. There is one one interpretation, and I kind of lean towards this interpretation, where with Paul Being in prison, writing to the Ephesians here, he's about ready to speak to Caesar and see Caesar and who the Romans They think Christians are part of the Jewish sect, and they're not. And the Jews think the Christians are heretical. And so Paul needs to go to Caesar and He's asking for clarity, and hey, this is the mystery of the gospel, the church. The church is a separate entity. We're bringing Jews and Gentiles into one body together. And he you know he didn't ask for comfort in prison or freedom, but he did ask for boldness and faithfulness to further the gospel. And to proclaim it boldly. But again, kind of going back to the other point of we don't tell other people Our prayer requests. And one of my boys said, Yeah, I I I don't need to tell anybody else. I can do it on my own. I mean this will help my relationship with God if I if I pray. Well, yes. You should pray to God and concentrate on your relationship with God. But guess what? There is strength in prayer, there is power in prayer. And God wants us to pray for each other as part of our summary statement for Ephesians. You know, the eternal purpose of God for His church. Ephesians is about the unity of the church, the unity of the body, and we can do so. by putting aside our pride and sharing with one another our our requests and our praises too. Make sure you Tell others, hey, this is what God did for me in this circumstance. I have a really weird, small praise to God But I I'm so thankful for it. And it happened like three weeks ago. Amy sent me a list of, hey, snow's coming. You may want to do some things about around the house. And it's like, you know, I should probably listen to my wife. So I I did. And most of the lists didn't really apply to me. She used something that she got on the internet or something, I'm not sure. But one of them was to Turn off the water to your outside spigots. So the this where I have to do that is in the basement. So I go down to the basement to turn turn it off And just during that time, I noticed the tank where our sump pump is, there was water standing in that tank. And it's like, really? It should that water level should be a lot lower. And sure enough, I got the sump pump out and the sump pump was dead right before the snow came. So guess what I did? I got to went to Home Depot and got a new sump pump. And and it's just one of those small things that I'm just so thankful to God for that it was I I listened to my wife. Um and and uh And I was and he brought this problem to my attention before it could have been a bigger issue. But uh Yeah, so in your relationships, in your small group, if you're not part of a small group, please consider joining one. Connect with the saints. Because it's during this time that you can share life with each other. You can share your prayer requests. You can share your praises. You can share, hey, this is what God is doing in my life. Do that, please do that. Um wrapping up here Doug, you had for homework this because this was your outline by the way, that because of snow I'm taking over this lesson. Um You you had for homework practice messy prayers. Do you want to explain what messy prayers is? You know, um I'm sure I had something clear headed whenever I Oh, it was you? That was me. Oh! Daniel, it was you. Okay. Yeah. Oh I haven't tripped by your interpretation. So uh you know I I think that if I had to guess Some of us sometimes think I need to make sure that I have um you know Everything laid out. I've got to have nice candles that smell good. I've got to have my Bible and my highlighter in front of me, and I've got to have my cup of coffee in my hand before I can pray Um and I gotta use old English when I pray. Um but the reality is it's kinda like what you saw in the book of Nehemiah and kinda like just a relationship that we foster with God is that we're oftentimes like little children and the things that we bring to God is Uh you know, Lord, I I'm struggling right now and I don't even know how to form this prayer all the way. Um and I'm just praying for patience to clean up the spaghetti on the floor right now. uh for to deal with this stupid coworker that's doing the same thing again. My heart's wrong. And there's a sense of God sees our sin already and we don't have to hide it from him And we can bring it to him in a real, open confession of what God already sees and knows, and thanking him for the strength to deal with this stuff Is that what you were thinking about? Okay. Alright. Well so everyone practice messy prayers. Uh before we pray. Oh How do you practice Messi first? Yeah, okay, so I think it's a combination of what actually Amy wrote. So I think there's an aspect where you reference the acronym of ACS. that you are making sure that you have a heart that confesses a heart that has thankful heart that prayed for saints. I think there's a discipline to making sure that your prayers look like that. And I think there's a discipline to coming to the Lord and saying, I don't know what I'm doing, and I need your help. There's a quote from early light. It's the um It's something like the only person who would dare to wake a king in the middle of the night for a glass of water is a child. And it's that concept of I don't have to come to you with a plan. I don't have to come to you with absolutely doubt. Lord, I just need your help and I need you to I need you to help me pray to you in terms of like this topic and all of them. It it was that as a combination of those players. There's a good example of a messy prayer in Jonah chapter two. Literally And one more thing. I I think I'm so glad you said what you said, and the Jonah reference too. It's important in the midst of our messy prayers, and this is something that came earlier on in the class to remember that God is God. And even in our messy prayers, we need to have a remembrance of reference and awe for who God is. Um and and to not not lose track of that. Yeah. So, having put on the armor of God, stand firm, be constant in prayer, and be alert. Um, I'm gonna Before we pray, I want to read one more quote from James Montgomery Boyce. And this quote could be twisted in a wrong way, so make sure you If you have any questions about it, you can ask me. But our secret resource is prayer. And what makes it so important is that the weakest Christian at any time period of his life, at any moment of the day, And in any circumstance, in the middle of the night going to the king, cry out to God for help and instantly have the resources of the infinite sovereign God at his disposal Let's pray. Dear Henry Father, we thank you for this discussion. Lord, we are so grateful that we are your children and that we can come to you at any time. With our cares and our worries and our fears. And we know that you are we are safe in the protection of An Almighty God, our rock and our fortress. Lord, just help us to Be in constant communication with you. And as we do that, um The closer we are to you, the easier it is to stand firm and to resist temptation, Lord. Lord, just help us to be alert as we pray, to always be watching as a good soldier for you. Help us, Lord, to pray with perseverance. Let our prayers not just be Uh um halfway. But let us speak to you with truthfulness and honesty and And just with full measure, we may not know what we're praying for, but we thank you for the Holy Spirit who intercedes on our behalf. And Lord, we thank you for this body of believers that we can share with each other and pray for each other and see how you are working in each other's lives. That's your design, Lord, for the church, is to become one body. Help us, Lord, to strive for that. In Jesus' name. Amen.