Or people who attend our church but haven't been necessarily attending this class. So You are in Ephesians. If you don't want to be in the Ephesians class, there are others around. But we're working our way through Ephesians. We are at chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. And and for those of you who are new, uh the I'm one of three teachers. Doug Baldridge is one, and Daniel Ragab, who's not here today, is our third. And together, collectively, we have put together the Summary statement of Ephesians, and it is the eternal purpose of God for his church is to be reconciled to him in Christ and unified with one another, which is ultimately for his glory, walking faithfully and obediently as his children And I'll repeat that again. The eternal purpose of God for his church is to be reconciled to him in Christ and unified with one another, which is ultimately for his glory. walking faithfully and obediently as his children. So in chapter one, Paul starts off with this Long um beautiful dialogue of how great is the blessings of God and the spiritual blessings that we all have received in Him. And He uses lots of different terminology when it comes to salvation and redemption. And all the blessings we have that comes from Christ dying on the cross and saving us from our sins. And it's all part of God's eternal plan for us. And the inheritance that we have. We are God's inheritance. And then he goes through some more Thanksgiving and prayer as we get to the end of chapter one. He's praying that, hey, I want you to know the riches of his glorious inheritance, the immeasurable greatness of his power to us who believe. And then as we go through into chapter two, chapter two is broken into kind of two parallel sections of Salvation, one is for us individually, and then the second half is more of salvation for the Jews and the Gentiles, and how we are coming together in that. Doug last week talked, went went through the last few verses of Ephesians 2. Talking about how Jews and Gentiles are unified, we are built on the foundation of Jesus Christ, who is our cornerstone. And that we are growing to being built together as a holy temple, each of us together. And Paul's about ready to expand on this even more. And so let's read verses 1 through 6 in chapter 3. And it says, For this reason I, Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, on behalf of you Gentiles, assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you How the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I have written briefly. When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Paul starts off with this section of the letter to the Ephesians of I, Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of the Gentiles. Paul is writing this from prison and in Rome. And he says, I am in prison on behalf of you, Gentiles. So let's do a little background into this story of how Paul got to where he was. Let's turn to Acts 21. And in verses twenty seven through thirty It says Paul has been traveling to Jerusalem. He has been warned not to go to Jerusalem. If he does, he will be bound and arrested. And Paul has his sights on going there anyway. And he has made a vow of um for seven days, and in verse twenty-seven it says, When the seven days were almost c completed, the Jews from Asia seeing him in the temple stirred up the whole crowd and laid hands on him, crying out, Men of Israel, help. This is the man who is teaching everyone everywhere against the people and the law in this place. Moreover, he brought Greeks into the temple, and he has defiled this holy place. For they had previously seen Trophomus, the Ephesian, with him in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple. Then all the city was stirred up, and the people ran together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple, and at once the gates were shut. So we know Paul has been going on several missionary journeys. He's been preaching the gospel to Gentiles in places like Ephesus, Colossae, Thessalonica, and so forth. And everywhere he goes He starts in the synagogue, and he preaches to the Jews, and he preaches to the Gentiles, and there's this group of Jews that are following him, accusing him of uh preaching against the law of Moses and and uh he's been persecuted many times And these men from Asia follow Paul to Jerusalem. And they accuse him of Teaching everyone everywhere against the people and the law and this place. They the Jews obviously they believe the law of Moses is the the the highest word of God, the the law that should be followed, and anything against it is against God's will and plan. And they don't s know of this mystery that Paul's about ready to discuss later on in this chapter. And it says they're accusing him of bringing Greeks into his temple because they saw Trophimus and Ephesian. a Gentile with them and they just assume he brought them brought him into the temple, but there's no indication that he actually did this. And if he did bring a Jew into the temple We had discussed previously that there were several sections of the temple, different courts, courts for the priests, courts for men, courts for women, and then the final for the Gentiles. They said, hey, Paul brought this guy from Ephesus into one of the inner courts where Gentiles are prohibited. And then after and so Paul is arrested and He's under Roman control at this point, and he's the Romans allow him to speak to the people in Jerusalem. He wants to say, hey, let me try to clear this up. So if we go to chapter 22, Paul is preaching to the people in Jerusalem. And we're going to jump in towards the end of his testimony in verse 17. And he says, When I had returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, I fell into a trance. And saw him saying to me, Make haste and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your testimony about me. So Paul is receiving a message from God saying, You need to leave Jerusalem. This was many years ago. And I said, Lord, they themselves know that in one synagogue after another I imprison and beat those who believed in you. And when the blood of Stephan, your witness, was being shed, I myself was standing by and approving and watching over the garments of those who killed him. And he said to me, God speaking to Paul, Go, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles. Upon this word, they listened to him. Then they had raised their voices and said, Away with such a fellow from the earth, for he should not be allowed to live So as Paul is saying, hey, this is my testimony, this is my story, the people were listening intently. And then as soon as they as soon as it got to the point where he said God told me to go speak to the Gentiles. There was an uproar. And the Roman guards, they had to hide Paul at that point and keep him from being beaten by the crowd And put to death by the crowd. So we see that this hostility of the Jews to uh the Gentiles. Um The Orthodox Jews in Paul's day did consider Gentiles to be dogs, and even some of the Christian Jews Did not have a much better attitude toward Gentiles. We see this if we go back to Ephesians, what Doug had teached, taught on the last couple weeks. Ephesians two If we go to Ephesians 2, verse 14, it says, He himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh. the dividing wall of hostility. There is this wall of hostility between Jews and Gentiles, and we see that in this story in Acts where there is this hostility and as soon as they hear that God told Paul to go to the Gentiles and proclaim Salvation to them, there is an uproar. It's like, no, no, salvation is for us Jews only So we see this hostility and Paul is now in prison because of that. Just a couple other verses I'd like to just hit real fast. If you turn over back to Acts. Acts nine verse fifteen And this is basically The story of Paul's testimony that we just read about, but the Lord said to him, Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and the kings. the children of Jerusalem. So Paul or here God is telling Ananias, who's about ready to um give Paul his sight back after being blinded on the road to Damascus, saying Paul is my instrument that's going to carry my name to the Gentiles. And just one other verse, if we go to Galatians 2. Seven through nine. Paul writes. On the contrary, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, just as Peter had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised. For he who worked through Peter for his apostolic ministry to the circumcised worked also through me for mine to the Gentiles. And when James and Cephas and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given to me, they gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go to the Gentiles, and they to the circumcised. Paul here is explaining. I met with the leaders, the apostolic leaders in Jerusalem, and we see this hostility between The Greeks, the Gentiles, and the Jews. And let's put together a plan. We need to be able to figure out how to tie these people together. You work focus on your ministry to the Jews, to the circumcised, Paul, all reach out to the Gentiles. And that's what Paul has done, and he received opposition from the Jews, and now he is in prison. So we see that in that in Ephesians here Going back to our text, for this reason, I, Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, on behalf of you Gentiles. Most of you have a dash after that. So, Paul starts out this thought of for this reason. Now, I'm not going to tell you what for this reason is yet Because if you look at verse fourteen, you will see, for this reason I bow my knee before the Father. So Doug or or maybe it's Daniel. I guess it's a good idea. Daniel is following me a week. Okay, Daniel's gonna explain to you, and hopefully he's listening to this, because I'm telling him he's gonna explain this in a couple weeks. He's gonna explain for this reason But here Paul starts off with a thought, for this reason, I'm a prisoner to the Gentiles, and then he stops in verses 3 through 13. is a parenthetical thought. He interrupts himself in his writing and says, you know what, I I'm not ready to move on. I I want to just marinate my thoughts here just a little bit more. And so that's what he does in uh in verses, I guess, verses two through thirteen. And as we go, assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you, how the mystery was made known. to me by revelation as I have written briefly. Paul mentions here a stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you. Stewardship. Some translations may have administration, some translations may have economy. Some translations may have dispensation. So um The this word of administration comes from a Greek word oikonomia and it's split up into two Parts. There's oikos, which means house, and gnomos, which means law. And so it translates the law of the house. It's a stewardship or management. I've got, if you are a parent, you are in charge of administering the law of your house. You're in charge of discipline. You're in charge of providing food and water to your children. Um or your pets. Um, you are the ones who are managing this And Paul has been given a given charge of being the steward of God's grace here. Not that he is in charge of dispensing God's grace, but he's in charge of how it should be proclaimed. uh to to others. And I'm going to come back to this a little bit more, but As we go to what this stewardship is. What is he steward of? It says of God's grace, but it's how the mystery was made known to me by revelation. We know that Paul spent three years by himself in Arabia learning from from God, being taught directly from God and he received direct um Revelation, just as the apostles who spent three years with Jesus, they received direct revelation from Jesus Christ. And there's this mystery that Paul talks about. Now, this mystery is not I believe I've said this in a previous class. This mystery is not something that's mysterious that, oh, we've got to figure out what this is. No, this mystery is a secret, something that has not m been made public yet. I am a CPA and this week one of my clients signed on the dial line on Friday that he sold his business to someone else. He has a plan of what's happening with his company. And that may be a mystery to his employees, what's going on. Their em his employees are going to find out on Monday that they now have a new employer. It's a mystery. Uh similarly, it's uh and I may vent here for a little bit. Um Similarly, uh my own company, we're going through some changes and as one of the principles of of the firm and head of one of the offices, I'm privy to some of the information that's going on in our firm And of the changes that's happening. And unfortunately, the way this is unfolding, we can't tell everyone everything at the same time. We're actually telling people things piecemeal. And some of the staff, they're catching on to something. I've had people in my office say, hey, what's going on here? And unfortunately, I can't tell them everything. This is it's a mystery to them. It's something that's known to me. And here, Paul Says, God has this plan. It's a plan that he's known for all times, but he hasn't revealed everything yet. And this mystery that we'll read more in verse 6 is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus. And you may be saying, well, Scott, w what about the Old Testament? What's Isn't there references of salvation coming to the Gentiles in the Old Testament? And there are. And let's go through some of them. Let's start off with Genesis twelve. Going back to Abraham. Genesis 12, 1 through 3. Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make a great nation, make you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse. And you, all families of the earth, shall be blessed. So The nation of Israel hasn't quite been established here, but God tells Abraham, all nations of the earth through you will be blessed. Isaiah, let's go to Isaiah 42. Isaiah forty two, verse six I am the Lord. I have called you in righteousness. I will take you by the hand and keep you. I will give you as a covenant for the people. A light for the nations, to open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeons, from the prison, those who sit in darkness. So Here he says, I am giving you as a light for the nations, not just for Jerusalem, but for the surrounding nations. And just turn a little bit over to uh Isaiah forty-nine, verse six. He says, It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel. I will make you as a light for the nations that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth. So here, Isaiah is prophesying, there is Judah will be a light to the nations, and salvation will go out to the ends of the earth. So even though the Jews may not have liked it, they should have come to the realization that at least salvation is is available to the Jews. Um But what we don't know, and what Paul is going to reveal, is it's not just salvation. There's something more, something more special with this mystery. With with the mystery um God has the same plan through all eternity, but as I mentioned, he has revealed parts of his plan at different times in the history of mankind. And he has different ways of managing his program from age to age. And according to and this is from Warren Wearsby. God has different ways of managing his program from age to age, and these different stewardships, Bible students sometimes call dispensations. God's principles do not change, but his methods of dealing with mankind do change over the course of history. And from James Vernon McGee, this does not mean that God's method of salvation had changed. No man was saved by keeping the law, but by bringing a bloody sacrifice when he saw that he had come short of the glory of God. That sacrifice pointed to Christ. We have here in the word dispensation, um, God revealing his plan over time. He doesn't he didn't tell Adam and Eve everything about his plan. He did not tell Abraham his entire plan. He did not reveal all of it to Moses. He did not reveal all of it to David or to the prophets. He's revealing his plan over time. Something called dispensation or dispensational theology versus covenant theology. Doug mentioned covenant theology a little bit last week, where it's viewed that the church is replacing Israel and have is receiving all the promises and blessings that have been given the nation of Israel. We are dispensationalists, meaning God has revealed his plan over time, and he has a special purpose for Israel. The promises that he made to Israel will still come to fruition at the end, but the church has not necessarily replaced Israel. Not all the promises given to Israel. Will apply to us. But all the benefits of salvation do. And I do want to make that clear. We have all the spiritual blessings. That God has granted us in the heavenly realms. So as we continue on through Ephesians And let me just stop there. Any questions at this point? Y yeah, yeah. I mean there there's It it's there is a lot more clarity and definition to what God's plan is at at this time. And and as you're going through, you you mentioned This mystery which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations, the Old Testament, but has now as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. And so Paul here here says, hang on one second, Mark. Paul says here that, first of all, he's been giving stewardship of this of the revelation of this mystery, so has the apostles and prophets Now, when we think of prophets, we normally think of Isaiah, Jeremiah, Daniel, Moses, but here we are talking about New Testament prophets because as it's As he's saying it, it's now been revealed to people of this age, which are prophets. Mark. I was wondering if maybe it was more than just like there's a lot more words about it now and it includes like The Holy Spirit coming and opening up our eyes to understand. You know, uh in at the end of verse five it says, hey, this has now been revealed as it has now been revealed. to the apostles and prophets by his spirit. And the spirit, we discussed this in chapter one. is working differently. Um where previously in the Old Testament the Holy Spirit may come into a person and be withdrawn from a person. Old Testament believers did not have the Holy Spirit and dwelt in them permanently that New Testament believers do now. And and so yeah, Mark, I I think that is part of it is hey, God's plan is the same. His methods may change over time, including even how the Holy Spirit works in our lives. We have The assurance through our faith in Jesus Christ that the Holy Spirit is indwelt in us and will not leave us At all. Um We're gonna end early today, by the way. Um I th I thought that may be the case So I I I would think if you go to Deuteronomy, um And and E um the promises gave given by God to the nation of Israel and Abraham, um the blessings that they will have if they follow the law, the curses they receive if they don't follow the law. Um even Even uh God's promise to Abraham, God promised Abraham that his descendants would inherit um There would be a seed, which would be Jesus Christ, the Messiah. There would be blessings, and then there's the promise of the land. And the land piece of it for sure would not necessarily apply to the church. That would apply to Israel. Um and and Doug again I I wasn't planning on going down this route, but Doug also mentioned in Romans is it nine or ten, the olive branch. Eleven. Oh I was off. Uh the the olive branch where um God's created uh uh basically uh an olive tree for Israel and he cut off Israel because they were not faithful and a wild branch meaning the Gentiles were grafted in. But there was still the promise for Israel to come back to that blessing and to the promises that they received. Absolutely. So this mystery by revelation, um Paul uses the word mystery six times in Ephesians and three times basically in this section. Hey, I have this mystery, I have this secret, I'm now going to tell you. What it is. And he flat out does tell us in verse six what this mystery is. It is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs. members of the same body and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel So if you say, okay, well, we know that salvation has come To the Gentiles. There are indications of that in the Old Testament. Why is this a mystery that Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same pot? body and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. What is the difference here? Does anybody have an NIV? You you got the NIV? Can you read verse six out of the NIV? What is the word that's repeated there? Together. Together. Together is the word that's repeated. So even if salvation has come to the Gentiles, the Jews are saying, oh, we're still superior. We still have all these blessings and all this promise coming to us that the Gentiles are second-class citizens. And yet here Paul uses the word together. He uses the and we had he used this in Ephesians before. the word the prefix S Y N, which means with or together. And he uses that with heirs, he uses that with members, and he uses that with partakers. So Paul is saying, this is the mystery. We have salvation, yes, but We are equal with the Jews. There is this unifying force that we have together. And as Doug talked about last the last couple weeks. And I read verse 14 in chapter 2, but I want to read 14 through the end of the chapter. For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the the biting wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments Expressed in ordinances that he might create one new man in place of the two, so making peace and might reconcile us both to God in one body. Through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and he preached to you who were far off, and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access to the Spirit Access in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him, you are also being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Like three or four different times, God says We're all one. We are creating this unit unity. Yes. Uh that was Ephesians two, fourteen through twenty-two. Two twenty something. Yeah. Yeah. And so he describes we're being built together as a temple. Jews and Gentiles. We have this unity together. We're members of the same household. Jews and Gentiles. We are equal. And so Paul's just screaming out. Hey, we are not two bodies. We are one body And so he mentions the three things that um that we are unified in. And I was surprised. The commentators that I was reading did not spend a lot of time on verse 6. And it's like, hey, here's the mystery. Let me tell you what the mystery is, and then the commentators were kind of silent on on this. I I think mainly because there's so much that Paul talks about heirs and members of the same body and partakers of the promise and other texts that they've just skipped over it. So What are the errors? What are the members of the same body? What are partakers? Well, what is an error? Who is an error? A sun. Okay. An error is a sun. And what does what does b being an error do, or what's going to happen if you're an error or a sun? You what? Okay, they get your stuff when you die. Yes. Yes. So Paul uses the term error several times, and we'll go to different places on this. Let's go to Titus 3. 7. And my mouth is getting a little dry. So who would like to read Titus 3. 7? And I've got a couple other verses I can hand out. Okay, Caleb, you've got Titus 3. 7. Who would like to take Galatians 4, 1 through 7? Doug, you've got Galatians 4, 1 through 7. And who's got Romans 8. 17? Who would like to take that? Alright, Mark. Alright, thank you. I gotta be careful. I keep reaching down here to get water and there's baby or clean wipes down here. I don't want to drink that. Um all right. Kayla, you've got Titus three seven. So that being justified by his grace, we would be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Okay we have been made heirs to the hope of eternal life. And an an eternal, a future inheritance is ours of glory. Doug, Rom or Galatians 4, 1 through 7. Now I say, as long as the heir is a child, he does not differ at all from a slave. Although he is owner of everything. But he is under guardians and stewards until the date set by the Father So also we, while we were children, were enslaved to unreally eternal things of the world. I'm sorry, elemental things of the world But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, so that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father, therefore you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. All right. We are no longer slaves, but we are an heir of God. And a full as a full grown son we receive The inheritance of eternal life, we receive an inheritance of, as he said, of a father, of a close relationship to God. And that will just even blossom more. We we can call him Abba Father now, but that will blossom even more when we are in glory. Uh Mark, you had Romans 817. And if children send heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. Alright, we are heirs and co-heirs with Christ. We will suffer with him on this earth. But the glory we receive after we leave this life exceeds greatly the suffering that we will endure here. So we go from heirs, Paul goes from heirs, Gentiles. Being fellow heirs with the Jews and members of the same body. Again, J. Vernon McGee, the mystery was that the Gentiles in Israel were placed on the same basis by faith in Christ. They were both brought into a new body, which is the church. Christ is the head of that new body. And Paul will talk about this body again, but he's already talked about it in chapter 1, verses 22 and 23. And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all and all. The church is the body, Christ is the head of the church. And in chapter four Again, I don't want to steal our thunder for later, but in chapter 4, we're going to talk about, hey, how does the body function? How are we all members of this body, the church? And uh so we'll understand that more. Come back to to the to future classes as we discuss that. And then I also want to go to Ephesians, or Galatians, sorry, just a couple pages back, turn a couple pages back to Galatians 3. 28. And it says there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither Male or female, for you are all for you are all one in Christ Jesus. As members of the same body, we We all have equal importance of being in the body, as it discusses in 1 Corinthians. We each have our own part to play, but We are all viewed equal by God, whether we are Jew or Greek, or whether we are male or female, slavery-free, God views us as equal, and there is a unity in that. view ourselves not as superior but as members of the same body. There is a unity that we can have, a sweet fellowship that we can have with each other. And then finally, partakers of the promise. The promise here is singular. Um and and and I think that is key because as I was just saying Israel, God has promised many things to Israel, and those promises will still be fulfilled at in the end of time, but not all of us, Gentiles. Will receive those promises. But so what is the promise that Paul is referring to here? Partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus. Through the gospel. It's the promise of redemption. And it is through the gospel that uh That we have this promise of salvation. For those who have received that gift of grace by faith, believing in Christ Jesus, we have redemption through his blood. And it's a double union, not only with Christ, but in keeping with Paul's theme here, it's a union with each other, with Jews and Gentile. So Now that Paul has been made steward of this mystery And the apostles, and they are now revealing it to us through God's word. Is it no is it a secret anymore? No, okay, thank you. No. Um so we I'm going to Make an assumption here. But now that's been revealed to us, we are now stewards of that mystery. And what are we going to do with it? This is where we can take the Word of God and proclaim it to the nations, to our neighbors, to our co-workers, to our non-Christian family members. Are you saying that the stewardship that Paul has is our stewardship? The proclamation of the gospel, yes. I would say Paul probably, you know, we did not spend three years with Jesus Christ. No. So I mean Paul definitely had a clear picture of God's plan. But as far as the gospel of salvation, it is now us to take and proclaim out. And and whatever is revealed in God's word, we can share with others. And let's not hold back. Yes, there are different interpretations of the go of of the Bible. People I again we talk about covenant theology and dispensationalism. It's there's a disunity in the church because there's different interpretations, unfortunately. Um and and The y yeah. Is that a mystery? Not necessarily, but is that different interpretation? Yes. And I also think with eschatology, there may there's a level of mystery in the last days that, again, God revealed to us what we need to know at this time. But But but yeah, we're not there. I've got three hands. Yeah. I I appreciate that. Not to say that Me or any of the other teachers are infallible in our interpretation because we're we're not. And again, as Pastor Dave would say, good and godly people disagree. Um and there are disagreements uh within the church, but as long as we can keep the focus of, hey, Christ is The focus needs to be on Christ. We can still have unity even though we have different ideas of what the scripture says, Grace. Yes. Paul Paul did have a unique revelation, but you can also see that he went to the church leaders. They had con they had conversations and said, Hey, d Are we all on the same page here? Um yeah, is is the revelation I received and the revelation he received are they in sync with each other? Pastor Gabe, you had something? Yes And as he uses us, we will be blessed. We will receive blessing knowing, oh, God used me in this. And and uh And yeah, it's not a chore, but it's a privilege to be a recipient of God's grace in that way, to do his service. Absolutely. Um we do have some time and I want to take a little time in prayer. I feel like our church has been hit a little hard the last couple weeks with The shutdown, a lot of people are affected by that. Passing of Marianne Queen, stroke by Austin's stroke, Jan Lynch's hip Um just a lot going on. So um just want to take about five minutes. Um