Today we've um if you think back, we've spent the last two quarters Uh in these six chapters of the Bible um Looking at the ideas and concepts and truths and applications for our lives. And the verse that I want to start today's class off with is Matthew 22, 36 to 40. Teacher, what is the great commandment in the law? And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment, and the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the law. And the prophets. I feel like that could be an introductory verse to many passages of scripture. It's a high-level verse that speaks to what God has for us in our lives. And you can point to many passages in Scripture in the book of Ephesians that this verse, this passage intersects with. And it's also cool for today because today we're kind of having an opportunity to look at the landscape of the book of Ephesians. We're at the end of it. So it makes sense to consider what the book of Ephesians says and how this class went and the stuff that uh we learned and how what we want to hold on to for our lives. Because the last thing that we want to do is be people who look into the Word of God and walk away and forget what it was that we just saw. So I'd like to start off with just a real quick, high-level, informal, open book. Group effort quiz. And some people are like, ah, what's the point? Um what Is the major outline of the book of Ephesians. If you looked at the entirety of the book of Ephesians, how would you divide the book of Ephesians? Yes. Theology and then practical application. Do you know what chapters are the theology chapters? One to three. Yes, absolutely. Great job. We're off to a running start. What are some of the major themes in the book of Ephesians? Yes. Um the Holy Spirit and like the indwelling of holy things. And Holy Spirit indwelling Yes, okay, cool. Is there a passage you're thinking about that speaks to that? Um I was just kind of thinking of like chapter four. Um I guess Tapus More and Pi. Okay. Yeah, cool. That was a bonus question by the way. Uh-huh. Yeah. Chapter 2, I think. Yes. Good. Indeed. Anyone else? Major themes in the book of Ephesians? Yes. Identity in Christ. Our identity in Christ. Fantastic. Anything you would point to for that? I think w chapter one, of course, the first ten to twelve verses, but then chapter two of like what we were and now we Yeah. Which speaks to another theme or a related theme, which is our salvation and the power of God in our lives. Fantastic. Anyone else? Major themes in the book of Ephesians. God's glory and grace. God's glory and grace. Yeah, fantastic. Where would you point to for that? Ephesians 1. Okay. Ephesians 1. In other places. And and and yeah, and keep looking, yes. And in fact the passage we're looking at today as well. Anyone else? Major themes. Those are really good answers, by the way, guys. Fantastic, and I think that you were paying attention. Good job. Um and if I ask that question, what are the major themes and you're like, ah dang, it's not on the ceiling, it's not and I would encourage you to go back and read the book of Ephesians a couple of times and see what comes out. Look into God's Word. You know, uh I always like to try to teach a little bit better, so if you guys don't mind giving me a little bit of input about this class also. At work we call this a retrospective. What did we do well and what could we have done better? Did anybody thoughts about this class? Yes. This this was kind of minor I think a lot quite well. Um but the verses in the beginning I really appreciated. Um even though you didn't reference them every week, it was useful to me to kind of tie it into some other part of the structure. Uh cool. And you sounds like you were looking at the notes too. Yes. Yeah, I think what I what I also liked is that we broke it up into like like two or three verses. a day versus going through like the whole the whole passage every time and then and then like trying to um have us uh talk about that. But I really liked uh the two um like small sections Cool. Thank you. Yeah. Appreciate it. And these guys are listening. And I want to add one thing real quick. Having these guys teaching this class was a blessing to me. Huge blessing for me because uh taking getting getting breathing space between times that I'm teaching helps me to teach better. And I learned a lot from them as well. Uh I think you guys are fantastic teachers Any other thoughts? What we could have done well. You can even say what we could have done better, because I know there's always room for improvement. Yeah, you do a good job of that. Was there a is there either in the whole book or certain passages an expectation that you thought something was going to sort of go into further detail or maybe go into a topic and then you were surprised that it didn't happen. Does that make sense? Yeah, or and or is there something you wish we had spent more time on? Yeah. Even. Yeah. Diane? I really appreciated the grace. Should kind of that the three of you dealt with um uh the scripture that you could have gone very much deeper into, but you had the intelligence. um appropriateness to put the boundary line around what would be good for a Sunday school class. I get you. I'm not sure anybody else did, but the way I'm sorry. I was just gonna say that I found um in chapter discussion on the end of chapter five and chapter six, having some of the historical context is really interesting and important because I think sometimes like list hearing like, okay, children obey your parents before probably Like viewing it from a modern perspective and how they would have viewed it. Um having that historical context makes us makes me understand the like richness Oh that happens a little bit better. So I really liked having the total context a little bit more throughout what we've been. Cool, thank you. That's excellent. Okay. You know you you say something nice about somebody and then you give them a critique and then you can say something nice about them again at the end and we'll be okay. Nothing? Alright, cool. We'll press on. If you want, you can email us privately and give us uh give us feedback. Um is there anything It you guys, here's another way of asking this. Is there anything that you would change about the class that we just went through? I feel like I'm belaboring this. No. Okay. Um Here's a different question. Out of all that we looked through, what challenged you? What do you want to hold on to? What do you want to remember? What do you think has been impactful to your life over these past two quarters? Because like I said before, I don't want to we we don't want to come to a class Like, yay, I learned stuff, and then not have it impact our lives. Yes. I appreciated for the first time the the connection between the first three chapters and the last three chapters. Yeah. Like I think often we separate we we just go to Ephesians five. We go to Ephesians four. Like this is how we live. And then but if you don't recently have that background of the first three chapters of where you came from, your identity in Christ Oh that that makes it a lot more powerful. Yeah. Yeah. What's that? Cool. I think that um what struck me the most was the um the wives and husbands part because that's that's what um I'm just just starting out I mean granny has been three years, but we're still in that beginning phase of the um of the relationship, you know, where what's good, what's not good and stuff like that. So yeah, I really appreciated that section. Um deep a lot of like stuff to do. Um And just, you know, plug for the marriage conference that's coming up. Oh okay. All right, cool. Yeah. It's in Life of Hope. There you go. Anyone else stuff that you wanted to hold on to? Yes? It's like the centrality of your identities in Christ and because of that like everything else, like all like little class chapters, are an outshine of that identity being Christmas being so fundamental. That's not that's an important truth I think sometimes people miss And that's not something to overlook or to minimize. I think that we have people who try to do chapters four, five, and six in their own strength. And forget that that's something that we we accomplish because of God's grace in our lives. Go ahead. What does that mean as you play it out in real life? What does it mean to be walking in the strength of God as you face things, as you try to walk in obedience? Is that I just want to make sure. I I I think he's hinted at an answer there. Um I I think that we make that statement all the time. But we make it in a context that if there's not a lot of clear foundational understanding, sounds a lot like don't try. Or don't try too hard. Let the spirit have it. Yeah. And so that that is not Paul's testimony by any stretch of the imagination. Rather the opposite. So I guess that's what I was and and you've already alluded to that in what you just said, but I I I guess it's just important I I feel like we're lucky Ephesians if we walk away with I'm glad you called that out. Um and you know th we're reading chronologically through through the Bible right now, and the place that we just got to because of that is uh numbers where the Israelites are the spies just came out of the land. Excuse me. And they're like, it's terrible, there's giants. Barring that statement, right? They're standing at the land, fast forward even to Joshua, right? They're standing at the land, and they could be like God's already killed the giant's horse. We got nothing to worry about. No, they had to strap on her armor, which Ephesians 6 talks about. They had to gird up their loins, they had to bring the ark with them, they had to sound the trumpets They had to, you know, go slaughter the giants and take the land. But as Joshua and Caleb said is we can do this. Because God's going God's going to be with us while we do it. From your own personal experiences and your your testimony bears this out, let me say that right up front, right? As you extremely exert yourself. Toward obedience and toward service and toward faithfulness to the Lord. What's the effect of you keeping in mind that you are doing all of those things through and by and in what the Holy Spirit is providing you. What how does that affect you personally? Okay, so just to I'm gonna you're I'm happy to be put on the spot. I'm also let me make it easy so you didn't have to teach it. You can just give personal testimony. Yeah. I think I'd make it hard for you. No, you're not. Um I would love to hear other people's input on this as well. That's where I was going. But I'll tell you that it's a struggle. It's it's a wrestle. Um you know, there's times when Um I'm at work and I'm I'm grumbling and frustrated and forgetting that God sovereignly put me in the place where I'm at right now And it's important for me to lean into what God's given me, enjoy, labor hard, be faithful, enjoy in what I'm doing right now, rather than I do this too, right? I'm like, ah I was better off before, right? And uh So the there is a in my life a mix of that, but then at the same time There's a confidence to stretch and to go. I was just talking yesterday with somebody about how God continues to remind me and continues to grow me in faith where I'm like We don't have a piano player for today. Oh no. What are we gonna do? And then somebody who I didn't know played piano is like Uh I was thinking about joining you guys. And and you're like, there's days when God just, here it is, here it is, and go just Just in case you forgot I'm in charge here and I'm providing for this here, here you go. And the encouragement of seeing God answer my prayers and to provide, but there is a There's a a a fleshly fight that's going on all the time where I'm like, no flesh, you're not walking by faith right now. You need to take steps and walk by faith And to be the person who's encouraging others and loving people and and not yeah. And so I feel like there's A lot of times when my life is a hot mess and and God's continuing to grow and strengthen me And that's that's just where I am right now. Um and probably will continue to go for an uncomfortable amount of time. Um And so what does that look like? That looks like stretching myself beyond my strength. And running hard. Um and saying, God, I I don't feel like I have strength today. You need to help me. And then it comes together. And it comes together in ways that I wasn't always looking for. And I go, wow. Wow. God gets the glory. Thank you for your continued testimony. It's always encouraging. So I kind of feel like feel like we need to. Like um For me it's just like kind of trusting God and having you know the tr the courage of Christ kind of thing. And um Like if I'm like I feel weak and I just tell them like I feel weak Lord I feel like I can't do this. I know that you can. And so and I just do it, not any It's like the mundane things, the small thing. It's not necessarily always like a big, you know, huge big thing, but it's just like those continued obedience, continued um trust. Yeah. That's kind of what it looks like. Sometimes you just in your flesh you just know in your in your head sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you read the book in Daniel and And you're like, Daniel did these amazing things. Look at the really cool stuff that Daniel did. Right? He saw he understood and interpreted visions. His buddies got tossed into a fire And, you know, he was in there with the lions and stuff like that. But when you think about his life, he was eighty years old and he recounts in his life six, maybe seven or eight events In all that time. Now, the testimony is that nobody could find a charge against him. So, what do we know about him? He continued to live his life faithfully. And there were times when God brought dazzling glory into his life. Anyway, there you go. Anyone else testimony that you want to add, Steve? I'm just gonna tack on just something that God yesterday kind of brought to light through There was a conference up at CBC and like third class of speaking on it. But he was talking just in that verse 20 of that prayer Talking about the power of God where it says that to him we're able to do far more abundantly than we can ask or think. Which I thought about that part a lot, but I did ever pay attention to the next phrase where he says according to the power that is at work within us. So like the standard of him doing all that is the power that is our that's the power that could do that and the creatures of the power that's like working today in my life is the power that can do things beyond what I asked of things. I don't know. You say like okay it's not it's God's effort, it's not our effort, but sometimes how many times do I kind of step out and kind of plan to try to work for God according to what I perceive my own human limitations are. Yeah. Like I kind and there is a we need to embrace our finiteness too, I'm not saying that. But like do I I guess maybe do I approach my Christian life with this patient that God is going to take whatever my people have for or are they used them with a power that can only explain that it was God who gave it up. Also again in like the last week reading and Colossians, where you say Maybe he's trying to be almost effort doing it to present everyone mature in Christ, doing this by the power of God, not his effort by the power of God And just sometimes like challenging. Am I trying to not to put pressure on myself to work or not rest or be anxious about being busy. But am I like actually approaching my saying like there should be things that God is doing through my life that make it really clear that this wasn't Stephen's strength, this was God's strength. Or do I just pick the task that I know of my own script I can already use? Yeah. Yeah. And and I like to throw the wisdom card with that. Um I don't know if I mentioned this. I I I've been struck by a chapter that we read in this book called Lead by Paul David Trip, I think, is the author. And in that chapter he speaks to the fact that we need to remember that we're finite. Um it's yeah, and depending on the grace of God to fill and do and provide where I can't Anyway. Any other thoughts? Yes. Yeah, well um I think that um as of yesterday I no longer have a job at Chick-fil-A. They didn't tell me. Uh-huh. But that I mean I just slick to the schedule and I wasn't on the schedule. So then I just like emailed my boss. It's like, look, am I fired? Am I not fired? You know, but I'm gonna take take take the instance that yes I am fired. And it could be a and it I'm gonna try to say it could be it is a blessing Because now I get to go out and I get to apply for jobs that that um that I really will enjoy and can improve other people's being a master So yeah, it was a blessing in disguise. So yeah. And I just wanted to thank God for that. Continue to seek clarity on that. Yeah. Yeah. They should give you the courtesy of giving you clarity. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I um you know last week we were talking about about prayer and the Lord really gave me the opportunity yesterday to put this into practice. So Brian, for those who don't know Brian is out of the country right now for two weeks. And um not you say it's a bunch of but I'm thinking, yeah, things are we got through one, I think, day and a half of every time being nice and smooth And then Nathan was supposed to be coming home yesterday, driving home. And I get a phone call He's two and a half hours away and the car is dying while it's on I'm on the phone with him. Pull over, you know, and he has to call, you know, um AAA and take him to an emergency. you know, we're side. And then I had to drive the two hours to go pick him up. And all the while I'm like first thing Lindsay and I stopped and I was like, we're gonna pray about this. Right? And and then not panic, but it was a active in my mind as as these things were and the uncertainty and things were kind of unfolding, I'm like, okay, I gotta pray again, then I have to pray again, just keeping my mind in the right place. And so, you know, that praying with you know all kinds of prayer supplications and praying for Nathan, praying for for And he's just sitting there that whole time. And he's sitting there, yeah. And um he has no car now. So just all of the things and the ripple effect of all of that and um we did get met with Brian was crazy. to get let him know what was going on. But you know, I woke up this morning and saw the beautiful sunrise. Was reminded of the Lord's faithful Made the mistake. We're okay. But it was a struggle. It was a not because I am had a tendency to worry and become anxious, particularly Really Brian's own around, but I got to see in real time how the spirit was working to keep me calm and you know my mind focus on that really. Yeah. Uh and sometimes that is our spiritual battle. And we all have different aspects of spiritual battle that we face. Right. This past week my spiritual battle was not reaching for the snack. I mean that's a little thing, right? But it was like, no, no, I've made that decision not to reach for the snack. And and it was a fight that it was just a ongoing minute-by-minute fight. And I think that sometimes that's a picture of the ongoing minute-by-minute fight that we have against any kind of temptation that we can face. Let's look at the text. Because I don't have another Sunday I can swing to if we don't get into the text today. So let's open up to Ephesians chapter six. Guys, I really appreciate your input. Um it's helpful to me. And I really appreciate your testimony as well. Um it's sometimes We don't understand or realize and we can sometimes feel like we're the only ones that have struggled, which is not a true statement. And uh it's encouraging to us all to know that we're not the only ones that wrestle and fight and struggle. There's a temptation to think that I don't I shouldn't have to struggle like I do. Ephesians 6. 21 So that you may know how I am and what I am doing, Tychicus Sorry if that's not pronounced right. The beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord will tell you everything. I have sent him to you for this very purpose that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your hearts. Peace be to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace be with you all. I'm sorry, grace with all who Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love incorruptible. Four verses today. This is one of these passages I feel like we get to these ends end passages where Paul gives his greetings and he's like, I want to greet Eodia and Cynthia, I want to greet Aristarchus, Demas, and all these people that he writes about that aren't around anymore, and we're like, hmm, okay, that's a fly-over passage. And I want us to remember the testimony of Scripture is that all of it is profitable. Let's slow down and take a look at what's going on here. It speaks to the life of the body that's going on here. between Paul, who's in prison, and the people that he's writing to in Asia Minor And it's very interesting to me that he says three times, I want you to know what's going on with me. Verse 21, so that you may know, at the tail end of verse 21, he's going to tell you everything, and in 22 that you may know how we are. Paul wanted them to know, and the Holy Spirit wouldn't let him write it down in scripture. And uh it gives me pause to think. What? Why not just write that in the letter? Because God didn't have that for us, I guess. But there are some clues. If you look in Philippians chapter 1, He says in verse 12, I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel so that it has become known throughout the whole Imperial Guard. And to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ. And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Maybe some of this is what Tychicus was sharing with them. That the fact that people are proclaiming Christ out of selfish ambition. But that in every way, whether in pretense or truth, Christ is proclaimed. That may have been what was talked about and explained to them. But one of the things that's interesting, if you look at the parallel passage, just jump over to Colossians 4. Put your finger here if you need to. Look over in Colossians 4, verses 7 to 9. Paul has something very similar that he has to say there. Bless you. He says, Tychicus will tell you all about my activities. He is a beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord. I have sent him to you for this very purpose that you may know how we are And that he may encourage your hearts. And with him, Anesimus, our faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you, they will tell you of everything that has taken place here. So, an interesting connection between the book of Ephesians and the Book of Colossians Ticochus is doing the encouraging and explaining. So it's very possible and likely that Ticchus has this letter of Ephesians and he's got this letter of Colossians in his hands when he reads Paul. And this guy Onesimus. Quick trivia question. Anybody can tell me who Onesimus is? Yes? He was uh slave uh from Philemon. Yes, he was a slave of Philemon. It's very possible that since Enesimus is here If you jump over real quick also, get yourself another finger. And look in the book of a Philophilemon, in verses 10 to 13, it says, I appeal to you for my child Annesimus whose father I became in my imprisonment. Formerly he was useful to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me. I'm sending him back to you Sending my very heart, I would have been glad to keep him with me in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel. So maybe one of the things that Tychicus is going to be explaining to the people when he goes back, alongside with Onesimus, the runaway slave, is he's going to say, and Onesimus is a believer now. Maybe. And because Onesimus is there, it's very likely that not only does he have the book of Ephesians and the Book of Colossians, but he also has the book of Philemon in his hands, too. And since he's explaining to the Colossians about Onesimus, maybe Philemon, Mosen Colossae. That's an assignment for you guys to look at later on. But it's interesting, these books are all very closely associated. There's a fourth prison epistle. Anybody remember what it is? Quick trivia question. Timothy? What? It's not uh uh Timothy is written. Uh oh I thought it was Philippians. Somebody's going, yeah. Uh if I'm wrong that it's Philip Philippians, just Yeah, Ephesians. Yeah, I was just reading the from Philippians, yeah. Thank you, Philippians. But he does write to Timothy. Second Timothy is written from prison. And so I think that that may be what's making you think about that and making me doubt myself a little bit right now. Anyway, Paul's in prison, he's in Rome. And he wants the people of the people here that we refer to as the people of Ephesus to know about him. Why is Paul concerned about them and why is Paul want make to make sure that their hearts specifically are encouraged Let's turn back to Acts chapter twenty I don't know about you. I love connections in the Bible like this. It starts to bring it to life and it starts to be just not a whole bunch of different books. Quick history lesson. Back in the day, Paul's finishing up his missionary journey And he's heading back to Jerusalem. And when he gets to Jerusalem, he's going to get arrested. And after a few years of being in house arrest and whatnot, he's going to be sent to Rome. And while he's in Rome, he's going to write the letters of Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, and Philemon. But here, on his way back to Jerusalem, Paul stops. Look at verse 17. Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus. And he called the elders of the church to come to him. And when they came to him, he said to them, You yourselves know how I lived among you the whole time from the first day that I set foot in Asia. And he's going to go on and talk to them about stuff. Look down at verse 28. Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the Church of God. which he obtained with his own blood. I know that after my departure fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock, and from among your own selves Will arise men speaking twisted things to draw away the disciples after them. Therefore be alert That fits in with the concept that Paul has been strengthening the church of Ephesus when he says, God gave you prophets and apostles and teachers, so that you would not be children tossed about. Believing all this doctrine that might get tossed about. But that the church would be strengthened and built up, and it would fit with what Paul then says here in chapter 6 of Ephesians, where he says, put on the armor of God. Because he knows that wolves are coming. And there's warfare, spiritual warfare. And look down at the end of the chapter. Paul's about to get back on the ship. In verse 36, he knelt down and prayed with them all, and there was much weeping on The part of all they embraced Paul and kissed him, being sorrowful most of all because of the word he had spoken, that they would not see his face again, and they accompanied him to the ship. The last time Paul saw these believers, they were weeping over his departure. And so Paul's in prison in Rome. after being in Jerusalem and Caesarea and shipwrecked, and he gets to Rome, and at some point while he's in Rome, he sends Tychicus back. And he says, I need you to go back to Ephesus and encourage the people and tell them how it is with me. And so that's what's the background Behind Paul sending Tychicus to these churches and to these people is because he cares for and he loves these people. Go back to Ephesians chapter 6. Boy. Alright, cool. Let's press on. It is interesting to me the titles I just want to make one quick mention is that when at this point Paul's not done with Tychicus. He comes back to him and he sends him also off to other places. If you search on his name in the Bible, you'll see other references to him in the places that Paul sends him to. He truly was, as it says here, a beloved and faithful minister in the Lord. And I think it's worthwhile stopping at those two attributes or titles, if you will, for Tychicus and consider those things. Beloved brother, in some ways you would think, well, aren't we all beloved? We're supposed to love one another, right? And so that's the same. We're just like, oh, I love y'all. But there's something special here, and I think that that's appropriate. We have close friends We have close relationships. And for the testimony here is that Tychicus was a close special friend to Paul. And not only was he a close special friend, but he was a faithful minister. If you're stuck in prison and you have an important message to give to somebody, you're not just going to give it to any old buddy. Like second-rate shipping, right? No, you're gonna trust it to a courier that you know who's gonna make sure it gets delivered. And not only is he just sending a letter, he's sending him as a representative to explain what's going on. So Tychicus knows Paul. He knows what Paul's been going through, and he's been there faithfully ministering so that he can accurately explain what's going on. Think about it like this. Pastor Antonio shows up in our church and he says, I want to know who can tell me what's been going on at Hope Bible Church over the last 20 years. 15 years or 10 years. Would you have a testimony that you could say, let me tell you the breadth and length of what's been going on? If you've been here serving faithfully and seeing other people serve faithfully, you could But if you're somebody who's been, you know, on the fringes or just showed up, then you wouldn't be able to. You'd be like, well, that's good And but even more so, I just want to consider this concept of being a faithful servant in the Lord. The parable of the talents Matthew 25 says, the people who are faithful, God in that parable says, Well done, good and faithful servant. And when I hear that parable read, I'm like, that's the place I want to be. I want to hear God say, Well done, good and faithful servant. And that means Kind of like what we were talking about before, not just letting go and letting God, right? That means rolling up your sleeves and getting to work. When God has a responsibility or a task for you, it's like, yes, sir, let's go. How high? I got this. I I maybe maybe you are like me, where you know you We have a backlog of tasks that work, and you know, you rack and stack them, you put them in priority order, and you're like, you know, anybody could take any of these tasks, right? But there's somebody on the team that you really know probably should take that task because they're the one who's going to get that thing done Tychus was that guy. Acts twenty verse four lists a group of people. So Pater the Brian, the son of Firus, accompanied him, and the Thessalonians and of the Thessalonians Aristarchus and Secundus and Gaius, of Derby and Timothy, and the Asians Tychicus and Trophimus. Paul knew him and knew of him, traveled with him, and saw his labor and trusted him. Luke 16 verse 10 says The one who's been faithful with a little will be trusted with much. Paul wouldn't have sent Tychicus on this journey unless he had already seen him be faithful with the little things. And it's important for us to not despise the small tasks that we have. This points back to the idea that the beginning of this chapter talked about with respect to slaves. Paul says In verses 5 to 7, obey, if I can summarize, obey with a sincere heart, not by way of eye service. With goodwill. If we're people who are being obedient with a good heart, with eye service, we are going to be faithful servants. And laboring hard. It's a good example for us to hold on to. And to consider. It's something to measure our lives with. Um And then after the message of Paul given Tychicus to explain to them what's going on And to help them to be encouraged by what God's been doing in Paul's life. He gives, I think, a threefold blessing or benediction And if you look at the last two verses, you can say it's peace, it's love with faith, and then grace. And when we started the class off, back in chapter 1, I pointed out that in chapter 1, at the beginning of the letter, there's grace and peace, and here at the end of the letter, there's also grace and peace. So it's kind of like bookends to hold everything together. But think about this for a minute. He starts off with peace to the brethren, and I think that applies to sisters too, by the way. And not only is this the same peace that Paul started off with in Ephesians 1-2, it's peace that comes from God the Father. And Jesus. And so this is a piece that I think Paul is first and foremost referring to that we have because of the work of Christ. Romans 5, 1 says that we, because of Christ, we have peace with God. And if you consider remembering back to what we saw in Ephesians chapter 2 You who were far off, who are aliens and strangers now, have seen that barrier wall broken down that was dividing us, that brings peace. And when we studied that before, we saw Paul was referring to two aspects of peace. One is the peace that we have with God that was secured by redemption through Jesus Christ, but we also have peace with one another. Because Jew and Gentile, that division wall has been pulled down. And peace has been made possible. That's another reason why I started off the class with a verse that talks about not just loving God, but loving one another And we already mentioned in the beginning of the class that one of the overarching themes in the book of Ephesians is unity. So, in some ways, maybe Paul, being directed by the Holy Spirit, is like, you know what? I'm going to give you a reminder of one of the main things that I talked about as we went through this letter, and that is unity. And what Christ has done. And the next thing is interesting because it says, love with faith. Um part of me is like, well, isn't love kind of like by itself, faith, you know, and why why did Paul Link love and faith together in here. Um And again, I think if you look at the arrangement of the verse, right, we have peace, peace, love and faith, and then the arrangement is from God the Father and Jesus Christ attaches to both of those things. Grammatically. And so this love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ feels like a weird way of saying that. So, why is God going out of his way to say it like this And when you look back through the book of Ephesians, throughout the letter, love and faith are connected. One of the primary, I mean one of the really cool places that it's connected is look back at Ephesians 3 At verse 17. And this is the second prayer that Paul's praying in the letter, right? And he's praying That you be strengthened with power through his spirit and your interbeering, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love, May comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth and to know the love of Christ. So basically he's saying, I want you to have faith and love to know the love of God. And so here at the end, he's blessing them with this same love with faith. From God the Father and Lord Jesus Christ, which seems to point back to what he was talking about before, where these two things we by faith know love so that we can understand love. And experience that. He also, and this is interesting, if you look further back in Ephesians, Ephesians 1:15. He says that he already knows their the faith and love that they have. For this reason, because I've heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and your love toward all the saints, I don't cease to give thanks for you and remember you in my prayers. That God would dot dot dot help you to enlighten your hearts so that you could know the hope of your calling, the riches of his glorious inheritance and saints, and the power that's at work in you Again, it's very I think that what Paul's saying here is, you have it, but I want you to have it more. And there's an aspect in these things, in in peace, in faith, in love, and the next one, which is grace. Where, yeah, we have these things. By grace you've been saved through faith. You have it. There's a there's a like binary understanding of that. But there's also an aspect of our faith is weak sometimes. We struggle with our faith from time to time. We wrestle with our shallowness of love, and so Paul tells us to walk in love. And yes, I had peace with God, but sometimes we fight. And so there's an aspect here where even though it's almost like the concept that we have from sanctification, yet you're positionally sanctified, but you're growing in sanctification. You have love and you have faith, but you struggle with love and you struggle with faith. And so Paul's Blessing, almost like this is almost like a prayer here at the end of the letter, where he's wanting them to have still more. Wouldn't that be nice? I already mentioned that he exhorted them and by extension us to walk in love. That's Ephesians 5. 2. And To speak the truth in love. I think there are days when walking in love takes a lot of faith. Even sometimes where we're speaking the truth depends on us having the faith to believe what God says. Regardless. I already gave the illustration of the um the people going into the uh in take going Israelites going into taking the land, even though there's giants there. They looked at that physically and said, Nope, can't do it. Done. The end. We should go back to Egypt. But the eyes of faith that would speak the truth would say, God's with us. Even though I can't tell you how we're going to beat up the giants, God's with us. And it's like the testimony of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Oh King, I know that my God is able to deliver me. But even if he doesn't, I am not going to bow my knee. Heat up that furnace. And the last one is Grace. And I like that it says, Grace To those who love Christ with an incorruptible love, I'm like, hmm, there's days when I don't feel like my love isn't all that strong. Does that apply to me? Me and my literal friend over here will be like, uh-oh, what's going on here? And this is one of these places where I would appeal to grace. Because grace gives us the ability to have love, to be in position of Christ, to understand really what that love is, and to be having I think potentially what's being implied here is this imputed obedience that Christ has to me. Because otherwise, it can't always apply to me. My love is not incorruptible. So I got to come back to this and I go, well, that's interesting because it's grace. It's grace to those who have an incorruptible love, which you got by grace. So basically he's saying, and grace to the believers And there's a reminder that we can be strengthened in our hearts, even when we feel weak, that it's grace that makes me able to walk. And able to love people that otherwise I wouldn't be loving. And as it said earlier in the letter, to bear with people in love. Which I guess in some way, Scott, answers a question that you kind of led the class with, which was really cool. I'm glad you asked the question The ability to fight hard to do is made possible by grace. And and there are days I think when you stand on a top of the the city and you just wait for the angels to come down and kill all the enemies. There are days like that because that's a testimony of Scripture, but I don't think that's an everyday thing. I think that God calls us to work out our salvation in fear and trembling. And to roll up our sleeves and get going. Um I want to close this out here. Guys, this class has been a rich blessing to me, and you guys have been a part of that. I really appreciate the hard questions, the insightful questions, and your testimony. And I want to encourage you, as for the third time today, don't let this class just be an academic exercise. If if when I ask the question, what do you want to hold on to from the book of Ephesians that impacts your life, if you're like, oh, that's a really good question, get back in the Word of God and seek for what He would have for you Read Ephesians thinking, okay God, what do you have for me today? And it may be like, oh, God's going to shine a light into your heart, and you go, that's not comfortable, but it's true. There's an area here in my life where I've been taking shortcuts. I need to stop taking shortcuts So the homework for today, and unfortunately I won't be able to check you on this homework, is what are one or two things that you want to remember from this class? How do you want to be in the business of looking into God's Word and remembering what it says and growing as a result of that? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you so much, God, for carrying us through this book. Thank you, God, for your providence. Thank you, dear Lord, for uh helping us even to teach, helping us to be mindful of people's hearts And to, I pray, Heavenly Father, grow in love towards one another. Dear Lord, I ask that you would be kind and merciful to us as we look into your word. I ask Heavenly Father that you would help us to understand how and what we should do, where we should put our effort, and what you have for us to grow, dear Lord. I pray, Heavenly Father, that we would See your word and rejoice even in the challenges that you give us, to know that in humility we need your strength. That you are ready to provide it, dear Lord, and you are so kind to do so. In your name we pray, Amen