You all get this speech every time I'm going to do it again. We take the sections that we can fit and study together at a given time, which means we have to cut them up. Right? The tricky thing with that is that sometimes there's a flow that you really want to not lose sight of. But since we can't, well I mean we could if we chose to sit and study Ephesians just all at once, but it would be a really, really long time together. But because of that, this even the section we're doing today, um, we are going to stop at seventeen. I think Doug, you pick up next, is that right? Or is this Scott? You said Daniel said, oh, that's gonna be a concern. But we're gonna read 10 to 20 together, and I think it's particularly important because of what 18 goes into. Interestingly, in the hymn that we just re uh sung together, do do do do do from the third verse Stand up, stand up for Jesus, stand in his strength alone. Put on the gospel armor, each piece put on with prayer. Where duty calls or danger be never wanting there. I in particular want us to pay attention to as we go through the passage today, which I mentioned a little bit before. There's an aspect of this in terms of the armor of God that's very familiar to us, but something that I particularly want us to take away from this is that Paul in the culmination as he's wrapping up this letter wants The readers of the audience of the letter to be encouraged that they would be strong That strength that they would have would be a strength in the Lord, that they would take everything that he had written in this letter, and that they would understand that it all comes together. For the protection, but not only protection, but the power and the might of the believer and of the church in this day. Him wanting to say that and needing to say that assumes, and he walks through it, and we're going to read it together, that there is danger at the door, that there is trouble. You don't tell someone to prepare for something if you don't expect it to be there. But he doesn't even speak in hypothetical. He essentially said for when it comes, for it's there, for these are the attacks that will come. And he walks through all these things. So you look at a section like this and you want to understand, well, okay Lord, you put this here for us. What is your intention with it? And I want you to have it connected to everything we've been reading. in Ephesians the whole time. So let's read it together. Can I get a volunteer to read 10 through 20, please? Yeah, that'd be great. Nice and loud, please. It says the armor of God. Finally be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's team. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore, put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything, to stand. Stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place, and with your feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, and pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests With this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying for all the Lord's people. Pray also for me. that whenever I speak, words may be given me, so that I will fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains. Pray that I may declare it fearlessly as I should. Thank you. If you consider a problem in front of you or conflict in front of you, what is it that you do? With regard to preparation. So I have a problem in front of me. I don't even necessarily mean in a spiritual sense. It can be in a natural sense, which This is something that we definitely want to like work through here today. But you have a problem in front of you. What do you do about that? Like, how do you approach it? Try to understand this. Okay. So you understand the nature of the problem, right? You try to understand sort of scope of the problem, how bad it is, right? So like scope, severity. Like for any of you that do work where you do like risk assessments, this is like what we do. It's very boring, but this is part of the job. Right? So you figure out like how bad is the problem, what's the scope of the problem, maybe where does the problem affect? What else? Okay. So you are going to solutions. Is that right? So you have a problem and then you want to figure out solutions. And the nature by which you have resources depends on what? So if I'm gonna go through yeah, it's real big. I I've got it. Scott's giving me the The say it again but in English. If you say you're you're fine, you're fine. Tegan is two people behind you and she gave me the same look, so I got it. She didn't criticize me. Um okay so for you to be able to list out the resources, you need to know all the resources you have. I think that's that's where I was going for um in the negative way. For you to understand all the different resources you have, sometimes that requires you being able to ask for help. Because there may be resources available to you that you are not aware of. Is that fair? You have a problem in front of you. What happens, so I'll give an example. It's like I'm I'm breaking all the rules here. Um not supposed to give like personal examples. Here we go. Um my brother uh called me the other day and he has a leak in his basement um where water is coming And it's probably related to the thaw. And he called me about it, and he is like fairly annoyed about it, as one would be. The context for this is that four years ago there was a leak in the exact same place that they realized was a foundation issue, and a company had already come out, ripped everything out of the drywall, found the foundation, fixed it, did all these things. That was based on a warranty that they had and they were like an insurance thing that they were able to purchase, blah blah blah blah blah. They had a problem, they had resources, they went after the problem with the resources, and yet now the problem's back. And the question that my brother has is Well, did we fix the problem or did we miss the problem? Because I didn't know exactly like where it came from. He had some resources, he had the nature of some problem, but he really needs more because essentially what they're going to have to do is the whole thing over again, right? They're going to have to open it up and figure out did they miss something? Is there a problem coming from a different avenue He was caught by surprise by it because he was not expecting that a leak, particularly in an area where they thought they had fixed the problem. Does that make sense? Paul is wrapping up this letter, and he does not want believers, saints in the church, the recipients of this letter, to be caught off guard. By, and he lays it clearly, the schemes of the devil. He does not want you after he has gone through both a long treat on theology On the implications and practical applications of that theology, right? One to three, four to six. We've been going through it for weeks and weeks and weeks. He is coming to this section, and what he does not want is for you to then be caught off guard That of all the things that you've learned, of all the things that would be a surprise to you, think of the last few weeks, of the very practical implications with regard to how you handle relationships in the church. Amongst believers in the midst of authority dynamics, of power dynamics, where the Lord is with you and the Lord wants you to live in this way. He does not want you to be caught off guard, and so he wants you to be encouraged and strengthened. in the Lord, and then he wants to lay out, hey, just so you're aware, here's where that problem is coming from. So let's look at it a little carefully. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may able to stand against the schemes of the devil. Whose strength is it? Sunday school answer. It is God's strength. Whose armor is it? Why is that important? Don't breeze by it Pause. Why is that important? And if I if if that's too vague of a question. Oh no. Diane, what do you got? Yes. It's not what we would choose. Okay. What do you mean? It's not physically what we would choose. We would choose to do things in ways that were tangible to us physically without the spiritual realm of it. Okay. We could do everything physically Okay. So I think part of your maybe part of what you're getting at, if I can rephrase a little bit, is that we can have a natural tendency by our own strength to problem solve Even keep in mind, right, what I was describing here in terms of how do we problem solve was a very naturalistic approach. It's literally just like Like r like problem solving one-on-one, right? What do you got? Yeah, well I mean I think to put it in Lincoln's terms, like God's armor is the only thing that can defend it can defend us against the devil Okay. He's a very, very strong, powerful being. Okay. We can't we as mortals can't stand up to him individually. We need God to do it, God's help. Okay. Um so it it's God's armor, God's purpose. It's going to be exactly what we need to fight the the schemes of the Yeah. So take that oh go first, Scott. Especially if you're gonna reference Ephesians one. Reference early in Ephesians. That's not so I can withhold my answer. No, don't worry. But it may be right or wrong, so here we go. careful that we not look at BC six as armor in a museum to be adored for all of its characteristics and qualities. But the inevitable resource, if I go back to your early language, that we must take on, step into, put on to do the difficult things that the Lord will call us to do. Not may, not shall, not can, not it it is going to be like this, and you must put that on. No matter how weak or fragile or ill resource or so I just wanted to be careful. There's a way to look at this passage like look at that abstract Philosophical truth versus that's what I'm supposed to put on on it's a federal holiday weekend, but you know, a Tuesday morning. That's what I'm supposed to put on Because I will walk into a place where I will be attacked. And I must be doing this with what the Lord has given me in. To do it with. Yes. Yes. Um I'm gonna I'm sorry, Scott. But maybe what I would strongly encourage is don't look at that like an armor you put on when you go somewhere else. but an armor that you need at all times on a Sunday morning on a Sunday night when you're at home. I just y you put a juxtaposition of when I go out into the world needing the armor on a Tuesday morning Where I'd say, nope, in all circumstances. And the and the transition that is most key for that is we just came out of family relationship, family relationship, relationship in the church, and then all of a sudden it goes, hey, don't be warned when the schemes of the devil come after you. Guess where that shows up a lot? Hale, good to see you. Yeah, we have a tendency to be able to hurt one another in a capacity that is very pleasing to the evil one. Okay, I'm gonna let you do this and then I wanna bring it back. But please. No no no I I love the I love the discussion. So first of the God on remind immediately to David with Paul And like that's not why it's not gonna fit. But this is not God's armor that's his, it's God's arbor that's crafted for us. So, very good point. I'm gonna put it in the middle of both. And the reason for that is a section in Isaiah that we're gonna want to look at It absolutely is an armor that God has crafted. There is an allusion here to the Old Testament in terms of it is actually God as the warrior wearing the armor and going into conflict that's important for us But agree, it is not an ill-fitting armor like that of Saul and David that does not fit us in God's beautiful plan. It fits us perfectly, though made by and for him to go forth in the fight. Why is that important? And really want to augment what Scott was saying. It's not ornamental. It's not something we're going to look at. It's not something we're going to theologically Put up on a poster board that we teach and then walk away from. He's literally saying, and we're gonna walk through it a little bit, hey, you got a discouragement? You got uh you got uh a lie that's getting into your head? There's a helmet of salvation. Why a helmet of salvation? Oh, what is the reminder I need that that my thoughts are for Why would my thoughts need to be protected? What does the devil do? He lies, cheats, kills, destroys. It's very practical. I'm jumping ahead a little bit, but I'm gonna go in. Doug, even though I said last one, special privilege. No, I'm I'm not gonna claim that. Uh please keep going, keep going. Okay. Um No don't work. We're okay. It's my last class. Okay, all right, it's fine. Yeah, I know, I know. Um is there a relationship between the first command which is be strong in the Lord and strengthen the night and the second command which is put on the whole armor of God Yes. Because I feel like we kind of slid past the first one and we're focusing on the second one a little bit. Only by nature of conversation, but we're going to start in the first one. But yes, those have to be intertwined. Because it is by being in the strength of the Lord that you put on the armor. So you are strengthened to do so by God, and in being strengthened, you are strengthened putting on something that is a protection for you. Explanation that intertwines as well is verse 13. Just I can jump ahead. Right? He has the introduction and then he comes back to it. He says, Therefore take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand firm. He he puts the two together. So, jumped ahead a little bit. We have already heard in Ephesians about the strength of the Lord. Ephesians 1. 19 to 23. And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his great might? That he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in heavenly places, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named. Not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet, and gave him his head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fulfills all in all Ephesians 3, 1619, that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints What is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ is surpassed knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. We get to a section where he's saying, Be strong in the Lord in the strength of his might, and In reading Ephesians, we should go back to, hey, when did you just talk to us about strength and might? Oh, when you told us that The Lord, through his strength and might, has put all things under him. It's not a new introduction to his strength and his might. A new intervention of his power. It's the reminder of, do you remember the eternal mysterious plan that's unveiled? Note on display for Heavenly Hosts. We're going to come back to that here in a second. That's the power we're talking about. That's the power that raised Christ from the dead. That's the power that's available to us. That's the strength he has. And he's saying, be strengthened in that. That expression of be strengthened in the Lord is one that we see both in the New Testament, both in the Old Testament. There's a reference to David in terms of being strengthened himself in the Lord. There's an encouragement to Timothy in terms of strengthen yourself in the Lord. Now we come up to put the whole armor of God on, and he's going to introduce it, and then he's going to come back to it. That expression whole armor, the Greek word there, Panoplian refers to the entire complement of armor. So we will go down into the description of a a little bit, but really what that's drawing from, particularly in a Roman setting, is it is both the defensive and offensive equipment that you have. So shield, sword, helmet, breastplate, all the things that are listed listed. So when he's saying it, he's saying You you put on everything. You put on everything to prepare for battle. Paul has already made it clear that this strength is available to us through and by the Holy Spirit. And I think, Doug, a little bit to like what you're referencing here is that we do not and actually Diane, similar to what you were saying, we do not want to look at this as a natural or an independent strength but rather one that is with God the entire time, enabled by his Spirit, who is in us, Accessible at all times, and this is where I get into like how do we divide passages? There's an argument some commentators make that verse 18, in terms of the pray Praying at all times in the spirit is a part of the complement of the armor. Yeah, I know. When I study that, I thought, oh, that's really nice, actually. It's it's really nice if you think about it. If you think about, is it just me having to convince myself of these things? Or Lord, is it that I'm enabled through your Spirit and I bring it to you in prayer at all times for your strength? Or is it both? What's the does it have to be an either one? It doesn't. It doesn't, but our natural tendency is to go to the first one. Yeah. Our natural tendency is to do it. And And it can be a natural tendency in a well-versed, well-studied believer. Your logic can be impeccable, your theology can be excellent. Guess what? Forgive me on this one. Shut up. Go to prayer. And let the Lord do his work. I say that to myself more than any of you. For the record. To be clear as like early as this morning in a totally separate struggle and then recognizing, Lord, you know what? I'm studying this, I'm preparing it to talk to other people about it, and I need to do this myself. So, the idea here is to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. So right off the bat, we have that we know there is an evil one. Who is attacking? Stand before I jump in, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. The best way to sort of take that is not one of possibility, but of capability. Let me say that again, not one of possibility, but of capability. So it's not saying that you could stand against the devil here. It's saying do this and you may be able to stand against him. the devil. Do you understand the the difference there for what I'm saying? One of them puts you in a mind of like, am I gonna am I gonna win this time? And the other one is the Lord saying, No, you will. Because it's me, the Lord. So what do we know about the devil's schemes? Consider the Lord Jesus' description of the devil from John 8, in referencing in talking to his audience. You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Paul's warning here is that and he goes into it in verse twelve. That the struggle that we have, depending on your translation, that word wrestle, it could be wrestle or it could be struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, authorities, cosmic powers over this present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. He is ascribing to there is an evil one. There is the evil one Who is scheming to attack you in all sorts of different ways? Why is it important that we recognize that someone is scheming? Um I think there's a difference between assuming that that's things that are happening that are happening by chance or by accident or just like kind of walking along in trip as opposed to oh no somebody put an option Because there's awareness that you have that's different, an awareness of malicious intent that puts you on your guard differently than if you're just trying to be aware of like potential obstacles that might Yeah. Yeah. Alright, so when you think of church, you think of being equipped to go out into the world. So if we're constantly listening to messages, being taught by God's Word, giving classes, whether you're being equipped to be prepared for this movement that we're not expecting And we are going to be ready. We're gonna have the armor. We're gonna be protected. We're gonna be ready God's going to help us recall what He's been teaching us already so we can apply it at that special moment where we might be tested. Because it says in 139 at the end, test us, test us. That might be a special moment that God's testing us to allow us to apply all of his wisdom to that moment. He's also protecting us against uh Satan who is there ready to pounce and mess up everything that we're doing to bring glory to God. There's so many things going on, but the original thing is that we're being equipped To be prepared for that moment. And that's why we're at church. That's why we need class right now to be ready. Does that make sense what I just said? It does, it does. I think that I I agree in the way that we do corp like corporate study, if you will, is the complement to personal disciplines and corporate disciplines around how we study, how we worship, how we come to the Lord, how we confess our sin. All these things that And a little bit of what he's talking about here is we avail ourselves of the strength that's in the Lord. Either for big moments of conflict or big moments of struggle But I think my strong encouragement is actually the little moments of evil that present itself to you are incredibly important. Do you get what I mean by when I say big receivable? Sometimes it feels like there's an aspect where we want to prepare against one big thing that's going to happen. But maybe it was that one quiet Harsh word to your spouse that was, you know what? That that didn't need to be there. Or that quiet whisper of doubt of, oh Lord, are you going to be faithful in this circumstance? Do you get what I'm saying? Like you want to be careful when you consider if you take the imagery of battle in front of you, in a l and a lot of the examples that I've read before, um The idea of a land mine, like a minefield, is in fact one of the most useful ones, only because there's an aspect of like, I don't know where it's going to come from, but I'm prepared that it might be somewhere An analogy falls short really quickly in this passage of the record, but I think there's uh also when it's talking about screens, is there ways that Satan is planning to attack us? And so being prepared for all of those, whether it's the mind, you know, whether it's whatever it is, it's this idea that it's gonna come he's gonna come at us from different ways and you know different things. So being Yeah, I think that's a really good point because that connects with how he describes the armor in the different kinds, right? Like there's a belt of truth, a a breastplate of righteousness, a helmet of salvation. In all these different ones, there's an example of Here is an area in which an attack would come and here is the response connected to a theological truth. Also these little things you're talking about, why don't you think it's better to have those little things addressed to avoid them from turning into big things. Because if you're ready for those little things, there's a high probability you'll be prepared or you'll even avoid Yeah, I absolutely I I Yeah, and if it wasn't clear that's that's what I mean in terms of like Being prepared a little bit like what we were just saying, like being being prepared for the idea that attacks come at any moment in any direction of any size, if you will. is the way to be best prepared and to fight against it. You don't want to accept a small lie. Right? You're not sitting there going, I don't believe that Jesus is God. That's not a lie that most of us are sitting struggling with. But a quiet lie of like, hey, are you going to be faithful in terms of this one area of conflict that I have? Or you that's a quiet one you accept. Does that make sense? No, maybe a little bit? Okay, I'm gonna keep going actually. I see the hands, but I I need to I need to progress a little. Um In this section on the wrestling, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers authorities in in this section that I described already. That wrestle, sometimes translated as struggle, that word is a reference to sort of like like a almost like a personal hand-to-hand combat. Like like this idea of of literally like wrestling in terms of a struggle that is very um Like a a very sort of like one-on-one. The reason that's important is because it's talking about supernatural powers that manifest themselves in a personal struggle. Now, this idea of ruler authority, cosmic power It it's not absolutely necessary to try to assign each individually in terms of like a hierarchy within like heavenly hosts I think the more important thing here to understand is that these are not naturalistic things, these are supernatural, which is the argument he's making in terms of it's not Flesh and blood. It is the same concept that we get in First Corinthians 15. in Colossians 2 and even in Romans 8. 38 with regard to the these are things that don't separate us from God's love. These are evil powers that will not have their way in the end, and they are not ones that have anything other than they are already disarmed and put the shame, which the parallel passage in Colossians 2 describes that. We've already heard that they will meet their end. And yet, the lie in terms of the attack that we receive is as if their end is not already decided by God. And in the present-day battle, the present-day darkness Are we going to lose aspects of the battle? You get it? It's a whisper of hopelessness. Hopelessness. Am I saying that right? It's a whisper of not having hope. In terms of, well, there's no way you could win against this. But the biblical and scriptural truth is, oh no, the Lord has already put you to shame. You can try just because There is still this present day, and it is not all ended. You can try to lie to me, but it's to no avail. There's no power that you have. Why do you want to know that it's not flesh and blood and that it's supernatural? Um I can't give you like I I I have no training in fighting, so I have no I have no thing to give you here. But I've played soccer for a lot of my life. And so what I can tell you is a cheap analogy in terms of soccer. How many of you have played soccer? Just lose my audience here. Okay. In terms of soccer, the number one rule that you learn when someone is coming towards you with the ball is you do not look at their body. You look at the ball. Their body is a distraction. It's the ball that you're following. And if you look at incredibly yeah, I saw you, you're doing the little the little dive, that's exactly right. The incredibly good players know That they will distract you, and they're so athletic and agile that because they can move their bodies so adeptly that you get really distracted because you literally took your eyes off the ball That's part of the concept here. It's a cheap analogy using sports. And yet the reason it's useful is you can at least get the image of like, wait, what am I supposed to be following? Wait, what's the real problem here? I think Paul putting this, it it is the culmination of the letter, but I think it's incredibly important that he, like I sort of referenced before, He just came through a whole section on marriage, parenting, masters and servants. All relationships, all in the church, where he wants the new life that you have in Christ and the new community that's established on earth. to manifest God's truth in the midst of it, God's design, God's relationships, God's goodness, his faithfulness, all the things that play out in our relationship. And then it goes, hey, by the way In those struggles you're having, it's not against flesh and blood. It's important to consider in terms of those relationships Guess what? In that marital conflict? Guess what? In that parental struggle? Guess what? In that conflict at work? Yes, there is real personal conflict. Yes, there is real personal sin. There is real things that have to be dealt with. You don't get to just ascribe it to evil powers and have no accountability yourself. And yet you need to be aware there is a scheme, there is someone, there is a dark Supernatural force that is trying to distract you from the truth God has already laid firm and the strength that He says is there and for you. This concept of whole armor of God is a r is there's a strong reference in Isaiah. and Old Testament dis depictions in which it's actually the Lord who's going to battle and it's his armor. It's a little bit of what I was talking about before. It is both created and provided by him, but it's also worn by him in his own victory. I put a bunch of the references. Um I'm actually just going to give them to you So in Isaiah 11, 1-5, there's a reference, and that's the reference to the Lord, like to the Messiah in Isaiah 11. Apparently it went British there. But in Isaiah 59, 15 to 21, there is God's zeal for justice and goodness against his enemies. This one I am going to read quickly. Truth is lacking, and he who departs from evil and makes himself a prey, the Lord saw it, and it displeased him that there was no justice. He saw that there was no man and wondered that there was no one to intercede, then his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him. He put on righteousness as a breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head He put on garments of vengeance for clothing, and he wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. According to their deeds so he will repay wrath to his adversaries, repayment to his enemies, to the coastlands he will render repayment So they shall fear the name of the Lord from the west, and his glory from the rising sun. For he will come like a rushing stream, and the wind of the Lord drives. Sorry, which the wind of Lord drives. And a redeemer will come to Zion to those in Jacob who turn from transgression, declares the Lord. And as for me, this is my covenant with them, says the Lord, my spirit that is upon you, and my words that I put in my in your mouth shall not depart out of your mouth. Or out of the mouth of your offspring, for out of the mouth of your children's offering, says the Lord, from this time forth and forevermore. So it's Isaiah 59. Stand therefore having fastened on the belt of truth and having put on the breastplate of righteousness. And as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. Note the way that he's saying that. It is stand firm having done these things. So, again to what Doug had asked in the beginning: be strengthened, put on the armor of God, you do so You are strong, you do stand firm, having put on these things. Now, is it that you Make the truth real? No. Is it that you will force it to happen? No. It is an invitation to be strengthened in the Lord By literally saying, okay, how is it that I'm going to interact with this attack against me or this attack against the Lord? What is it going to do? Well, I'm going to interact with truth. I'm going to interact with righteousness. I'm going to interact with the gospel. But not just interact with it, I'm going to put it on. What do we mean by put it on? Fasten the belt of truth. In this picture, that's the um it's that same like gird your it's like like similar to that gird your loins. It's this idea of you wrap the clothes And to put a belt on, it's also the belt that secures a sword, so that you can put the armor on so that they're not going to like interact with each other because like it's like ill-fitting. Why the truth? Because the truth is what wraps it all together. All lies, all schemes. Dispelled by the true the true um How do I say this? Well, I say it in the easier way. By God's plain truth In the Garden of Eden, what was the scheme of the serpent? What was it? Sorry, you all might have said it, but I heard it clear as here, so Matt gets it. Did God really say it? And what does that mean? Right. Right. What is the fixed answer to that? Well, no, that's not what God said. No, that that's not what God said. Because of time, this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to hit each one. With a small comment on each one. Okay? Because I'm not taking the next class and we're just doing we're just this is this is it. What is the application with regard to that truth? It's similar and comes in connected to similar and connects to later, which is the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Affix yourself to God's truth. Did God really say? What is God's promise? What did God say about this thing? I am fearful because of this circumstance in my life. What did God say about his faithfulness? What did God say about how he'll provide? What did God say about how he'll love me? What did God say about my forgiveness? Wait, you get what I'm saying? And I'm not saying it even like it always has to be about you, because it's not just about you, but in terms of your personal struggle, the first place that you go is what is the truth of God that I that binds everything together. I've talked about this a bunch of times. There's a Milton Vinson book that I really like. It's called The Gospel Primer. It's spelled Primer. But a big part of what he is doing is bring it back down to the original, simple, plain God's truth. Next, put on a breastplate of righteousness. Having fastened belt of truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness. That righteousness is it there there's a slight question as to is it positional righteousness? As in I'm justified before God? Or is it personal moral righteousness? I really like actually that it doesn't need to be either or and that it actually be both. And there's a quote I'm going to read directly from you. So this is quoted by John Stopp, but it's a quote uh from Finley, G. G. Finley. The completeness of pardon for the past offense and the integrity of character that belong to the justified life are woven together in an impenetrable male. A breastplate of righteousness knowing that you are made and declared righteous in God, but that you live a life That you walk in a manner worthy of your cult. Yeah, to draw back to an earlier earlier theme in Ephesians. As shoes for your feet having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. This idea about a readiness with your shoes is both in terms of being able to withstand the long walk If you take a little bit of liberty in terms of the analogy, or being prepared for effectively like a like a mobility from shoes that are always connected to being able to declare the gospel. There's something about this that essentially says like it's the blessed you know the um Well let me just read it It's my note from the morning. I'll read this easier. A readiness and equipping a mobility that is always ready to bear the glad tidings of the Savior and Lord, firm and well supported that nothing can overcome gospel truth. So what do we started with? We started with there's a truth that binds everything together. There's a righteousness you have that That comes as the major, the breastplate is the major, like, the major armor that protects your full body, the the full front of your body, if you will And then you have even shoes that you're well prepared in all things. In sixteen, in all circumstances, take up the shield of faith with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of spirit, which is the Word of God. You have the combination, so what we've had so far as defensive, and there's still a couple more defensive, right? It's a shield, and this picture of a shield is actually one of these giant shields. And it is one of faith, which can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. So we talked about already, right? And it's not by illusion. It's literally Hey, you're going to get attacked. And the attacks are going to come to the extent that you need a very large defense against it. And the defense in the shield is one of faith. And from Hebrews, what is our definition of faith? I got it. I got it between the years. But if it's okay for me to distribute Yeah. Right, so faith is the assurance of things, hope for the conviction of things not seen. That's Hebrews eleven one. When we understand in Hebrews that faith is not And maybe this is one where it's good for us to take by manner of application. It's not a worldly picture of faith means it's just gonna be okay, which is I think what a lot of people just sort of like you throw faith as if it's vague. As opposed to the object of our faith is Jesus Christ Himself. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. I think the encouragement or the thing that I have here, even for me personally, is just to be reminded that, oh yeah, there are going to be attacks. And I think they're going to be very personal attacks. And there are going to be attacks that are incredibly well suited for me. And that doesn't render any of the strength or the help of the Lord weak. In fact He is my Lord. And he knows me incredibly well. And he says This is the strength that I give you, and this is the defense I give you, and more so, here is the power that I give you in all things. Our individual attacks look very, very different. And yet the promise that we have for each other, sorry, the promise that we have is the same from the Lord. Do you get what I mean by that? What I mean is that is that a question? Go for it. Well I was just thinking that the sort of When respect to reason to where like we have what our state is and we're following the principal power of the air without really any hope. And this is sort of a transition to now we actually have this game the movie to fight against the power of the principle here. And it's I think sort of that comparison to see like here's what you once were, but then now you're strong and for it. Yeah. Um kind of the And here's here's the state of what things are still. Yeah. Yeah. And and I think the and I think the useful thing in terms of this armor that's available to each of us. is that it accounts for every area where a scheme or a lie could come. 17. Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, praying at all times in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication. This helmet of salvation? Is it the assurance of God's triumph that is true for the individual person that is the personal forgiveness of your sins and release from the bondage of Satan? Or is it A final salvation, that is, upon Jesus' return, the completion of salvation? Or is it both? I take both. It's both. That's exactly right. Just one thing. And it's incredibly important for us to keep in mind that you are not simply saved from something, you are saved for something. Does that make sense? The two differences, it sounds semantic, but it's not. It's incredibly important. To understand that this is even connected with the good works that are laid out in front of us, our very purpose, and that that is the trajectory that we're going, fully armored. It's ten thirty. Can I presume upon you guys for about like five or six more minutes if that's okay? Um It's funny because the last one is the sword of the spirit. The Word of God. The way that I wrote this, I just wrote it as a plain reliance. On God's infallible inspired truth that itself stands as the best offense against any spiritual battle. I don't think this in another way than like the clearest way. I don't think we need to be clever about this. I think we need to be simple about it. What did God say? What did God say? Is that thing true in front of me? Does that connect with what God said? Consider the Lord in the wilderness. Matthew four. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him. I didn't even bring the whole interaction. It's just a response. For it is written. This guy. You're making such firm eye contacts that are gonna say something. I I pick on you so much in this class, I'm sorry. Um you also have a deep voice in hymns too, so it's What why why why am I saying it is a plain reliance? Um I want you to do it no no. I just I want us to get really, really comfortable with Yeah, I see this thing in front of me. But does this line up with what Jesus told me? Yeah, I see this conflict. Yeah, I see this sin. Yeah, I see this blah blah blah blah blah But is it greater than what God has said? Is it more true than what God has said? Is it a whisper of a lie? I know we've been talking individually, but the book of Ephesians has been about unity in the church. And there's an aspect here, and we have it earlier in terms of how we encourage one another with Psalm Thanksgiving, right? But there's an aspect here of being also able to come alongside your brother or your sister and say Yeah, but does that but does that line up with the truth that we know that God has said? Well, I know you're being attacked. I know that maybe you're To be simple about it, are you questioning your salvation? Is there a lie that perhaps your sin is so great that Jesus' blood can't cover it? Well, is that what Jesus said? Is that true? Is there something that perhaps I'm just so discouraged that I I cannot understand if I'm going to be able to even withstand this circumstance? Well, does that line up with A faith that has set itself on Jesus as the perfecter of our faith, as the finisher of our faith. And is it just about me saying it in words to one another? It's absolutely a part of it. Or is it, Lord, I need to bring this to you in prayer? Lord, I need to pray for my brother and sister. Lord, I need to pray myself. Lord, I confess that I don't know where the struggle is, but I think I'm denying your word by going this far. Or Maybe do a little bit more. Lord, I don't know what resources I have available in you, but I think there are some. Can you help them? Can you help me? It is not as much as we and even in studying well want to make it all a like a natural thing, you have to understand that it is supernatural. And the reason that's important is because if you have an expectation that Lord, you are going to come through as creator and as Lord and Savior, then you all of a sudden take the limits off what he's able to do. Which as a reminder, Paul has already said in Ephesians. That he's able to do more, right? Yeah. To to do one second. Oh I just lost where it is. Where is it? Yep. Thank you. There. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power that is at work within us. To him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. So what does it mean? How do I end this? It means that for whatever circumstance, whatever that thing is going on in your life, or those multiple things, If your approach is, well Lord, you have a solution for this? You have a strength for me in this? You are with me in this. Then your entire perspective and your walk is entirely different. Because it's not you trying to pick yourself up, but rather be strengthened in the one who strengthens you And I think that's incredibly important. I think it's important not only, again, I say on an individual level, but on a corporate level and in community, which is the point that Paul is making the whole time. Did you have a thought that you and I was no, oh actually I meant Doug, but you do Matt, sorry. No. Oh yes, trivial thought. Great job. This class was supposed to be two classes. And because of the snow, you switched it together into one class and you had a lot of ground. Sure. And as that, this is also my last class teaching with you all, so thank you very much for the um discussion and the interaction. I really appreciate it. So I'm going to close this in prayer and I thank you for um for a little bit extra time. Heavenly Father, I confess that I can begin and end my day and not pay attention to that it's that it is the one that you have made. I confess, Lord, that I can look at a circumstance and I can extrapolate and I can be as Rational as I think I'm being, and I can entirely exclude you from my thoughts, Lord, and deny your sovereignty in my sin and in my worry. And not just your sovereignty, your faithfulness, and your love, and your promise, and your goodness. And I bring this to you as my own confession, and yet, Lord, even I might confess on behalf of those that have a similar thought. In the room. And we thank you for the goodness we have in Jesus Christ. We thank you that you knew us while we were yet still not only sinners, but enemies against you, Lord. and that you saved us and that you brought us into your family. And that even in being in your family, you strengthen us and you protect us. And you give us power to go forth against attacks. So it is not even just defensive. It is literally, Lord, for that thing in front of us we can conquer because of your might and your power. We thank you, Lord, that it is all accomplished by you, through you, with you, and in your spirit, Lord, we can pray these things. We pray for good worship. Good continued worship this morning, and we thank you for your love and your grace. We pray this in Jesus' good name. Amen.