So actually I'm just gonna read this section for us this morning. So Ephesians 5, I'm actually gonna start in verse 15. Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time because the days are evil. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit, addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart. Giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife Loves himself, for no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I'm saying that it refers to Christ in the church However, let each one of you love his wife as himself and let the wife see that she respects her husband. Okay. So it is a little bit of a lengthier section. The section we are studying starts in 22, which is that why submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. The opening question that I had written in the notes and even for us to consider as we sort of will go a little bit into review, but is why does God care about our marriages Why does God care about marriages in the church? For those in the room, there's no way that I'm going to be able to touch on every scenario that you're in, but what I will assume is that you are in one or no stage of marriage. And what I mean by that is some of you are not married, some of you are going to be getting married, some of you have been married. You understand there are all these different scenarios. And yet the truth that we have here applies to each of us. It doesn't mean that it absolutely applies in the same way to each of us at the same time. And in fact, Paul is going to work through how it applies differently even to men and women within marriage. And yet the truth remains the same, and that is important for each of us to consider. The temptation in a passage like this, to be very clear, is to dive immediately to application. Right? So the temptation is to read the passage and immediately goes, immediately go, okay, well what does that mean? What should I do? What am I doing here? Which is a good Thing to consider because Paul is writing to the church with the desire that they would receive his words carefully and that they you would consider how does it apply to your life. But before you go to application here, we we definitely have to work through the passage itself. Does that make sense? So in terms of uh you know, like in the class that a few of us had taken before In terms of the way that you study the Bible properly, it is observation first, interpretation second, then application. What does the word say? How can I interpret what the word says? How does that then apply? If you take it out of order, the danger there is that many times you put the application above the principle, and you need to be careful with that. So why something like this as an intro? Because this passage can get tough for folks. The passage, frankly, can carry a lot of baggage for people in one direction or another It can certainly be a dividing thing in terms of way that people interpret it. The interpretation that you're going to hear this morning, I would say, is a classic orthodox interpretation of the passage and is not trying to do anything overly clever with the words. And yet, you want to be very careful in how we treat it. So, as an introduction In coming to this passage, give me a little bit of review from last week in terms of what we were talking about in class. Take any volunteers. Including the teacher, although I see something. So we're still heavy in now the second section of Ephesians in terms of um how does this apply, right? And in these areas, Paul is walking through um Walk in this manner, walk in love. You are a new people, you're a new church, as in as in like the new creation in the church. You are a unified people. You know these theological truths. How then are you going to walk? And what is the color of your walk? I had started earlier in five in terms of carefully consider how you walk, not as unwise or wise. And then Paul cares a lot about how you spend your time. Right? What is the mark of a Christian with regard to how you spend your time? Spirit-filled, and giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. So if we consider a spirit-filled walk of a believer, Paul doesn't want to leave it at a high level in terms of um I guess really, frankly, like a vague consideration. But he's going to go down into well, what are the relationships that you have in your life where you can manifest Being spirit-filled, as in demonstrate, as in yield to the Lord, but in obedience walk in a way that reflects who you are and your identity. What are those relationships? Marriage. Parenting, and then Paul will work through um a relationship between slaves and service, which which Doug will teach through. So this morning we're going to talk about marriage. And for anyone who has or is married, um you would be able to very clearly state That marriage is quite the proving ground in terms of your spiritual maturity There's a few smiles in the room as people kind of get what I mean. Um marriage is hard. And when you are freshly married, people tell you that, but they don't explain to you what that means. They just say marriage is hard. And you go, okay, but what do you mean? We have entire classes on marriage here. There's no way I'm going to walk through sort of like, right, the ins and outs of marriage. And that's not something that I'm Willing to do. I was going to say, let alone qualified. But the purpose here is less about me or the teacher, but more like what does the word say? I think the Lord cares that we have very real relationships with one another, and He's going to start in a place where um it is very foundational in terms of society with regard to How do relationships work? Well, in marriage itself. Paul does not and is not trying to, in saying you are a spirit-filled new people. He is not trying to undo any societal framework. Does that make sense? He's not saying And of course he wouldn't because that would violate scripture. But he's not saying, well, marriage is over, parenting's over, all these things are over, you're a new creation, it's all going to be different. What he's saying is, no, no, in your marriages Here's how you're gonna walk it as a Christian. In your parenting, here's how you're gonna walk as a Christian. In your Here, master servant, master slave relationship. Here's how you're going to walk as a Christian, and he interacts with those thoughts. Why is that? Because the Lord cares that we are a real people who walk in a real way with regard to our theology. And that's what we've been talking about the entire time with Ephesians, right? It's that Theology is practical and applicable in terms of life. It is not something that is in the clouds and academic. It is, nope, booths on the ground, I'm a Christian. Wife, how are you treating your husband? Husband, how are you treating your wife? Why are you treating the side? What are you thinking about that? In each of these relationships, there is a clear um There's a clear perversion of sin that's evident in marriage, in parenting, in that um in that relationship between master servant. That can utterly warp or really sort of like affect it, which is why there is the temptation for people to just try to throw it off. Simple examples about that could be that there are no roles within marriage itself. There's no purpose in marriage. I'm not even going to go further into the idea of redefining marriage. I'm not even touching on that. I'm saying even between men and women, there is a perversion that's just sort of like, well there's there's no there's no like order here, there's nothing. It just is what it is. In parenting, where you might not actually be the parent who carries authority, which we're going to come back to that topic specifically. authority or responsibility for your children, but you are just friends with your children. And you are just interested in them having a good time or being happy. Now hear me correctly in this, but being happy as the most important thing. As opposed to I'm actually training you properly as a child. Even worse, though, in terms of trying to get rid of roles entirely Is that sometimes, and that's a little bit what I was talking about with regard to the damage that can come or the baggage that can come with these relationships, including the marriage one today, is that people can manipulate scripture. To give credence to a sinful approach that is domineering or abusive Or extreme power dynamics or manipulative things that are, well, this is what this looks like, so you have to do it this way. Whereas scripture itself gives no provision for that. So we want to be careful in terms of how we're treating this. In each of the relationships that we're defining, so this is like an intro to the whole section, but then we're obviously going to focus in on the marriage today. There is an order and an authority that Paul is referring to. Not that that authority would be overextended and, like I'm saying, manipulated or put out of place. But also not that that authority would completely be thrown to the side. So as we're going into this, the key reminder in terms of What do relationships look like in terms of how we've gotten to here in Ephesians? They are steeped and stood firmly in the truth and love of Christ. They reflect a believer trying to walk in a manner worthy of your calling, and they reflect a spirit-led, spirit-filled life with gratitude. So why am I saying that? Paul's assuming that when you're reading this section, you didn't just forget all the other things that he was just teaching and writing to you in this letter. What he's saying is, well, you just got here having read all these things So don't don't forget while I was just talking about all all of that as well. So let's start right in verse twenty-two. Wise, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. In terms of the Greek, the word submit is not in verse 22. So right there that wives submit to your own husbands, it's actually it's the inference from verse 21 directly, and then submit shows up again later. So it's As in essentially it would be like wives to your own husbands, because if you had gone right to the verse above it, you would remember that it says, submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ, wives to your own husbands as to the Lord. That doesn't lessen for the for the record, I'm just trying to be precise. That doesn't lessen it's still submit here. That's not there's nothing to infer there that that's not what he's saying. That is directly what Paul's saying. He says submit again. The definition or the way to consider submit is literally to be subject to, to be under, enroll. So to be subject to or under enroll, as in to submit to the authority of. What submit does not mean is inferior inequality If you need a reference, go to Galatians 3. 28. It doesn't change men and women both being image-bearers of God. From whom we draw our worth. It has nothing to do with dignity or worth. It has actually nothing to do with qualification, wisdom, or knowledge. One commentator that I was reading gave a good example to consider it it's almost like the idea of in terms of a military coming under the rank. It does not mean that there is less worth of one individual under the rank or authority of another, but it means that the role and relationship has some definition to it in terms of that. So what's Paul drawing upon here? He's saying, wives, be willing to come under the authority in marriage that's been designed for husbands. First question, to whom do I submit? To whom, yeah, no, I said that right. To whom do I submit to? God, yes. And that will come up. And you said that precisely. What was the their own husbands? Clear? We all got that, right? This is not provision for all women submitting to all men in the church. What Paul is teaching here is that wives submit to your own husbands. Now, women will all submit. As men will all submit to a role in the church. And what role is that? Correct. So say it again. Oh, uh elders. So and the point I'm making here is that all women and all men will submit to elders in the church because that is also by design. That's not here in this passage. I'm just making that as a point. But the question here becomes a little bit, what are the limits of authority? And so let's pause here for a quick second. All authority, I'm gonna say this clearly. All authority that we have as people in life, and all authority that is defined by in Scripture, is delegated authority. Delegated by whom? And we're clear on that, right? So who remains the ultimate authority? It's very Sunday school. God. Right? But why is that important? Why is it important, and here's a mask question actually for an answer, why is it important that we understand authority to be delegated? As if the husband steps out of line and starts following God, then the wife should know that she submitted God and she has to follow the husband who also submitted to God. Yeah, yes, there's a little bit of a nuance here that I'm definitely gonna want to work through. Um I do agree with you. The nuance that I'm going to want to be careful of here is that it's is that the command here is to submit in all things. But what you would say here is that if the husband is abusing that authority, the wife does not submit to that abuse of authority. The reason I'm trying to be a little more precise in that is what we still still say is a wife should submit to her husband, but not in the area where let's say he's he's commanding to sin or he's he's out of line. Does that make sense? Why am I saying like that? It sounds like I'm being really semantic, but we want to be careful of that we don't make provision for the idea of I only have to submit when I agree with you. Do you do you get what I'm saying? And yet we absolutely, and that's where I'm going with in terms of delegation of authority, that we need to be careful because authority comes with and I think this is what you're going for, boundaries. Right? So authority comes with boundaries because authority that we have is delegated. So what does that mean? It means And this is a direct quote from uh um oh uh this is a direct quote from Stott, John Stott. To command what God forbids or forbid what God commands violates this delegation. So take that again. To command what God forbids, or to forbid what God commands, violates this delegation of authority. In a position of authority, you do not get to contradict what the Lord says Why is this important? Because Paul rightfully assumes that we're going to remember everything he's been writing about this entire letter with regard to the great unfolding of God's glorious plan on our life and the church and the believers' lives and who the Lord Jesus is. Verse chapter 122, the Lord above all things in authority and dominion, 210, that we are created for good works 3. 14 and going on for the slight section. For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. That according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love May have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to the know the love of Christ that passes knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God Now, to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work with us, to him be the glory in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Paul cares that we understand everything that he's just talked about with regard to authority. And yet, here's what he's saying. He's saying, why submit to your own husbands? So then what does that mean? It means Lovingly, to willingly accept the role as designed by God That the husband is the leader in the home. You get that expression Wives submit your own husbands as to the Lord. This expression does not mean submit to your husband as if he's the Lord. It means submit to the husband Knowing that your submission to your husband is submitting to the Lord. Did that sound convoluted? It felt like it was convoluted in my head a little bit. You got it? Yeah. I'm sorry. I still gotta do it again. In in these ones, my my youngest is sick at home, but in these ones I usually look at Tegan who gives me a look about like, nope, say it again, it was a little vague. Husbands are not the Lord. You are not submitting to your husband like he's the Lord. Your good submission to the Lord is submitting to your husband Where does Paul say in the next verse? Where does Paul say that this dynamic comes from with regard to a husband and wife? There's two places. Verse 23. First, for the husband is the head of the wife. Second, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. First place, husband, head of the wife He is referring to here something that he expounds upon in 1 Corinthians and also in 1 Timothy with regard to creation order. What he's talking about here is, and if you go to 1 Corinthians 11 3, you find the section lays out roles, clear roles that are Laid out in the Genesis account of husband and wife. The roles don't violate equality, but they draw on the dynamic and order that God creates. So I'm gonna pause here for a second. Yeah, go ahead. That doesn't mean the There was a creation order difference. The creation order difference well, hold on. Agreed. Uh sorry. And it's good for me to be very precise in how I'm speaking. Um the creation order was earlier in the verse, men and women. Yeah. Yet what you understand in there is a role in terms of the son submitting to the father, but not in terms of an equality difference. So let's be very careful. Thanks for that. Could we shit up the word dignity quote value or something? I guess I'm feeling sensitive about that one given with the current state of things. We are not equal We are all as dignified for Christ. We are all equally image bearers of Christ. We're all necessary for the Lori Angle War. I just feel like the better war is the It's a pet peeve to be honest, right? So I don't want to try to overact the chemicals, right? It's just a pet we were even talking about it the other day, but I'm so sick of Earl Powell and Again, women are awesome in every intellectual and you know all all these strength and creativity, all the rest, but we are not equal people. We are very different. As that difference that actually means the fullness of what we are in marriage and the fullness of what we are in our milk feed to glorify God I'm done. You don't have to actually change anything. I reckon that's just a pen pie. I I I but but if you're drawing on something that resonates with the room, which I felt like it did a little bit from some of the responses, that's fine with me. The distinction there is that you are you making equal mean equivalent? I I suppose certainly the current culture makes that Okay. Okay. Yeah. I place a believe. Yeah. So So um I'm good with that. I don't know how I wrote it in the rest of my notes though, so So if every time I say equal and it resonates in a way that isn't with what I'm saying the rest of the way, but an asterisk and asked it. So um no no I'll just I'll just Um yes. I I the worthiness. So so cause I because I I think I said image bearer before. In in terms of the worth, that's what I'm trying to draw from. And actually it's a really good point because it's not It's irreplaceable in terms of swapping because the roles are different, which is why a wife submits to a husband. But when we get to the husband command, you are not going to hear Paul say, husband, submit to your wives. He is going to define what the relationship of a husband to his wife is, and the standard is Christ of the church, which by the way, wives in the room or future wives in the room, if you're feeling a little bit of pressure, don't worry, the husbands have it ten times more right now. So just to be very clear. But I'm good with that because really the point of what I'm trying to say here is that You do not in in wives submitting your husbands, you do not give up your worth in doing so And yet the Lord asks you, in your good service to him, to be willing to submit to the authority of your husband, because that's how he defined it. One thing I want to be careful here, we talk a little bit about application too early, is that the biblical picture of what submission under the authority of your husband, you want to be a little careful to not immediately assign cultural assumptions to what that looks like. So there are some areas where it is very clear in terms of how can a husband and a wife interact, where a wife is lovingly interacting with her husband and submitting to authority. That doesn't mean silence. It doesn't mean there's no discussion. It doesn't mean there's no um It it doesn't all of a sudden assign a relationship where it's just a husband decides there's no conversation and that's the only thing. Because that's I mean, and you're gonna keep going with here, because that's not really what love looks like, and that's not what being one flesh looks like. So you wanna be careful. I think we struck you know, we may Well, I'm not going to say what we feel in this society or not, because I think there are so many different pockets it's complicated. But what I will say is that I grew up in the Middle East. And I grew up in Saudi Arabia and in Egypt, where I will tell you that the cultural norms are very, very different. And yet, following a cultural norm. Let's say one of silence or say no response to a husband doesn't actually mean submission Please. The Jonathan Lehmango about authority supported this idea with saying something like submission And and all of these submission roles talks about submitting with all your strength, which means providing your wisdom, providing your support. Um and and even in the in the All right. All these relationships, the person in the submission role is doing all they can to bring about success in in the relationship. And you want to think about it in a military situation. The people that are submitting to the commanding officer want to do everything possible to make their unit and division be successful in the endeavors that they're trying to do. That the leader as delegated has as designated in their authority that that they're doing. Sometimes that means, hey Boss, did you know did you know the this thing because I'm certainly not thinking about the whole picture Yeah. We talked about the two uh positions from which Paul makes the argument for uh Submission, the first being creation order, the second being the relationship of Christ to the church. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Now, don't be confused, right? Paul is not going to blaspheme or put out an idolatrous statement in terms of a husband being the Lord and Savior of the wife in the way that Christ is. But he is saying in the man of the relationship we can perceive marriage relationships similarly to how Christ loves the church or how Christ is the head of the church. So if you consider it in terms of because remember this is from the position of the life If you consider it from what is the way that I receive my Lord and Savior, it's one with Trust, lovingly accepting leadership, safety, and provision, as the church does from the Lord Now, again, right, we're going to get to the husband section here in a second. But it's that position of being able to say, no, I'm going to lovingly accept That you're the leader in this relationship, and I am going to accept how you might provide, how you might take care of us, how you might secure us So um a little bit to what Doug was saying here. Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. One, remember what we were talking about in terms of delegated authority. That submit in everything is talking about all spheres of submission. Does that make sense? So like so in terms of the expanse of areas in your life that you would submit to, not the I'm not I'm like refusing in this area to submit, but in everything in all areas. But does not speak to the totality of submission. I think a little bit to your point. Um actually I don't know your name. What's your name? Jossy. Jossie? Okay. Um thank you, Chelsea. Um otherwise I'm just gonna keep pointing at you and then it's just like um Not the totality of every area. And the reason that's important is because again there is no provision for sin or abuse or perversion of authority here, or authority that's violated by, for instance, violating the marriage Let's say by adultery or you know, like there's all these different areas in terms of weight, like that violates the very relationship itself. The one second Mark, I'm gonna say this one point and then let me come back to you. Um There are two perversions that have happened in the church with regard to this. One is to completely throw the roles out and say that this was a time It's a cultural application that he Paul is talking about, and that doesn't apply to us anymore. The reason that we can reject that, and I'm not going to make the I mean I think there's a right there's an entire class on biblical like manhood and womanhood, so Check the notes, read the books. There's there's good references in that. But from this passage to the clear place that you would say that probably doesn't apply is because Paul is going back to Genesis for it and is go going back to creation itself. It's unlikely if it was just a cultural norm that he would plant a flag in creation and in terms of the way that God has designed relationships. So one, that's unlikely. The second area of perversion I already referred to is to tolerate And condone abuse under the concept of wives submitting to husbands. And there is also no place for that here. And that is not what this passage is about. Mark? Yeah, maybe we'll get to it later, but I was wondering when you said all spheres, how that would work, like if that's just at home, or that goes like what if she's a boss at work or like leading some ministry at church that he's also serving in? And John Fiber has one that I'm I'm fairly uncomfortable with to tell you the truth, but he directly addresses that issue. And I think that he provides a good framework for analysis, whether you end up agreeing or not, I'm still a little on the fence about it to tell you the truth. Um I struggled with it as a business owner who uh picks the best people for the job, which are often women, particularly management roles, because of as near as I can tell, some capacity for excellent administration that most of the men that I employ do not. Um and so I really struggle with them. I asking a woman to be in a role that is is not Especially Christian women working for me. Do I am I putting a woman in the role that is hurtful or abusive or detrimental to her? So I would punt and say that's a hard issue with all of its context that it's manifested in. Go see John Piper's article and look at his references and you and I can get together. Maybe you could tune in and see it again. So there's Scott's punt. The one thing that I will say though is that I And it may be that Scott and I differ on this, so the we you guys meet and then we'll meet and then we'll all figure out and then we'll just ask Gabe, so it's fine. Um is that I appreciate the nuance at least of your question in terms of oh in terms of in this passage a wife submitting to her own husband. And what could contradict that? Because that's really what this is talking about here. So because that, you know, a little bit of what Scott's talking about is like more larger, different interrelationship, but for your question, that is sort of just in that one area. I'm gonna give you a real soft answer in that though. It is within the realm oh I could get in trouble for this one. Am I willing to say that it's right here? I mean I don't I don't need you. That goes on the internet. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Um I'm not going to say this sentence because I because I think I want to think through it more carefully and not be cavalier in it. So um you're gonna say. No, I'm just kidding. I was just gonna say like in an official like work capacity that gets complicated, but as far as like if she's you know the head of the ministry, she's the head of the music ministry or something like that, wouldn't that fall into the same kind of category where like Wives can advise their husbands. If she says, Hey, I need you to set the stable thing stable and do it like this, he has the authority to say, No, we're not gonna do that. But he also has the right to say, Okay, that's a good idea, let's do that. So when that Kind of the same thing. Yes. Um and that is actually a little bit where I was going to go. Is that like it can also be within the husband's authority to effectively yield an area, not in authority, but in saying You're gonna be in charge of this or that something you're doing. Area of ministry in the church is particularly interesting because actually that would fall under more like the elders in terms of church But on the other hand, an elder can't contradict the authority of a husband of his wife unless there's a violation of sin or marriage. What have we done? the responsibility of people over that ministry, there shouldn't be engaged on elazin ah system so that they would know what they're going to do And I think that is a um I think that's a very good point I think that's a very good point because the other thing that we want to be careful about here is not the idea of submission, and we haven't even gotten to the men part. This is really going long, I'm sorry. Um, is that this is not a single thing in the absence of a God-oriented, holy, healthy marriage where there is communication, there's unity, there's one flesh. in all things. So to your point, you should have already been talking and knowing everything about what one another are doing. Um okay. Um I gotta I gotta We gotta move. I don't know. Timing wise this one might be a little tricky, guys. If we do have the change, just go to the old for this new change Okay. Who submits to who in this? My wife leaves BDS and I am under her authority on that and now I'm thinking, okay, what way am I submitted to her? I'll I'll think through that. You uh and I mean this in the best way possible take it outside. I don't know if I have twenty-five Husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. I wrote this in husbands, future husbands, let that standard sink in. Do not breeze past this. Let that sink in. The standard that is set for you is how Christ loves the church. What are the marks of this love? It's not vague. It's what Paul has been working through the entire time. It is a sacrificial love of the Lord. It's not It's not some soft reference in terms of affinity or romantic interest The word here specifically is that same as that agape, that self-referential love, so it's not derived from the object in front of it, but it's directed towards it. Very clearly, the authority that's given to husbands here comes with a huge measure of responsibility And to let hear this one to which husbands will be held accountable for Paul doesn't dive in here and say, hey, I just told wives to submit to you. Here's how you're going to rule in terms of how you're going to make them submit to you. He immediately goes to love your wives. And here's how you're going to love your wives. Husbands are to think less of themselves. And more for their wives. Or the really the way that he's going to define it very clearly is in the same manner that you think of yourself in terms of how you take care of your own flesh, your wife is your one flesh. Not separate, not other, but one. What is a mark of sacrificial love? It is true. It is consistent, it is unfaltering, it is secure, it is unchangeant. So you want to pause for a second and you would say, wife, submit to your own husband. Hey, what's the manner of that husband that you were asked to submit to? You know what he is? He's consistent. He's true. He's faithful. He's sacrificial. He leads with authority, knowing that he has authority, not that he has to claim it, fight for it. You know, be abusive to make sure he holds on to it, but rather, no, that's the God-given role. And yet I can love you as I'm loved by Christ I think the one area of encouragement that I would give in this space is that as we read the words of scripture that were reminded that the Lord is true and consistent and Jesus Christ never changes. And so if I can read scripture and I can see that he's saying something to me or to any person in the room, and it in some way jars us or in some way say, Lord, how do I reconcile this? My encouragement is to take it to him because he does not change. And if a Lord who loves us so deeply that he would go to the cross for us, that he would die, that he would be raised again for forgiveness of sins, that we would have a new life, a new creation. all by the manner of who he is when we were undeserving. Let that be the truth to which we can come back to scripture and say, Lord, what do you what do you have for me here? What do I do with this? That's what scripture is designed to do. It's supposed to poke at us. That in each of those or how it's received in the room, just know that we can go to the Lord. Okay. Nestled in between what is a walkthrough and marriage, we also find that the Lord uh yeah, that the Lord through Paul gives us a little bit more intimate knowledge in terms of the mystery of the church and Christ, and that's here, and yet we're supposed to draw from it to still understand a little bit more about marriage. So what do I mean by that? In verses twenty-six to twenty-seven, what you find here is that he is speaking to the role of Christ our Lord and Savior, the bridegroom of the church. So remember the church is the unified body, the mystery of its unity, the good works plan for believers, and a church is on display. Among the heavenly hosts for the eternal glory of God. If you remember, that was one of the purposes of the church. So as we grow individually and corporately, we are cleansed by the Lord. To be presented back to him as holy without blemish. So what are the marks here of the Lord towards us? His church, sacrificial love, purposeful love that desires the splendor and holiness of the church. This idea of washing with water in the Word is likely more an allusion to being cleansed by The teaching of the word is and is unlikely a reference to baptism. At least that's where I'm I'm definitely following in terms of the interpretation here. That idea of The Lord presenting the church at the end, so it's at the end without spot or wrinkle in any such thing and holy, is not that husbands are Sanctifying their wives, but in purpose and in desire that husbands would want their wives to be more holy. To be more godly, to be more Christian, and to encourage that in the marriage. That is not to be very clear by manner of let me be really direct. That doesn't mean it's by matter of criticism pointing it out, saying like, don't do that, don't do that, or in that way. A conversation may be like that. It may be necessary sometimes to call out sin like that. But the mark here is love and the intention and purpose. is for the holiness and goodness of your wife. What does that mean? It means that you I see two two things right here. Alright, I'm gonna let you guys both go, but I'm asking both to be quick because I I've messed up time here a little bit. So I was wondering what um what is the definition of samplified here? I mean I know I can look it up on the Google, but I didn't know if like it was in something different in Bible versus now or whatever. Uh i I mean that word is the word that's related to holy and really the concept there is to be set apart. Okay. All right, thank you. Um you know what you're saying here means that it's out of bounds of a violation for a husband to ever uh give away the cold shoulder or to pull back or threaten this love because that's not a way that Christ would ever love us Yeah, we'll say. Well said. A and it's a manipulation of of the of the power, not absolutely All right, we are going to land this plane. Here we go. In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves Oh wait Yeah, sorry. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one has ever hated his own flesh. but nourishes it and cherishes it just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery is profound, and I'm saying that it refers to Christ in the church. However, some of you said, nevertheless, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. It's a simple proposition that he's making, and he's using the Genesis account here. You are one flesh. In a very logical sense, you get up in the morning and you eat. Some of you exercise. Point here, you take care of yourselves. That is a very simple logical proposition. You know that you do these things. In that same way, you would nourish and cherish and preserve your wife. But not by simple, like romantic or like noble language. He's literally saying, no, from the Genesis account, you are one flesh. There's a quote here I have from Oh no, I didn't I didn't write it here. Um That is a useful thing husbands teach for husbands To be, or or just men, to be reminded of is that it is not um it is not intuitive for us to remember we are one flesh in marriage You do not think that. So what Doug was saying a little bit here before, that idea about like being cold or drawing away from one another, well that that if you are considering the Genesis account in terms of one flesh. You would recognize I would never do that in the same way I would never cut off my own arm. If you have questions from today, I would like you to think through them and to email Um email me and depending on the question I will pull in other men as well, frankly. But email me questions if you have on this because I don't want to say it's a tough topic, but I want to say it is a topic that requires time and I think wisdom in how we approach it. But here's the last thing that I'm going to say, and because we're we're going to come back and thank you for the grace in terms of like time of class. I don't think Paul is writing this like this is going to I think Paul is writing this saying you need to discipline yourselves into this and be thoughtful and purposeful But the reminder that I want to give to you is that Paul is describing what is a good and lovely life in the Lord. What does that mean? It means that the sweetness of marriage can look like husbands who love their wives in such a manner. and wives who submit to their husbands in such a manner. And that that glorifies God and can look and be wonderful. And I'll tell you one more thing. It speaks volumes. In the world, in society, to your own children, when the love and respect that is within a marriage is on display in an earnest way. You will find that the way in which that transmits the glory and goodness of God is incredibly, incredibly powerful To the extent that it is very interesting that the Lord uses marriage as the analogy in terms of the church's relationship to Christ. So what I don't want you to do is walk away from this and think, how am I going to toughen myself into this in terms of present or future, but Lord, this is a good thing. How do I step into this trusting in you in terms of how good it is? Um praise God. Okay. I'm going to close for us. And then but that's a serious encouragement. Questions or comments? Here we go. Please feel free to email me. You can see my email in Hopebook. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that it Pokes at us. We thank you, Lord, that the Holy Spirit uses it That we would have the areas in our heart that need to be illuminated and brought closer to you come to light. And we thank you, God, that you're faithful and you're good to us. But you know what, Lord, we thank you for how lovingly you design life and how you design relationships. And we thank you, God, that as much as we have so many poor examples in different directions. of the marriage relationship, yet what we know is that you are a God who redeems, you are a God who takes broken bones and sets them right You are a God who gives a new heart in place of a heart of stone. And in each of these things, so you can put life into marriage that it would glorify you and that we would praise your name and others would praise your name. And we pray, Lord, that for intention. Lord, I pray for those in the room who this conversation hurts either by memory or by impact or by whatever it is. Lord if I'm Honest with myself, what I would truly pray for is that we zoom out from what you have taught us in this section and be reminded that we are one church and one body. And for those that are struggling in marriage that there are brothers and sisters around them to whom they can lean upon, not in terms of violating the sanctity or respect of marriage, and yet Lord to find love and help by your good will We thank you for who you are and how you love when we pray this all in Jesus' name, Amen. Thanks, everybody