Ephesians chapter 6. So today we're coming to the verses 5 to 9 that talk about slaves and masters and um And the instructions for that. It just backing up and remembering where we stand in the context of this passage This is the third instruction that's given to people who are under authority and people who are in authority. And that pattern is followed. And that just Pointing ourselves back to the larger context here, the very first one, wives followed the final command that we had here in Ephesians 4, 5, and 6 to walk. And if you look back at Matthew in Ephesians 5. 15, it says, look carefully then how you walk. Not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is Those commands right there, those exhortations, I believe, also point forward to the submit to these authority passages that we've been going on. It's Speaking to the fact that we want to live our lives in wisdom and not be ignorant of what God has put in place already. Understand what the will of the Lord is. And following that, he says, Wise. Likewise, submit to your husbands. Husbands, love your wives. Children, obey your parents. Fathers, bring your children up into fear and understanding of the Lord. Slaves, and that's what's going on today as we get to these passages. This is this is the last of the walk commands, but if you go back to the beginning of chapter 4, it says, I therefore And that therefore ties back to everything that Paul talked about in chapters 1 to 3 about the finished work of Christ on our behalf. All of that work, all the blessings that is illuminated for us in chapters 1 to 3, Paul brings forward to the stuff that we put in practice. Based on what Christ has done in your lives, walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called with all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Those commands and exhortations come forward to the relationships that we have when we're in authority and when we're under authority. And that's important for us to hold those contexts as well. Because when you're under authority, it's important to be in that position with humility. And with gentleness, and with patience, and bearing with the sinfulness of the person who's in authority over you. And likewise, when you're in authority, it's really important to be in that position, in a position of humility. To be gentle, to be eager to maintain the unity that we have. And remember, in these authority and under authority positions, these people are all in the church. So we're assuming these people are all in Christ, whether they're in authority or under authority. And so it it's it's beautiful and cool to see that the gospel, because I'm just gonna Big broad pictures say chapters 1 to 3 is the gospel, Christ's finished work in our lives, sets up how we live as believers and how we walk. And calls us to a unique way of living that's different as it says In verse 17, you must no longer walk as the Gentiles. You're gonna be different now that you're in Christ. And then Paul gets into these examples. So today we're looking at the third one, right? The first one's wives and husbands, children and fathers is the second one, and then it's slaves and masters. And in each one of these, there's a pattern set up where the person under authority is addressed first and the person in authority is addressed second. And everybody's got instructions and duties and roles to play. I just want to point out that these three are not the only authority examples that we live in our lives. Other passages in Scripture, like Romans 13, says, be under the authority of the government. There's other passages that talk about being under the authority of the elders. So What we have here is not the end-all-be-all of what it means to be under authority or in authority, but there are examples that Paul chose that guided by the Holy Spirit To give the church that he write to, wrote to. So let's read it. Ephesians 6. 5 to 9. And then we're going to go to the parallel passage in Colossians 3. Bondservants, obey your earthly masters. With fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ. Not by the way of eye service as people pleasers, but as bondservants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man, knowing that whatever good any one does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he is a bond servant, Or is free. Masters do the same to them and stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven, and that there is no partiality with him Let's turn over to Colossians 3, 22. This letter is also written by Paul while he was in prison. And When you get to Colossians 3, you can see that what Paul writes here follows the same general outline that we just talked about. Verse 18 is wives, verse 19 is husbands, verse 20 is children, and verse 21 is fathers. It's a lot, it's the same thoughts really condensed down. But when Paul gets to the slaves and masters, it's about the same. Look what it says and compare those two. If you got paper, you can conveniently flip back and forth between the two if you wanted to. But it says here, bondservants from the ESV, by the way, that word is slaves, bondservants obey in everything those who are your earthly masters. not by way of eye service, as people pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, work heartily as for the Lord and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ, for the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. There's some similarity between these two passages. I wanted to see those two passages together because I think that they can help to eliminate one another. I also want to acknowledge that uh There have been times when these passages have been used by people in the direction of being abusive and for their own self-esteem. Uh sinners can take God's word or a piece of God's word and they can use it in ways that God didn't intend. And I just want to acknowledge that. And that was true with the husbands and wives, because you can have overbearing husbands in that position of authority. not loving. You can have uh children that aren't obedient to their parents. And you can have masters that are ruthless. And the history of our nation shows that. It's just a fact. It's a fact of history. That can make this passage difficult to consider because we have a very different historical framework or context than Paul had when he wrote this. The social structures that they had in Rome are not the same social structures we had in this country a hundred and some years ago And they're not the same social structures that we have today. And we've lived out a couple thousand years of history between when Paul wrote this and now. But God's Word is active. And it's good for teaching and for correction and reproof. So let's not take this passage and miss over what God has for us today. We may not sing this as a praise song. But but it is still God's word. So let's consider what God has for us today. Turn back to Ephesians. Uh and just one more thought, by the way. Uh if this is a challenging passage for you, uh because of history and and and things that you and and and stuff like that. I just want to be compassionate about that today. Um and and I I recognize and and agree that there was things done right that were just wrong. And we're not going to blink it. I mean we're not going to look away from that. But we do want to see what God has for us here. In Ephesians 6 Verses five to nine. I want to look carefully at two really important words. And the first is is slaves. And the Greek word for that is doulos. And I read from the ESV this morning Um where it's the first word there is bondservants, and that is the word in Greek slaves, doos. In fact, in verse one, bondservants in I'm sorry, verse five bondservants in verse 6 bondservants and in verse 8 bondservants is all the word tulos in the Greek which is slaves And a couple of translations say slaves, but that that is what it is. It is a person who is wholly the subject Subject to the will of another person. If you want to know a lot more about that, John MacArthur wrote a book called Slave. It's a worthwhile book to read through and see what he has there. I don't want to spend a lot of time talking about what slavery was like back in Roman days, but I will mention that there was a very large percentage of the people in a Roman Empire that were slaves. It was a very common practice that uh forced slavery. It was a reality of their culture And um and so I think that that's part of the reason why Paul, when he's writing this, includes it right along with husbands and wives. Children and fathers, slaves and masters, because what we have here are the authority relationships that would have been inside the home in Roman times. And would have been things that people in the church regularly encounter. That's one aspect where it makes it foreign to us. And by the way, when I say that, I'm not saying that slavery doesn't exist anymore today. Masters. Do you want to add something? I I was go ahead. I was wondering can you break it down to different pinpoint of slaves because they come in different categories. Uh like the person you work for could be treating you like a slave. And and that's what it's there for. Well uh yeah, I got you. That I would say that Even when you're being treated like a slave for the person you work for, that's not slavery. That's not. Because you're getting paid. You have an agreement that they're going to pay you. And at any point you could go leave. You're still, you know, even though that person is is demanding and pushing and driving You give them the letter, resign. Go find another job. You're your own person. Slavery, you're not your own person. And that's a big difference. Did I get at what you're kind of looking for? Um There I think there's aspects where people try to create nuance and add layers of different kinds of of bondage. And I don't think here Paul's necessarily saying that. He's just saying slaves. Back in the Roman times, you could have sold yourself as a slave. You could have been captured from a a warfare and being forced into slavery. Um and there's other ways that you could have gotten into slavery But in the Roman times, as far as I know, they didn't have the same protections that the Jewish slaves might have had where after seven years or fifty years they'd have been set free. As far as I know. Freedom could be granted in Roman times, but it was not required. And so And I'm trying to stick to the context of what Paul would have been talking about. Because there has been a lot of different there's been a lot of different implementations of slavery throughout time. And Paul couldn't have been thinking when he's talking about masters and slaves necessarily about what was being done when people were being abducted. From Africa and shipped across to this country and forced into slavery. Other parts of scripture talk about that. Abducting and stealing people is is is a sin. And scripture makes that very clear. Um and I appreciate the question. Appreciate the question. It's a serious subject. Sorry. Um Masters. That's the second word I want to take a look at. The word here in the Greek that's used for masters, I think is correctly pronounced kurios. And uh forgive me if my Greek pronunciation is not the best. Um in chapter one, I'm sorry, chapter five, the word master is curious. In chapter in verse seven, the word Lord is curious. In verse eight, the word Lord is curious. In verse 9, masters do the same to them, and he who is both their master and yours are both the word curios. So the word master and the word Lord in this passage is the same Greek word. There's an important concept that kind of gets hidden when it gets translated to English, when you lose out on the fact that that's the same word. And that's really important in this passage to hold on to and to know. Because slaves have earthly masters Christian slaves have a heavenly master. Slave-owning masters also have a heavenly master. And I'm saying that because this is talked about here in the context of the church. Because outside the church, well, everybody's under the authority of God. Anyway. But they don't have a Lord and Savior who's their master, like the church has. Yeah. Um something you just said as you look back into didn't Paul even say like he's a student of Christ or or slave Christ earlier in Ephesians? Yeah. So that just struck me that we're not our own people. Yeah. And slavery not only gets into um the fact that Slaves are property. That's just the definition of slavery. They're bought. And the reason why I bring that up is not to dwell too much on the ugliness of people being owned by other people. But the reason why I brought that up is because we've been bought by Christ. I'm not my own. I belong to Christ. That's what Paul's getting at here in this passage. When he says, he in verse 9, he who is both their master and yours is in heaven, and there is no partiality with him. Imagine what's going on here. Paul's now talking to both slaves and masters that are in the church. And he's basically saying to them, this relationship. has a dynamic you masters and you slaves might not have been thinking about before. Because you both serve the same master. And that's really important. Because just as with a well, similarly to the relationship between the husbands and wives, where a wife is called to submit to her husband, and the husband is called to love his wife There are nuances that knit that relationship together and make it a sweet, strong bond. Paul now here is starting to talk about a relationship that goes on between two believers. And this all of a sudden starts to get deeper and richer when you think about that. Please, I am not, and I don't think well no, I'm not gonna go there yet. Let's look at the passage. Because we just gotta tear it apart for a minute. There's a command to the slaves. Obey your earthly masters. That's the command. Obey. And then he gives the reasons why and how He says, with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart, as you would Christ, not by the way of eye service as people pleasers, but as bondservants of Christ. Doing the will of God from the heart, rendering service with good will as to the Lord and not to man How are slaves to obey their masters? With fear and troubling. Sincerely. Sincerely. How else? How old are you as you would Christ? I'm sorry? As you would Christ. As you would Christ. That as a gold star answer right there. That means three stars, because that same expression occurs three times in this passage of Christ, but as servants of Christ, so to the Lord and not to man. Absolutely. When you see scripture repeat something three times, it's kinda important. Um And so the reality is slaves obey your masters, but not because you want to make sure that you're obeying your masters, it's because you're obeying your heavenly master. Who's telling you to obey your master? That's to you know that to me, does that make anybody a little bit uncomfortable? Can we be honest about scripture and how it makes us feel? I I feel a little uncomfortable when I read that. Yeah. Alright, so you at the beginning you refer to Colossians 3, if you go over to verse 23, 323, it says, and whatever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord And not to men. And then knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of inheritance for you serve the Lord Jesus Christ. Right? So we're doing all these things and this employee of ours may not be even a believer. And we're supposed to be doing our work hardly unto the Lord, that focus. And it may be rough at a time, but we're we're doing it as a witness. We're doing it to bring the light of Christ. We're doing it so they see Christ in us. Yeah. Maybe they may even ask us, why are you doing that? I know I'm being rough towards you. They may even say that at some point. You're still doing this, doing this job. You have left. I've been I've been I'm being sarcastic now. There's an aspect where you quit and leave. You're still here. Right. Then you have an opportunity to tell them why Tell them to you live for. Yeah. I like where you went, Brian. There's a couple of things that I think that you said that are really important. Good. Let me shine a light on it. Just a little bit more. Appreciate you. Uh because the question that is in my mind is why? God doesn't always answer why. He doesn't owe us an answer why when God tells us to do something like He did to the Israelites when he said, gather enough manna for today and don't keep it overnight. And on The day before the Sabbath gathered. Toss it twice as much. And don't go out on the Sabbath to try to gather more. That's the instruction. Just follow the instruction And here, kinda likewise, God's given us instruction. And by us, I'm not talking about Employees, employees, I'm talking about masters and slaves. I'm trying to be a little bit more focused. Why? Part of me wants to know why, because that sounds hard Can you give me something? And I think that some of the answers that you just gave are potential answers to that and could be a guess because there's going to be an opportunity when I'm going to be able to say, you know what, Master Yeah, I know you're not fair, and I know you're not treating me well, but I have a Savior who's told me to serve, I'm serving him when I serve you. And when I'm serving you with all my heart and loving you because God told me to love my enemies, That I'm doing what his will is. And that's gonna be a light on a hill. Yeah. Also, God's way is very humbling to you. Um your your your nature could be to work against the uh supervisor nature. You see the contrast between how you would do it and what Christ called was very humbling to me. Um because I had to go back to the office after 14 years of working at home. I had to prepare my heart. The office I had to understand the office is only building administration even though we have issues, right? Yeah. So there are a lot of things that are probably just challenging. But As long as it's not outside of my job and you know the will of God, I've just been able to focus on what I'm supposed to do So it's it's very humbling when I in my flesh I wanna, you know give somebody a piece of my mind And and that gets right back to what Ephesians chapter four talks about Walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called. Doing my job with it, let it be an opportunity to witness. And it's been and it's been happening. There were people uh the first week that I knew they came to me when I think, and how are you doing it? I'm ready to crash out. And because my heart is prepared, I said I'm glad you asked. And he was openly earned. You know, if I was not faced in Christ, you know, that's not me. It's because of Christ is going to know In any situation that we're in, and here we're starting to pull some application towards ourselves, which is where you went. In any situation that we're in that's uncomfortable, that we don't like We can remember the sovereignty of God. We can be praying for escape, but at the same time, praying for grace to walk through what it is that God has us in. Jonathan Lehman in his book on authority had a little word to say about this. He says, crucial for our purposes is that the New Testament authors treated these structures, slavery master, as fixed. They focused on teaching slaves and masters alike to follow Christ, whatever their so structural realities and circumstances, since nearly all had no hope whatsoever of changing those circumstances. It was as if the New Testament authors meant to say, you're a mouse stuck in a laboratory maze which you cannot change, but will help you negotiate the maze Paul encouraged the slaves individually. Get your freedom if you can. That's in 1 Corinthians 7. 21. Yet he was also a good pastor who recognized that many of his readers would invariably spend their entire lives within that system, and therefore his task was to help them follow Jesus right where they lived. Yes. That reminds me of Jesus I think called in Caesar like if uh that my kingdom off this world and if they were my soldiers would fight My kingdom is not of this world. And you see that even here, like it's not telling the slaves like take up arms, it's not a Christian church, you should like change all society that he's telling them to like the the text world's gonna be better and this one's gonna work with what you've got and yeah and in the same way and I didn't write this in my notes thank you for that in the same way look where Paul's about to go Right after this, Paul's going into spiritual warfare. So it's really cool that you brought that out. Thank you. Yeah. This is this world is not my home. Read all about what it says in Hebrews chapter 11 and walk by faith. Knowing, knowing that God sees and knows. Again, this is Harold Horner writes, Christianity's emphasis has always been on the transformation of individuals who will turn in who will in turn influence society, not the transformation of society, which will then transform individuals. Page number. Uh page number nine seventy-three. Thank you. And there's another pat another quote that I have for that same page. It's really cool. Let's do a passage. Why didn't Paul just say, get rid of slavery? By the way, that was the page number in my Kindle. I know. Okay. I'm working. Why did Paul not advocate the abolition of slavery? First, he was more concerned with the big picture, eternity. He taught that suffering in this life was nothing in comparison with the joy of eternity. That's in Romans 8, 18 to 30. Second, in Romans 13, he advocated obedience to government. To propose the abolition of slavery would defy the government. So there's a couple of things Horner was talking about, and you brought out a third an additional thing, which is you've got an opportunity here to be a light in the place that you're at. Case in point Draw your minds back to the book of Genesis. Joseph. His brothers sell him into slavery. That's probably apropos to what it is that we're studying here today. He's sold into slavery and he shows up at Potiphar. Potiphar? Yeah, all of a sudden I was doubting myself a little bit there. And what does he do? He does exactly what God talks about here in Ephesians 6. He serves his master with fear and trembling, with sincere heart. He does it not by way of eye service as people pleasers. He he does the will of God from the heart, rendering service with good will. And you see that evidence when Potiphar's wife comes and says, hey, hey, come on. And tries to seduce him and he says, I can't do this. That would dishonor God and my master. He's given me authority over everything except for you, and I can't take this. And then when he gets kicked out of that house and sent to prison, he does the same thing. It's a characteristic of his life. One of the things that's interesting in that story is you see. Verse 8 brought to light in how that lived out. Verse 8 says, Knowing that whatever good anyone does, this he will receive back from the Lord, whether he's a bondservant or is free. Walking by faith means that when I'm working and serving, if I gotta go back to the office and it's uncomfortable, it might Employer is working me like a dog. If I'm dealing with a government that won't give my hospital water, if I'm on and on and on it goes, right? The authority that I'm under is not treating me well. I need to remember I'm in this position. God's in control, and I can trust Him to provide what I need today, and if not, to provide what I need to eternity. God may choose to exalt me to the right hand of Pharaoh, but he may not. But regardless, just like the slaves in Egypt in Moses' day, Moses God tells Moses at the burning bush I've heard their cries. I've heard their cries, and I'm gonna set them free. And he redeemed his people. It's very interesting also to look back at the example of the slave Hagar when she was mistreated by her mistress after she got pregnant and she runs away. And she's out in the wilderness, and God comes and talks to her. Let's not forget That when we're mistreated or we see others mistreated, that God is not blind. God sees what's going on and he is compassionate. His own testimony is that he is loving kindness. He is a God who is loving and kind and he takes care of people in ways that we sometimes don't understand. Look at the example of Job. God is sometimes glorified in our suffering. Another way of saying it, I think Pastor Gabe said not too long ago was, our suffering is worth the glory of God. Amen. Go ahead, Steve. Any good that we do we'll receive back from the Lord, whether bonds are free. Yes. Um but kind of like this idea you say, like obviously the connection to sovereignty. Yes, you're in a situation of God's that's not out high in God's control. But kind of this rally of hey God's is in control of whatever situation we end up, but there's also a redemptive aspect in that in every situation we end up. even less an ideal once you have opportunity in that to render good for the Lord. And sometimes I think that's hard for me to see. Like I can look at the hard circumstances and go, okay, well, this isn't ideal. But God has good that I can do for him and he will see it and reward it. And so there's kind of like a redemptive aspect of even in circumstances that aren't ideal or hard or difficult, God is the right way to do good for him and to serve him and he sees that. Yeah. Yeah. There was a breakout session that talked about comparing us to Pharisees. I wasn't at that breakout session yesterday. I heard it was a little bit good. Can you give us a a brief synopsis? I mean I've got a lot of things. I'm putting you on the spot. I'm sorry. It's okay. I loved it, so I don't mind talking about it. Uh he kind of rope a dope does he uh got talking about this ministry he was doing with um migrant fruit workers uh up in the Pennsylvania area Um he is Chilean Chilean. So I think that brings an interesting perspective. Juan and I were talking about it, Juan and Anton and I were talking about this morning, right? Less of the immigrations, you know, politics stuff and more just these are people that are not experiencing um the dignity that God would want them to experience as image fares. And so He was trying to mobilize churches to get out there and just uses a uh you know an evangelistic outreach, uh particularly since these migrant workers uh work for six to nine months and then they come back every year and do the same thing so they can have a long term ministry with um I can stop. Oh okay. Um long-term ministry with him. But anyway, yeah so he went on and did his whole thing about the ministry and then he pops up this slide and he's like Christians are like Pharisees. And he lists these characteristics. And he's like, we love to go to the temple. We love to read God's Word. We love to know that we're God's people. We love, you know, we have all these things that we would all say, yes, as a Christian I ascribe to a New Testament version of that same thing. And he said, and just like the Pharisees, Christ is always saying to us, you love me, and you love being in me. But you do not love your neighbor, and it is the very thing that I told you is the witness that you are in me. And and you know, j I guess I'm stuck in Luke and in Ephesians and all these other places that are talking to Pharisees and not just the whole Lord You know that that is my problem. That is our problem. Oh, you heard my prayer this morning. I heard your prayer this morning. Yeah. That's part of the reason I had it. Fantastic. It was fantastic. And you know and that's kind of the jumping off point to the masters here. Right? The masters in this situation we're in Ephesians chapter six, by the way. Um masters are told Do the same to them. What does that mean? Alright, I'm opening this to the floor. Masters, do the same to them. What's that mean? There you go. I think that's a really good answer too, and and it's kind of the direction my mind is going with this. But but a master in this case, when it says do the same to them, is not obey your slaves. It's not. Because my literal our literal minds would be like, do the same to them, Okay, slaves, you're gonna be obey your masters. Submit to your masters. I'm sorry, masters, submit to your slaves. And and that's not what Paul's talking about. What Paul's talking about here is do to them the way that you would want to be done to But let's put more meat on that. Go ahead. I thought it was talking about how uh you submit to God and how God treats you, and then you treat this the way God treats you, like forgiving them and being kind to them and loving them. Well said. I think that's in agreement with what was already said. But that's why I said put some more meat on it, because more meat on it means just like slaves, you're serving your master by serving Christ. Masters, you're earned by serving Christ. You're being merciful. You're being understanding. You're providing. Because you're in the position, just like on the other examples that we saw, husbands, you're in the position of taking care of your wife. Fathers, you're in the position of not provoking your children to anger and bringing them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Masters, you have a responsibility to your slaves. You're in the position of authority. That's what's there Do the same to them means to remember God is your master. You are also under authority. Submit to your master. And then it gets back to: well, what does God tell people to do? Love one another. Treat people the way the second greatest commandment. That's another way of saying it. If you look into um in the book of Micah This is an obscure reference. The beginning of the book of Micah. Let's take a look real quick. Turn back to Micah. It's in the Old Testament. It's one of the minor prophets. You'll find it Bible drill time, right? What chapter one? Chapter one. I'm wrong. It's not my good What's the verse? Um sorry, there there's a prophet and this is something that uh I'm trying hard to memorize. There's a prophet that talks about all the judgments that he has given to the nations that are around the people of Israel. Joel I'm pretty sure it's not Joel. Amos, my bad. It's Amos. First three of chapter one. It is Bible drill day today, isn't it? For three transgressions of Damascus, and for four I will not revoke the punishment, because they have threshed Gilead with thresholds sl Threshing sledges of iron, so I will send fire upon the house of Haziel, and it shall devour the strongholds of Ben Hadad, I will break the gate bar of Damascus. So if you follow the what the pat what the prophet is saying here. There's a prophecy against Damascus. There's a prophecy against Gaza. There's a prophecy against Tyre. There's a prophecy against Edom. None of these are Israelites. But he's holding them to a standard of understanding that they need to treat people as imp right. Just generally speaking, he's holding them to their conscience that says you need to treat people right, even though they're Gentiles. You need to be merciful to your enemies. You need to provide for them. You need to not be as harsh as you're being harsh, and because of that, I'm coming to judge you. And at a minimum, The relationship and a master-slave relationship is an understanding that you need to treat people as image-bearers of God, as worthy of respect, not threatening. And if God calls the Gentile nations to that standard, likewise in Ephesians, God's going to say to the believers who are masters, you need to take care of your slaves. Go ahead, Daniel. Yeah, it is it's okay to maybe like amplify that point. All the All the encouragements that Paul has given working through Ephesians in terms of the unity of the church, the way that the church is one body. Is knit together all under the head the way that we're speaking. Tender hearted forgiving or so another sign, walking. Love I I think a really shocking thing is that in the dynamic where you have really, really different societal roles, that's gone in the church in regard to how you treat one another. And so, as the, you know, the same thing about it was shocking that wives and husbands of relationship needs to look like this. Like children getting the respect that they even are addressed, and then he or sway's that you're being addressed at all actually is like very shocking That like you you're you know, if you're sitting in the audience and be like, oh wait a minute, you're talking to me too. I normally get crossed over. Yeah. Um I think I just amplified that photo. Yeah Yeah, absolutely. And and that's why Paul could send Philemon back to Anesimus and say, treat him as a brother. Right. Treat him at, which is almost like saying set him free, but it stops short. It stops short. And what Paul's now saying to Enesimus is Make it so he doesn't want to ever run away again? Okay, well I wanna be I'm not gonna go that far. It's still slavery potentially, but we don't know the end of the story. We we don't know. Not for punitive reasons. Yeah. Or Um yeah. Very serious subject, and it's a little bit yeah, I got you. Yeah, I find it interesting here too that Paul does not advocate for the abolishment of slavery. And God sends Hagar back to Sarah. All three of the House Tefelin categories are not by choice. In this period of time, very few women chose their husbands. In this time and in every time, children don't choose their marriage. They wish they could, but they don't. And slaves for the reasons that you indicated generally don't choose their masters except for that category that you talked about where they contract themselves to the master. Look at Romans 13 for that very purpose. It's a parallel in a different authority situation. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God. And those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. And those who resist will encourage. Sometimes I don't like our leadership. But God's saying Submit. He also says in other passage, pray hard for them. Did you have your hand up, Steve? Yeah, I was just thinking of something we're just talking about, like that masters do the same. Something could maybe become a little more evident for me from living in West Africa, but they're like a patronage, so it's not a patronage system exists a lot where you have like people who are patrons and then those who are kind of underneath. And I think it's just like it's interesting, even leaving what I could have as a doctor in America, I still go and we still have much more need than the majority of people that we live. And so but they're kind of an afterlife, we have certain people that work for us, and they'll just call you Patron. And it it it's weird because it's becomes a little more even beyond just you're their employer. It's kind of they because they know you have certain resource and access of things that they will never have. And if someone in kind of that role is a good patron or honorable patron who's going to use what he has been given to also bless kind of those who are connected with him And around them. It it's just an interesting thing. So it's not just, oh there's a difference. But there is like a difference that's not going to ever be completely separated. Yeah. In ways that are different than in America But at the same point like, okay, you're a mass well how does God treat us? Clearly that difference is way bigger. God infinite us finite. And yet God is constantly using the resources and those things that he has at his disposal to bless us, to honor us, provide for us. And so like things like well we have a you know I have a contr someone works for me and this is a salary they say yes but then sometimes his kid gets sick. It's like, well, okay. Somebody come to me and say that and I'm like, oh, well here's something to help because your child is sick if someone helping you out. you can pay for a cost of the book. And it's just interesting to thinking of like how do we use the circumstances God has put us and to bless those around us who are connected. Yes. So it's different than the exact relationship here, but it is kinda like, okay masters, you're just seeking to do good with a lawyer to those around you. Well, I've treated you in this way, how are you treating It's a good segue to wrapping up. We're a little bit over time. And let's steer our minds a little bit. We've already talked a little bit about application, but let's steer our minds a little bit towards application. A lot of times when this passage is preached, people say, well, this master slave thing is really employer-employee. That's really what it is for us today. And I say no, and I already did say no. I say no, but but the But what we have here is an archetype of authority and under authority. How do we live our lives when we're under authority and how do we live our lives when we're in a position of authority? We need to remember that our Master is in heaven and he sees what we're doing. We need to remember what God has called us to be unique is to love others as we would be loved. to to take care, to to nurture, even as God has taken care and nurtured us. To provide for in the situation where we can, but when we're in a position of authority to act as if we're serving God To not be people pleasers, to be working hard even when nobody's looking, so that we're faithful with the little things. And being trustworthy and being good representatives of Christ. Because all of us are going to be in positions when we're under authority. And we are going to have different degrees of positions, I think, when we're over authority. And it's important for us to not be threatening To remember that God's the one who ultimately gave me this authority, and I can just, I can operate in the position that God has given me. And trust that God's going to also take care of that when people are disobedient. We can also remember that in this situation, we didn't talk about this a lot, when it comes to God. There's no partiality with him. Just because today I've got an official a position of authority and tomorrow And somebody else doesn't have a position of authority, doesn't make me better in God's eyes. In fact, oftentimes, because God says He respects people who are humble There may be a deeper respect that God has for the humble who are in positions under authority. Take that into consideration as you think about the relationships and the positions that you have. Go ahead, babe. Um Peter, um I I think this helps. It's easy to read. when you're in a situation and in a trial, it it takes a every effort to leave this. But it says his divine power is granted to us. All things that pertain to life and godliness through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, by which he has granted to us a precious and very great promiscuous so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature having this gate from the direction that makes the world become a central desire. And then the beginning of verse 5 says, for this very reason make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue Which you're gonna go to everything. That and that we get to partake and um And Jesus' divine nature by his power through us um when we do what you just explained. Yeah. There is uh These five verses have a lot of social implication and have a lot of implication that's tangled up in our history, and have a lot of implication that we can live here as believers right now. I think that uh The time that we have wasn't sufficient to really dig into the richness that's here. But I want us also to see and glorify God in the fact that He has set this up. And just like when Job didn't understand the difficulty that he was in the middle of, but God was glorified in that, God's glorified in the situation that we're in right now. And where he's put us, even if we don't understand it. James says for us to pray for wisdom when we face trials. And that's an important thing to finish up with. I I did want to mention one last thing, and that is um if you still have questions and curiosity about this passage John McCarr John Piper, sorry, John Piper has a six-part YouTube teaching on this passage. If you go to YouTube and you Google and you search on Ephesians 6. 5, it'll probably pop up. You'll probably be able to find it. You don't see his face, you just see the words and him outlining and scribbling on the text And it's fascinating and and and and just brings more I don't have time to bring the kind of clarity that he brought And so if you still have questions about that, I recommend listening through all six parts. You'll be able to, if you can find part one, you'll probably get them to play in order and stuff like that. It's a very good thing. Let's close in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for how rich your word is and how interconnected it is. and how spectacularly you are on displayed in even things like slaves and masters. Dear Lord, I am in awe of your goodness. I'm in awe of your mercy. I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would help us to be Patient and submissive to your word. To not be too quick to judge, but to look deeply into understanding the goodness and mercy, because your character doesn't change. And when we are puzzled by the things that we see in your word, it is worth the time and effort to dig deep and understand who you are. Dear Lord, I know that some people are don't have patience with this passage. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that you would grant them uh The mercy to understand, and the tender hearts to submit to your word Dear Lord, just like Paul prayed, we need strength to understand the height and depth of your love. And it's beyond understanding. Dear Lord, we're in awe of what you do and the way you do it. Amen.