So looking at the uh verses that we have to start the class off today, we have got John 5, 24 to 25. And Colossians 1, 2, these are verses to help us to meditate on what it is that we have coming for this class and for the rest of the class. And John 5, Christ has these truly, truly messages. that speak to hearing God's word, knowing God's word and accepting it, and the blessing that comes from that Finally, Ephesians 2, 8 through 10, you know, is a is an interesting verse because if you had to go through the book of Ephesians, there may be a verse that you pick as like this verse is a key verse for the whole book. Maybe it represents the scope of the whole book. And um Daniel and Scott and I had some robust discussion about what that might be. Well I think it is Ephesians 2, 8 through 10, which reads, For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Not as a result of works, so that none may boast, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works Which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. And what you see in these three verses is both the salvation and work of Christ the doctrine associated with that, and the working that God has prepared for us for the time for all of our lives. And that kind of follows the pattern that you see in the book of Ephesians. If you look at Ephesians as kind of an overall arc, a big picture outline, the first three chapters speak to the doctrine. The richness of what Christ has, what God has done in Christ on our behalf to bring about salvation and security in Him. And the last three chapters of Ephesians speak to how we are to walk and what it is that we are to do. And I think these verses right here speak to that in what it has. It's hard to say this represents all of Ephesians, though, because there's so much more when you read and look into the book of Ephesians. But I just wanted to mention those verses and move along. I just want to let you guys know for this class we plan to start promptly at 9. 30 If you're at 9. 31, you're late. I expect it's probably best to get here two minutes early. so that you're not late and you're fine in a class. These row these chairs on the front are the best chairs. I don't know why people left the best chairs open to the latecomers, but it tends to kind of happen. I want to also mention to you guys there's grace. Um I'd rather have you here five minutes late than worried that you're walking in And stuff like that. Gina, thank you for being our person who represents the grace that we get extended to. Um I will not call out late people again after Gina. She's special to my heart. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh guys, we all go to the same church, we're all part of the same family, we're all united in Christ, and so I really want this to be not a classroom. Today might be a little bit more lecture-y, but I really want this, and I know Daniel does as well, we want this to be interactive. Please interrupt. Interject. Feel free to ask questions if something doesn't make sense, because you guys are being good Bereans in this class and studying God's Word alongside of us. There will be homework. There's going to be homework in each one of the classes. And the reason why there's homework is because, let's just be realistic. One and a quarter hours is not enough time to really sink our teeth into God's word and make it our own. My wife and I just got back this past week from the same conference, and there's a really cool quote there from a guy named John Lennox, and he talked about reading God's word until you see Christ. Ephesians is one of those places. Well, okay, it's God's word. You're gonna see Christ. But Ephesians is one of these places where again and again and again it talks about who we are in Christ. And so um The homework for today is to read the book of Ephesians. There are six chapters. They're not long chapters. Anybody want to take a guess at how long it would take to just read straight through the book of Ephesians From one to six. Maybe. Yeah. That's probably. Some people read faster, some people read slower. Set aside the time. I'm setting the homework as reading through the book of Ephesians. However, you might want to read through the book of Ephesians until you start to see Jesus. Because the reality is is we're not doing homework because God assigned you the home big God because Doug assigned to this homework. We're doing this because we want to know God and draw near to him. And ultimately that's a purpose, and I hope that's the purpose for this class. This class is going to take two quarters. We're going to have 25 weeks for this class, which means we probably won't be able to go as deep as we want to. in in the text. So there will be opportunity also in the homework to assign things for us to go a little bit deeper into the text than what we have. The notes are published on Hope Book. If you don't have access to Hope Book, you're missing out not just on the notes, but you're also going to miss out on th additional things that that republish out the Hope Book. So if you don't have access to Hope Book, uh talk to the church office and get yourself set up so that you can access Hope Book. Uh and you have access to that. If you don't know what Hope Book is, afterwards, talk to me about the class. Afterwards, I won't have a lot of time because I've got to go leave music today. You can also talk to Daniel. And we will get you set and point you in the direction to get access to Hope Book. I'm after home. Thank you. I I wasn't gonna call you out a second time today, but yes, Gina can help with that. Um I feel like oh, in the class notes You're going to see the outlines for each one of the weeks. You'll see the songs that we have coming up. We plan to sing every week. There's maybe one exception that we have already identified. Normally in my class we have a fellowship time, but we're not going to have time for that in what we're doing this quarter, which I know is disappointing because it's really nice to have that fell those fellowship Sundays Uh but in order to do that we'd probably have to make this a three-quarter class instead of a two-quarter class. Um so sorry about that. And um I yeah. Oh, not only do we want to start promptly at 9. 30, uh my target, our target is going to be to end promptly at quarter of And hopefully maybe some Sundays we can even end a little bit sooner than that. Because I know that sometimes the cue starts happening a little soon for the bathrooms. And I want to be gracious as much as I can. In the appendices in the back, you will see the bibliography for the class. There are a number of good resources there. One that I really want, if you're into commentaries, uh I would one that I would strongly recommend that really gets deep into the uh into the nuts and bolts of Ephesians is by a guy named Harold Horn Horner. Honor. H-O-E-N-E-R. It's a book about that thick. And you can get it on your Kindle if you want to. It's pretty cool. Ephesians and Exegetical Commentary. There are a lot of commentaries on the book of Ephesians. And many of them are very good to read through and to go a little bit deeper with. Let's open our Bibles to Ephesians chapter 1. Ephesians chapter 1. And today we're going to look at 1 and 2. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God to the saints who are in Ephesus and who are faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. There is uh how many just a real quick question, show of hands. How many of you guys, when you read the epistles, you kind of read through these introductory things and you're like, okay, I've got past that. I'm trying to get onto the meat and potatoes. Okay, thanks for being honest. Um Yeah, I mean okay, me too. Um As I've been studying this, you know, I was planning to just like talk about all this background of the book of Ephesians, who wrote it, when it was written. All today we're going to talk about what Ephesus was and when Paul went there in the book of Acts. And then come to realize after studying this a little bit, these two verses represent an introduction not just to the book, but really to the book. And it's interesting to see because It lets us know right off the bat that this letter is written by Paul. And in these two verses Paul, by the Holy Spirit, introduces many of the themes that he's actually going to cover in the book of Ephesians. And it's staggering to see how God does this in his tight Detailed way where not one letter is there in his word by accident. It's there on purpose. And so it starts off, Paul, and so immediately we know who wrote this letter. And not only do we know that this is a letter from Paul, but Paul lets us know that he's an apostle, and right off the bat we have for ourselves one of the themes that Paul's going to address later on, which is the apostles. In their gifting and in their office are a foundation of the church. And we're going to talk about how the church is built upon that foundation later on as we get there. We're also seeing and discovering how Paul. Was an apostle of Jesus Christ. And Paul was made an apostle when he was personally called by Jesus on the road to Damascus and also. Later on, when both he and Barnabas were set apart by God, not the church, not by himself, set apart by God, and you can read about that in Acts chapter 13, verse 2. to go out on his missionary journey. And so when we get to Ephesians chapter 2 verse 20 And later on into 3. 5 and 4. 11, we're going to talk more about apostles and their gifting and their purpose in building the church. And so as I talk about this, we're introducing the class, but we're also setting a bunch of almost like trailers or teasers for what's coming. And what it is that we're going to do as we go through this class. There are some amazing themes that are scattered throughout the book of Ephesians, and we're going to see those. But we're going to also see, as we go through that, the gifting and their purpose as apostles and what that represents. There's an aspect of apostle which is, nope, I'm not going there. We'll save that for another day. So when Paul's writing this letter, He's in prison in Rome after appealing to Caesar. And that story of appealing to Caesar is in Acts 25, verse 11. And there's a whole thing that Paul goes through while he's in prison. And finally, after a shipwreck and getting to Rome, he's put in prison, and while they're at prison, Paul writes four letters. He writes Ephesians, he writes Colossians, he writes Philemon, and he writes a letter to the Philippians. There's an interesting, I I love the introduction that J. Vernon McGee has for the book of Ephesians, where he talks about those letters, the people who carried them and what their purpose was in going out. I like this so much I added to one of the appendices in the back of the notes Homework. If you want it, it's optional. Read that. It's about this long. It's not very long. I don't want to spend time reading it in a class. In this book, you're going to see how Paul is in prison, and he references that in Ephesians 3. 1 and in Ephesians 3. 4. But Paul also references that Excuse me, in Philippians 1, 7 to 17, he mentions it in Colossians 4, 3-10, and in Philemon verse 1. And you can read about him getting into prison in Acts 28. And we'll talk about that more when we get there. But one of the things that I think right now is worthwhile mentioning I mention it here and I mention it later in the class is that Paul in prison is not in the dumps. Paul in prison is actively serving God, and it's a model for us that while he's there in his trial, as it were, He's not sitting there waiting for his trial to be over. He's laboring for Christ. And remember the m message that Gabe gave us this past Sunday. God takes our trials and uses them for our good and his glory. And God's glorified in Paul writing these letters and sending them out to encourage the churches. And to encourage the people that are there. From prison. It is interesting, and I kind of already mentioned this a little bit, it's interesting to stack these four letters together and see what Paul was thinking and writing to these four in these four letters at the same time. All four of these letters were written somewhere around 60 to 62 AD. While Paul's in prison. So one of the other things that we see here in this first phrase is not only that he is apostle of Christ Jesus, but he's the apostle by the will of God. And one of the themes that we're going to see running through the book of Ephesians is God's purpose, God's plan, and God's will. It's again and again and again in this book. In fact, in the very first verse that I read here today from the book of Ephesians, you see that we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand. So that we would walk in them. And just as Paul is an apostle, by the will of God, we have been prepared by God in our salvation to do good works. And one of the things that we're going to see as we walk through the book of Ephesians is God's purpose for us and for his church that reaches back to before time began. And one of the things that I love about this is the implication that we see here, and what we're going to see, is that God's will In Paul and in us is effective. When God wills something to happen, and it's his sovereign will, it happens God willed Paul to be an apostle. You're an apostle. Just as God willed, let there be light. There was light. Glory to God. Because He is good and He is kind in His will. His will is eternal. It's part of our predestination, which we'll see in Ephesians 1:5 and 10 through 11. We see that God works all things according to his plan and purpose. And it's effective. I already mentioned this. So we're gonna have classes where we're going to touch on And deal with the will of God and what that means. In fact, one of the things that Scott and Daniel and I kind of talked about here in this class was If we needed to come up with like kind of a statement that kind of encapsulates the book of Ephesians, what commentary do we want to steal from? Because none of us felt really up to the task of being like, well, you know, we're not going to trust R. C. Spro or John MacArthur. or any of these other guys to write their own purpose summary statement of what the book of Ephesians is about, we're going to write our own. What really happened was we started looking at what all these guys wrote about the book of Ephesians from its purpose, and they were wildly different. Because there's a lot of things that are going on in the book of Ephesians. In fact, in the notes, in um Right after the class schedule, we've got a list of good quotes from the book of Ephesians. Just for instance, F. F. Bruce writes, God's purpose is to sum up all things in Christ, the things in the heavens and the things upon the earth, in Ephesians 1. 10. In other words, to bring all creation to the point where it finds its true head in Christ In this purpose of cosmic reconciliation, the Church is an essential part, has an essential part to play, for the Church is herself God's masterpiece of reconciliation. Not only is it composed of men and women who have individually been reconciled to God through Christ, it is composed of men and women who have also been reconciled to one another through Christ. That's powerful words. And I don't have any argument with what these folks have written about the book of Ephesians. We just wanted to have something that was succinct so that we all kind of were like, yeah And so what we wrote down, it's on the first page, the eternal purpose of God for his church is to be reconciled to him in Christ. and unified with one another, which is ultimately for his glory, walking faithfully and obediently as his children. And so as we think about the book of Ephesians and as we study it over these next two quarters, we're going to be illuminating that purpose statement. If you will, one of the things they taught us in the spiritual leadership class was, what's this golden thread or scarlet thread? What's the scarlet thread, thank you? So what's the scarlet thread that we can pin everything that we're teaching on And go back to. And so as we're walking through the book of Ephesians, we should stay close to this purpose statement that we see here that we've kind of started off with. The things should be able to point back to that. God's purpose, the eternal purpose of God for his church, is to be reconciled to him in Christ and united with one another, which is ultimately for his glory. Walking faithfully and obediently as his children. And so what we have there, as I've already mentioned, is God's purpose. It's God's purpose for us and his church, and it's eternal. Not only that, that purpose is fulfilled in Christ. And that's one of those key phrases we're going to be seeing again and again as we walk through, especially these first three chapters. In Christ, in Christ, in Christ. And there's a large portion of the book of Ephesians that speaks about unity. Paul was dealing with Gentile and Jew. And we had the vision nowadays we might be dealing with Democrat and Republican, if you will. But we're still all one in Christ. Whether you love our president or hate our president. Our ultimate thing that matters is we have one hope, one faith, one Lord, one baptism. And so we're one and united to one another. And as you see the last three chapters of Ephesians, it's interesting to see those chapters in the five walk commands. That are in chapters four, five, and six. And to just see that as a placeholder or an outline to hang on to. How do we live knowing God has adopted us as our children? God has adopted us as children, and that We're in Christ and that who we represent and what that means, not only that, but the grace that's been given to us that allows us to be Those followers of Christ. We'll talk more about that later. To the saints. This is what Paul says. It's from Paul, it's to the saints. We're almost through verse one. And so the question is, who are these saints? You notice the song we did not sing today was Oh When the Saints Go Marching In. I think it is Contations. Anybody want to give an answer to that question? What does Paul mean when he says saints? I'm sorry? Did somebody say that? What does Paul mean? Go ahead. Sanctified? Sanctified. Oh, that's in the word. Yes. Sanctified. Why is guess believers? Yeah. Believers? Saints are believers. Anybody else want to add something else? This is the interactive part of the class. It's scary to go first. Yes? transferred out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of God the sun. Yeah. The weavers. Yeah. Saint. Sanctified. Set apart. Yes. Fantastic. Those are all really good definitions. I feel like Sometimes we read words in Scripture and we move past them without thinking a little bit more about what those words mean. And I wanted to stop there for a second Some of us also have might might have some baggage from past churches that we've been in where saints means somebody who has done something special And so I want to point out that in these definitions that we talked about, those had nothing to do with somebody doing something special except for Christ. The only one who has made somebody a saint, and the only action that caused that to happen, was believing in Christ and the work that He did on a cross. And that's what declares somebody justified, sets them apart, and allows Paul and ourselves to refer to you as saint. So they're holy ones, sanctified, thank you, not because they act holy, but because they've been imputed with holiness. And so they're believers who are loved by God and have accepted the completed work of Christ that leads to justification first. Corinthians, not Colossians. 1 Corinthians 6. 11 says, and such were some of you. This sounds a little bit like Ephesians chapter 2. But you are washed. But you are sanctified. But you are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the Spirit of our God. Those are saints. And by the way, there the word saints is mentioned at least nine times more in this book, so we will talk about that later. And then it says, are faithful in Christ Jesus. Some uh translations say that they are believers. And so is Paul just being repetitious here? Is this parallelism where two thoughts are put side by side? Hey, this is to the saints, and oh by the way, I know that you're believing And it could be, but it may very well also mean that when Paul's talking about here who are faithful, He's speaking to people that he understands are walking faithfully Because he already says that they've believed, and it could be that he's repeating himself, but I like to think that Paul is acknowledging that not only have they become believers, but they are walking in faith. The problem with that idea is that Paul now has to go on and give them further instruction about how to walk faithfully later on. And so there is an aspect here of Yes, and not yet. They've started on their work as sanctification, but they still have more sanctification to go, which to me calms my heart a little bit. Because when I live my life, I see my sins and the struggles that I have. And it's encouraging to me to know that this church needed to be taught by Paul in this letter, just like I need to be taught by Paul in this letter. The things that he has to say. The things that God said this church needs to know and inspired Paul to sit down and write. And so these are real people that are being written to Just like us. And the last phrase here, and I mentioned this already, in Christ Jesus, is a phrase that we're going to see repeated over and over again, so much so that I thought that was a really cool uh Dr. Horner, Honer, I'm sorry, uh has a really good excursus in his commentary, and I just copied it and added it to one of the appendices about in Christ and the numbers of times that it shows up and the ways that it shows up. And just tack that in there. It's in the notes. Enjoy that. There is so much juiciness of this this tiny little phrase in Christ for us to hold on to and to enjoy. Um I know that Daniel's got it all covered next week when he teaches. Scott's teaching next week? Scott's got it all next week when he teaches. So I don't want to go too deeply in that. Actually, it'll be all of us Because the first three chapters has it again and again and again. And we'll talk to that as we go. There's an interesting textual problem that's here in verse 1. Some manuscripts don't have the phrase in Ephesus. I just wanted to point that out. There's a lot. When you get if if you pull any of these commentaries down, you get to this phrase in Ephesus. And there's a a lot of commentary about why is Paul Why in these early, and they're some of the earliest manuscripts, why did Paul leave out the word the words in Ephesus in these books? In this letter. And then furthermore, why is it that just about no, I would say every translation that I looked at includes the words in Ephesus, if some of the earliest manuscripts don't have those words. There's a lot of textual quiz textual work and and and labor scholarly labor that goes into why is it not there in some of these earliest manuscripts and yet they included it here in the book I don't have time to go into that. But I will say this: this is important for us. Whether the spirit inspired the right in Ephesus or not. Doesn't change anything about this book. From the standpoint of if it said to the saints who are in Christ, Or if it said to the saints in Ephesus who are in Christ, it still encompasses the same doctrine, the same truths, the same concepts and ideas for us to be instructed by. And I'd be delighted to engage in anybody who wants to after class or later this week about those concepts. But I just wanted to draw your I just want to let you know that it's there. When you start reading some of these commentaries, it'll show up. There's a lot of comments conversation about it. The outlines of these two verses are Paul to the assaints and then blessings. And so the last, the second verse here is the blessings that Paul extends. To the saints. And this is how Paul, to varied degrees, starts on every one of his letters: Grace and Peace By the way, this is also how the letter ends. If you look forward to the very last verse of chapter six. Verse 24, you see there the same thing. Grace and peace. This must be an important concept to Paul if he writes it to all the people that he writes to. And here to the Ephesians, he writes it both at the beginning and at the end. Can somebody tell me real quick what grace means? Besides the first name. Anybody? Gifts Unmerited, right? Gifts Unmerited. Fantastic. Good start. That's a story. Anyone else want to add to that concept? What does grace mean? Uh-huh. Um I would add to think like the idea of compassion. Like I think it carries an attitude of affection and favor and also the idea of intervention. Fantastic, yes. Can we send that in on stat? I was going to say mercy Mercy as well. Yes. And those concepts are all wrapped up in that idea. Mercy, compassion, affection, yes. Ability to do beyond what is ordinary. That's fantastic. And what I like about that answer Is that's another aspect of grace that I think is potentially different than what we just talked about. It's by grace that we are saved through faith. God gives us grace so that we can have new life in Christ. And every day, God gives us grace to live and walk and breathe and move. As believers in Christ. Because we've not set aside our sinful flesh yet. And we struggle. It's a reality. So there's two aspects to grace. One is the grace that God has saved this unmerited favor Right? There's also a daily need for grace. I think when you look at James Chapter 4, verse 6, you see there where it says, Grace is magnified towards the humble. There's an aspect in our salvation where we got grace, we got saved, yay. Alright? But there's another aspect to grace that almost seems variable. That seems like a daily graciousness that God gives us. And I assume it to you that We, in our humility, start our day with open hands, saying, God, I need your strength today. I'm terrified of what I have before me, and apart from your grace, I'm not getting out of bed today. I'm hiding under the covers because Apart from you, I'm not going forward. It's kind of like what Moses said to God. God, if you don't go with us, I'm not going anywhere. And it's the recognition, and I think this is what Paul's kind of talking about here, because he's already acknowledged that they're saints. So he's not wishing them grace to be saved. He's not like bless I bless you with grace. He's saying no I want to see your lives overflowing with grace so that you can be salt and light. So that you can walk just like your Heavenly Father walks. So that you can Represent Christ well and do the things that God has for you. Very This work that God has prepared for us from before the foundation of the world, for us to do those things, requires us walking humbly before God in grace. And now I would say that God could just like, no, you're going to be busy today, and this is going to be your day. But what I've seen manifested most times Is that God has a gentle enabling that comes alongside to do To labor. And it's a to-do and to labor that you go, Wow I don't think I could have done that in my own strength. And there it was. And it may be the grace to Write encouraging letters to churches while you're in prison. Or to be constantly in prayer, interceding on behalf of the ones that you care for. Or to face the trial of your parents getting older, or yourself getting older, or your children being sick, or the scariness that might be coming around the corner, or families fighting, or work that's uncomfortable or physical ailments, God gives grace To go through and to do the work that he has set before us. I think that's what Paul's talking about. Which does a number of things here from the introduction to the book of Ephesians. Because God, Paul's going to speak again and again about the love that God has for us. And I think the pinnacle of that shows up in the tail end of chapter three, where he says, I pray that you would know God's love, even though it surpasses knowledge. And in chapter 1, Paul is going to speak to the infinite riches of God's grace And that's another theme that we're going to see as we go through the book of Ephesians is the riches of God's inheritance for us and what he has for us as believers. There's a lot here about God's grace. But also peace. And these things are related and different from one another at the same time. Because just as we talked about P grace speaks to who we are in Christ because by grace we're saved and daily we have grace to walk. We in our salvation have been made right with God, and we who are at enmity with him before now have peace with him. And my favorite verse about that is Romans chapter 5, verse 1. I think we should look at it because it's my favorite verse. And it's a powerful, rich, God glorifying verse. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We who were at war with God are at war no longer. Because of what Christ has done on our behalf. And that's what that means. Not only is it a we're gonna have a ceasefire between us and God It's a complete change from being enemies to being friends and partners. To be on the same side. In fact, not only is it to be on the same side, it's to be in the same family. It's to be children now of who you used to be enemies with. This is a radical, it's not just to set down my arms. This is rich and juicy what God in Christ has done on our behalf to move us from. Hiding in the garden, afraid and ashamed of our sin. To be ones who can draw near to our Heavenly Father. And that is spectacular. Praise God. Praise God. And so We started off singing today, praise to the Lord the Almighty. Yeah. Hast thou not seen? And Paul starts, here he's starting this letter and he's gonna end this letter with Grace and peace to you from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. And really that's where this all depends on. Oh, you know what? I need to back up. I just skipped something really important. Sorry. Just like grace is there for our salvation. And it's also there for our daily enablement. Peace is there, and it's set in place when we have peace with Christ. But daily, God gives us peace that surpasses understanding. Daily He's our gracious loving Father. And the last thing in this section Is this little phrase from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ? And the truth is, apart from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, this stuff wouldn't make any sense And it would be pointless anyway. You would still be dead in your trespasses. But it's God who did it. And this gives us even one more theme that we're going to see running through the book of Ephesians. And this is a part of a Trinitarian formula that you're going to see talked about again and again as we go through the book of Ephesians. Here it's God and Jesus. But as we walk through the book of Ephesians, we're going to see again and again, Paul refers to the Trinity at work on our behalf. In in our lives, um And that's all I'm gonna say about that for now There's just a few more things that I want to add just to make sure that we all know and understand where this is, how this is set. And that is, in case you want to know more about Ephesus And Paul's relationship with this church. You can read Acts chapter 18 and 19. and 20. And just to real quick give a summary, Paul went there briefly and then he came back and he was there ministering at this church for tw for two years. It was a dynamic time for Paul and for this church, and I think it not only impacted Ephesus, but it impacted the region around Ephesus as well. Paul knew these people. He understood these people. But one of the things that's very interesting about the book of Ephesians. And gets back to that textural uh issue that I talked about before, the end of this book, Paul doesn't give any personal readings Which gives people some pause. And it may be, just to add to that, it may be that when Paul wrote the book of Ephesians, He wrote it from a perspective of this is going to be a letter that's going to be shared around to the churches in that region. He did that when he wrote the book of Galatians. It's to the churches in Galatia. And in fact, at the tail end of the book of Fe uh Philippians, sorry, Philippians. He says to them, hey guys, I want you to also read that book that I wrote to Laodicea, which may be also an indication. That points back to this letter to the Ephesians. And some of the s some of the curiosity that people have about that phrase in Ephesus. So I mentioned this briefly, but I just want to say this again. The structure that we have in the book of Ephesus, the first three chapters, are specific are far more specific, doctrinal. And I believe that you could potentially say there in those first three chapters, there are one, maybe two at the most imperatives. Commands. In the last three chapters, there's a bunch. There are commands, there's just straight-up imperatives, and there are commands that are implied in indicatives. This is how you should be. And we're we're going to see that as we get to the last three chapters. Well, we got to think a little bit more about what God has for us to do In these first three chapters, I think of it as the application that we get for a lot of these in my mind, and maybe this is because I'm a worship leader, is praise and adoration. Look at who God is and what he has done. Praise God. And in fact, next week, I'm looking at you, but you're not teaching. Sorry. Next week, when Scott teaches, Paul jumps from this to blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Oh, wow, that sounds Trinitarian again. A little bit. So, Paul, even in the writing of this letter, jumps back and forth between instruction and doxology and prayer. And so Paul spends this time praising God, teaching truth, and praying that we can understand what he just said. Let's pray. And then I'll talk about their own words. Heavenly Father. Your work in this letter is amazing to behold. And God, I am sorry for the number of times when I have come to your word and I feel like I know it already. Cause I'm foolish in that way. And and I thank you so much, Heavenly Father, that you show me my foolishness. And that your glory is on display in every word that you inspired to be written. I thank you so much, Heavenly Father, that you present your word and your concepts. In an orderly fashion. In a way that is uh wondrous to behold. And I thank you, God, that we could slow down today In this introduction and look at these things that we're going to be studying over the next 24 weeks, I pray, God, that you would open our eyes To see these things, to understand that what it means more deeply to be adopted, what it means to belong to you, what it means to walk by grace What it means to be loved by you. What it means, God, to be a part of your church that you are building up. What it means to be united to the brethren. Oh God, thank you so much for your word and its truth and the blessings that we have. Now that we so often don't treasure as we should. God, just as Paul asked, I I pray that you would give us strength to understand. That we would have wisdom when it comes to looking at your word because our minds are weak, our flesh is weak, and We oftentimes think of ourselves way more highly than we ought to. And so, dear Lord, I pray that you would help Scott and myself and Daniel And all of us to gaze on your word and treasure your beauty and to enjoy you. In your name we ask. Amen. So the homework for this week. There's an aspect of this homework is kind of like homework for the rest of the class. Read the book of Ephesians. But I specifically want to assign it for this week. Spend time this week looking at the book of Ephesians. Feel free to underline. I give you permission. Highlight and underline. Look for patterns and themes. Write down questions. Really, because when we come to those weeks and you have questions, you can stump the other two guys. Um not me. Don't ask those questions on my Sundays. We are sharing. There is a schedule in the notes that talks about what Sundays we're going to be each of us are going to be teaching So please feel free to write down those questions and ask those questions. Look for, as you read through, look for commands. Look for prayers. Look for times that Paul is praising God. Enjoy praising God along with Paul And the ultimate challenge that we have as we read through the book of Ephesians, in fact, all of God's word, is to read until Christ appears to us. So get in God's Word, skim the appendices, take a look at whatever you want to look at, and enjoy being in God's Word this week. I know that a lot of you guys have busy weeks Um the homework is really for us to stretch ourselves in a reasonable way. I really want to say that. We will ask what you guys saw and we'll check on the homework It's not because we're taskmasters, it's because we want to encourage you guys in drawing near to Christ Thank you all. Uh I release you. Oh yes, we have class assistants. Thank you very much. Yes. Gather the hemles, put them on that back table. I should have asked it through a question. I just ended.