So last week, uh Doug gave you some homework. Does anyone remember what the homework was? Read. Read the entire book of Ephesians. And uh is there anything that As for those of you who did the homework, anything that really popped out, anything that stood out to you that you didn't necessarily notice prior to reading Ephesians? Yeah. Well and one well uh kind of gives us part of our purpose of being called is that we should we To the praise of his glory. Amen. Amen. Anything else? All right. Well um Last week, thank you for that by the way. Um last week uh Doug introduced the class who other than me who else was not here last week and Amy Okay, a couple of you. Alright, so uh he introduced the class. Uh if you have any questions about getting notes for the class, we have two administrative assistants. We have Anthony, we have Taylor. So you can see them if you need help with the notes. They are all on Hopebook. The lessons you can go to the audio portion of our lessons, you can go to sermon audio and look up, type in Doug's name, my name, Daniel's name, and our names will pop up. Which is a scary thing. Um Having your voice recorded out in the internet for anyone to hear. Scotty feels the same way. But it's it is for the benefit of of the body here. But Paul uh Doug started out last week uh in Ephesians verses 1 and 2, uh the introduction. And Paul's greeting of grace and peace to you. And that is how Paul often starts his letters out with grace and peace to the body, to the church. that he's writing to. We will definitely be talking about praise today and how Yes, we are thankful God for his daily bread and his faithfulness to us, but we will be praising him for his blessings today. I wasn't uh I wasn't sure how many people would be here in this class today. Um considering the events of this last week, um the remembrance of 9-11 and uh Charlie Kirk, I thought a lot of people would go to Rod's class, which is um A defense of God's sovereign glory. What about evil? A defense of God's sovereign glory. If you want to go to that class, you're welcome to, but but um There is so much richness. We are going to be reading Ephesians 1, 3 through 6. A tremendous passage. And I'm glad you're here. This is we're going to have fun today. This is going to be great. Um as we as Doug presented last week Our summary statement for the book of Ephesians that he and Daniel and I kind of pulled together is the eternal purpose of God for his church is to be reconciled to him in Christ. and unified with one another, which is ultimately for his glory, walking faithfully and obediently as his children. So I want to keep that in mind as we delve into our passage today. So let's read. And yes, we're going to be focusing on verses 1 through 3. However, I want to bring it out. So I'm going to be reading verses 3 through 14. And I was hoping Pastor Mike would be here because as I was studying Ephesians and reading it over and over again, Chapter 1, I had Mike's voice in my head as I was reading it. He just has that cadence and uh enthusiasm in his preaching that I feel he he could project that enthusiasm through Paul's words right here. So let's read verses 3 through 14. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins, of our trespasses, sorry, according to the riches of his grace. which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fulfillness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we were who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, The gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. Amen. So, one reason why I read all 13 through verses 3 through 14, 12 verses there, it's because it's one sentence. We see it as two paragraphs in many other senses, but Paul he got so excited he forgot to put punctuation into his verses. And so this is all one big long run on sentence. And there is um debate as to how we should break this up. Because again, it's one long sentence, how do you break this up? There are different ways to do it One is, you can do it by a Trinitarian version. If you look in verses 3 through 6, it's focused upon God's blessing upon us of salvation Verses 7 through 10 talks about Christ's role in our salvation. And then verses 11 through 14 talks about the Holy Spirit's. role in our salvation. You can also break it down by an temporal outline, past blessings in verses four through six. Present blessings in verses five through eight, and future blessings in verses nine through ten and and even further on out. Some scholars will just say, hey, there's a whole bunch of blessings in here. Let's just start listing them out and uh we'll go through each one. And other scholars they just say. Forget an outline, we'll just tackle things verse by verse and word by word and phrase by phrase. So um but most likely, I mean, we're going to focus on the persons of God and their role in in this passage, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. So, blessed be God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. If you look in verse three What what word do you see repeatedly? Bless. Blessed. We have blessed be the God. of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heaving of holy places. Um that word bless and um is from the same root word. Um Eulogidos. And uh I was told in SLP I did a sermon with some Greek in it, and I was kindly rebuked. If you haven't studied Greek, don't pronounce it. So I'm I'm abandoning that right now. But um I won't go into further what the other two verses are, but Each of those words have the same root, Greek root to it, which is eulo, which is where we get the word eulogy. And uh we are blessing uh um it's it's a word for blessing. Um This first one, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. We see this eight times in the New Testament, this word. And it's always Blessing of God. It is never blessing to other people. This is a uh a word used just to praise God. He deserves more than just a regular blessing between us. He deserves ultimate glory and praise. Um A couple passages that you will see this word used. I do want to hit a couple of them. If you go to Mark 14 Uh verse 61. And the reason why I chose this one is because it's not necessarily a believer using this one. Uh Jesus is standing before the high priest. Um In his trial, but he remained silent and made no answer. Again, the high priest asked him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? Same same word there. And then I also wanted to hit Romans uh one twenty five. And as Paul is saying, hey, creation has no or people have no excuse in not believing God. He includes here And I'll start in verse twenty-four. Therefore God gave them up in the lust of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their body among themselves, because they exchanged the truth about God for a lie. And worship and served the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. So there is a blessing that Only God deserves, and we are to give him that honor and glory in that And uh who are we blessing? We are blessing God, the Father and our of our Lord Jesus Christ. So again, we're Hitting up the Trinity here, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit And he has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing. Now, if you read Ephesians. And as part of your homework this week, you probably saw the phrase in Christ, in him, many, many times. In fact, hopefully if I counted right, you would have seen it eighteen times in Ephesians. And six more times with the word with Christ or through Christ. And ten of those times are just in these first 12 verses. In Him, in Christ, through Christ. So, what does it mean to be in Christ? What can we put some teeth to that this phrase of in Christ? Any suggestions So uh McKim uh coins a this defines this as a term to indicate the Christian believers union with Christ and the benefits. This brings for salvation. So being in Christ means we have been saved and we have this union with Jesus Christ. An unbreakable bond. Um that we have. And it's a blessing that we have this bond of salvation. So, blessed be the God of our Father, God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing. So we bless God, we praise Him. Blessed means praising God, what He is due, but then He has turned around and blessed us. Not necessarily with words, but He but he has blessed us with every spiritual blessing. This blessing is not material. It's not a blessing, blessings that we get on earth, not earthly. Everyone on earth has some level of blessing from God. This is called common grace. God bestows goodness on both the good and the evil on earth And that is up to his decision, up to his purpose, up to his will. But for those of us who are in Christ, We have this spiritual blessing, and it is only those of us who have been saved that receive this spiritual blessing. It is emanating from the Holy Spirit. And it says that the spiritual blessing is in the heavenly places. Well, if if the whole if the spiritual blessing is in the heavenly places and we're on here on earth, how does this work? Well, let's dig in a little bit more. Let's go down to verse 20 of chapter 1. It says that he, God, worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. So where is Christ right now? What? In heaven. He's at in the heaven seated at the right hand of God. And then if we just turn the page over to uh chapter two, verse six It says, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. God has seated us with Christ in the heavenly places. Seated is a past tense. That means we are seated with Christ right now, even though we feel like we're here on earth. And this is, I want to talk a little bit about one of God's attributes, and that is his eternality. Whenever you think about God being eternal, you think about Him being with no beginning and with no end. But if you dig into it further He is outside the limits of time. Um John MacArthur says, God is in time since he interacts with his creation and his create and his creatures from moment to moment. But God must transcend time or else he is limited by another entity. Time. God cannot be limited. He is infinite. He is outside of all constrictions, including time. Which then uh Wayne Grudham says God has no beginning, end, or succession of moments in his own being, which we often think of is eternality. But he sees all time equally, vividly, and yet God sees events in time and he acts in time. God sees all time equally visibly. And Paul is explaining that to us, saying Hey, we who have received the spiritual blessing, this blessing is in the heavenly places where we are currently with Christ. Because God sees us in heaven right now. We are constrained by the limits of time. We don't necessarily see that. But for those who have received the spiritual blessing in Christ, We're there, and God sees that. So What is the spiritual blessing that we have received, that God has blessed us, that He has bestowed upon us? Paul actually explains this further on out in these next few verses. So we don't necessarily have to Answer that question now. But with every spiritual blessing, what are these blessings? It starts in verse 4. Even as he chose us before the foundation of the world. That's blessing number one. So he chose us before the creation of the world, before the foundation of the world. Liz, I'm gonna get to you in the next verse when he talks about predestinus. But election, he chose. God made a decision to choose us to be holy and blameless in his sight. What's your name again? Joe, I thought it was. Okay, so as Joe was talking about in verse twelve, he Paul read reiterates it here. Where we have been created to be holy and blameless. This is our purpose. If we are not growing in holiness, we are not elect. We are still in our sins. So It is about the sanctification. We need to be striving to um to grow in um holiness. Any other questions on Yeah. Yes. But that's believers. So why are unbelievers created? So unbelievers are created for ultimately for his glory, for to the revealing of his plan. And that's a deeper question than I was planning on talking about today. But but we we we can we can uh uh work through this. It it was it was interesting in that when I did VBS this last summer, one of my students actually quite asked one of my students asked me If God knew that Adam and Eve were going to sin, why did he create them? And I think that's kind of the base of your question is hey, why does God allow Evil. You can go to Rob's class. But ultimately it's for his glory to show his great love that He had to send his own son to die for us in order to save us and redeem us. And it is up to him to choose whether to save everybody or not everybody. And um and to show his justice He has chosen some of us, not everyone in the world. Mark. In Romans 9. 22, Paul mentions vessels of wrath prepared for destruction. Yeah. That's how that first ends. Um Moving on because I need to move on. Uh just a side note, um does anyone have King James or New King James? You can you read uh verse verse four for me. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. that we should be fully and without blame before him in love. Period. Period. So so again, as as I mentioned before, verses three through fourteen is one long sentence. And if you're King James or New King James, verse 4 ends over the period. If you're almost anything else, um It the period is at uh before him and then in love and then verse five starts. Um that's just a Quick side note, I mean you could say he either he liked to SN Love or he predustin us in love. Um either way, all of this was done In love. So in love, he predestined us for adoption as his sons. Um Predestinus is very similar. It has the same root word as election here. They can be used kind of interchangeably. But let's turn over to Romans. Um Romans eight twenty nine and address Liz's other question. Right after the The very um well known passage and we know that for those who love God all Things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those he whom he predestined, he also called. Those whom he called, he also justified. Those whom he justified, he also glorified. So that foreknowledge is is what people argue about of God knew what was going to happen and he knew that some of us would make that decision to choose him and because we were going to make that decision to choose him, he's going to choose us and elect us. That is the Armenian way of thinking that we have an inkling of effort in our salvation. And yet, as we'll talk about as we work through Ephesians, we were dead in our sins. There was nothing that we could do to save ourselves. This foreknowledge is God knew us intimately even before we were created. He knew us, and he in his intimate knowledge of us, that love for us, uh, was brought forth and he chose us. um in in the election process. Scott Scott in his uh last class. I was just no, no, I was just saying in your last class You you kind of addressed this and this what you said, this is just too hard to comprehend. I mean there's there's that tension of God chose us and yet we have that s volition of It is our obligation to have faith in him and put our trust in him, and how does that all work together? It it is tough. And the salvation is a like a special case because God's sovereign in everything that goes on in the world and every choice. Yes. We're still responsible for every choice we make not to sin. Yes. God's still in control of that situation completely. Yes. It's uh we we can look at Pharaoh. It he Pharaoh was Um was responsible for every decision he made, and yet God um hardened his heart. And uh Um it is one of those things that just hard to grasp to comprehend. Where Yes, God is in control of everything. He knows everything. He has orchestrated everything in time, and yet we ourselves have an obligation. Um to live to one trust in him and to to live holy and blameless lives. Um so he predestined us moving on. Um You know, I mean we we can talk about one verse at a time, um, but I am trying to get through verse six today. Um He predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ. This phrase adoption to himself as sons is one word. We see this also in Galatians 4. Um in verses four through seven But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. And there's a passage in Romans that is kind of parallels what Paul is saying here. So adoption, we are part of God's family as uh adoption. Um In Roman law, adopted children did enjoy the same rights and benefits as biological children. But adoption also, and we're getting back to this, our obligation, our responsibility, adoption also implies responsibility. It is inconceivable that we should enjoy a relationship with God as his children without accepting the obligation to imitate our father and cultivate the family likeness. So if you see, um not every member of my family is the same color as Amy and I. Uh we do have Um three adopted sons from Uganda. They are biological brothers. They have the same parents. Probably the hardest thing Amy and I have done in our lives. Not the adoption process, but raising adopted children is difficult. And And yes, they have the same rights as our biological children. And I thought Yeah, you know, we'll bring these kids in and they'll just automatically understand our family values and just adopt how we work and live as a family. No, it doesn't happen that way. Probably the youngest one has been the easiest, but the other the older two we've had our struggles with. They haven't just automatically received our family values and what we believe. And yet God has adopted us. And we struggle receiving some of his blessings and accepting his values. And we struggle and we rebel and we say, no Lord, I don't want to do it that way. I want to do it this way. And uh and yet God has called us, he has adopted us into his family, and we forget to look at The blessings of being adopted into his family, what they truly are. And we try to fight against them, but we have this obligation, we have this responsibility. To imitate our Father and cultivate the family likeness, to be imitators of Jesus Christ, to become like his son more and more every day. And he has adopted us as his sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will. Who has a translation, any other translation than ESV? Joe, you've got it. Read the end of verse five. I mean you can start with Hebrew Dustin. Having predestined us to adoption his sons by Jesus Christ to himself According to the good pleasure of his will. Does anyone have a different translation? Kind intention. Kind intention of his will. Mark by protesting us to adoption as sons in Christ Jesus. So good pleasure of his will, pleasure of his will, good kindness of his will. Good intention of his will. Kind intention of his will. I don't know why the ESV leaves out the good pleasure of his will. They just it just has the purpose of his will. But Every other translation out there has an adjective for the purpose. It's good pleasure, kind intention. Great uh one of them has great pleasure, um favor of his will. So God acts As he pleases. It is everything that he does is for his enjoyment, for his good pleasure. Just we often think of God as um so transcendent, so distant from us that okay, God's playing in this sandbox and he can do whatever he wants. Um and and and there's a distance but Every decision he makes is for his glory, for his enjoyment, and we can We can rest in that fact that he adopted us for his good pleasure. You can say, okay, I'm gonna do this thing and I may not like to do this thing, but I'm just gonna do it anyway because it's the right thing to do. That's not how God acts. God acts to in his good pleasure, everything he does. Um is for that and our adoption especially. Um So there is some parallelism between verses four and verse five. He chose us Versus he predestined us. And he chose us that we should be holy and blameless. And he predestined us to be adopted as his sons. Again, the adoption, not only do we have blessing from that, but we have that obligation to to uh imitate our father, to be holy and blameless. So there is some parallelism there to point out. So God has blessed us with every spiritual blessing. He chose us to be holy and blameless. He predestined us. He adopted us. According to the purpose of His goodwill, to the praise of His glorious grace, which He has blessed us in the beloved. Here, Paul has a mini doxology to the previous verses, to the praise of his glory. He has blessed us in the beloved meaning in Christ. Again, everything that We see here is in Christ. He has blessed us in Christ. He chose us in Him. He adopted us as sons through Christ. And he has blessed us in the beloved. Everything is through Christ. That union that we have with our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. means everything to us. I will say, um this last blessed is not From the same root word as the other three that we saw before. It um it just it does mean to honor with blessings. So um with this mini doxology I did want to Let you know next week we will be going through verses 7 through 12. And I just wanted to read from J. Vernon McGee. A little story that he had, just to help us to think about the many great blessings that God has given us. And uh th the way this commentary reads, it's from one of his radio um uh broadcast so it's more it sounds like it's an oratory thing rather than a written thing. But he was in Chicago many years ago and picked up an evening paper during the week and read a little article and clipped it out It was way down at the bottom of the front page and wasn't apt to be noticed. It read, The flop houses and saloons of Skid Chicago Skid Row were searched today for one Stanley William McKenna Walker. Age 50, an Oxford graduate, an heir to half of an $8 million English estate. The missing persons detail hoped that somewhere among the down and outers who lined the curbs and sleep-off wine binges in the cheap hotels they would find Walker son of a wealthy British shipmaker. I thought how tragic it was. Imagine being an heir to half of an eight million dollar estate and being a wino who's sleeping in two bit hotels. I felt like sitting down and weeping for that poor fellow. Then I began thinking of the children of God today who are living in cheap hotels, living off little wine of this world. I don't mean literally, but they engage in cheap entertainment down here. They are wealthy beyond the dreams of Croestus and are blessed with all spiritual blessings They live like paupers down here. There are a lot of folk in our churches who live like that today, and it's tragic I was telling this story when I was a pastor in Los Angeles, and a lady who was visiting from Chicago came up afterwards and said, Dr. McGee, do you know the end of the story? I said, No, I never heard. She said, well they found him. Oh, that was wonderful. No, she said. They found him dead in the doorway on a cold night later that fall Many Christians live and die like that, and yet they are blessed with all spiritual blessings in the heavenlies of Christ. So I want to leave you with all the spiritual blessings that we have received from Jesus Christ and from God our Father. From God our Father through Jesus Christ. And just think about the way we live. So For our homework, and I changed the homework a little bit from what's in the notes. I do want you to read Ephesians 7 through 12 and see how that flows together But I want you to take each of these phrases and whether you test yourself Amy does this. Amy will text herself things to bring a reminder for herself. But uh whether you put it on a post-it note But just take each of these phrases. God has blessed us with every spiritual blessing. God has chosen us before the foundation of the world. Wednesday, our purpose that we should be holy and blameless. God predestined us. God adopted us. And on Saturday to the praise of His glorious grace. Just let those small phrases just marinate in your minds for each day this week. And think about the blessings that God has given us, that we have already received. We are in heaven having received these blessings. Yeah, we're we're here on earth, but in God's sight. We have received them in the heavenly realms. And let it just be an encouragement to you that, again, we should not be like Mr. Walker who's a wino in the streets of Chicago. But that we should be striving to be holy and blameless and strive for sanctification to become more like Jesus Christ. Hopefully this was encouraging. We had lots of great discussion today. But ultimately it is for praise John Stott says doctrine leads to doxology as well to duty. And James Montgomery Boyce says doctrine, if rightly understood, leads to doxology. If we discover who God is and what he has done for us, we will praise him. So, we had a lot of doctrine today. And um in lieu of praying, I thought we'd just stand up and sing the dark melody. But please stand. Praise God from Rucy Slow Three la Praise baby heavenly hoes Prince of Sunhol. Go in grace and peace. The big off What can I do?