And then doing a recap and then and then really just like working through the section together. It is not a vague description of love he's talking about here. But what I do know is that it can, and there's room to grow in all these directions. But what he's saying is that it will go beyond even what we're able to comprehend and sort of and it has no bounds We spent a little bit of time out, what does that mean? Well it can't be tech easily when it loads, but it's also like its actual structure is physically stronger, like it's quieter, it's better able to expand you know, sidewalks, cement, utilities, whatnot. I hate to be mystical about it, but it is got to scroll you up. Or it's the midst of peace and joy where you get to just sit and reflect, God, you are good and this is a lovely time. Yes, sir. a small sort of like worship um in in the context of the passage. Superintended by the Holy Spirit, is this is really important. Right? So this is this recap, right? Or a Christian tradition, there is no prescription with regard to your physical posture in prayer. I I'm doing I'm praying this daily for you that you would know these three things, over your calling and your inheritance and the power that's over Worth within you. It's going to be the same thing where he works through words and he's trying to give you such an immense picture of how God is doing And then everything going on with you as a person is just either your physical body or nerves that send electrical signals in a certain sequence, and that's your mind thinking, and that's you as a person. Hold on to that because that concept of being swayed, we're going to talk about a little later also. But really, you put it in that context, like if there's suffering in front of me, I'm going to hold on with strength in the inner being. for strength in his interbeating from blessed by the Holy Spirit will look different from Doug or from Gabe or from Scott and Scott. Um and I didn't know my back could hurt in that different way. What's the point there? So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ where he makes of the disposition of God to include the Gentiles into his grand plan for his own people, that love, that agape, which of course well with all the notes. They do not exclude or overlap in any areas. And the reason that's particularly important is because it's not that he is sovereign and holy but less loving in this part of the plan. that you also love one another. Paul wants us to uh sort of reference what Doug had said earlier, to know God, that is to like experience know God. It informs everything about my person because I know like who God is and what that's like. Everyone partaking of the same promise through the gospel, everyone, to say this in no other way, on the same footing with God, enjoying who he is. Price would all the strength would comprehend the height, the breadth, length, depth, height, and depth, to know the law of the price. Oh Lord, that can be true in my life. each of these individual things, then he just like he does this thing where he just like stacks like words and words and metaphors and whatnot so that you really get the picture of oh okay there's like a there's like a there's It's not a so that you would develop an inner resilience on your own. That's great because a lot of times we think of strength in the midst of negative. to pull from C. That's not a that you might receive the Spirit for the first time. So it's important to consider here not that it's that positional change or that you'd receive the spirit, but that you would be strengthened in the power of the spirit that you already have. There's no qualifiers here in terms of circumstance. Because it's up to you. And to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. If a tree is deeply rooted, I'm actually going to go back to what you were saying about it a little bit more, what are then the characteristics of that tree? Do you think your love is a metaphor for Jesus? That surpasses knowledge. Spur of the movement spouting stuff off this time. If you take that disposition of God to love us while we were unlovable. What I learned from Madam Notes back to Ben, I would have it reflect back on chapter one So a little bit to what you were talking about, and you made a reference to the attributes sort of similar, is that in this bookend of love, I scribbled down, he is sovereign, he is holy, he is love It's all together. It's a love that plays itself out not only in your individual relationship as a believer with the Lord, but also in how it's manifest amongst other believers. For those of you that aren't, it's still a picture that I just want to use as sort of like a way to look at it. It looked a certain way and a certain way that we were committed to one another and to the Lord. with each other, particularly in a good, godly, and holy marriage, grow in terms of dimension of love over time. i in your late twenties, which is like like teen and I, and we love each other in a certain way that is no was, was in our late twenties. as our children grow, right? Then I love her in a deeper, richer, expanded way today than I could have thought of That's something we listen. What he's praying for here is that you would grow in that and grow in strength and he has a confidence that it would be true, that there are dimensions to your relationship with the Lord that you will experience. that his endless glory would be on display for all of eternity. To him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Maybe because we don't want it to seem like God didn't do enough, so we didn't want to ask, because then it would seem well God maybe you like that that was too much I think that's all Paul's saying here. And so what he's saying is here, because he does more than you can ask, he does more than you can think, according to the power at work within us. Chapters 1 to 3, and then a launching point into 4 to 6. as the Jewish nation, Israel. So even before we sort of go into this, I just want, as a reminder, because I was reflecting on it this morning, these are not words that are written by a man Sitting in a coffee shop pondering how can I influence people in a certain way? Whether that looks like present-day sufferings, present-day joy, present-day anything. had intended to happen and how is unfolding present day, but the fact that this is unfolding on a stage that is so beyond what we have in mind that it that this is really revelation to people You know, we're working through it, and there are things that God reveals to us through his word in present day. God being revealed in this truth the first time as it's going to echo and as he's building the New Testament church. Many times Jews in terms of formal prayer would actually stand. If it's something that Paul cares about deeply for the church, the important thing for us to recognize is that he goes to the Lord in prayer about it. He, in the same way, is walking through the work of the triune God right in this little section. Like I just said, you can see those references right there. in community, in the church community, in society, and all of those things, he's setting it up right here. But here, what he's asking for is that we would be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner boom. feeling as if I'm okay as a person, not because I did great today, but because Lord, you love me and you know my name and you are good and you are wonderful. Because you are a believer already, Spirit has made his home with you, which incidentally we'll talk about here in a second as well. What you would then find is that you have the strength and power available to you in a situation that you didn't recognize because like, oh, I guess I'm working that muscle and I didn't realize it. I don't know which one you'd know I was referring to, so I doubled up there. particularly in more areas of your heart. But in a way, you're holding on to it tighter than if you were to hold on to Christ in that area. What desires, and I don't mean that they are morally evil. It's quick growing. than the height of the tree. Progressed in our marriage, changed as we went through different life events, as we grew and matured as believers, as we had children At all. What's the point of that? A metaphor that the Lord likes to use for us. in a dimension of your life that you have no idea what that could look like, whether it's in the midst of suffering where you need resilience. Like we had I mean it hurts, but like but we had it was really fun because there's an aspect of you're really good at that aspect of this job and I'm not and I'm better at this aspect and we figured out how to communicate around it and So what does tomorrow look like for you in terms of your life? And I don't have to think that you will shrink back from it, or that, well, God, you're not going to love me in that area. And I don't mean that in terms of James, you're asking in the wrong way. That the church was always designed to be comprised of Jews and Gentiles. That angels and demons would understand what is the manifest wisdom and glory of God, even more so. The reason I like that forever all like the throughout all generations is that it it echoes from people to people, from family to family, on and on and on. And that's all to his glory, because he works himself through each of our lives. And that will play out on the individual level and it should play out on the communal level as well. Like in a right theology way of thinking, that it's not for our glory, but it's all for his glory. So now Paul is writing this letter. If you remember, like it's Deep Theology in Ephesians 1. Which is a reminder for all of us, right? Knees, head, down, and that is a part of what that's a part of a sort of like formal description of how you before go before God. So if you were to work through it, um sorry. Thoughts on what this reason means. Paul's confidence that God has already determined to do these very things for and in the believers for whom he prays. I think what he's saying is, I am praying earnestly and deeply before God that these things I'm about to talk to you about would be true for you. And I think that's the particularly like salient point for us to take here. could be true or might be true, but that they would be true. Because the problem you're not you know if your emergency contact goes to you're not disturbed? Um the physicality with regard to I can run this far, I can lift this much, I can whatever, right? singular strength that would probably have one singular purpose in terms of how it plays itself out. Put things in context. Rooted being a metaphor for plants, grounded is more a metaphor actually for like a structural building. whatever shocks might come to it. So we had a Bradford pear in front of our townhouse, and it grew to be really large, and its roots are very widespread. I will charge you $400 to trim that tree or $400 to cut it down because if I trim it in a year I'm going to be back. Yeah. In that when you're describing all those things I keep thinking I don't want to steal any more time. It doesn't go back through. walks and lives, either present day or even how we became believer, each of our stories is likely remarkably different. That you will be have spiritual strength, the indwelling of Jesus, the experiential knowledge of God's love, the fullness of God. In terms of, is it the unfoldering mystery of the church itself because it was in the beginning of three and then back again? Honest thing he can do is to take it to God, to whom he's referenced earlier, we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him. almost an incomprehensible aspect of that, which is an important thing for us to get here. That according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with the power from his spirit in your inner being. The part of you that will live even if your body dies? It's not only present-day, but take a present-day view, like a world view, with regard to like who you are as a person. That is a love that I have that is granted to me through the Lord Jesus Christ who knows me by name. I think it's like the idea of someone being faced with uh a temptation of sin in front of them and the response is not a, oh, I don't want to do that because I'll get in trouble. If you went to a gym and the only thing that you ever did was take a dumbbell and just do like a bicep curl, right? That you would experience God even deeper in those areas. And what you do. particularly in new builds and communities. Um correct me if I'm paraphrasing this wrong, Scott. for our lives, they can be root, it's like built up in that, right? And and that's why I I say I hear the things that you're saying and I'm like, yeah, that fits. Sometimes by our own fault and other times by a spiritual attack, there is an aspect of a constant Threat of joy stealing, love stealing, desire pulling, all these things that Um all right, write that one down. And then expand it in an infinite level in terms of what he's saying, that you will be able to experience a love from God How loving he is in this face. Jesus from the dead. We thank you for your love on display through our Lord and Savior. We pray, Lord, for continued worship this morning, that you be glorified. We can have an issue with tunnel vision, where we can hyperfocus on only sort of what we have right in front of us. our lives and sort of what we have going on. I I feel like we're right with conviction. I think this is really important for us because um and Doug when you had stepped out I had mentioned about how this was your favorite section in Ephesians, how you said it. The confidence that we should get in terms of Scripture laying this out as these are things available to you Doug, to a little bit of what you had just said, an experiential knowledge of God's love and the fullness of God my reserve cash a little bit more because God I can't trust you in that area. Do you want to explain on that a little? that would have that seems to be more consistent with what he's rooting is hitting here, right? Interesting thing here, he has, he'll go in the next section that you may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth. But the experience is where you will also be able to say, and it's playing itself out just like God said he would But more than you can think. We thank you for his death, for his resurrection. For those people, Lord, that don't know you, just that you would draw them to you and that your name would be glorified. It's always like it starts with prayer and praise and it ends with prayer and praise. So that uh that section as you work through it is a prayer, right? There are fellow heirs and members of the body, particularly to the promise of Jesus Christ through the gospel, of called people, right? Among all of the created universe, that includes people and rulers and authorities in heavenly places. And maybe I don't have a better way to say this, on a stage that we may not even realize is being played out in this way. So don't lose heart. I'm so desperate and earnest in my prayer before God that I'm going down on my knees before Him to pray for this reason. His deep interest in the people of God that they should enter fully into the privileges of Christ. For this reason I bow my knees, and then as he goes through, according to riches of his glory, he may grant you strength Paul is going to be working through relationship a lot. And and I would say probably that as a part of your interview. And yet there's a unity in terms of the church as to what that would look like. Then I'll be okay. If we go back to that idea of tunnel vision, we go back to the idea of what do I try to hold on to, sometimes it's because we desire to be our own gods. These are not words that he is sending out, these are words that presumably Paul is reflecting on himself. Which would kind of parallel the statement before it. That's a good point. What I am going to do is actually use an analogy of a personal relationship, and really I'm going to use the picture of marriage. The head knowledge aspect of this is that you know it's true and you need to maybe trust and pull from that, you need to be strengthened in that knowledge. then we can ask or think. It is ten thirty-six or seven, I think. I'll say yes to all of those. That he would help people to reach the unsearchable riches of Christ and to bring to light, bring light to everyone this mystery. As people, so humanity in general, but even especially as believers, um And we can lose sight of the broader picture, particularly when it relates to our lives and their worth and purpose. All of that echoes in terms of a heavenly stage, all for the purpose that God would be praised and that he would be lost. Now, I was not here in that class, but Scott, had you got is this what you guys are talking about? I care really deeply about this thing. Note in this section, he's going to say, bow on my knees before the Father, power through the Spirit, that Christ may dwell in your hearts. I mean the most direct connection would be uh verse thirteen. That's great. I think that idea of strength in your inner being is also a resilience in the basic suffering and also a, that's a joy that I have that cannot be taken from me. Power through his spirit. It's just literally that you would be strengthened. A real example I'll give to you is that we just redid the flooring in our um in our basement. This is a that you would experience Christ deeper in your hearts Listen, that's about as much knowledge I know about any individual plant. Um try to rob us of a truth eternal that Paul wants us to um experience more and more and deeper in Christ. Yeah, I mean that's about as the balance of this love In God's wisdom, he sort of gives it where you can fall in love and you can commit to one another without knowing what all the path is going to look like together, and you love one another in a certain way when you are An application for you out of this is to be able to walk up to it and say, God, I expect your love to grow in the midst of this. And Paul, because and we're going to segue into this for next week as Doug will take it over, is that we can be strengthened in this love, purpose, and direction as God's community. Which I'm not going to sort of read into the fact that he left the room because I don't know what that means yet, but um I think he'll be back here in a little bit. So Doug had taught us and and Paul had worked through in terms of the topic that The reason I mention that is that in other world religions, so take Islam for instance, there is a prescription towards posturing prayer. I think this is really important for us to sort of meditate on because he is not praying such that, and and we're going to work through the section, he's not praying that things things As evidence to the apostle first writing it to these New Testament believers and then applied to us, there's a confidence there in these things. But when he says, Bow my name is before the Father, he then says, From whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. Right? They are I didn't mean to rhyme here, but they're all for show. I don't think that's necessarily contradictory. And that's the premise for which we're coming. Paul is interested that we do not have tonovision. I think we kind of can all get what that means, right? Stopp. Interbink that you stole. Similar to the Holy Spirit, Paul is not describing a positional change of the believer, but rather a further deepening occupancy of Jesus Christ in our inner beings where there are no areas of exclusion. What do we hold on to to keep God out of areas of our hearts? Is it family? What is it about a deeply rooted tree that confers certain characteristics to that tree? Is that is that what you're saying? Did you say something else? When you describe those things, I the thing that's echoing in the back of my mind is all of those things that Paul keeps saying again and again again. Worthy of the calling, a life that plays itself out on every relationship level that you have, whether it's your family, the church, your employer. So here's the deal. To comprehend all the saints, what is the breadth and length and height and depth and to know the light the love of Christ? Thank you for that. He does not separate us from it. Is us seeing that the culmination of like deep theology as these walkthrough is always praise? Thank you. Um but that's that's kind of a John thing more maybe anyway, it's something I haven't had a chance to think too hard about. 14 to 21, which is the like I was saying, the end of chapter three, and in a lot of ways uh a big transition in terms of what Paul is working through from But he's just walked us through, particularly in chapters 1 to 3, a grand plan that God has gone through. Your life, the future of the church, the very purpose of the church, what God intends, and then beyond that S. Shallow roots with no depth confer no strength. Twelve and a half years ago. The end of chapter one, when he talks about in verse 23, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all and all. We learn that Paul has his purpose in ministry, that according to God's grace is the least of all saints. Do you want to expand on that a little? The point there is that it's not a strength that is limited in terms of how you know it's going to play out. and realize all the benefits of it. In a simple way for us to sort of work through, it it's like an idea of an endless pouring of God into the believer and into his family, to his endless praise. Those are two really lovely verses. Right? So he's worked through all of that, and now he's saying, and and now I uh this is the reason that I want to pray. Pastor David Doyle, who some of you would remember, if good and godly men don't totally agree on this means, then as long you know we can sort of work through it a little. Lewis, why would I play in the mud? So let's move on. We hold on to tighter still. True to your word, true to your promises, are you gonna do what you said you would do in Syria? So that Christ may dwell in your heart through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth. I'm going to come back to that in a second. It's like that's not just the the I know a thing is true, but I know it to the fullest that it informs my actions. Plant. Thanks everybody. And here what oh sorry go ahead. And it sort of brings us back to this concept out of John 13, where the Lord describes: a new commandment I give to you that you love one another as I have loved you. Right? Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all we ask or think, according to the power at work within us. Um and and in both that and here he's praying for knowledge. So first, inner being. Yes, it grows really, really fast. Yeah, the word of God, the word of God would plant in our hearts that we would know him better, that we would experience him deeper, that we would desire him more, and serve him better. I I think he's entirely talking about the love of Christ here. I received my notes from the last class. Is a unity that is made only through and by Jesus Christ. A section that we had talked about, and we spent a little bit of time, is that part of it is that God's wisdom would be on display through the church. So this is what Paul is working through. Any volunteers? So as he goes through this, he says, For this reason I bow my knees before the Father. does cause its own joy. We desire that we would have it our way, that we would be sovereign in our own little realm. Lay it truly at the seat of God in terms of if the Lord wills, then we'll do this thing. I think that's particularly important with regard to how this is going to transition into four to six. That you may be filled with all the fullness of God. I think Paul's saying is open your heart and be honest and ask. There's no end. And that's particularly important and also connects us back to how can we trust him? So the first thing is that what he's saying is that like, well, God can do more than you're asking. But from what you're describing, what scripture clearly lays out, well there is actually you as a person that is not just your physicality, but an an inner. I saw it right away. We still can make wise decisions, we can still plan, you can do all these things in the big limits, but it's similar to when James says, don't just say you're going to go to a city and do a business That rooted and grounded in love. It does not have strength conferred by deep roots. I missed it. If I were to try to describe on a on a really small level in terms of marriage, incidentally This whole section, as I sort of uh as I sort of like close here, um So a picture of, in the midst of suffering, a resilience, if you will, right? A way to consider it and actually to use physical trainings and physical strength is it's the idea of doing sort of My other thought was also like your emotions versus your thoughts and higher reasoning. According to the riches of his glory was the interest was the intro to this. He he describes dimension here, right? We tried to build we tried to build an IKEA dresser together in our first three months of marriage, and it did not go well And a couple of you just looked at each other as husband and wife for the record. He's in prison. What does that look like? And that's the power in which he works. That can be true in my life. Tree. By this all will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. And he's giving you that context, right? Yeah. Scripture is revelation to us. So, Calvin, to keep on so truly and constantly in the faith of the gospel Actually, the attributes. And if I look at it even in a one dimension, why can love Tegan in a certain way Different commentators have different opinions on what this reason is. There's no full measure to this. Any thoughts? But they do not go down. So it's John Calvin, John Stopp. Yeah, yeah. Why is interbeing relevant as a take take present day? I think you have a minute. Um well the Bible is like our strength, but it's also for growing. A lot of different sort of people work through what do each of those mean. Hey bud? He's saying, don't lose heart on behalf of my suffering. Is it accomplishment? As opposed to through faith, it's Christ, who living in our hearts I think there's an aspect here where he's drawing it back into, and it's a love that plays itself out in community. The genesis of all families and familiar relations is from the triune God. Because in 19, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. Um is that clock right? That glory in the church and what he's going to work through in four to six. And he's put that on play and on on he's put that on display here because he's just worked through all these sections where, oh no, you guys didn't understand. There's purpose in this Christian life that is realized through Jesus Christ, with whom we have boldness and access with confidence. Now, this is not a positional change. As you go through the next section, we're going to have essentially Paul working through kind of like almost like stacking superlatives. Yeah. And now he goes back into for this reason I bow my knees to the Father. Why strength in who you are as a person? I spell along I'm not doing any better, but I think And we also know that part of that mystery is that in terms of God's eternal plan, it was always that Gentiles, so non-Jews, would also be brought in in one unified body. I am praying earnestly to God about it. Because I didn't know that's a muscle I've not used like that. And I think the reason that's important is that it looks very different in each of our lives It's got pretty flowers. Yeah, what I was saying. It is literally the love that he's walked through from Ephesians 1 through 3, that like he's essentially nailed at every point. Okay. But um do you have something here? Play to flag. I I'm gonna put my phone on do not just serve. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. Grounded is a little interesting for us. The inheritance, the power in the inner man, the wisdom, the knowledge. Again, this is a man in prison writing this letter. Okay. He's talking about don't lose heart because he himself, Paul, is suffering when he's writing this letter. It's very different from the idea of like, maybe I could have this, maybe I could not. I think so, because I think a book ends later with and to know the love of Christ after the breadth, length, height, and depth, and to know the love of Christ. But really something that's particularly important there is wait, we as a church have a purpose that plays out sort of He's been going through this this whole time. It is God revealing Himself. Just I go before the Father in prayer. Okay. Immediately like, uh uh, nice try, that's a lot of gray. Yeah. Is it career? Um do any of you know what a Bradford pear is? And it gets really really big. Just so you know. You are part of and included in what is a grand mysterious plan that will continue to unfold in terms of So even as we talk about this being a transitional section, we're going to go into Ephesians 4 to 6. I asked him not to lose heart endurance perseverance uh keeping up part of the strength and didn't hear in your meeting. Like that's not what I'm dressed for. But the other thing is, a strong windstorm will knock that tree down. Because I think if you take take seventeen to nineteen and if we read it all together. It took me three weeks to get through three of the six pages, though. They are perfectly equal in terms of the attributes. I mean that like sometimes we limit our prayers. Spiritual strength, the indwelling Jesus It it it looks it will look different and yes, it's the same source Mark sort of pulled out a little bit. Is that what you mean? Okay. Not outside, not periphery, not just some gift that you were given, but that you would be involved into that source I don't mean that you're holding on to a specific sin. Yeah, I ooh. Yep. What does that mean? Oh right. What did you say? Your point here is that it is not a vague I really need you guys to know this. Not necessarily whether that's good or bad, but really just sort of like we're just kind of like thinking about like these little things. Okay. That's not what he's talking about. There's a good one. He's being very honest in terms of that description there, because he's recognizing that we limit ourselves in terms of how we pray or ask sometimes. We thank you, Lord, for his death, for his burial and his resurrection, and just the good news that we have, that we are made new in you and that we belong to you. He's going to be working through our walk as individuals and our walk as And he puts all of it, which is what we what we would always say, right, in sort of like a He feels very strongly about this and in earnest and the most Is it politics? I think that but I like better what you said. Any final questions or comments before I close this in prayer? Yeah. He's not saying just it would just be enough to get you past this one situation. I think that we can be I am gonna close in prayer. But we have a lot of evidence in scripture about times that people bowed in prayer, they went on their knees in prayer, they went prostrate. It's the idea that you have a strength available to you through the Holy Spirit that is a great one. Yeah, and relevantly, do you know if it's what what version of love is agape or Yeah. Whether it's the work week, something with the family, something going on, a struggle you have We thank you, God, that while we were yet sinners and in rebellion against you, you demonstrated how great a love you have for sinners. And that's great in the in the Oh no, this has always been the plan. Thoughts on what that means? She's fine, don't worry. So not maybe in distinction to, but as a part of it. What does that mean? And and the fact of the matter is because we got an arborist to cut it down, because we had a neighbor who it was growing over her land and she didn't like it, and he was like There's a lot of like really rich things in here. The knowledge of God's purpose. Yeah. I can love her as the mother of my children to be very relevant. That's experience. So we are going to work through uh Ephesians three. Thank you. And he's the one that we can go to in prayer about this. Just a thought. Goes and goes and goes. He says that here's the first prayer, here's what the prayer is, and then at the end, that little thing that's actually a doxology. I don't know if you're gonna come through And I think that it's sort of like there's a little bit of an aspect of each of those conversations that it sort of like pulls from of the idea of that like And the reason that's important is in each of these things, if I approach this as saying My wife pass bypasses They do not go deep. I uh no, it's a good discussion. But after one hour? I actually lean towards the bot the voice one the most in terms of he's working through I wrote it here. Um rooted. I cannot describe the ways that it's going to change or how it's going to expand in different ways Is it spiritual service? Why rooted and grounded in love? Okay. But I want you to take it also from the positive. It's one that comes with the Holy Spirit, that it will be on display in your life in different ways. Um and so anyway, that's all I'm gonna talk about drawing love, but I'll talk about it. If you guys remember, that's that's sort of very similar to um And we pray, Lord, for those of We know all these good things about God that can cause us to praise Him. Um When we first met and fell in love And the people receiving this letter the first time Put you a little on the spot, but don't worry about it. This is not a that you would be indwelt. I pause it here because it's a problem of trust that we have. So it literally means the foundation of a building. Take that on a minute level. This is for the Lord's glory. Why is that relevant? The assumption here is already, and Paul doesn't need to work through it again because he expects that truth already to be known. But the dimension of that love, as we But it did not go well. That power, that's the very power that raised It means that Chester I thought, oh that's that's a new one. If you consider that like the sort of like the seat place of your desire, your emotion, your will Amen. What's the section? Or maybe not. Probably it would take it more sort of like like foundation setting might be an easier way to actually understand this. Or maybe we'll look at just a small sphere of He has a big picture in view, not only in terms of history past, everything that God Like a lasting, an enduring, a being planted, a I will not be swayed by these things. Certain areas God disposed himself to love you and to do all these works. And you're probably not asking enough. And then understand that he does not only more than you ask. And you can't take that from me, and I'm going to walk out of here That's not what I want. But if you went in for complex physical training, where you're working with all sorts of different muscles Um Okay? I'm going to say that expression again in terms of Christ all in our hearts Uh put me in a weird place. That's not head knowledge Sometimes we limit our prayers of healing or of this aspect or that aspect, maybe because we don't want to be wrong Thank you all. So as a recap, let's just really talk about a little bit of what we had just worked through last week. What's something that I really want to bring together? But you have to imagine that in terms of scripture unfolding, this is also many times That's interesting in life of prayer in chapter one also. Is it finances? Um and it's an invasive species, and they're not great, actually. Agreed. And says that there is The dimensions of love that a husband and wife have So I'd like to start by first reading it together. In terms of Jewish tradition You had kicked the for this reason to me. He connects it directly with the Spirit who grants the power Yeah, that's a great that's a great way of that's a great way of looking at it. And the tree itself, it actually grows too quickly, so it'll look pretty, but a bad windstorm it'll knock that thing right out The roots are also a source of growing in food. Is that right? That's uh I'm going to give you where I sort of lean on it, but I'm going to ask the class first. Uh because I think what you're doing is that you're saying that it's But in all of those Uh you're not wrong, but what does that mean? I don't think so. So Tegan and I did it together. Maybe I should hold on to That transition is, well, God, I'm going to trust you more through faith because of who you are. Do you think here and this is something I I'm just listening to what I was thinking about. That's the um, if you remember No, I have a confidence here. This is what God had always intended. Not to be uh reductionist, perhaps. That you being rooted and grounded in love is also a metaphor for being rooted and grounded in Christ So he is as sovereign as he is as holy as he is love. Harry Ironside, which I don't know if some of you know. Sometimes it's because, God, are you going to be good in this area? They're knocked down easily, they're swayed easily, they're tossed to and fro. And and also I was kinda thinking in a sense of like uh the way John talks about Christ being love. Um Scott, you want to give us a brief definition of agape love? We can trust him because this is who he is and he says what he does. So we're thirty-one? Um chapter three, verses fourteen to twenty-one, please. And yet we can have a solid unity when it is focused on him And understand that all family and all healthy, good relationships come from the Father. I have a much greater joy than this. Go ahead. Um This is from my heart, and it's really important for me that you know this as well And then voice. So both of those picked up by commentators? That whole structure. They are very shallow, which incidentally makes them really annoying because they just go into like a bunch of different I would just go back to chapter one and read all those introductory remarks that he did and say that that seems everybody's doing. He's not denigrating knowledge here, right? That kind of tree? I just Is it some treasure that for you, like, well God, I just want to hold on to that one? God be glorified, that you can do even more So there are eternal and sort of echoing consequences to everything that we do as a church in our present day. Right? So let's start with What is what is the metaphor he's using here? Voice leans towards that it's the intro to what he's about to work through right now. And we brought that up in terms of like, it's a really different life today than it was back then, and I'm really thankful for that. Okay. So if you look at it in the room, we all have very different Um so uh can I get a volunteer to read this section Doug, right before we started, was just telling me that essentially this was his favorite part of Ephesians. So he refers to himself. So why is that relevant? But we don't, we didn't think that. Something that Doug and I were talking at the end of last class is that um Now, bow my knees to the Father. There can be a view that you as a person are entirely physical Just to work through our superlative, we've heard expressions like this before, sort of like riches and his glory. Because if if to to quote The Trinity is right on display there. Very frankly, what if it's actually you're holding on to a good thing You have a minute. I met with weed bets. And we talked about that. The come into my house, you know where the tea is, because you know my kitchen and blah blah blah. So when we think of strength, you can easily go to physical strength, right? And note it's not a pull yourself up by your bootstraps, right? It's got pretty white flowers. It's going to be just as big. Heavenly Father, um we thank you for this morning and we thank you um first and foremost for Jesus Christ. Right? That's actually what I think he's talking about here. Yes Throughout all generations, forever and ever. Ellie's going to talk about a life I have an aspect here that probably The called people through the Old Testament we know I What is strength in your inner being with regard to love and joy? I'm not going to. We talked about Another one is picked up. But why faith here? Okay. I have a confidence not only that it will be true, but that God will show me. It would come together in this way. This is a man who Thank you. Puts me at odds with what Doug just said. In 1 Timothy he calls himself the chief among sinners, like the first of all sinners. There is a prescription as to And I think that's really important with regard to that idea of Okay. Over and over and over. We did that flooring together and was so much fun. Yeah. Um do you know why this tree is particularly popular in areas That's dimensions, right? Uh thirty-three? Um Yeah. He's not saying that knowledge is useless. Right? Right? I think the important thing here is that You're That was revealed to us. Because I cut it down, replace the tree. Oh no, you guys don't understand what you're doing here echoes in eternity. Here, Paul is laying that out in terms of Thanks for that. So for those of you that are married, maybe this resonates. So that is a sort of uh a small He's in the midst of a time in prison. Okay, it has pretty white flowers. Yeah. Okay. So I mean the roots go about two and a half times further. Do any of us And I want you to be rooted and grounded in that level You were developing one Because he says, through faith. We pray this in Jesus' good name. Thank you, Doreen. Yep. Yeah. God's wine purpose Uh I I think it's Are you going to be faithful in this area? And as long as that one's okay That's true. Amen. Any others? So, what are these things? So It's okay because Doug was That is something that we have sort of like throughout scripture. It's a why would I do that? So that's what we did. There's another reason that builders use it a lot. We think of strength as Like that aspect of Amen. An inner person. Here's the least among saints. You have the Spirit. Are you going to be Yeah. What uh Anyone know?