All right. Uh if you have the notes in front of you, uh we have an opening verse of 1 Thessalonians 15, 9 15 through 19 and verse 22. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ in you. Abstain from every form of evil We're actually going to come back to this passage and uh hit kind of a couple verses that were not in there later today. But This is a good foundation for us this morning as we always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. So keep that in mind. I also want to talk about Psalm 133, verse 1. This was part of our Bible reading. If you're part of using the Hope Bible plan this year, we read Psalm 133. And the In verse 1, it says, Behold how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. And that's What we'll be talking about tonight or today, dwelling in unity, and how blessed, how good and pleasurable that pleasant that is, is when we all are Fellowshipping together in unity. So if you are fairly new to the class, we are in Ephesians 4, verses 25 through 32. I just want to kind of review where exactly are we in Ephesians. So Ephesians one through three is about doctrine. And in Ephesians chapter 4 through 6 is about Christian practical living And as we are now in chapter four, even that's broken down into sections where chapter uh where verses one through sixteen of chapter four kind of lays the foundation. Hey, I'm going to talk to you about what it is to live with your brothers and sisters inside the church and have fellowship with one another. But why are we doing this? It is because of unity. In in a doctrinal session, we talked about Christ saving us and redeeming us as individuals And collectively as the church. And we talked about the mystery of the church of the Gentiles coming together as one with the Jews to form one body. And so then when we get to chapter 4, the first section of chapter 4, Paul just continues saying, Hey, we are one body. I'm going to tell you how you should be living your life as a Christian. And it's all for the purpose of unity. We are members of one body together. So last week, Daniel, who who taught, uh he taught verses 17 through 24, and he kind of said, and The purpose of the passage was: hey, we are putting off our old self and putting on a new self through Christ. We are putting aside our garments. The term is for laying aside your garments and putting on new garments. And the picture we're saying there is a general application of Christian living. And now we get to the meat. Now Paul's gonna say, hey, I've told you all about this. What does this actually look like? What do I mean by having unity with one another? What n how how does that look like? So um last week again before I move on, last week Daniel challenged us To take off our garments and put our garments back on with the mindset of our identity in Christ. So I as we go through today's lesson, I do want to Have you keep that in mind? What is our identity in Christ? And how does that identity in Christ drive us in how we live day to day? Again, if you are new to the class, this is the theme of Ephesians. This is a summary statement of Ephesians. The eternal purpose of God for his church is to be reconciled to him in Christ and unified with one another. The reconciled to him in Christ, we saw that in chapters one and two. And then unified with one another. We see that in chapter three, and moving forward from chapter three, which is ultimately for his glory, walking faithfully and obediently as his children. Before we cover the verses for today, we are going to be covering chapter 4, verses 25 through 32. I want to start out in verse in chapter 5, verse 1 and 2, because It's going to help bring some context into what we're going to talk about today. Doug, are you teaching next week? That's Daniel. Okay. Daniel will be talking. Oh uh will be teaching next week. But if you turn your Bibles to chapter five. Verses 1 and 2, it says, therefore be imitators of God as beloved children, and walk in love. As Christ loved us and gave himself for us a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. We are to be imitators of God Christ is our example. We are to walk in love as Christ loved. So As we talk today, and we're going to be talking about different sins, and Paul is going to be exhorting us to put off Certain types of sin and do good to others and the church. But as we learn about these Let Christ be our example and let us do everything in love. That is the wrap. That's As the wrapping paper for our discussion today. And it says in verse 2, walk in love as Christ loved us. We saw this term walk um in chapter four Verse 17, it says, Now this I say, and testify in the Lord, that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their minds. And Daniel talked about this last week. So we are not to walk as the Gentiles, but we are to walk as Christ in lot. So we have this contrast, this dichotomy of what we're not supposed to do and what we are to do. So let's get into it. Let's read verses twenty-five through thirty-two of Ephesians four. Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger, and give no opportunity to the devil. Let the thief no longer steal, but let rather let him labor doing honest work with his own hands. so that he may have something to share with any one in need. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion That it may give grace to those who hear. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you are sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you Along with all malice, be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you. Verse 25 starts off with the word what? Therefore. Alright. Well, of course, when we see the word therefore, we have to say, okay, what why why are we doing this transition? And if we read back in verses twenty through twenty-four As Daniel taught us last week, but that is not the way you learn Christ, assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus. To put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life, and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self Created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holy. So Paul is telling the church in Ephesus here. That hey, as you were taught in Jesus, you were taught to put off your old self. Which belongs to a former life. It's corrupt, it's deceitful, it's evil, and through the renewing of your mind, you are to put on a new Self, one that is created in the likeness of God. And again, Daniel told us to remember what our identity is in Christ, what our standing is in Christ. And that should drive us and our living. And Daniel also referenced first Hang on. I wrote down 1 Corinthians, but I think it's 2 Corinthians. Yes. 2 Corinthians 5, 17 It says, therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. It says the old past. That's uh past tense. The new has come. Again, past tense. It's interesting because like when Daniel was talking last week, he said, hey, uh remind what your standing in Christ is. And He he he's he said he implied it. He didn't fully go down that route, but he implied, hey, this taking off of your old self and putting this on, this has already been done. As a new believer in Christ, we are a new creation. The old have passed away, we are a new creation in Christ. So, because of this identity in Christ, you should be living like this, and as we get in verses 25 through 32. If you don't mind, turn over a few pages to Colossians 3. And I want to kind of reiterate this past tense. In Ephesians, it says, to put off your old self and to put on your new self, which isn't necessarily past tense. But in Colossians 3, verses 9 and 10, and we know Ephesians and Colossians were written by Paul at the same time. It says in verse 9: Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed. in knowledge after the image of its creator. So here we have this image of you have already done this. You have already put off the old self and have put on the new self. Again, past tense. So because of our identity in Christ, we are a new creation We are a new preacher, and because we of this new identity that we have in Christ, let us walk with Christ in love as it will spill out in verses 25 through 32. So as we get to the meat here. Paul is giving us five exhortations. And he's got a little bit of a pattern. It's not a perfect pattern, but it's a pattern. Of a negative command, a positive command, and a reason for the positive command. And he'll go through five different vices or sins that we should uh live uh and how we should live First sin is lying. Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another So the negative command here is put away falsehood. Whatever lies you have, whatever untruth you have, exaggeration you may have, put it off. What's the positive command? Speak the truth. And why do we do this? Because we are all members of one body. So putting away falsehood, this is a conscience, conscious, intentional lie. And that's what it is. It's lies. If you uh turn over to John eight, verse forty-four I'll give a couple examples of this word falsehood. Jesus is uh Talking to the Pharisees here. And uh Pastor Gabe taught this a couple months ago. He says, you are the father of the devil and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the give beginning. And does not stand in the truth because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. The devil is the father of lies. He does not speak truth. He may try the truth, he may think he's states is always twisted. When he was tempting Jesus, he used scripture at one point, but it was out of context and he was twisting the truth. He was intentionally lying to Jesus. And here Jesus is accusing the Pharisees of following their father the devil who is the father of lies. And then if we go to 1 John 2, and Pastor Mike preached on this passage a little while back. Verses twenty through twenty-three. But you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge. I write to you not because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it. And because no lie is of the truth. Whoever is the liar, but who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the Antichrist who denies the Father and the Son. Again. There is no lie of the truth. It's falsehood. Um here Paul's warning about uh False teaching in the church and saying, hey, be on your guard, speak the truth. Be aware of those who are telling lies to each other. As we talk about falsehoods and lies, I do have a couple quotes here, one by Matthew Henry And when we talk to other people, we want them to we we want to make them feel good. Or we don't always want to create tension. I I am a person who hates conflict. And so I will I will not necessarily address things head on as I should. And and so maybe I will make someone feel better not fully telling the truth. But is that beneficial to that person? No. Matthew Henry says, Of this sin the heathen were very guilty, affirming that a profitable lie was better than a harmful truth. And and that's what we may tend to do at times. We may tend to speak harmful truths. Yeah. Or we we may speak we sorry, we may want to speak profitable lies. in order to avoid that conflict. Oh, am I going to offend this person if I say what this truth is? But it is for their benefit to hear the truth Warren Wearsby also says, we like to believe that we help people by lying to them, but such is not the case. We may not see the sad consequences immediately, but ultimately they will come. I think I came across a Charlie Kirk video a few weeks ago and someone was confronting him about speaking Truth versus lies. And he goes, if my sister is about re is going to go on a date, and I see her outfit, and it's not a great-looking outfit, I mean, I could say, yeah, yeah, your outfit's great. Have fun on your date. But that's going to be a profitable lie to him. 'Cause it he doesn't want to offend his sister. But when his sister goes out on his date, guess what? May be off putting to that person or it shouldn't be worn in public at all. And now she's going to face the consequences of that. We want to avoid that. We want to speak the truth. And we'll get this late to it later, but speak the truth in love. I mean, obviously you don't want to Say, oh, that is horrible. And make it beneficial to the other person One reason why Paul may be addressing lying here comes from Acts 5. This was the first sin that was judged inside the church when Ananias and Sapphira came to the feet of Peter and dropping the money for the sale of their land. And it wasn't the full amount of the sale. They lied about it. So put away falsehood. Speak the truth. The speak the truth is a quote from Zechariah. Eight sixteen and Zechariah eight sixteen Says, these are the things that you shall do. Speak the truth to one another. Render in your gates judgments. that are true and make for peace. Do not devise evil in your hearts against one another, and love no false oath. For these for all these things I hate, declares the Lord. The Lord hates falsehood, false oaths as it's put here, but we can speak the truth to one another, and by speaking the truth in one another, we make peace. The other person may not like it on the other end, but if they are humble enough, if they are a brother in Christ, and they realize, oh, this person is actually wanting to look for my own interest. Um it's best to speak the truth in love. Um Back in Ephesians, we see Paul uses speaking the truth in love in verse 15. It says, rather, speaking the truth and love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head into Christ. So Here in verse 25, Paul says, speak the truth. In 15, verse 15, it says, how are we supposed to speak the truth? We are supposed to do it lovingly. And why are we supposed to do it lovingly? Because we are members of the same body. We are members of one another. Fellowship is built on trust. Chrysotham, he had this kind of a weird analogy. And granted, uh Shoot, I didn't look up when he was around. I want to say he was around the eleven hundreds. Um you know, the his analogies may be out of context for us, um, but He says, Let not the eye lie to the foot, nor the foot to the eye. If there be a deep pit and its mouth covered with reeds Shall present to the eye the appearance of solid ground. Will not the eye use the foot to ascertain whether it is hollow underneath, or whether it is firm and resist? Will the foot Tell a lie and not trust as it is? And what again, if the eye were to spy a serpent or a wild beast, will it lie to the foot? So here he says, hey, you you come to a pet that's covered with rip reeds, you're gonna let that foot kind of test things out. Is the foot gonna lie to the eye and and just go forward and go forward and fall in? No Or if the eye sees a serpent, is is is the eye gonna lie to the foot and say, hey, why don't you walk closer to that snake? No, it's not. Because it would be hurting itself. And that's what we do when we speak falsehood to each other. We are hurting ourselves. That really? Yeah. Okay, I was way off. You know, I I took the I I helped um Pastor Green teach the uh fathers of the faith and now I'm embarrassed because I taught that lesson. Okay. Any questions about lying before we move on? Alright, that's the first one. The second sin is anger. And this is where We don't necessarily have a negative positive and the reason for the positive. The positive is still kind of a negative command, but uh we're we're just gonna make it fit this time. Um So with anger, Paul says, Be angry and do not sin, do not let the sin go down on your anger, and give no opportunity to the devil. So the negative command is be angry and do not sin. That's a little difficult to do. Don't let the sun go down on your anger. Positive command. And the reason for the positive command: to give no opportunity to the devil. How many of you yes. I was just going to say my translation has a little bit more positive phrasing. It's uh let your anger pass before the sunsets. Okay. Let your pa okay, there you go. Sure. Um how many of you uh are are are good at being angry without sinning? Aristotle said, anyone can become angry, but to be angry with the right person to the right degree At the right time, for the right purpose, and in the right way, this is not easy. And it's not. What are, well, before I get there, this, be angry and do not sin. This comes, this is another quote from the Old Testament, from Psalm. If you wanna turn there, Psalm 44. I'm gonna start in verse two O man, how long shall my honor be turned to shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? And then Sila, pause. But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him. Be angry and do not sin. Ponder in your own hearts On your beds and be silent. Pause. Sela pause. So Know that God has set apart the godly for himself, and be angry and do not sin. What is considered righteous anger? And what are the what are the circumstances? That it is okay for us to be angry Going back to Ephesians, if we look at chapter 5, verse 6, it says, Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Here we see God's anger against disobedience. Disobedience against his law, against his will. Any offense to God is something that we can be angry about In Mark five we see Jesus. Mark three, verse five, we see Jesus as he's Healing a man with a withered hand. He said to the man with a withered hand, Come here. And he said to them, To those who are watching him. Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm? To save life or to kill? But they were silent, and he looked around at them with anger, grieved at their hardness of heart He knew what the right answer was. He knew that they knew what the right answer was, but they had a hardness of heart against God's. graciousness and as love to to those in need. And they were stubborn about it. They were holding fast to their traditions. And because they were picking man's law over God's law, Jesus looked at them in anger, a righteous anger. MacArthur says, Paul may have been sanctioning righteousness indignation, anger at evil. This type of anger hates injustice, immorality, ungodliness, and every other sin When anger is unselfish and based on love for God and others, it is not only permissible but commanded. So being angry at injustice, immorality, ungodliness, things that God loves This is a righteous anger. But he says, hey, be angry and do not sin. But what's the next phrase? Do not let the sun go down on your anger. What happens? If we let that anger continue to be angry for a long period of time, what happens, Caleb? Sorry, what? Okay, a root of discontent? Okay. Anybody else? Okay, causes bitterness, discontent, bitterness, and when we let bitterness fester, it just gets worse and worse. And now that's going to affect our entire uh life. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. You like faster for too long, it's supposed to be in anger because it's not how you want things, not about anger that it's not how God wants things. So then it and then you go against how God wants things because a lot of people online at least that they see somebody who has lived a life of sin, who says that now they're completely tempted to save, and instead of rejoicing that somebody has come back to God, they're still angry because of the past sin. Because they're not judging it on God's standard, they're judging it on their own. Which takes me, thank that's a great segue to uh to Romans twelve Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. If possible, as far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all. Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him, if he is thirsty, give him something to drink For by doing so you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be cover overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. So if you let that bitterness Faster in you. Now you want to take things into your own hands and not let God do his work. While we're seeking to follow the Lord and while walked in the Spirit, we have a flesh there. Yeah. And so it's We're not keeping that in check. You know, so you're talking about living you know, the fruit of the spirit is all together. We may be motivated by the love of kindness and goodness at something we see and that sparks that anger but if we don't have self control there. Then we're gonna cover in the wrong direction. Which will get us to our next point. Connie, do you have something? Okay. Which gets us to our next point of if we let that anger fester And we're letting bitterness grow inside our buck bodies. We are giving Satan a stronghold into our life. And that is what What Paul is uh warning us about, don't give any opportunity to the to the devil, because he will take that window. of sin that we have opened up. And he will uh perpet perpetuate the consequences of of that Just keep in mind Proverbs 15:1, a soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. Before we move on, just give no opportunity to the devil. Again, we're talking about unity within the church. We can be angry at sin of of uh or injustice by people inside the church. And that's an opportunity going through the proper channels. And when I say go through the proper channels, State Pastor Gave Biblical Reconciliation Course. You know, we need to address sin and then let it go because once the devil gets a foothold in our life, And I want to be careful here, because we'll get back we'll get to this later on about who we are in Christ and the Spirit. Dwelling in us. We're not allowing the devil into our lives, but he's more active into our life. That's going to affect the church. That's going to affect the unity in the body. And that's the purpose of Paul's writing here is to maintain unity You you ended at it, but it might be worthwhile saying that one of the kind of core principles that that course on reconciliation has in it is the idea of looking to the love. Yes. Um when you started talking about unity, you made me think that um we can get angry not just about injustice than about perceived injustices like you're stepping on my ministry or or things like that that uh can cause us to be angry in ways that we perceive are just, but when we look a little harder at what it is that's going on to the situation, essentially looking at the lock that's in our own eye. Um we can realize that we really don't have a standing for we don't have a just standing for our anger at the point. Yeah. Uh and it's important. And there's other aspects of that as well. Yes, thank you. Thank you for that. Moving on, stealing. Verse 28. Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands. So that he may have something to share with anyone in need. So don't be a thief. I think that's pretty Apparent. Steal no longer. Positive command is labor doing honest work. And why are we laboring doing honest work to share with anyone in need? Second Thessalonians 3:10 kind of um Paul talks about doing good labor here. Second Thessalonians. It says, For even when we were with you, we would give you this command. If anyone is not willing to work Let him not eat. For we hear that some of you walk that some among you walk in idleness, not busy at work, but busy bodies. We know Paul, uh, during parts of his ministry, he worked as as a tent maker. And back in that time, uh, this is from Warren Wirsby as well, he says, every Jewish rabbi was taught a trade. For, said the rabbis, if you do not teach your son the trade, you teach him to be a thief. So it's always good for us to look at What can we do to either provide for ourselves and after providing for ourselves provide for the church? Now, I want to be careful here. There are some people who are unable to work, whether they are given a disability, whether they are elderly. They they cannot provide an income for themselves. These are the people that we need to be sharing with. We can take it upon ourselves. To do an honest work and then take the benefits of the wages we receive, other person benefits that we receive from working and share it with those who are unable to. And if you are unable to work and provide for yourself, What can you do to share with others in the church? Do you have a talent that, okay, maybe you can't make income for yourself, but is there a gift From the Holy Spirit that you can share with others. Even if it's like the gift of mercy or gift of encouragement. This is something that God has bestowed upon you and you can share with others because, again, this is for building up the church and creating unity within the church. James Montgomery Boyce says, Paul does not say, as many secular thinkers might say, Work hard because that will build self-esteem, or because then you will be able to buy things you want and enjoy a good life. He says, rather, because you will then have something to share with those in need. There are people who have nothing because they will not work for it. They do not deserve handouts But there are others who, through no fault of their own, generally have needs. The poor must be helped by Christian people who work hard precisely, so that they will have something to give to those in need. Just just keep that in mind. Um first John, uh, you know, if you see your brother in need and you have The resources I'm going to paraphrase here to help that your brother in need, go do so. And Paul is saying, hey, Do do a good good works labor and share with those in need. Yes. Um doesn't this all stem from what Moses um carried with the Ten Commandments that thou shalt not steal, or is this totally different from that? Um I mean it's the same front. It's it's the same principle, yes. I was just wondering if those two things coincide or not. Um I I mean as far as the moral piece of stealing, yes, that piece of it. But all is is expanding it, hey, this is why we should do this in the context of the church. Oh okay. Thanks. Um where a lot of the Ten Commandments is a moral uh a moral compass for all people. Everyone knows that we shouldn't steal. Scott, does this assume that there are thieves in the church? I would think so, yes. Uh this might this might be a little bit of a stretch, but even in the early church in Acts six where the the Greek widows weren't getting their fair share and the and the Jewish widows were um you know someone may have been stealing at that time. I mean that y you could make that reference. We're not the sense of hadn't so stuff, right? But uh you're supposed to work eight hours and if we've looked at how much internet phones they spend not doing the work that they're assigned to do, but checking the weather and ch you know like as stealing. And we don't often think of it that way because it's not as tangible. But I would say we are all stealing time for our office work, whether you're a homemaker Or are you in a business world? Brian. So another stretch. Um within the church you're in a class and I'll give you this Often enough where I'll interject in the middle of someone speaking. Yeah. They're they're clear. Just like right now. I don't want the picture of the people. So interjective in the middle of someone speaking, that's sealing the joy of that person speaking God's word and exhorting us, I'm taking away Jewel. So I think about that often enough. So you alright, quick so this should be the tote back. Yeself But some form that went still task. Sushi. My my still the teacher's time, yes. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I I do think Paul is for the most part talking about material possessions here, but yes, we can uh time is definitely one that we can steal. Yeah. Right. I mean kind of related to the time just probably I would hope the most common form of stealing that the early church would have seen is the sherry with anyone in need. Yeah, somebody breaks their light, they can't work. And they and people are helping them out, people are giving them food food, keeping them afloat, and now their leg is a lot better. But it's a lot easier to just keeping keep setting the hands down, set it off to be going back to work. Yeah. So Like that's also feeling is you're dishonestly saying that you can't earn your own. If if you're in need, don't perpetually be in need if you can get out of it. Yes. All right. I gotta move on. We have like seven minutes and I've got three more things to cover. So um Corrupt speech is the vice number four. The negative command here is let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths. Positive command. Do only such talk as is good for building up. And the reason, hey, give grace to those who hear. Corrupting we this is a term that Paul's used earlier in the uh book. It's refers to a bad or run fruit. And we can read James, there's several references in James about the tongue, and that we need to keep the tongue in check. The But the control of the tongue starts with the control of our heart and mind. And we we see that earlier in the chapter from what Daniel taught last week. You know, don't walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their mind. And then in verse 23, 22, 23, uh put off your old self which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed. in the spirit of your minds put on the new self. So allowing Christ to dwell in us and putting on a renewed mind will help us Get to that place of um controlling our our tongue Talk that's only good that builds up and is fitting to the occasion. Kind of was we were talking about before when we were talking about lying We want corrective talk is talk that can build up the church. Yes, it may hurt, it may sting for the person on the other side at first, but if they are humble. And again, kind of going back what Doug said earlier, when we do talk to someone, you know, we need to make sure we have looked at our own cells first to get the log out of our own eye. And then we can talk to someone and say, hey, uh I I see this in your life. Um cat is there anything I can do to help you uh with this situation? So even corrective speech can be encouraging. And we just need to do it graciously. Gently restore. Because as we speak to one another in a gracious, kind tone, again, we're we're forming unity. And that's Paul's purpose here, is for unity. Four minutes, okay. We're going to We're going to sprint through the end here. All have an interjection here. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit I'm coming back to that. Don't worry. But the fifth sin is put away all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, slander, and malice. The positive command, be kind to one another. Reason for this, to show forgiveness to one another as Christ forgave you. We we see this bitterness um bitterness sour. It's a smoldering resentment. Rage is like an outburst, or wrath is like an outburst of anger. It's rage. Anger here is more of an internal feeling. It's it's so we've got wrath, which is the external expression of anger, and anger is hey, I I'm holding it in. And um internal hostility Clamor, strife, shouting, cries of strife, slander, evil speaking. And then as the verse says, it it gives these five uh descriptions and then it says along with all malice and is like is malice like the culmination of the five or is it just another term uh different people have different uh perspectives on that. Um you could say it's kind of the culmination of of all of them as It's ill will in the general Greek it is a term for evil and it's the root of all vices. Malice is considered the root of all vices. So um And and we see these several of these back in Galatians uh five, right before Paul talks about the fruits of the Spirit, he talks about, hey, the what you shouldn't be doing. What are the works of the flesh? In verse 19, it says, Now the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery. Enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissension, divisions. And it goes on. But several of these terms are in that Galatians 5. And so put off the things of the flesh and put on the spirit, and you shall have the fruits of the spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness. Self-control. I may have missed one in there. But um So put all these things away. Be kind to one another. Be tenderhearted. And forgive. If we don't forgive, now there's disunity in the body. Going back, do not grieve the Holy Spirit. Grieving the Holy Spirit, it's to make sad, to make sorrowful. Thayer's Greek lexicon says Hey, I I'm gonna take this term and even take it as far as offending the Holy Spirit But why is it we we've got these five different sins that Paul's addressing, and then he sneaks in, hey, do not grieve the Holy Spirit after the fourth one. And so why is it there? I've read some commentators that say, well, it's for the previous verses regarding um corrupt speech. The Holy Spirit is the one who gave us the scriptures. He provided the Word of God. And um and that we should and through our talk we should be cur encouraging one another and by using corrupt speech we are grieving the Holy Spirit. Other commentators kind of put it toward the next verses when we talked about the bitterness, put away all slander, wrath. Anger, malice, clamor, um, saying that these things grieve the Holy Spirit Sin is sin. And anything we do that is a sinful act in some respects grieves the Holy Spirit. In 1 Thessalonians 5. 19, we see, do not quench the spirit. And in that context, Paul says, hey, I want you to do this, do this, and this. And and if we don't, we are quenching the Holy Spirit. Here Paul's saying, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this. And by doing that, we if we do those things, we grieve. So I've heard it said, grieving the Holy Spirit is when we do acts of commission, when we actually sin, that would be grieving. Quenching is when we do acts of omission, when we don't do what we are prodded by from the Holy Spirit. That is quenching the Spirit. But in the end, he says, do not grieve the Holy Spirit by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Uh we see this ceiling in Chapter 1. When we become Saved, and we have accepted that gift of salvation, we are sealed with a deposit in the Holy Spirit. And that does not go away. Grieving the spirit, that breaks fellowship. I did something this week that grieved my wife. And for a while there, we did not have good fellowship this week That's when we sin, when we do corrupt talk, when we lie, when we steal, when we have bitterness in our hearts. We grieve the Holy Spirit, but and that fellowship of the Holy Spirit has been broken, and we are preventing his effectiveness in our life. But just remember, he is in us, and he will always be in us. We are sealed. Our redemption is secure. And keep that in mind. And as we close, again, I'd point you to chapter 5, verse 1. Be imitators of God, walk in love as Christ loved us. Let our daily Christian living be done in a way that we are following Christ's example and walk in him Any other comments or questions before I went back to um five verse one and as I was stared at that I mean you said it oh that's perfect Yeah If you are walking in oh but we are imitators of Christ. There's no way we're gonna be we can save us away. Yes, yes. If we are imitators of Christ we will not be If we are walking in him, we will not be grieving the Holy Spirit. So Daniel will be covering that section next week. So let's pray. Dear Highly Father, we thank you again for this time that we can just delve into your word and uh And learn about the things that you hate, the sins that you despise. And Lord, it's It's easy to fall into some of these traps and um and our sinful nature uh and our flesh just grabbing us and wanting pulling us to do these These things that grieve you, Lord. Help us to just keep our eyes on you. Help us to walk in love and follow Christ's example uh Jesus who walked on earth and and faced life situations that we face, Lord, and and He was able to do it perfectly. And Lord, we know that we won't do it perfectly, but when we do find that we have misstepped Well that we come back to you and and ask for forgiveness. And move forward to living a life that serves you and not only you, Lord, but to the body. We are here to serve one another. Help us, Lord, to be gracious to one another, be kind, be tenderhearted to each other, that we may be a light, that Hope Bible may be a light. to our community and uh and that uh that we will not be put to shame uh your name uh to those who do not know you In Jesus' name, cannot