Okay, so we are down the home stretch. Today we're on lesson twelve. I'm on page one hundred forty-one. Last week we started looking at uh sort of the historical and cultural background of Islam. And today we're going to look at the Quran and the Hadith and some history and some understanding of how they influence Islam. So Uh the Arabic word for Quran means recitation, or it can be used for reading, but in the case of the Quran and Muhammad himself, the idea was that he would say, he would recite these things to those around him. And um so Muslims obviously regard it as the final revelation from God uh final in the sense that it follows in the footsteps of certainly the Old Testament and the New Testament, or at least as they understand those. Um and so they they show very much absolute respect for the Quran. Um we make a distinction, I think, in our minds, between The Bible being the Word of God and the God who inspired that, the one who we worship. We don't worship the Bible, right? We worship God who gave us the Bible They virtually worship the Quran um uh pretty much um as if it were God in their presence. Now they do uh they wouldn't say that they worship the Quran, but but they are so respectful of it so as not to displease Allah that it it from my perspective seems like it's almost worshiping uh the Quran. And there's some reasons for that we'll talk about in a minute. Many Muslims today even memorize the Quran in Arabic even if they don't speak Arabic. Can you imagine doing that? Um it just shows how important the Quran is to their religion. So how did that all begin? Well, uh we gave a little bit of uh historical background there last week where Muhammad um received these uh revelations, uh and he was convinced by his wife and relatives that this was the angel Gabriel speaking to him and Uh he wasn't losing it, if you will, which is what he was thinking. Um but it presents itself as um God's word, and remember Allah, the the Arabic word of Allah, merely means the God. Um and Allah was one of the many, in fact the chief of the various gods that the Arabs um uh worshipped uh before and during the time of of Muhammad. But of course from these revelations Uh he was teaching them that no, he this is the only God. And in fact, thinking that there are other gods is sort of the worst sin there could be. Um So the Quran presents itself as the words of God revealed to just one human author. Muhammad. So, you know, when we think of the Bible, we think of many human authors over a long period of time. The Quran was um put together by just one human author over a fairly short period of time. Um and that would have been from uh six eleven A. D. to six thirty two A. D. Uh and so I I um made the the point earlier that that they really revere and It's my way of thinking, worship the Quran. And in the middle of page 141, I note here that the Quran makes the claim that It is an exact replica of the eternal Quran, which is firmly recorded, literally set in stone, in heaven. So it's always been there. And the the Quran that came to Muhammad through these revelations is taken directly even from the Arabic. The original up there in heaven is supposedly in Arabic. Um Which is one reason why many Arabs even today think that it's it's wrong to translate the Quran to any other language, because the original up there in heaven is in Arabic Um okay. So it is in Arabic and the Quran makes a bit of a point of that in um Maybe I should mention here the citations here, the references to the Quran are show chapters and verses. They don't call them chapters. Actually the Arabic word is surah So Surah 43, verses 2 through 4 say, by the book that makes things clear, we have made a Quran in Arabic. That you may be able to understand and learn wisdom. And verily, it is in the mother of the book, in our presence, that is in heaven, high and dignity, full of wisdom. Okay, so page 142. When people today think of the Quran, they think of the the written version Uh you can get it easily uh in English, uh you can get it online. Um but at the outset it wasn't written. As the name as the name suggests, recitation, it was during Muhammad's lifetime, it was primarily transmitted orally because they were a very oral culture. And very few of them could write anyway, even including Muhammad. And and so it was it was this this oral um transmission, recitation, um and a few people wrote down parts of it. It wasn't completely written down though, uh during Muhammad's lifetime Um but there were those who had memorized it completely, and there were some in written form. Um but After Muhammad died, it became clear that there needed to be a definitive um compilation, put it that way, of the Quran. Because as you can imagine, in an oral culture, some would uh uh maybe leave out some things that were supposed to be part of it. Uh others would maybe put it in slightly different words and things would over time kind of travel a little bit and migrate and and um uh in meaning. And so it became pretty clear that there needed to be a definitive compilation of what was true Quran and what was not. Um and so um there was an attempt in um in the um the second in the the reign of um Muhammad's um successor, his father-in-law, Aisha's father, Abu Bakr, he finally commissioned uh one of Muhammad's former aides to Write it all out. And so he would he would have access to many of the the things that had already been written down as portions of it. He interviewed um others who uh had memorized it, uh who were close companions of Muhammad, and so he he did a pretty responsible job of pulling it all together as he was uh asked. Problem is it was never copied and so it didn't really have much much um much of a shelf life. It it it wasn't copied and so in a practical sense people still didn't have a definitive uh compilation of the Quran And so by the time we get to um uh a later caliph, uh Uthman, I think he was the third, if I'm not mistaken, yeah, the third successor to Muhammad Um the need became even more pressing because we had um uh factions who were sort of drifting in this direction versus that direction. What is the actual practice of Muhammad, what is the teaching, how do we follow it if we don't know exactly what it is? And so they rebooted this effort to put it in writing. And actually got the same guy To compile it once again, this time with the idea that they would make copies and it would become definitive then. And in the process, unfortunately When he had done that, the order went out that any other written copy of a portion or even all of the Quran should be destroyed because this now is the definitive version. Um and and that's unfortunate, as it turns out, because when there are variants And you could trace the the uh source and timing of various variants, you can kind of after the fact piece together what the original probably was um life, what what it should have been. And that's a very helpful and common practice with early biblical manuscripts And having so many of them from different uh paths and y and you kinda go back in time and you can kind of triangulate what the original must have been, uh you can't do that with the Quran. So It um I have a quote here uh on the bottom of page 142, and this is from a a uh Muslim historian. It says, it is probable that a few detached pieces of the original were left out of the final redaction when they had uh been a part of the earlier codex. It's quite possible that Zayed, this compiler, in assembling the revelations, did not have access to all previous versions. There's also the possibility of simple inadvertent clerical errors in the process of recording. Now all of those things could be uh uh logically handled if you had over time uh the full range of sources and copies and and so on. Uh but those were all dis for the most part destroyed, not entirely as it turns out. Um But the result of all this is that that definitive version of the Quran is in fact the version that is out there today. And so they can claim that there's been no change to the Quran. Well, yeah, there's been no change since that, but there's no confidence at all that that was really what the original actually said Um so that's interesting. So what about the Quran itself? So it is, you know, we think of the Bible, we think of sixty-six books. Right? Some of them long, some of them short, different authors, human authors, and so on. The Quran is just one book with 114 chapters or surahs. And when we think of the Bible, we think of um various ways that it's categorized and organized, right? So you've got The Pentateuch, so early history, early uh law from from God, um uh showing the the the tr the uh sequence from all the way from creation to uh the the nation of Israel and and getting established in the promised land and so on. Then you've got uh more historical books that are basically in historical order And you've got other kind of writings like um uh Job and Psalms and Proverbs and and So on. You've got a series of prophets also. Um, and particularly by the time you get to the prophets. you get different time periods. They're mostly in chronological order, but it's quite a wide span, and they overlap with some of the history that's given in those other books, right? But they're just sections, they're just organized into groups of of uh books. And then you get the New Testament, which again is categorized, right? You've got the Gospel of the Light of Christ and and Acts, the history immediately following that. Then you've got lots of uh uh letters from from the apostles to the various churches helping to clarify doctrine and teaching of Christ And then uh revelation at the end. So you you kind of think about structure and organization and there's there's chronology, but there's also um categories of of like prophecy versus history and you know that kind of thing. Well in the Quran there's really no such structure. Including chronological, whether chronological in terms of history or chronological in terms of when these um revelations were received. And I think I mentioned last week that the very first revelation uh ended up In uh Surah ninety-six out of a hundred and fourteen And uh there's no particular I've never heard and I've never s read anything that indicates the reason for that. Um about the only observation people have made about the organization of the Quran is that it appears for the most part, not entirely, but for the most part to have the large the longest surahs up front and the shortest ones toward the end. I don't know if there's any significance to that and there are some exceptions to it, but um uh that's the most objective way to summarize its organization at the moment. Now within a surah, often the surahs do have a major theme. And often that theme, or at least one of those themes, is something of a title for that chapter, that sura. Something else that's kind of curious is that most of the survivors were uh at some point along the way given a um Um look on page one hundred forty three. Um some unexplained letter in the Arabic alphabet that has some significance for that surah but nobody's really able to say what that significance is. Even Muslims. They speculate various things. There must be Allah's will that uh it be there, but we haven't figured out yet what it means, what it's for. Uh Every surah except the ninth one begins with a declaration, quote, In the name of Allah, most gracious, most merciful. Uh that invocation has a name. It's called the Bismila or the Blasmila. And the reason it apparently doesn't uh begin The ninth surah is because the ninth seems to have been a continuation of the eighth. And so it it um and th there are some psalms Particularly like that in the Old Testament, like Psalms one and two in the Hebrew Bible or one Psalm. Uh we have them split up and uh like the Bible where these surah designations added in later? Yes, yes. Like the Bible, the the designations, not so much the surahs themselves, I think the surah one, surah two, surah. Um numbering them came a little bit later. Uh the chapter divisions I think are original. The verse numbers are added like with the Bible just for convenience. Um so it's it's somewhat similar. Um anybody hear about the satanic verses? Nobody remembers that that though Larry does, that that controversy. Well the origin of that on the bottom of page one forty three is that before you remember last week we mentioned that um uh Muhammad early in the development of a Muslim following in Mecca um realized that things weren't going all that well in Mecca in terms of conversions and he got a lot of persecution because he was preaching, no, there's only one God, and they said, Well, no, we've got all these gods Anyway, during that early stage in Mecca, he recited several verses as revelation from Allah. That became part of the Quran at that point. And the verses are written up here on the bottom of page 143. Did you consider Al Lat and Al-Uzzah and Al-Manat? The third, the other, those are the swans exalted, their intercessions is expected, their likes are not neglected. Well, he's quoting the names here of three pagan goddesses who were worshipped at that time by many Arabians. You know, there are hundreds of the of these gods and goddesses. And the verses teach that they should be prayed to and they intercede effectively to Allah for people. And of course, that's very much in contradiction to to what the Quran says today and what people hold very dearly, that is, if there is only one God, um But later, Muhammad claimed to have received new revelation that corrected the earlier one, and the later verses are now part of the current Quran in Surah 53 It says, Have you seen Lot and Uzzah and another the third goddess Manat? What? For you, the male sex, and for him the female? Behold, such would be indeed a division most unfair. These are nothing but names which you have devised, you and your fathers. for which Allah has sent down no authority whatever. They follow nothing but conjecture and what their own souls desire, even though there has already come to them guidance from their Lord. So Uh that presumably set the record straight. It's now part of the Quran. And um it is interesting that uh in the Quran, Muhammad claims that um uh it was common for Satan to deceive even him without deceiving Allah And he says in Surah 22 here in the middle of page 144, Never did we send a messenger or a prophet before you. This is Allah speaking to Muhammad But when he framed a desire, Satan threw some vanity into his desire. But Allah will cancel anything vain that Satan throws in. And Allah will confirm and establish His signs. For Allah is full of knowledge and wisdom and so on. So I guess their perspective on it in and our way of speaking is well this is a spiritual battle, right? And and uh sometimes Satan tricks people and Allah will set it straight. But um Um yeah, you gotta wonder. Well, um middle of page one hundred forty four I mentioned that the Quran presents itself as being revelations from Allah But it's very clear, a number of people over the years have pointed out, that portions of the Quran are actually based on earlier non-biblical material. Um and at least portions of it were not revealed by Allah, but came from other sources. And so there's some outright plagiarism that's been documented. There are four verses in the Quran that were actually written. by a famous Arabian poet who lived just before Muhammad and whose other poetry was actually included in the collection of poems that were suspended on the Ka'aba in Mecca during Muhammad's lifetime. And so in the Quran in Surah 54, I've highlighted here on the bottom of page 144 and the top of 145 In bold were the pieces that were extracted from this earlier poem, Arabic poem. But when that poet's daughter later heard these verses from the Quran being recited by Muhammad's daughter Fatima. She immediately recognized them as her own father's poetry, and she demanded to know how they had become part of what was supposedly an eternal book revealed to Muhammad. Awkward, right? Um But there are a number of other um stories, accounts in the Quran, which does have purportedly historical uh accounts of various people and and things, uh, some of which overlap a bit with his uh biblical characters and events and so on But um some of them are rather innocuous, some of them are pretty blatantly unbiblical But there are many here, and I've I've collected a number that people have pointed out. For example, the burial of Abel on page 145 Uh of course there's there's no record in Genesis of the burial of Abel. What's the significance of the burial of Abel? Abel Abel He would have been the first person, first human being who died. And, you know, what do we do now that someone's died? And so in Surah 527 It says, recite to them the truth of the story of the two sons of Adam. Behold, they each presented a sacrifice to Allah, and it was accepted from one, but not from the other. And uh It continues down here, but verse thirty-one, after Abel had died, says then Allah sent a raven who scratched the ground to show him how to hide the shame of his brother. Woe is me, said said he, was I not even able to be as uh this raven, and to hide the shame of my brother? Then he became full of regrets. Um Anyway, there's this account in the Quran. Well, it turns out that uh uh on the order of 400 years earlier, there was a Jewish tradit tradition written down. by a Jewish rabbi, which reads, Adam and Eve, sitting by the corpse of Abel, wept, not knowing what to do, for they had not as yet have any knowledge of burial A raven came up, took the dead body of its fellow mate, in other words another raven, and having scratched up the earth, buried it thus before their eyes. And Adam said, Let us follow the example of the raven And so taking up Abel's body, buried it at once. So this is um uh just uh uh Jewish um you might call it folklore. Uh don't know what the the origin of it was, but the significance is that that account with a raven and and the burial of of um Abel predated the Quran by four hundred years and yet it shows up in the Quran. Why do you suppose that would be? Muhammad, remember as he was traveling around on caravans and uh uh Uh by virtue of the the nature of these caravans, you interact with other caravans maybe going the same direction or you you cross paths at a certain stopping point. Um and so he's hearing he he's not reading anything because he's he's not literate, as hardly anybody was. But he's hearing all these stories. They share stories like uh I don't know around the campfire or whatever. Um And so he's hearing stories from uh Jews, and some of them are actually taken from Scripture, uh, some of them taken from folklore like this, and it was probably hard for him to distinguish one from the other. Um and uh he hears stories from cults as well. I'll show you a few. Um both about Old Testament and New Testament issues. And he's hearing all this stuff. And it's all presumably just kind of getting swirled around in his head. and um end up in one form or another in the Quran. Let me give you some more examples. Page 146. Let's go to Zacharias and Mary. You know Zacharias, the husband of Elizabeth, the father of John the Baptist? In uh the Quran, Suri Surah III, says, Behold, a woman of Imran, now who is Imran? Well Amron, as at least in the Hebrew, uh was the father of Moses, and that's who this is referring to here. A woman of Imran said, O my Lord, I do dedicate unto you what is in my womb for your special service. So accept this of me, for you hear and know all things When when she was delivered, she said, O my Lord, behold, I am delivered of a female child. And Allah knew best what she brought forth. And uh no wise is the male like the female. I have named her Mary. Now this is getting a little confusing because what was Moses' sister's name Miriam, that's who this is. But it gets confused with Mary, the mother of Jesus. Okay. I've named her Mary, and I've commanded her and her offspring to your protection from the evil one, the rejected. Right graciously did her Lord accept her, and he made her grow in purity and beauty. To the care of Zechariah she was assigned. Every time he entered her chamber to see her, he found her supplied with sustenance, and said, O Mary, whence comes you this to you? And she said, From Allah For Allah provides sustenance to whom He pleases without measure. So it's kind of convoluted, but what's interesting here Is that general story dates back 400 years before the Quran in a Christian fable called the the Proto-Evangelon James's uh James the Lesser? And that reads Anna, the wife of Joachim, answered, and I've got a few minutes. Uh be male or female, I will devote to the Lord my God, and it shall minister to him in holy things during his whole life. And called her name, Mary. And the high priest received her and blessed her and said, Mary, the Lord has magnified your name to all generations to the very end of time. And so on. But then it says, but Mary continued in the temple as a dove educated her, and received food from the hand of an angel. Then the high priest, Zecharias, entered into the Holy of Holies, and taking away with him the breastplate of the judgment, made prayers concerning her. Um now that one is speaking of Mary, the mother of Jesus. And you can you can see how the the um the events unfolded and the things that were said about her and and so on show up later in the Quran. And um it seems to be Um, I don't know, can you call it an innocent mistake that Mary, the mother of Jesus, and Miriam, the mother or the sister of Moses, the daughter of Amran, um are confused about being the same person, when indeed they're not. The Quran, um here on the top of page 147, the Quran claims that Mary gave birth to Jesus under a palm tree. Even though the Bible makes it clear that she gave birth to him in a stable in Bethlehem. And you see in the Surah 19 the the account of all that. But actually that story seems to have been based on a second century apocryphal fable. where it talks about, well, now on the third day after Mary was wearing wearied in the desert by the heat, she asked Joseph to rest for a little under the shade of a palm tree Then Mary, looking up and seeing its branches laden with fruit, dades, said, I desire if it were possible to have some fruit. Just then the child Jesus looked up from below. with a cheerful smile and said to the palm tree, Send down some fruit. This is the infant, Jesus, who's talking to the fruit. Immediately the tree bent itself toward her, so they ate. Then Jesus said, O palm tree, arise and be one of my father's trees in paradise, but w with your roots open the fountains beneath. the and uh bring water flowing from that fountain. Um so it seems that Uh Muhammad's kind of hearing these fables and these stories and you can't distinguish them from actual biblical text and uh fables and just general stories. Um but they all get kind of mushed together and come out in some form in the Quran. I won't go through all the details here, but uh the following on page 147, the Quran claims that Jesus miraculously spoke to his mother while still an infant in the cradle. That was a different account from under the palm tree. Um and that again is from uh an an apocryphal fable. And The Quran very specifically says that Jesus breathed life into a bird that he fashioned out of clay, which by the way, they would admit is a miracle that Jesus did, if in fact he did do that. Um but they don't the the Quran and and um um Muslims generally don't attribute any miracles to Muhammad. Um now some recently will say so and they'll they'll point to some hadith and we'll talk about the hadith in a minute. Um but There's no uh there's no clear miracle attested to uh Muhammad in the Quran, uh whereas there is for Jesus, even though I doubt he actually did this. But anyway, that breathing life into a bird that he fashioned out of clay is not new. Again, it's based on a second-century apocryphal fable called Thomas's Gospel of the Infancy of Jesus Christ. And um that specifically says Then he took from the bank of the stream some soft clay and formed out of it twelve sparrows. Then Jesus, clapping together the palms of his hands, called to the sparrows and said to them, Go, fly away So that's a story that was around four hundred years by the time Mura Muhammad came, um, and it shows up in the Quran as well. But I have a question but so whom they think Jesus is who do Muslims think Jesus is? Um Muslims think Jesus is one of a long line of prophets from Allah. And so they they respect him in that role as a prophet, as many of the Old Testament prophets uh were. But they believe that the prophecy he came to give was um basically the same message that Muhammad was given, which is Come back to obedience to the revelation given to Abraham. Adopt the religion of Abraham. That was his message Um which by the way is interesting because as the Apostle Paul makes it clear, what is the message we should what is what is the lesson we should get from the life of Abraham. He believed God and God credited to him as righteousness. Right. It wasn't a religion of works, it was a religion of faith, taking God at his word and obeying him. But they view Islam, which they think is the same as the religion of Abraham Uh Islam means submission, submission to Allah. And that's what Abraham did, that's what everybody should do. And um so Jesus was just calling everybody back to submission to Allah following Abraham's example. That's their view of the gospel. The Gospel, in their view, the Injio, is the message that Christ spoke that message about submitting to Allah and getting back to the the obedience of Abraham When they think of gospel, they think of that message in their head. They're not thinking four gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. So um sometimes it's helpful to take them to the actual gospels, uh having four um four accounts of the life of Christ that overlapped and some had unique material. Um but to actually help them see, and we'll take a closer look next week to have help help them actually see the life and ministry of Christ. Um it can be an eye opener for 'em Okay. Uh well there's other examples here, but I want to go to page one forty-nine. Uh there are various uh inaccuracies, clear inaccuracies in the Quran, inconsistencies with Scripture, which they would explain away by saying, well, the Bible's been corrupted, this is the truth Well, um some of these things are pretty pretty uh glaring. Um For example, on page 149, letter D, Moses in the Quran is said to have been adopted by Pharaoh's wife rather than his daughter. And the following one, E, the Quran indicates that Haman, do you remember Haman from the book of Esther? Haman was a co-conspirator with Pharaoh at the time of Moses. Now how many years were there between the time of Moses and the time of Esther? A lot. The Bible, of course, makes it clear that he was an official of King Ahasuerus in Persia. So it's over a thousand years difference between those two time periods. The Quran also says that it was a Samaritan who led the Israelites astray and made the golden calf in the wilderness. But there were no Samaritans at the time. that happened. Uh Samaria came into being much, much later, became the capital of the normer n the northern tribes of Israel. Um Very much after the time of Moses. And the Bible makes it clear that it was Aaron who made the calf. Uh well there are other other examples that I'll let you take a look at. Let's turn to page one fifty. And this is key. I've alluded to it a little bit, but it's key to understand when you're talking with a Muslim. And that's this doctrine of abrogation. What does it mean to abrogate something? You replace it with something else. You set it aside and you replace it. So even though the Quran claims to be eternal, uncreated, And it's that uncreatedness of it that in their view certainly must put it kind equal with God who is uncreated. And so worshiping the Quran uh kind of seems consistent Anyway, since the Quran claims to be eternal, it also claims that later verses sometimes abrogate that is annul or replace verses that were revealed earlier. And the Quran specifically says this. So if you look at Surah 16, Verse 101, when we substitute one revelation for another, and this is again Allah speaking, and God knows best what he reveals in stages. They say, his detractors say, You're but a forger, but most of them understand not. Surah 13. God doth blot out or confirm what he pleases, with him is the mother of the book. And I've included here a couple of other translations of that same verse, or of of um no, uh Surah 2, verse 106. Where it says none of our revelations do we abrogate for cause to be forgotten, but we substitute something better or similar Knowest thou not that Allah has power over all things? Or another translation has that verse. Any message which we annul or consign to oblivion, we replace with a better or similar ones. So um Muslims are pretty comfortable with the idea that um something that God has revealed earlier, he's going to change. And the the um the earlier thing is is uh can be forgotten because it's Obsolete. Yeah, Sarah has an interesting point here that that if if they're kind of comfortable i if Allah is in that posture of of replacing earlier things with new revelation, they can view the whole Quran as replacing, abrogating, most, if not all, of Scripture. Now it turns out, particularly today, uh Muslim scholars pick and choose which things they think Allah has superseded by the Quran uh and either say they've been superseded or that they've just been corrupted over time. You can't trust it. But other things they point to as being correct, particularly when they think it pointed to Muhammad. Old Testament prophecies pointing to Muhammad, for example, which taken out of context, you can get him to say whatever you want. Uh but they're clearly not pointing to Muhammad. Actually the hit say even um some New Testament verses point to Muhammad. Um so I've given some examples here of some verses that that uh most Muslims um agree um have been abrogated by later uh verses. Uh one set of them are called the sword verses And the contrast you see in this box on in the middle of page 150. So in the earlier surahs, You get verses like Surah 43, where it says, Allah has knowledge of the prophet's cry. O my Lord, truly these people who will not believe, but turn away from them and say peace, but soon they shall know. And then Surah 7 has another example of that, hold on to forgiveness, command what is right, turn away from these people who are ignorant But in Surah 2 and Surah 9, it gives a different instruction. It says, fight in the cause of God those who fight you. But do not tr transgress limits, for God loves not transgressors, and slay them whenever you catch them. and turn them from where they are, where they have turned out you. For tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter. In other words, slaughter is better than if you let 'em continue, you're going to have tumult and oppression. But fight them not at the sacred mosque. in Mecca, unless they first fight you there. But if they fight you, slay them. Such is the reward of those who suppress faith And Surah 9, verse 5, but when the forbidden months are past, then fight and slay the pagans wherever you find them, and seize them, beleaguer them and lie in wait for them in every stratagem of war. But if they repent and establish regular prayers and practice regular charity, in other words, if they convert to Islam, then open the way for them. For Allah is all forgiving, most merciful. Yeah, right. So what's key here is to know and you're not going to know it from the surah numbers because they're not in chronological order, but you need to know when the Surahs um came when they you know w the the the sequence of when the the surahs were were given And fortunately, in the um the English translation, and it's pretty common knowledge, but the English translation of the Surah of the Quran that I read uh the translator had some commentary and in that commentary for every single surah he indicated the timing of when it came. And not so much the year, but the stage of Muslim history. So w it was Early Mecca, when he was early in Mecca. That's a stage at the very beginning. And then it could be early Medina. He had tra he moved up to Medina Um and it could be early, mid or late Medina, and then the the late Mecca when when he came back down to Mecca. And so those time periods are documented. And if you trace these various verses, you see that the earlier ones are very early. They're in in the early Mecca period where They weren't being trying to be confrontational other than saying there's really only one God and that's Allah. That was controversial enough But when they were driven out of Mecca up to Medina and they became more aggressive, some of these other verses uh came. And so they they uh uh if there's any question about which is which governs it's the the more recent. They abrogated the earlier ones. Look at top of page 150, Surah 16, for example, verse 101, when we substitute one revelation for another, and God knows what is best, what He reveals. So the we and the he are used interchangeably. The we is used Most frequently, as you read the entire Quran, Allah typically refers to Himself in the plural we. It's the royal we. I don't know if you you've you've heard that term, the royal we where like a monarch would say uh when someone reports Bad news, let's say, you know, we are not pleased. You know, um it's it's it's a way to distinguish position Make a distinction. Um but it's not the same as is it LLEMX uh for one? Yes. So Um it's very clear to Muslims what's going on here that the he and the we are used interchangeably And they have no problem with whether they call it the royal we or or that he's so exalted, you've got it uh the fact that he uses some way to refer to himself. Um is okay. Um but um a lot of people a lot of very God-fearing Bible-believing people believe that the Hebrew word Elohim for God, which is plural, also is a um No, no. They actually think it's it's evidence or at least it's consistent with the Trinity and it's been there all along for the Jews to see. Well the Jews wouldn't see it that way any more than the than the Muslims would see the the royal we here being evidence of anything like a Trinity. It's very explicit that nothing could be equal with God there's only one God. And I'm pretty sure that's the mindset of the Jews when they read Elohim to mean God. So I I don't know, th there are Christians who believe that it is evidence of the Trinity by using the word Elohim. I d I think that's just a supposition. I don't see any evidence that it would need to be the case Um the Jews so certainly never interpreted that way. And I can't imagine that the Quran was written to give that suggestion. Um both of which, Arabic and Hebrew, are Semitic languages. Um so anyway, you read the Quran and you see that we all the time. Yeah. Okay. Uh so there are a few other examples of of abrogation, but let me take you to 152 to give you at least a a synopsis of the hadith and the Sunnah And this can get confusing. Let's see if we can do it pretty quickly. Often the term hadith and sunnah are used interchangeably, but they actually have different meanings. Hadith, and the plural of that is ahadith in Arabic. The word primarily means new or news, an account. And it comes to be associated with a news story, a narration, a report, whether historical or not, regardless of how recent or old. So that's a hadith. And in Islam, the word hadith didn't come didn't wasn't invented by Islam, but in Islam, a hadith is a recorded account of what Muhammad said and did or his reactions what was said or done by others in his presence. So it gives Muslims an idea of how who weren't there, it gives an idea of how um Uh Muhammad taught the things he did, things he didn't do, how he reacted to things, and why is that important? Uh if you look over on page 153, there are lots of places in the Quran which say Basically, Allah is my messenger. Listen to Him, obey Him, and follow His example. Lots of of um references to that. And so uh it's very important for Muslims to follow the example and the teachings of Muhammad. Well, the Sunnah and they they get a lot of that information from the Hadith, the Ahadith. Um the Sunnah The word primarily means pathway. You might think of it as lifestyle or path of of uh behavior. And again, it existed long before Islam, but in Islam, it refers to the traditions of conduct and practice established by Muslims for all Muslims to follow. So it's think of it as a way of life, um, a a um the the right path to be on in life. making wise choices and so on. And again, uh Muhammad is is the example to follow. Um So they learn about him, apart from the Quran, they learn about his actual behavior, his words, what he did in the hadith But that helps them to understand what the correct Sunnah, what the right pathway is for their own lives as they follow him. Um you've heard of Sunni Muslims? It comes from this word Sunnah. They're the ones who believe they're the ones following the really following the path of Muhammad. And indeed, I think it would be fair to say Sunni Muslims are um Orthodox Muslims. Shiites may think of themselves as Orthodox, but um uh not as much, I don't think, as well. But which one is the violent type? Both. Okay. So that's the difference. The Suna is is what we should all be getting our minds around. What is the right path for me because it's it I see it in the life of Muhammad and I understand that from the writings that have been passed down over the ages compiled in these uh hadith writings Um you see the difference there? There's overlap and so on, but yeah. So for the microns, is is there a Hadiz Mulasum and Sudas? Are there two different groups? No, no, yeah, it may be confusing because Sunni Muslims um take their name after that word Sunnah, but um the hadith really are just writings Okay. Just writings. And so if you look on um sorry on page one fifty four The hadith in written form. So initially, like the Quran, the hadith were handed down orally, even from generation to generation, and it was like Four two hundred, two hundred, two hundred and fifty years after Muhammad that they finally started getting written down in in a um uh organized way. Because it was crucial that everybody not only understand the Quran but also the the life and the example of of Muhammad so they could emulate that. They could follow his example. And so there are a number of efforts um To compile these and the most respected compilations of hadith were lit uh compiled by people I've I've listed here Probably the most respected one is the first one I've listed here, Sahib Bukhari. And they they're all kind of contemporaries with each other. And there was this need to search far and wide for people who had um uh direct knowledge of Hadith And uh so that's what they did. However, this is now two hundred years after Muhammad, and we weren't talking these guys weren't talking to eyewitnesses, they were talking to people who were talking to who were talking being told by eyewitnesses, you know, generations ago. And so it became very important how authentic is this statement that someone's making about Muhammad? Well, where did he hear it from? And where did that person hear it from? What was the context? And a lot of these hadiths begin by saying so-and-so heard Muhammad say such-and-such in this context. So it's kind of documenting what the what the original context was But these guys would research how that got handed down from generation to generation, and you can imagine that some of them were pretty flaky and didn't have any any good proof. And so people like Bukhari said, Yeah, I d I that's good, but that's that's not as reliable as I'm looking for. And so he came up with um at least six hundred thousand hadiths, but he narrowed them down to just over seven thousand that he thought were authentic. Because he traced it. And he was very uh meticulous, very devout in his trying to get at what is believable. And so, you know, he may be due a lot of credit. But notwithstanding that, Muslims and non-Muslims all agree on at least one thing. There are a lot of hadiths floating out there that are forged. People said something or other about Muhammad and what he did, uh but even during Muhammad's lifetime there were, or just shortly thereafter there were reasons some people wanted the truth to be known, other people wanted their slant on it to be known. Um and so Everybody agrees that not all hadiths are genuine. But there's no surefire way to distinguish a a genuine hadith from one that's a forgery. Um Bukhari and some of these others put a lot of effort in trying to sort out the the genuine from the from the not genuine, but there's no guarantee that they're they're not claimed to be inspired like they claim the hadith the Quran to be. And so there's a whole controversy and even science to try to sort all this out. Yeah, Daniel. So is a lot of this treated cloud so much. to like rabbinical teachings where uh Jews may go back and look at the writings and teachings of past rabbis and it's held in honor but not necessarily on the same sort of level? It's very similar to that. The source is different because these are an attempt to document what Muhammad actually did or said. But it's the compilations of other people, and so you know, who do you believe kind of a thing. But yes, um the the most revered and accepted hadith within Islam are not taken to be quite equal with the Quran, but the next best thing. Because it's talking exactly about what we should be doing to follow Mu Muhammad's example. And so together the Quran and The hadith become the basis for Sharia law. That's how we conduct our lives corporately. So the stakes are high, but it's it's not it's not inspired in their view like the Quran, but highly respected. It's it's essential, in fact. Yes. Yeah, clearly the scripture is inspired by God. Muslims believe the Quran is inspired by God, spoken to um Muhammad through Gabriel. Anyway, we've got a close down. And uh we'll follow up next week with some understanding of uh the practices and beliefs of Muslims. Lord, um thank you for this time together. Um sometimes it's discouraging to see what uh what people can be caught up in and really believe is true. And knowing that except for your grace we would be following after similar and probably worse nonsense. And um We just pray that you would help us to be uh loving and um uh helpful in using your word to help our Muslim friends to understand your truth. Uh clearly, Lord, they have to you have to work in their hearts for that to happen, but uh we'd be we'd be thrilled for you to use us in any way you would to draw some of them to yourself. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen