Well, welcome to our class in evangelizing local cults and religions. We're on lesson five today. And to kind of set the stage here, you remember uh several weeks ago we started looking at um uh Catholics and then last week we looked at uh Seventh day Adventists and Something both of them have in common is that their understanding of the gospel is that it's Christ plus works. Other religions are just about works, but Christian cults and deviations from biblical Christianity tend to be Christ plus works. Which is the misunderstanding of Christ and his work, and therefore the misunderstanding of the true gospel. Well, turns out that is not a new problem. That's been around almost as long as Christianity has been around. the idea that it's Christ plus works. And even the apostles were faced with it. Uh by the time you get to Acts fifteen early. The problem there was not um whether Christians should uh worship on the Sabbath, like Seventh day of Venice Um or keeping um man made rules and and laws and so on Uh the problem there was that many of uh well, a sizable number anyway, of the I think a lot of them were actually believers, Jewish believers, who made the fairly natural assumption That in order to be a Christian, Gentiles first have to become Jews. The thinking was that, well, Christ, the Messiah came through the Jews. God had chosen his people, Israel. And salvation was through the Jews. And so in order to be saved, you had to be first a Jew. And uh yeah, I personally can't really fault them for stumbling into that line of thinking given their background. These are Jewish people who come to the Savior and the Messiah and it's it's all good. Um there may have been some who weren't actually saved, but I'm sure there were some that who were. Well, um, that came to a head very early in the church. And we read about that in Acts 15. So on page 49, I have extracted some of the significant portions of Acts 15. This issue became the focus of what has become known as the First Jerusalem Council. to uh bring together all of the leaders of the church, even at this early stage, to deal with this biblically. And so I'm going to go ahead and read through this with a little bit of commentary as we go through, but just to set the stage for the issue, okay? So in verse 1 of Acts 15, and by the way, uh the context in Acts here is that Paul And Barnabas are in between missionary journey one and two. So God's already been using the Apostle Paul to reach out to Gentiles and so this was a an issue that was very near and dear to his heart, right? And as we open chapter fifteen, Paul and Barnabas were in um Antioch. Now this is Syrian Antioch. It's kind of in Syria, north of Israel. And that's where a very sizable Um majority of the believers there were from Gentile um origins. They had come to faith in Christ, and Paul and Silas were there helping to disciple them and and so on. And so that's that's the beginning here. I'm sorry with Sir So in verse one, some men came down from Judea, came down to um um Antioch. That was Um it's why would going north be down? We w usually think of down being going down south, right? Well it's down because Jerusalem was so tall, so high, up way up in the mountains. Down to Antioch. So men came down from Judea and began teaching the brethren. And here's what they taught them. Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Now that should already raise some red flags if you've read, say, Romans 4, where Paul makes the point that, well, where did Um uh what was the context of God instituting circumcision anyway Do you remember? It was a sign that Abraham had believed. Yes. So it wasn't the law that came four hundred and thirty years later. It was rather with Abraham. And the point that that Paul later makes in Romans, too bad these people didn't already have Romans to read. But later in Romans 4, Uh Paul writes, works through that chronology about Abraham's salvation. He believed God and God credited to him as righteousness. And Paul asked the question in Romans 4, was that before or after he was circumcised? What's the answer? Before. And circumcision then became a sign of the covenant to Abraham, with Abraham that God instituted. Um, which by the way was unconditional. And so it was a sign that God commanded But it was a command to the believing Abraham. He was saved by grace through faith, as everybody is, as anyone is. But it was before this sign of circumcision. And so here these people are saying, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, do you know how little the law of Moses refers to circumcision? It's amazing. Actually, it it the the four books after Genesis refer to circumcision Almost as much about the circumcision of the heart, this is even within the law, as it speaks of circumcision of the flesh. Circumcision does not originate from the law of Moses, and that was their sort of their working point, their starting point, right? Keeping the law of Moses. And unless you do that, you can't be saved, they said. And when Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them, the brethren determined that Paul and Barnabas and some others of them should go up to Jerusalem. to the apostles and elders concerning the issue. When they arrived at Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they reported all that God had done with them. But some of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed stood up, saying, it is necessary to circumcise them and to direct them to observe the law of Moses. So this whole idea that Gentiles could be saved at all was still fairly new in their thinking. Um and you remember what uh Peter went through before this as God gave him this vision of of all these animals coming down on this sheet, right? And he says, Rise, Peter, kill and eat, and no way, Lord, I'm I've never partaken of any unclean animal. And this gets repeated and Peter's not exactly sure what's going on until he gets this visitor who God had sent from Cornelius, a Gentile, a centurion, Roman centurion. And he reali Peter realizes that God had God's got something going on here. And so he goes with Cornelius, finds him. Very not only devout before this time, but very believing and wondering what he must do to be saved and Peter um talks with him, summarizes what God is doing in his heart and his experience to bring him here and And um there's genuine salvation there, which is clear to Peter, because Um the Holy Spirit prompts Cornelius to be speaking in tongues the way all the believers were on the day of Pentecost, showing Peter Wow, this is just like us. These these um Gentiles are being saved The same way we were, by grace, through faith. And they're baptized and and uh left a tremendous mark on Peter. Well um Verse 7. After there had been much debate, this is up in Jerusalem, Peter stood up and said to them, Brethren, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you that by my mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God, who knows the heart, Testified to them, giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he also did to us. And it was clear to Peter that that's exactly what happened. And he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. Now therefore, why do you put God to the test by placing upon the neck of the disciples a yoke which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear? That is Complete obedience to the law. Right? But we believe that we are saved through grace The grace of the Lord Jesus in the same way as they also are. And all the people kept silent, and they were listening to Barnabas and Paul. As they were relating what signs and wonders God had done among them, through them, among the Gentiles. And after they had stopped speaking, James, who's James? Brother of Christ. At this point he was uh uh by all appearances the chief spokesman, maybe the chief pastor in the church in Jerusalem, as the apostles for the most part had begun. Um moving along. Well, James answered, saying, Brethren, listen to me. Simeon, that is Simon Peter, has related how God first concerned himself and taking from among the Gentiles a people for his name. With this, the words of the prophets agree, just as it is written, after these things I will return and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David which has fallen. And I will rebuild its ruins, and I will restore it so that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord, and all the Gentiles who are called by my name, says the Lord, who makes these things known from long ago. Peter, or I'm sorry, uh James there is quoting extensively from the Old Testament. Verse 19 Therefore it is my judgment That we do not trouble those who are turning to God from among the Gentiles, but that we write to them That they abstain from things contaminated by idols and from fornication and from what is strangled from blood and from blood. For Moses From ancient generations has in every city those who preach him, since he is read in the synagogue every Sabbath. Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders and the whole church, to those men from among them, to choose men from among them, to send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. And those were Judas, called Barsabas, and Silas, leading men among the brethren. And they sent this letter by them. The apostles and the brethren who are elders, to the brethren in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia who are from among the Gentiles. Greetings. Since we have heard that some of our number, to whom we gave no instruction, have disturbed you with their words unsettling your souls, it seemed good to us, having become of one mind, to select men to send to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul Men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, we have sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will also report the same things by word of mouth. For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay upon you no greater burden than these essentials, that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication. If you keep yourselves free from such things, you will do well. Farewell. So when they had when they were sent away, they went down to Antioch, and having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter. When they had read it, they rejoiced because of its encouragement. And indeed it would have been encouraging to Gentile believers that it made it clear that Observing the Old Testament law was not a prerequisite to salvation, or it's not Christ plus works. Now it does raise the question, maybe it won't do his question, why did they put these other the mention these other requirements? Right? Um essentials that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols and from blood and from things strangled and from fornication Why do they put those stipulations in there if it's by faith by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone? Well the answer is none of those things were presented as requirements for salvation What they're presented as is um a reasonable um Deference to unsaved use. So that God would still be doing a work among the Jews to draw some to himself, but If these Gentiles who are coming to Christ are participating in these things, that would very easily be more of a stumbling block than necessary. For Jewish evangelism. And clearly, in this context, whether they're believing Jews or unbelieving Jews, the idea that That Gentiles could come to faith in Christ apart from the law was clearly controversial. And if you're an unbelieving Jew, you're in the synagogue and and um uh well think of Paul's typical strategy when going to a new place in his missionary journeys. What did he do first? He went to the synagogues, why? He was an apostle to the Gentiles. Right? Why did he go to the synagogue? He knew that there's a good likelihood that there's some genuine God fearing Jews there. And his experience increasingly became that some of them were very well prepared to hear the gospel and respond to it. Many of those very mature Jews fairly quickly became leaders in these new Christian congregations. So there's there's a natural um preparation that God has been doing all along. And um some of those Jews, and you see it through the book of Acts, some of them uh became believers, some didn't. That shouldn't be surprising. But having had that introduction and given that presentation of the gospel, defense of the gospel in the synagogue He went on to the Gentiles in that city. Yeah. Yeah, so the question is um the is there a connection between the strangling and and and blood and this kind of thing? Yes, it's all about the the Jew it's ingrained in the Jewish mind That the life is in the blood, these are practices that are just contrary to the law, and um if Paul, for example, were to go into these synagogues when he goes to a new place, and he's associated with people who are given to these Gentile practices of strangling animals, um eating um uh the blood and all this kind of thing. He wouldn't be able to get in the front door of the synagogue. And so I believe that that the Holy Spirit here is is Uh advising these Gentile believers to not rub it in the nose of Jews So that they can uh so people like Paul and and others can have um a a a fruitful ministry among the Jews without the Gentiles being more of a stumbling block than the cross already is to the Jews. So there's nothing here that associates these practices with a requirement to be saved It's just uh like Paul has written elsewhere in his epistles uh about things sacrificed to idols and so on, it's not that it's inherently wrong But you don't want to cause your brother to stumble. In this case, you don't want to cause potential Jewish converts to the faith to stumble any more than they already would because of the cross. Okay. Was that right, Monju? Was that your question? Yeah. Okay. Okay, so that was that controversy. It wasn't the end of that controversy, however, and we know that because Paul wrote the book of Galatians. The book of Galatians was a hundred percent, well almost a hundred percent, about that. And uh the Galatia was a a region. In fact it's it's even mentioned here in Acts It's a re it wasn't just one church like the Galatian church. It was multiple churches in this region of what is now Turkey. And that teaching And oh by the way, um as our title mentions, these these people became known as Judaizers, the people who uh concluded and taught that uh in order for a Gentile to become a Christian, you have to first become a Jew. So they had they were called Judaizers, not in a in a um favorable way. By the way, there up un through this time and even after, there were Gentiles who had become Jews. They're called proselytes in Acts and elsewhere. It was not an uncommon thing for some Gentiles to be so moved by the God of Israel and and and so on, that they became Jews. And that's true both before the time of Christ and and after. What does that mean? What does it mean for a Gentile to become a Jew? To come under the law and to obey the law and um Um they don't have to be a physical descendant of um Abraham or Jacob. And there are examples of that in the Old Testament. Can you think of any? Ruth. She was a Mohabitist. She says Your people will be my people, your God will be my God. There's a complete conversion on her part. So does do you think the Pharisees will accept those Gentiles. Yeah, and that was a g that was a somewhat common thing. So they are basically then stating that oh it's by the covenant I mean uh by the faith, not the uh blood. Yes. Yeah, th so it was possible to become a a Jew that is to follow the um Jewish religion to accept and and come under the law, uh you don't have to be a physical descendant. So they're already kind of predicting. They already they already were used to that. In fact, that's probably part of their rationale. In order to become a Christian, you have to first become a Jew That was just a natural logical thinking that God had to convince Peter that wasn't the case. And the first Jerusalem Council was created to uh convened to um Address that. I think they thought it was once and for all, but it kept persisting. The idea kept persisting. And so Paul wrote the book of Galatians to address it. So did the men have to convert? Do they have to go through the process of circumcision or were they exempt those that converted? No, uh a Gentile convert to Judaism had to go through all the whole works, circumcision, the whole works. Yeah. Um my apology uh we already addressed it at the beginning of the classic. So the title of this So are there any okay particular group organization that's kind of tying to uh this type of uh still you know practices to support instance and Um I don't know for sure but uh whether it's Jews for Jesus are they just The title of my the lesson here is Evangelizing Modern Day Judaizers. So are we talking about people who are saying that it's you have to be circumcised to become a Christian? as these people were. No, what I'm saying is the idea of salvation is Christ plus works Is very common and it's as old as the church almost. What those works are may vary from one group to another. In this case, with the Judaizers, it was mostly circumcision, but basically they're also arguing to come under the law. That you need the law and Christ to be saved. So, yeah, modern day groups. Last week we talked about Seventh day Adventist. The seventh day is to them a commandment that is required to be saved. So it's not particularly the title Jewish group like it's Yeah. You can think of them as a Judaizer not just because of circumcision, but the the law Or any any law, but typically the Old Testament law. What is the role of the Old Testament law in the life of a believer in the process of becoming saved? That's the question. So a Judaizer would say, no, you need to keep the law. It's Christ plus the law. So it it sounds like some of the people you you've experienced have that same mentality that is Christ plus the law or some kind of requirements and so on, that you need to become a Jew before you can be a Christian. At least produce anyway. Um but it's all related. I mean this this this idea that we need to Do something to make ourselves acceptable before God, whether it's doing what God laid out in the law or some other set of rules and things. You know, the Pharisees added on to the law all those different regulations and whatever. Uh that's just a a very prideful human knee-jerk reaction assumption that we have to do something to show ourselves acceptable to God. And it's humbling to realize There's nothing we could do to make ourselves acceptable before God. I wanted to lay out for you here um Paul's arguments in the book of Galatians. Because if you run into someone, let's say they're Seventh day Adventist and they're they're um They're actually a little bit m more consistent maybe than these Jews were because the whole idea of the Sabbath is in the law. It's it's right in the Ten Commandments, right? Um that's the law of Moses, as opposed to circumcision, which has its origins with Abraham. But anybody who wants to meld together the work of Christ and our works by obeying the law, particularly the Old Testament law Needs to read Galatians. And so you can just walk through it with them. Let's study this. Let's see what God has done In Christ. This is not a new issue. It was the subject of the first Jerusalem Council. You can't get past 15 chapters of Acts before you run into this. And so just walk through Galatians. It's short, it's to the point, it's powerful. So I'm not gonna cover all of this. I think the the notes here are pretty well uh at least highlighted. But I do want to touch on several things. And that is, Paul starts out right at the beginning. I'm on page 50 in our notes. The Apostle Paul's arguments against Judaizers. Now remember, this is after the first Jerusalem Council. The controversy is still Still permeating and and so on. But Paul writes to the Galatian churches and says, I am amazed that you were so quickly Deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel. It's not the gospel of grace. Christ alone, it's the gospel of Christ plus works. And you're abandoning the one for the other. Which is not really a gospel. It's not another. Because gospel means good news. Is it good news that it's Christ plus works? That's not good news. Why is it not good news? Because it came from the law. You're always gonna fail on that. Right? And And well, Paul even says look at the bottom of page fifty one. If righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died needlessly. Right? So it's not Christ's death plus works. That's not good news. It's not a gospel. Anyway, only there are some who are disturbing you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even we Even if we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we have preached to you, he is to be accursed. As we have said before, so I again say now, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you have received, he is to be accursed. That's strong language. Why? It's a critical issue. Is salvation dependent at least in part on my works? If it is. And if I'm depending on that, good chances You haven't believed that Christ is the sufficient Savior. And if you haven't believed that And you're relying on your works, you're probably not saved. And what are the consequences of that? Eternal. And Paul's saying This is a crucial issue. Don't just dabble in human logic here. He wants to get their attention right off the bat. And I'm pretty sure he did. Um and then he goes on and talks about his understanding of the gospel, where it came from. It came from Christ himself. He uh speaks of his interacting with the other apostles and he's not just speaking on his own behalf. This is what Christ taught him. It's the same gospel the apostles teach. But he relates in Galatians on the top of page 51 a an episode he had with Peter. Uh you would think Peter would understand this. I mean he gave that testimony at the Jerusalem Council, um, and he was the front first one to really get the message from God that Gentiles not only can be saved, but they're saved by grace through faith the same way everybody is. And so he says in verse 11 of chapter 2, top of page 51, but when Cephas, that is Peter, came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face. Because he stood condemned. For prior to the coming of certain men from James, that is, from the church in Jerusalem, he used to eat with the Gentiles. But when they came, he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision. That is, the Jews who were On the assumption that salvation is through the Jews, and even Gentiles have to obey the law in order to be saved. So he says Peter was holding himself aloof, fearing that that segment. The rest of the Jews joined him in hypocrisy with the result that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy. Jewish traditions, any traditions, are strong. And it's also, you know, the fear of man is also strong. Paul, by the grace of the Holy Spirit, saw through it and It picks up here in verse 14. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas in the presence of all, if you, being a Jew, live like Gentiles and not like Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews? Convicting right? He continued, verse 15. We are Jews by nature, that is hereditary And not sinners from among the Gentiles. Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, Even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law. Since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. And I think if I'm Peter at that point I'm thinking you're right. You're right. What was I thinking? Right? Um Verse 17. But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, what does it mean to be justified? To be made right, declared right before God, to have right standing before God. That's a judicial declaration by God. Often we use the term saved. That's when we're saved. That's our the beginning point of salvation. It's not a process. It's a declaration by God. And how can he declare that? Because we're righteous? No. Because we have placed our faith in Christ, who is righteous, who is perfectly sinless, and took our payment. And then verse 17, I was beginning. But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves have also been found sinners. Is Christ then a minister of sin? May it never be. For if I rebuild what I have once destroyed, I prove myself to be a transgressor. In other words, anyone who tries to earn salvation by keeping the law Merely proves that he's a sinner because he can't keep the law. That's a curse. And then verse 19, for through the law I died to the law so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself up for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law Then Christ died needlessly. Indeed. If we could gain right standing before God, if we could become righteous by obeying the law Why did Christ even come? That's his point. Um So on page 52 we've got five rhetorical questions that Paul asks the Galatians. What is a rhetorical question? Yeah. It's it's a question whose answer both the questioner and the receiver knows the answer to. So if they know the answer to it, why ask it? To remind, to emphasize a point, right? And so he says, Who has bewitched you or fooled you? Everybody knows who it was. He's just trying to say this is a problem. It's not um a doctrine worthy of discussion. Do you receive the Holy Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Prior to salvation, the law wasn't giving them the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit came as a result of their faith in Christ, placing their faith in Christ who accomplished the law. And having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? It's meant to be convicted and to get them thinking, right? Did you suffer so many things in vain? They had a lot of experience. Um And a lot of the benefits, frankly, of of life in Christ. Is that all in vain? Does he who provides you with the Spirit and works miracles among you do it by works of the law or by hearing with faith? He was kind of coming at this from different angles to try to help them to see That ironically, they were using logic to say this must be true, that you have to obey the law in order to be safe. But he's trying to help them to see how illogical it really is. Because if that were true, then wouldn't this be true? Wouldn't that be true, right? Then he in chapter three he goes to the example of Abraham. And of course In verse 6, he says, even so Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. Therefore, be sure that it is those who are of faith who are sons of Abraham. The Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, All the nations will be blessed in you. So then, those who are of faith are blessed with Abraham, the believer. Similar to the way he did in Romans, in fact, Galatians is often referred to as the Little Romans because he deals with these central doctrinal issues. Um but he elaborates on it more in in Romans, but the example of Abraham ought to be a slam dunk. Oh, okay, of course. He wasn't saved by his works. He was saved by God's grace. And he took God at his word. He obeyed him. But he obeyed them out of faith, not out of ritual requirement for being acceptable to God, because you know you read the story of Abraham, he was anything but perfect Even after his faith. Yeah, so the question is, uh Abraham believed God? What kind of God was did he what was his concept of God, essentially, by this point? You know, as we read through that account in Genesis, we don't have as much detail about What led up to his faith in God? There's a bit of commentary about it in Acts. But we don't know a lot of how how he developed his understanding, his concept of God, except that We know that God communicated directly with him. And I'm thinking that if God were to communicate directly with me, um That would be a game changer. Right? Now I could believe I'm going nuts. Or I could believe what he said. What did Abraham do? He believed what God said. Now why do you suppose he believed what God said? Given how little he must have known probably about God. He he probably had um It's pretty clear that he probably had um first person testimony from um those who had gone through the flood or at least their children. I mean, Seth, for example, um Um no, not Seth. Shem was around hundreds of years after the flood. And overlapped, if my memory serves correctly, it overlapped with Abraham. And so the the um the oral traditions, the the testimonies and so on of those who had gone before would have undoubtedly shaped his understanding that there is a God, uh what some of his character is, his His judgment in the flood, but his grace also in saving a few. Some of these things probably were in his consciousness, but when God actually spoke to him directly, um He took God at his word. I mean his father was a idol worshipper. He was his upbringing is not really in God. Yes, all those other gods didn't talk to him. But more importantly, Abraham's no different from us. What what causes us to take out at his word? God Himself opens our eyes, softens our hearts, causes us to see the truth for what it is, and He's the one who gives us the faith. Yeah. And that's always been the case. Um we don't derive our theology from logic. Uh God has revealed Himself progressively through time and has chosen to uh work in the hearts of some to recognize that revelation and those commands and his character um by his grace. Yeah, I'm sure that's the case with Abraham as well. Okay. But uh yes. Okay. So then, you know, he talks about Abraham, which ought to be a clincher, because his salvation was before circumcision, before the law, right? Um too bad he had to write Galatians and he couldn't just say, you know, read Romans four. Well, it wasn't around yet. Um but then he moves on in chapter three to the sort of logical question, well what do the law and the prophets say about keeping the law? And in verse 10, this is now chapter 3 of Galatians, on page 53, for as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse For it is written, Cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them. Do you see the extreme the here he's quoting from the Old Testament? Um So how much of the law do you need to keep in order to not be cursed? Everything. Do you think there's any Jew who has done that? Do you think there's any value in trying to do that in addition to Christ? So that's what he's saying, right? 11. Now, that no one is justified as by the law before God is evident, for the righteous man shall live by faith. However, the law is not of faith. On the contrary, he who practices them shall live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law Having become a curse for us, for it is written, cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree In order that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. We He's thinking here globally here, not just Jews, but also Gentiles. Um Let's move then to page 54, where again picking up in Galatians 3, now in verse 15 He answers the question what God's covenant with Abraham should teach us about keeping the law. And he says, Brethren, I speak in terms of human relations. Even though it is only a man's covenant, yet when it has been ratified No one sets it aside or adds conditions to it. What he's referring to here is like a last will and testament. You know, it's a legal document, it's it's a promise and so on. And it's it is what it is. Now, the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. What promises were spoken to Abraham? Remember three parts of the Abrahamic covenant. What's the other thing? God said, I'm going to bless the socks off you. He and and those who bless you will be blessed and and so on. I'm going to give you more descendants than you can count. And I'm going to give you this land that I'm promising you, the promised land. Three things. Those were promises. And so The promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say, and to seeds, as referring to many, but rather to one and to your seed. That is Christ. What I'm saying is this, the law, which came 430 years later, after Abraham, does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God so as to nullify the promise. So the law of Moses doesn't preempt the covenant with Abraham. And that's his point. It doesn't nullify it, it doesn't abrogate it. For if the inheritance is based on law, It is no longer based on a promise, but God has granted it to Abraham by means of a promise. Now, what was the nature of that promise? It had three parts, but it was also unconditional. God said to Abraham, this is what I'm going to do. What about the law of Moses? Was that conditional or unconditional? It's conditional. Moses and Israelites, if you do this, you're going to have a blessing. If you disobey it, you're going to have these curses. Read Deuteronomy 28. It's about those two choices: obedience and blessing, or disobedience and curses. It's conditional. The Old Testament, the law of Moses was intentionally conditional. The um covenant with Abraham was not. It was unconditional. It was unilateral. God just said, this is what I'm going to do. In fact, in part of it, he said, This is what I've already I've already given you this land. At that point. He hadn't realized it uh and never would in his lifetime, but his descendants would. Um but it was all unconditional. Now, by the way, um, Judaizers aside, there are many in our day who um Are genuine Christians who believe that because the Jews disobeyed, forsake, forsook God That even the Abrahamic covenant was rejected, and that the church is plan B. The church replaces Israel in God's plan of salvation. You ever hear that? It's not biblical. It wouldn't be biblical because that promise, the promises to Abraham were not conditional. This is what I'm going to do. And as you read through uh the rest of the New Testament, um uh Romans is a good place. Um Uh certainly the uh the end times passages and and uh revelation and so on, it's clear that God has a plan for at least a remnant of Israel. God is going to fulfill His promises to Israel. Now that doesn't mean the Israel occupying the land today, that is the political Israel. Um but um but anyway, th the the point is that that um This covenant with Abraham was unconditional, unilateral. God already fulfilled much of it. But it's going to have its ultimate fulfillment when Christ is on the throne in Jerusalem in the millennium and beyond. Yeah, and that's that's what that's what uh Paul's saying here that that the promise to Abraham was not just for the Jews. In fact there were no Jews in Abraham's time. What's that? So what is there to replace? People look at the promises to Abraham as being fulfilled through the Jewish lineage and the Jewish nation, God's chosen people. Um and so just linking the Abrahamic covenant with the law. And what Paul's saying here is that, no, wait a minute, wait a minute. The law didn't negate those promises given to Abraham. But that does raise the next logical question that he addresses in Galatians, which is what? Then why the law? Right? And so on the top top of page fifty-five, Paul asks that question, why the law then? Of course you're asking that. He says, it was added because of transgressions having been ordained through angels by the agency of a mediator until the seed would come to whom the promise had been made. That is Christ. Now a mediator is not for one party only, whereas God is only one. Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? May it never be. For if a law had been given which was able to impart life, then righteousness would indeed have been based on law. But the Scripture has shut up everyone under sin so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Verse 23. But before faith came, we were kept under custody, kept in custody under the law, being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed. Therefore, the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ, so that we may be justified by faith. So in what sense would the law of Moses be a tutor to lead us to Christ? It illustrates that you can't keep it. It illustrates that you can't keep it. What else? That's true. That's definitely a part of it. It sets that standard there, which obviously we can't meet. What else? It's a mirror. It's a mirror in what way? Where we can see our own thing. How did the law help people see their own sin? The sacrifices Right? The the continual reminder that there needs to be a payment for sin Teaching them the holiness of God, there are consequences to sin. It's pervasive. We can't get around it. And as as Hebrews, the author of Hebrews writes, I guess I don't have it here, um, he just recounts how those sacrifices are just over and over and over. Not only every time people sinned, but even annually in the Day of Atonement. Um if those sacrifices accomplished anything permanent, they wouldn't have had to continue. Right? But our sin is pervasive, and the payment for that sin is a lot more than the shedding of blood of animals. And that shedding of blood of animals, a substitute, was a picture of the substitute who would eventually come. So um uh the law is our tutor teaching us how sinful we are, how holy God is And the need for a substitute for sin that's far better than these animal sacrifices. And some people got it. They realized that the promised Messiah was their their ultimate substitute for sin. And so their faith was in what God had said, but they're also looking ahead to the promised Messiah. Our faith is looking back at the promised Messiah and his work on our behalf. But in essence, he was their tutor to show them the nature of their sin, the nature of God, and the need for a substitute. It's a very similar lesson that he gave Adam and Eve when he killed probably more than one animal to get the skins to cover them in the Garden of Eden after they sinned. Which was an act of grace on God's part. He could have just wiped him out because he promised the day that you do this you're gonna die. Who died? A substitute. Probably more than one substitute in their case, but a substitute nonetheless, picturing the need for a substitute for sin to Pay for that sin to make us acceptable before God. That's a good question. The question is whether The requirements of the law, the things that you needed to do to obey the law, are um how people even today, but over time, have come to understand or at least to believe that they need to do something in order to be justified before God. And I would say that didn't create the the idea, but it reinforced it. Um I mean you you can go into any culture that has no understanding of the Old Testament law or the Bible And there's this pervasive human uh belief that there is a God We're accountable to him, we fear him, and we have to do things to placate him. It's in the human heart. It's based on pride, I think, sin. And it's exacerbated by things like uh a a misunderstanding of the purpose of the law. If people if more people understood that the law was to teach us then uh as a tutor then they wouldn't have been they would they would have looked at these requirements sort of like the require the way that Abraham Obeyed God out of faith, not out of a desire to show himself acceptable to God. It's a good thing they have another hour. Is it quick? Yeah, that's that's a bigger question. But yes, they they if you were to ask them, do you believe um They would call it the law or the Tanakh, the what we call the Old Testament. Uh do you believe that it's it's true, it's it's God's word? Yes, they revered that, particularly the the um the Pharisees and and the very zealous Jews But you get a lot of people today who believe the Bible is God's word and they're ignorant about what it says And they um don't believe what they do understand about God's Word. Things haven't changed. The same problem. Let's pray. Father, thank you for um working through your servant the Apostle Paul to help address this pervasive problem that uh people have to um assume That we need to do things in addition to what Christ has done. And not realizing that that that just defeats and undermines and violates the gospel of grace, the good news. And um that's been around for a long time, Lord, and and it's it's around now in various forms, and we pray that you would help us to be clear about the purity of the gospel. And that you would use us to help those who are hung up on works, whether it's works alone or works plus Christ. to help them see your gospel of grace and pray that the gospel or the the book of Galatians would be uh uh useful in that regard. And we pray these things in the name of Christ. Amen.