Well welcome to lesson four in our study of local cults and religions. A couple of weeks ago we started our Our list of actual uh belief systems out there with Roman Catholicism. And last week followed that up with uh some more detailed study on um uh addressing a works mentality which is very common not just with Catholics but with as we'll see today other Other beliefs. But today we're going to begin looking at Seventh-day Adventisms. Seventh-day Adventists. who are also, like Catholics, very much entrenched in Maryland And in fact their headquarters is just down in Silver Spring. And two of my children were born in an Adventist hospital in Montgomery County. Um so it is very local and uh and yet probably most of us Are a little fuzzy on what they believe and distinctives and this kind of thing, so I hope this this class will help. So I wanted to start with a bit of history. how they began and that will move us into areas of doctrine that we need to be aware of as well. So I'm on page 37. Is there anybody who does not have a copy of the notes and would like one? Diane has some in the back there. They're available electronically, or you can get the hard copy as well. So it goes back to the early 1800s. With a guy by the name of William Miller, who was a farmer, turned preacher. I'm I don't remember a lot of his background, but he was basically self-taught in the Bible. And that could be a good thing, could be a bad thing. In this case it ended up being a bad thing. Well anyway, at one point or another he came across the prophecy in Daniel eight. Uh particularly in verse fourteen, but I'll go ahead and read verses thirteen and fourteen, which you've got printed in the notes there. Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto that certain saint, and here I'm I'm reading from the King James, because that's what he had available to him. Anyway, the second saint spoke, how long shall the vision concerning the daily sacrifice and the transgression of desolation to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trodden underfoot. And he said unto me, Unto 2,300 days, then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. Um and you're probably wondering Why did that verse jump out at him, right? Well, he came to interpret those 2300 days as two thousand three hundred years. And so we did a little research, and that placed this uh critical event, this cleansing of the sanctuary, at uh 1843. And so that was coming up. This was a a um um an indication in his mind that the sanctuary was going to be cleansed. Who would be doing it but Christ, the Messiah? And this must be speaking of his return, his advent. Okay, so you get the um we'll get to the seventh day part of it in a bit. But the Adventist part of it traces itself back to William Miller and his His um interpretation of Daniel uh eight. So It shouldn't come as a surprise to you that Christ didn't return in eighteen forty-three. And subsequently, one of his followers, Samuel Snow, corrected the calculations in Miller's chronology. And predicted actually it was going to be October 22nd, 1844. Crash will return. And that obviously didn't happen either And so in their their literature it's referred to as a great disappointment. Well that's an understatement. But not to worry, along came someone named Hiram Edson, who was a Millerite, as it came to be called early on, in New York. And on October 23rd, 1844, that is the day after this second prediction of when Christ would return, on the next day He claimed to have had a vision in which Christ was standing at the altar in heaven. And so he connected the dots, and he says, that earlier prophecy wasn't wrong about the timing. It was only wrong concerning the place. Which sanctuary was in view here. And so it wasn't an earthly sanctuary at all, it was a heavenly sanctuary. And that Christ began this process of cleansing the um heavenly sanctuary on that date. Problem solved. Um Before um Why would Christ need to cleanse the hair Well we're gonna get there. We're gonna get there. But uh before we get there, turn if you would to page forty-three And you know, it's what's one of the problems with with reading Daniel eight, thirteen through fourteen, or any couple of verses in scripture, and then Coming up with some explanation of what it means in isolation. Yeah, you you need to understand the context, right? Well, apparently he didn't have page forty three in his in his um studies But then again he did, because all page 43 is, is um the full text of Daniel in that in that chapter, chapter 8. And so let's go ahead and read the context, see what's happening. And what's interesting about this passage is that the Holy Spirit in his Wisdom and sovereignty. Much like sometimes in Christ's telling of a parable and explains what it means, that's exactly what the Holy Spirit does here in Daniel 8. So beginning in verse 3 says, Then I lifted my eyes and looked, and behold, a ram which had two horns was standing in front of the canal. Now, this is Daniel seeing this. Now the two horns were long, but one was longer than the other, with the longer one coming up last And I saw a ram budding westward, northward, southward, and no other beasts could stand before him, nor was there anyone to rescue him from his power. But he did as he pleased and magnified himself. Verse 5. While I was observing, behold, a male goat was coming up from the west over the surface of the whole earth without touching the ground And the goat had a conspicuous horn between his eyes. He came up to the ram that had the two horns. which I had seen standing in front of the canal and rushed at him in his mighty wrath. I saw him come beside the ram And he was enraged at him, and he stuck the ram, struck the ram and shattered his two horns, and the ram had no strength to withstand him. So he hurled him to the ground and trampled on him, and there was none to rescue the ram from his power. Then the male goat magnified himself exceedingly, naturally. But as soon as he was mighty, a large horn was broken, and in its place there came up four conspicuous horns toward the four winds of heaven. Out of one of them came a fourth rather small horn, which grew exceedingly great toward the south, toward the east, and toward the beautiful land. It grew up to the host of heaven and caused some of the host and some of the stars to fall to the earth, and it trampled them down. It even magnified itself to be equal with the commander of the host, and it removed the regular sacrifice from him. And the place of his sanctuary was thrown down. And on account of the uh on account of transgression, the host will be given over to the horn, along with the regular sacrifice. and it will fling truth to the ground and perform its will and prosper. Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another holy one said, To that particular one who was speaking, how long will the vision about the regular sacrifice apply while the transgression causes horror? So as to allow both the holy place and the host to be trampled. And he said to me, for 2,300 evenings and mornings, Then the holy place will be properly restored. And if you continue down to verse 20, which is in the second column here Uh the Lord actually revealed to Daniel a lot of specifics about what this this vision uh entailed. So it says, the ram which you saw with the two horns represents the kings of Media and Persia. Very specific, right? Verse 21. The shaggy goat represents the kingdom of Greece. And the large horn that is between his eyes is the first king, which is Alexander the Great. The broken horn And here Alexander died at the age of 33. And the four horns that arose in its place represent four kingdoms which will arise from his nation. Although not with his power. And indeed, after Alexander died, he was replaced Uh the the his his domain was divided into four uh quadrants, four sections, each having its own leader. And verse 23. In the latter period of their rule, when the transgressors have run their course. A king will arise. And that king, we now know from history, was Antiochus Epiphanes. insolent and skilled in intrigue. Verse 24. His power will be mighty, but not by his own power, and he will destroy to an extraordinary degree and prosper and perform his will. He will destroy mighty men and the holy people, and through his shrewdness he will cause deceit to succeed by his influence And he will magnify himself in his heart. Seems like a a pattern with all these rulers, right? And he will destroy many while they are at ease. He will even oppose the Prince of Princes. This is now referring to the Messiah. But he will be broken without human agency. He actually died by disease and was insane by the time he died. Verse 26. The vision of the evenings and mornings During which Antiochus uh that's all my parense here. The the the vision of the evenings and mornings Which have been told is true. But keep the vision secret, for it pertains to many days in the future. So it is um Recorded in history actually that the 2300 days was from the time that Antiochus began his desecration of Jerusalem. and cutting off of the regular sacrifices, the morning and evening sacrifices, until he died. Um 2300 days between si it was around September 6th of 171 BC to December 25th, 165 B. C. And you know what the Jews did when he finally died? You can just imagine they celebrated. That celebration is called the Feast of Life, or otherwise known as Hanukkah. Yeah. And so the desecration of the temporary desecration of the temple and the suspension of the sacrifices. was ended and so it was replaced with getting things back in order. Great celebration. Um So the question is, which sanctuary was being cleansed? The one in Jerusalem. You you know from the context and from history. that it the the the desecration, the ceasing of of the sacrifices uh took place for a period of 2,300 days And then there was great rejoicing when it ended. So um It's it's a pretty pretty long leap to go from 2,300 days to being 2,300 years. There's nothing in the text that Suggests that's years. And to associate the sanctuary that's referred to here as a sanctuary in heaven Um why would that be the interpretation? Well, if you presume that the initial part the advent part of the of the prediction that 2,300 days is actually 2,300 years. It must have been October 1844 So if that's a given, then you have to interpret the text to answer that question. Which Which sanctuary is it being talked about? Well it must not be a sanctuary on earth, it must be a sanctuary in heaven. And so one error in in interpretation kind of forces the next, right? If you treat that as a given, then okay, your your your logic just kind of takes you away. Um And so we can see how that how that proceeds here. Look at back on page thirty-seven. Point number three, toward the bottom. So Hiram Edson concluded that Christ returned to the heavenly sanctuary to cleanse it rather than to earth. And this new interpretation marks the beginning of what is now known as Seventh-day Adventism. So this is the Adventism part of it. It was the Advent of Christ To a heavenly sanctuary. Now, what he was doing there and what he was cleansing, we'll get to in a minute, according to their view. But that's that's the point here. It's um the notes here say that this led to the uh SDA believes, SDA is my shorthand for Southern, not Southern, um Seventh-day Adventism. It led to the Seventh-day belief that the Old Testament Day of Atonement was a picture of Christ's work. And that's partly true, but they gave it a spin that helped them to interpret Daniel eight the way they do. So their contention is that the scapegoat, you know how there were to be two goats And one was the scapegoat, the one that was hands laid on it and was taken out to the wilderness, and the other one was sacrificed. Uh the scapegoat Would bear all the iniquities of the people. Secondly, Christ made the blood sacrifice, and Christ judges all the disobedient people. The three key things they take away from that description of the Day of Atonement in Leviticus 16. And they teach that this latter judgment of Christ began in this heavenly sanctuary in 1844. And they refer to this judgment as the investigative judgment. Investigating what? Judging what? Well The basic, just to give you a highlight here, their understanding by by forcing the details of the Day of Atonement given to us in uh Leviticus, forcing those details onto what Christ did caused them to believe that the death of Christ on the cross was not sufficient. For salvation. There had to be these other steps, and uh one of them was for Christ to judge People's sins of omission and commission, uh, even of believers in his death They're still going to be judged on their works. You see how it always comes back to salvation by works. In this case, it's the cross of Christ plus works. That's salvation. And you need to pass that second test in heaven, in this investigative judgment, in order to make it. But they come up with that interpretation so that their interpretation of Daniel 8 seems like it fits right in. That there must it must be the Christ's return and began that investigative judgment at the time, 2300 years after the uh the giving of uh actually it's twenty three hundred years after the decree that Israel could rebuild Jerusalem. Um So I've I've printed for you here, starting at the bottom, page 37, the the text here in Leviticus 16 and a bit Leviticus twenty-three, describing God's instructions to Israel about the Day of Atonement. And we're going to get to more details about how to respond to that in a few minutes. But I wanted to continue with the history here. So that was all about the Adventist part of their name. Okay, they were Adventists. They were very much fixed on the advent of Christ and what it was all about and what he's now doing. Then toward the top of page 38 speak of James and Ellen White. James was an elder in this new church And in eighteen sixty-eight, very early on, he agreed with the rep the interpretation of another passage proposed by a guy by the name of Father Joseph Bates. And so that was interpreting Revelation 14, 6 through 11, which I've included here on page 38. Let's go ahead and read that. The Apostle John says, and I saw another angel flying in mid-heaven having an eternal gospel to preach to those who live on the earth, and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people. And he said with a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and springs of waters. Verse 8. And another angel, a second one, followed, saying, Fall in, fall in this Babylon the Great. She who has made all the nations drink the wine of the passions of her immorality. Verse 9. Then another angel, a third one, followed them, saying with a loud voice If anyone worships the beast and his image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, he also will drink the wine of the wrath of God, which is mixed in full strength in the cup of his anger. And he will be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and the presence of the Lamb And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever. They have no rest day and night. Those who worship the beast in his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name. There you go. That's why they worship on the seventh day. And you're asking yourself, how do they get that out of Revelation fourteen? Well, this Father John Bates interpreted that to mean that the third angel was saying that God-pleasing worship is what's needed here. And God has given us instructions about what God-pleasing worship is, that is, you worship God on the seventh day. And by the way, I don't know whether this is true of him or just later teaching. But they believe that the the beast of Revelation 14, 9, worshiping the beast in his image as an alternative to worshiping uh God They believe that that beast was actually the Roman Catholic Pope who instituted worshiping on Sundays as opposed to the Sabbath day as God had ordained. That's their view. So you kind of see their their hermeneutic here. It's just taking something and running with it, even though the rest of scripture would be at odds with it, right? And not to mention history. Well, James White agreed with Father Bates that yes, that that's That's what this is saying, that we need to worship God the right way, and He's told us how to worship. It's gotta be on the Sabbath, seventh day, and Uh Christians have been misled all these years and we need to set the things straight. So they became seventh-day Adventists. Well, James White's um you know that's an interesting, come to think of it, an interesting coincidence there's a James White today who's a very um powerful uh uh Christian apologist. Um um with um teaching on Christian apologetics and exposing the errors of of um uh groups like this. Anyway, God has a sense of humor. So anyway, James James White's wife, Ellen, Ellen G. White became recognized by that early church in the 1800s as a prophetess who was divinely inspired. Such that even the things that she wrote, and she was prolific in her writings, uh took on a stature uh increasingly equal to and sometimes even trumping scripture. Now that should send some red flags up, right? Yeah. Anyway, she wrote that um She had a vision in which it was revealed that heeding the warning of the third angel's message does in fact require worshiping God as he commanded. on the seventh day of the week. And so her affirmation of that, her husband James' affirmation of it, you know, the the early church there was um um Of one accord on all that. But then she also taught, and this is where we get back to the Day of Atonement. That sin was not canceled by the blood of the victim. A means was thus provided by which it was transferred to the sanctuary. And by the offering of blood, the sinner was not yet entirely released from the condemnation of the law, i. e. , the application to Christ's death, it doesn't get us off the hook. His death was not sufficient for us. Therefore, when any people have sins remaining upon the books of record, unreported of and unforgiven, Their names will be blotted out from the book of life. These are her words. And the record of their good deeds will be erased from the book of God's remembrance. So the implication of that is that people, even people who are coming under the blood of Christ and the sacrifice of Christ, they're not off the hook yet They need to make sure that there's there's no mark on their record in heaven, uh even up to the time they die. And if there is, um Uh that's that judgment that Christ is now exercising uh in the heavenly sanctuary, supposedly. And um If they're found wanting, they're not going to make it. Who can be saved? Only those who are relying on Christ and are perfect. Exactly. In 1956, two respected evangelical leaders, Donald Gray Barnhouse and Walter Martin, very highly respected evangelicals. published separate articles in Eternity magazine explaining why, after years of study, their study and interactions with SDA leaders, they concluded that the SDA Church is evangelical. And Walter Martin has written uh uh very uh well respected works on cults. And that's w one of the reasons why he was researching them. So these articles were certainly applauded by SDA leaders, but were quickly challenged by other evangelicals such as Harold Lindzel and Herbert Byrd. Then, in 1957, in response to extensive questioning from evangelicals, this was going to be a regular uh conversation. A group of FDA leaders and teachers published a 720-page book entitled Seventh-day Adventists: Answer Questions on Doctrine. It's a pretty foundational uh treatise here about their beliefs. And apparently recognizing how inconsistent Some of their key teachings were from the early leaders like Ellen White, and how they were in clear violation of scripture. This book clearly affirms many evangelical points of doctrine that are fundamental to the gospel, even at the expense of departing from some earlier SDA teaching. And it's that kind of um willingness to depart from some of their history. That apparently caused Donald Gray Barnhouse and Walter Martin to conclude that they are indeed evangelical now. However, the book doesn't abandon the teaching on the necessity of keeping the Sabbath in order to be saved. Or they don't abandon the teaching that it's possible to lose one's salvation by disobedience. So what have you got left? Right? Pretty key points. Yeah. I don't know about others, but I know when I kind of grew up I always just This was the thing around I didn't know all this, but I just heard oh yeah they're Christians, they just celebrate on Saturday. But um uh we're gonna get to this in a minute. But um And so there's there's this there's uh in the publishing world here, there's kind of this dialogue uh or debate going back and forth. And the third item here is that Walter Martin wrote a whole book now, not just a magazine article, in defense of his position that the SDAs were evangelical Christians, which was refuted by Merrill Tenney. And additional books followed, concluding that the SDA is not evangelical, including Byrd, Doughty, and Hoximon. A lot of controversy. And so where does that leave us? Where it leaves us is what is the nature of the gospel? What is the nature of Christ's um of the salvation that we have in Christ? His death. His resurrection. Um what is the nature of the grace of God as opposed to the works of men? Pastor Allen, but aren't the S DAs or maybe I'm confusing, uh don't they also follow the Mosaic Law? Like the eating and stuff like that as well. Yes. Yeah, in fact um I I made a s a slight reference to the top of page thirty nine. So it's including the Sabbath and some of the dietary laws and so on, yes. So I'm on page forty now, what the Bible actually says. And so there's these two main, but really three main points. One is the need to keep the Sabbath as God originally commanded it. Let's deal with that. The second is um the nature of the gospel and the nature of Christ's death and uh also um uh the errors you get into when you try to make a one-to-one correspondence between the Day of Atonement and what Christ did. Um So I don't think I'm going to cover everything in the section on keeping the Sabbath. I I think you're pretty well um Um in tune with this, but just to say that God instituted the Sabbath As a sign of the Mosaic Law. In Exodus 20, where he says, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath to the Lord your God. Uh in it you shall do no work and so on. But we're not under the law of Moses. The law of Moses was conditional. It was for the nation of Israel for a period of time, right? And the ceremonial aspects of the law have been fulfilled in Christ. He's the sacrifice, the perfect. sacrifice for us. And so it was pointing toward the future, what God would provide for our salvation. Um and Now that they are fulfilled in Christ, the sacrificial and ceremonial aspects of the Old Testament law don't apply Uh anyway, and particularly to those of us in Christ. Um not I mean he says do not do any work or his own. That has nothing to do with sacrificial um law that was given. No, but it's still the sa it's the s the ceremonial um uh requirements of the law and even the sign of the law, the the uh worshiping God on the Sabbath, God instituted as well it's on page forty-one, number five, keeping the Sabbath was the sign of the Mosaic Covenant. So that those who were under the law uh were demonstrating that they were under the law by keeping the Sabbath. I was always kind of wondering if they all the Ten Commandments All of them we still it's valid for us. You know, you cannot murder, you cannot commit adultery and you can use God's name on all this the Sabbath rule we have More. Yeah. Well under under the New Covenant, all of the Ten Commandments, all the moral aspects of God's law are repeated in the New Testament. That's because they're based on God's morality and even God's character. Except the Sabbath. There's no no mention of it keeping the Sabbath in the New Testament. And so it was it was there for a purpose for a period of time under the law, but uh It wasn't a Roman Pope who caused the celebration of uh you know the weekly worship. The the principle of we of of um worshiping God weekly is universal, and God demonstrated that in the first six weeks or the first week of of creation, right? He appeals to that even in Exodus 20. And so yes, worshiping setting aside one day a week for worship continues, uh but there's no command in the New Testament that it would be on the seventh day. I see. Well again, our worshiping is not a Sabbath in the way it was given to the nation of Israel. where the demands of what you can do and what you can't do were very strict In the New Covenant, there's no association of worshiping God weekly with a Sabbath rule In fact, you look at Jesus. He confounded the Pharisees because uh he didn't live up to their and healed and and whatever. Yeah. And he said, w which of you having um just an animal that falls into a pit won't get it out on the Sabbath, right? Um And he was introducing them to the fact that that that set of rules and and in terms of work and setting aside and so on were for that period of time under the law But um the greater principle is um worshiping God regularly and not being bound by the confines of the law because we're under the law of Christ. Grace. Freedom. So is it a good thing to um that employers close down on Sundays and not work? Yeah, it's a great thing. So people actually can take break and and so on. Is it a requirement of God? No. No. Um but it's a good thing. So if you're in employer asks you to work on Sunday and you have to do it otherwise you lose your job then you're not sinning. You're not sinning. However it's it's useful to um Appeal. See if there are alternatives. For sure. But it's it's not like you should go out and be stoned because your employer forces you to work on Sunday. Yeah. As it would have been in the US at law. So it's not like it's okay that you don't really tr try to look for another job because of that It's also good to look for another job. If I mean at the very least you want to um assemble with your brothers and sisters in the family of God and the church And so you're you that's your liberty and your freedom. Yes. Yes. And it actually would be a a high priority to look for alternatives so that you're not um uh uh not um yeah forsaking the assembly of yourselves but not doing it um extensively and like every week and this kind of thing. If that becomes a s the situation, then looking for an alternative was a good idea. Yeah. Anyway. Um So unlike the ceremonial aspects of the law, the moral aspects are indeed repeated. And so things like not murdering and the rest of the Ten Commandments and the moral aspects of the law. The other contrast is that that law, the Mosaic Law, was conditional. God very clearly said, if you do this All the things I require of you, you will be blessed. If you don't do these things, what will happen? You'll face a curse. And what happened? They didn't do them, they faced the curse. God chastised them. The new covenant is not conditional. It's unconditional. We're under the new covenant, covenant of Christ. And Give some verses about that here in the bottom half of page 41. It's characterized by obedience from the heart, not just outward conformity to the rules of the law. Right. Yes. Yeah, I I the question is, what about professions like doctors, nurses, hospitals, and other maybe um law enforcement personnel, right? Uh uh police and so on. Um it's a good thing that there are people who are available to work on those days. I know in a lot of cases I've heard Um people who worship on Saturdays, like Jews, maybe some Seventh-day Adventists. are okay working on Sundays and the other and the Christians work on Saturdays rather than Sundays and they kind of work out a schedule sometimes depending on the employer. But even with Christians, if you're employer requires you to um work on Sundays on occasion, you're not sinning. If if you can find ways to schedule around it and be creative, all the better. If it was required every single week all year long, yeah, you'd probably want to look elsewhere But um you you don't want to be characterized by forsaking the assembly with other believers on the Lord's Day. Yeah. So I guess I'm just confused. So what what are you saying that does it really matter what day we designate as our Sabbath or our rest or Yes, it does matter. And so look on the battle of page forty two. It answers the question, did the Roman Pope institute worship on Sundays, as the SDA folks seem to believe? Well, no, if they'd actually read their Bible, they would see that it was instituted by the apostles in the early church. Uh commemorating Christ's resurrection, which happened on what day of the week? Sunday, first day of the week. Commemorating also his resurrection appearances to them one week later, also on a Sunday. The beginning of the church on the first day of Pentecost, Pentecost was 50 days after the previous Passover. And uh let's see here and um Gathering the church for worship on Sundays became common practice very early in the church, and several references to that here in Acts and Corinthians. And Sunday eventually became known as the Lord's Day. Paul um the Apostle John writing in Revelation one refers to it as the Lord's Day as if everyone understood by that time that was That was when it was, that was why it was, and it was in honor of the Lord Jesus. And so ever since Christians have worshipped on the first day of the week. No. No, the Lord's Day is because of the history of the Lord's Day is referred to referring to commemorating the resurrection of Christ and all these key events in the early church, setting apart the Lord separate from the Old Testament law and practice of a Sabbath So it's it's a a one day a week for gathering of g of Christ's people. It's on the first date in in uh celebration of the resurrection and so on. But it's not a Sabbath. A Sabbath is is well first of all the word Sabbath means seventh day and um It carries with it all the the the boundaries and laws and rules associated with commemorating it. Um whereas are celebrating the resurrection of Christ on the Lord's Day, the first day of the week, doesn't have all that baggage associated with it. It's not a Sabbath, it's not a command. Um with all these rules. So in other words, we are not under the Sabbath law whatsoever. Exactly. Exactly. One choose to worship, isn't it a matter of conscience? Because in Romans fourteen is fourteen is that one person esteemed one day as better than another while another esteems all day than better. Well, isn't that a matter of consciousness? Yeah, I've got that passage here somewhere and I'm not finding it quickly. Yeah, I've got it here somewhere. I forget where I tucked it away. Anyway, uh this page forty five Anyway, I know it's there somewhere. Yeah, that that passage though is talking about um celebrations according to the law. which would include, you know, the various feasts and uh the the way that certain days were set aside for certain celebrations and and so on, which was all good, um, but they're not binding on us. under Christ. They're um and and and kind of uh uh taking different sides on whether this day should have s this significance under Christ or not He's saying, that's not the point. We're not under the law. Um So was there another Okay. Well, that's the whole Sabbath thing. Um So on page forty four, we get into the um The question of Christ's work on the cross and the connection with the Day of Atonement. And so I wanted to at least highlight that. What they actually teach is that just this is on the top of page 44. Just as the law required the high priest on the Day of Atonement to offer one goat as a burnt offering and to release another goat, the scapegoat, into the wilderness. Jesus' work of redemption occurs in two steps, they say. The first is that his death on the cross Uh was the shedding of blood that that's comparable to the shedding of blood uh by the one goat. But The second goat and his his second work actually is the investigative judgment in the heavenly sanctuary ever since his advent in 1944. Um and so I guess he's he's uh investigating judgment on any any believers prior to that, but then continuing on from then on till now, uh the rest of us. So that's how they explain the cleansing of the sanctuary in Daniel 8. 14. They believe Jesus' work of redemption was not completed through his death on the cross. It's like they haven't read the New Testament. Right. But that following his ascension he interceded on behalf of the penitent sinners for eighteen centuries. Then beginning on October 22, 1844, he moved to the Holy of Holies in the heavenly tabernacle, where he now removes sins from the sanctuary. Where they had been storing up. Quite a pile of them there for almost nineteen hundred years. To do this, he examines all his people, presenting to the Father all those who, through repentance of sin and faith in Christ, are entitled to the benefits of the atonement. So they kind of get all the the the language um convoluted, but the the core of it is It's Christ's work plus works. And whenever you have Christ's work plus anything, that's heresy. Right. Um so I review here, starting on page forty-four, uh what the Day of Atonement um did and and New Testament commentary on the um uh the the Day of Atonement And then starting on page 45, what Jesus' death on the cross actually did. And Scripture clearly says he fully satisfied the wrath of God. in his sacrifice on the cross. What's the word that means fully satisfied the wrath of God? Propitiated. He propitiated The wrath of God against our sins. And so unlike in Hebrews, um Where it says that the um let's say Hebrews ten three, for example, the bottom page forty-four. But in those sacrifices, that is in the Day of Atonement, there is a reminder of sins year by year, for it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins And yet, when John the Baptist saw Jesus coming, he says to his followers in John 1:29, top of page 45. The next day he saw Jesus coming to him and said, Behold the Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world. What's the difference between um the atonement Of the Day of Atonement and what Christ did. Well, as Hebrews says, the Day of Atonement had to be repeated over and over and over every year Why? Because it was only a shadow of what was to come. It wasn't the actual sacrifice that would propitiate. And that word atonement actually means covering over. And so the sins were covered over By God's grace, among those who believed God and took him at his word, but the payment for those sins that were covered over was paid by who? Christ, much later on, right? And so John the Baptist says, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. He doesn't just cover them over, he takes them away. Faeta complete. Colossians 2. When you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us how many of our transgressions? All of our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us, and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. When Jesus was on the cross, he said, it is what? Finished, which is a Greek term. To telesty, which is a kind of a an uh an accounting term, it means paid in full. In full. And you see that sort of picture here in Colossians 2. He took out that certificate of sin against us. And he nailed it on the cross. He paid for all of our sins. Um And you see in Ephesians 2 what that results in, that we're seated with him in the heavenly places. We're not waiting for another judgment and and so on. We are cleansed in Christ. Romans 5 speaks of our having been justified by faith. Justified means what? Having right standing before God. Therefore, we have peace with God. Romans 8:1. Therefore, there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. There's no if there other than if you are in Christ. And um Satan is not our scapegoat. Salvation cannot be earned. If salvation is grace plus works, it's a salvation of works If you have to if you don't have to work to get your salvation, but you have to work to keep your salvation, it's the salvation of works. If someone were to use a counter-argument by saying faith, by quoting the verse faith faith without works is dead, how would you respond? Take them to James and read that in context. Take them to uh Romans The bottom line answer is that is what James says. Show me your faith without any words. You can't show me your faith. It's not visible. But you can show the reality of your faith when your works are consistent with your faith. Show me, you can't show me your faith, but I'll show you my faith by my works, he says. My works are going to reveal my faith. John the Baptist, when he baptized, Said, bring forth fruit in keeping with repentance Right? And that's the consistent message of the New Testament. That if we're genuinely repentant, we're forsaking sin, that's going to show up in our behavior. Does that behavior save us? No. But it's evidence that we have forsaken sin. So if those works follow They can be, they're not conclusive evidence, but they can be evidence that the faith is there Now you go to Matthew 7, where Jesus said, Not everyone who comes to me and says, Lord, Lord, have we not done this in your name and done that in your name? And he says, I never knew you. Depart from me. It's not the works that save. Are those works saving work? Are they evidence of saving faith? In that case, in Jesus' example? No way. They were like the Pharisees. They were clean on the outside, but like full of dead man's bones on the inside. And where's God looking at the inside? So You know th there's this is probably a good time to mention this. There are a lot of Bible believing Christians with whom we have a whole lot in common. Who um are very serious about Sola fide. Fide is the Latin term for faith. So only faith. We're saved by faith alone, not by works. We believe that. However, they think that works that they think that repentance involves works And that would be, you know, it's the things you do, right? And that would be mixing works with faith, and that's heresy. That's their position. Well, that's a misunderstanding of what repentance is. The Greek word for repentance is metanoia. What's it sound like? Paranoia? Yeah. It's that it's meta. It's it's a a different it's it's um um Having a new mind, a new thinking, a new mindset toward our sin. our and it starts in the heart, in our mind. Our forsaking the sin, if it's genuine, will will result in a changed life, because it was genuine repentance. That repentance and whatever evidence of repentance is not what saves us. It's only evidence of the salvation. And so my question to these friends of ours who say that repentance is works and therefore it's it's not the gospel Someone could believe, genuinely believe in Christ as their Savior for one split second and then from the and be saved because of it And then for the rest of their life live like a wretch and an unsaved person, and they're still saved because salvation is by faith alone, and they exercise that faith in a split second, way back when Well my response to them would be, where does that faith come from? And if they say, well, the person had that faith, he he generates his own faith and God views that as righteousness. Isn't that a work? Yeah, if we have to generate that faith ourselves, that's a work. Salvation is by works. We have to generate faith in order to believe what God has done. That's not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that both the faith and the repentance are gifts from God. Because we're in no position in our dead state To respond to God. Read Ephesians 2. You're dead in your trespasses and sins. How does a dead person respond? No response. The only way we could respond is if God took initiative To start that process, to open our eyes, soften our heart, give us faith and repentance. And Scripture is very clear that that's where they come from. They come from God. A little bit more here. I think it's somewhat self-explanatory in your notes, and I'd encourage you to read that. But we probably ought to wind things up here for today. Um next week we're going to focus a bit on because this idea of Christ Plus works is is fairly common out there, even in mainline denominations and this kind of thing. How to interact with people with that mindset Next week. Okay? Let's pray