Well, welcome to lesson nine in our series on reaching out to local cults and religions. Today is kind of uh well a grab bag. Um uh combination of topics that are not focused on any one particular cult or religion, but on themes that seem to repeatedly come up. You know, as as we've gone through various cults, including most recently with Mormons, uh you're confronted with um What is their authority? What is the authority for their teaching? What is the basis for their teaching? And so one thing we want to talk about today is how scripture is um our authority and it's the basis for evaluating any other teaching and so on. And that um the the other writings, the other sources and teachings that they might have, no matter who they are, fall short by God's standards. And so we'll talk about that. A second thing that seems to always keep cropping up Is um the deity of Christ. If you get that wrong, then you are you're definitely heading down the wrong path, right? And uh I think one of the reasons getting that wrong is so consistent across various cults and even religions is um that's a priority for Satan to confuse people about the person of Christ and therefore the work of Christ. So we're going to look at that extensively today too and and a few other things. Okay, so I'm on page one hundred three, addressing common errors. And so first is this issue of authority, the authority for their belief system, their teaching, whoever they are. And it's important for us to know, and sometimes it's going to be relevant to communicate to others who have uh trust in other Other writings, other teachings, that God has actually told us how to evaluate whether something is from Him or not. And in the New Testament, 1 John 4, for example, verse 1, John writes: Beloved do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits. To see whether they are from God. Because many false prophets have gone out into the world. So God is calling us to test To see whether these teachings, these sources, are from God or not. And if they're not from God, you can be pretty sure where ultimately they're coming from, the deceiver. Right? So God was very explicit to the nation of Israel and gave four different tests. John writes that we should test the spirits to see if they're from God. Well, God has given us four tests to evaluate whether something is from him. And the first is it must be authoritative, speaking directly for God. And we see this repeatedly in both the Old Testament and the New Testament. For example, Exodus 7, 17. Thus says the Lord. It just says flat out, this is from God. Right now, the fact that something A statement or a book or whatever, the fact that it says it's from God is not sufficient, but it is necessary. So would you want to say something is from God that doesn't claim to be from God? That would be pretty presumptuous, wouldn't it? So the fact that it it claims to be from God is important. It needs to be clear in its entirety. 1 Samuel 15, another example, verse 2. Thus says the Lord of hosts, and he's giving particular instructions and so on. And very frequently the prophets uh in the Old Testament Would preface their prophecy by making it clear, this is not me speaking, this is God speaking through me. And so that's important. Interesting example in the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus said in Matthew 5, You have heard that the ancients were told you shall not commit murder Where is that? That's in the Ten Commandments, right in Exodus 20. And whoever commits murder shall be liable to the court. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother is guilty before the law. And so on. So Jesus is saying, I say to you, he's speaking on his own authority. No. If someone today were to say that Something like that. I say to you, this is what should you know, um how would you what would be your first thought? Who are you? Yeah, exactly. Who are you? What gives you the right to say that I should listen to this based on your authority? And that's a natural a and important response. It's interesting at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew seven It says, when Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were amazed at his teaching, for he was teaching them as one having authority, and not as their scribes. Not that the scribes were teaching error in all cases, but they were clearly not teaching it on their own authority. They were just saying this is what God has revealed to us, right, in the law and so on, the prophets. But Jesus is speaking to them at the same level of authority as coming from himself. Um and clearly some would um Be impressed by that, even maybe even believe it, and get some thoughts that well maybe this is the Messiah, maybe this is God among us. And others probably were continuing to be skeptical Probably. But it's very clear that Jesus said that his teaching um well actually elsewhere he says I don't teach just I don't speak just what's on my mind, but what? What the Father has told me to say. And so again, it's it's divine authority directly. But there's several other tests that are related here. The second is the prophecy must include the foretelling of future events. That could not be predicted apart from God's knowledge. And those events must come true. So if If a prophet were to say something that this is going to happen, and it does happen just the way it was prophesied, and say, who could have known that but God? That suggests that God must have been the source of his information. That's a pretty logical conclusion. Deuteronomy 18 It says, but the prophet who speaks a word presumptuously in my name, in other words, he says, this is from God, he thinks it's with God's authority, but he's presumptuous, it's it's not necessarily true. Speaks presumptuously in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or which he speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die. You shall say in your heart, for you may say in your heart, how will we know the word which the Lord has not spoken? Well, when the prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, if the thing does not come about or come true, it's a no-brainer. That's not from God. That's the word that the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You shall not be afraid of him. So Uh that's one indicator that the source is God, because who could have known that except God? Right? The next test is similar to that. The prophecy must be authenticated by signs, attesting miracles. And you remember Nicodemus? John 3 says, Now there is a man of the Pharisees in Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. This man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi. We know that you have come from God as a teacher, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. Nicodemus got it. That the signs were were attesting to the divine origin of the teaching. The signs weren't just flashes of of miracles and just entertainment. The purpose of the signs was to authenticate the teaching And the source of the teaching, right? Yeah, the the question was, what about some prophecies that aren't fulfilled? Even from God's prophets, there are some prophecies that have yet to be fulfilled. How does that fit in with the necessity to have these prophecies? Fulfilled. And so in Deuteronomy 18 it says, when a prophet speaks in the name of the Lord, and the thing does not come about or come true, That is the thing which the Lord has not spoken. The prophet has spoken presumptuously, you should not be afraid of him. So if a prophecy Um yeah the thing about a lot of the prophecies you see in the Old Testament Is they sometimes have interim or partial fulfillment, but they also have a longer-term fulfillment in view. And of course, some of them still haven't been fulfilled. Some of them are, for example, about the millennial reign of Christ. And we see elsewhere from scripture that uh that's that's coming, but it's still future even in our day. Right? And so Um if a prophet only prophesied about that and it's unfulfilled, then we wouldn't know. He says don't be afraid of him. It doesn't say to to kill him. Um So we we we still wouldn't know until it's fulfilled. But if other parts of Scripture that we know are from God uh are consistent with that and and we get an idea that as we have with many of these things like the millennial reign of Christ that they're still in the future Then uh that's that's um consistent with the original prophecy that says it's going to happen and it's in the future. If that were all we knew and there were not other parts of Scripture that corroborated that or were consistent with it Then yeah, we we'd want to be careful. But um um He's mostly talking here in Deuteronomy 18 to prophecies that were more immediate. And there are examples of that. I should look those up. There are a few examples of that, I think, in the Old Testament. There are certainly examples of that in uh other religions Where people are claiming prophecies, uh foretelling the future, and either that that prophecy is so vague that Anybody could claim that it was fulfilled. Or it's clearly not been fulfilled when it was expected to be fulfilled Then this test certainly applies. I think it's also important to realize that these tests kind of work together. And The main one we're going to be getting at is the last one, the fourth one, and we're not there yet. They work together. But if any one of these Um is clearly not and i i and if any of these tests is clearly not met But the others are. It depends on what those others are and what this one is. And that last one is the kicker. We haven't gotten there yet. But before I go on, another example is Jesus made some prophecies. He revealed some things that were going to be happening, particularly on the Olivet Discourse, Matthew 24, 25. And uh some people think that they were fulfilled at least in part uh at the fall of Jerusalem, but Some of them some of those pro like you see these beautiful stones in the temple, I tell you that not one of them is going to be on top of the other, they're going to be demolished. That probably was referring to the the destruction of Jerusalem in seventy AD. Um but most of them are about the end of the age and things that are still future for us. So yeah, prophecy is is interesting un unless It specifically says what the timetable is. Or as in the case of that one in Daniel we saw earlier, uh where it actually says, you know, that here's this this vision and here's the explanation of the vision, and there's four different countries who are going to come in succession It actually named who those countries were. This was all future, and it all happened. Right? Um In other cases, uh things are partially fulfilled and then ultimately fulfilled, and a lot of that happens in Christ or in the Millennial Kingdom. Um but anyway, let's continue. We'll get to all four of them and see how they kind of work together. Okay, so there's a foretelling of future events. The prophecy must also be authenticated by signs. And the purpose of these signs is, of course, is to show, well, much like a prophecy that comes true, no one could have known that except God, therefore God must be working through and speaking through this person But the same thing with miracles. Um if you raise someone from the dead, um people will pay attention to what you're saying. If you heal someone who's leprous or blind from birth, and uh it's it's obviously a miracle, it's not a trick, it's not done with smoke and mirrors. People will start paying attention to what what that person is saying, particularly if he's not just doing these things, but he's teaching. Right? And so look at the life of Christ and um Nicodemus saw it. In fact, it's not even clear from the gospels which signs uh Nicodemus was speaking about because this was pretty early in the ministry of Christ. But as you track the ministry of Christ throughout the Gospels, what do you see? He's surrounded by who? Crowds. Why are the crowds coming? To get saved? Not most of them. Why are they coming? They want to receive a miracle or they want to begin a have a front row seat to see one, right? And what was the purpose of those miracles? But to say, this is the Messiah. Listen to him. Right? I would say the majority probably didn't connect it up. They wanted the experience, they wanted to say, hey, I saw such and such and It didn't connect the dots to say, therefore, I need to listen to him. Um anyway. So authenticated by signs, that was true not just of Christ, but of the apostles. Look at Acts 2. 22. This is Peter speaking on the day of Pentecost. Men of Israel, listen to these words. Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God, With miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through him in your midst, just as you also know. I mean, they all knew it. And he's referring back to that as evidence that this is God's servant, Christ, who he later tells them, you nailed to the cross through godless men. Then in Acts 14, therefore they spent a long time there, speaking boldly with reliance upon the Lord. who was testifying to the word of his grace, granting that signs and wonders be done by their hands. So the signs and the wonders were testifying that this was God's word they were preaching. This is important because this is the unfolding of new revelation from God. Which was ultimately encapsulated in the New Testament. But just as God performed various miracles through Moses and other prophets to testify this was his revelation to them. Uh there's silence for over 400 years between the Old Testament and the New Testament, but then starting with the Ministry of Christ and then the Apostles, God was um revealing the next uh deposit of revelation through his servants, and that the divine origin of that was attested to by various signs and miracles 2 Corinthians 12, 12. Paul writes, The signs of a true apostle were performed among you with all perseverance by signs and wonders and miracles. He's speaking of his own Testimony, his own involvement in the ministry. And uh authenticating that his teaching was God's teaching. Okay. Yes. Pharisees that were jealous of them because they were not able to perform any miracles and signs and and all of those Yeah. In general the Pharisees' hearts were hardened and therefore probably jealous and so on. There were exceptions, like Nicodemus. He was a Pharisee. And he connected the dots. He said, no one can do these things that you do unless God is with him. He didn't come to the conclusion that this was the Messiah necessarily Uh he probably did eventually. In fact it's pretty good evidence he did eventually. It's not necessarily clear that he did by John three. But he definitely connected with us. We know what you're teaching must be from God, so help me understand And Jesus wasn't all that you know, if if I were Jesus and it's a good thing I wasn't, but if I were Jesus and he came to me and that said that, I would just lay out something, here's what you need to be saved. Jesus was a bit more challenging to him. Um and he must have gone away, I'm thinking, scratching his head. Uh what do you mean? Born again? Uh it doesn't quite compute. But Jesus obviously knew all the baggage that that uh Nicodemus had in his training and his background and so on. Even Pharisees were jealous of Paul and other disciples. Yeah, most of the Pharisees definitely were that way. Jealous. That is because they are more popular and they are had they have no you know, powers of feeling and miracles or not that they needed to. They were relying on their adherence to the law and all the traditions that they had established. So they didn't see Jesus as conforming to that, so therefore he was not up to standard. But then why is it have to be feeling jealous. I mean instead of you're clear clearly wrong, but you don't have to feel jealous or threatened. They were also into power, being in control. And so if if they could allow someone who's teaching something what they thought was wrong And people were following them, then there they have the potential to be losing their power as people would flock to this guy. And yeah, he's doing miracles, and so that got their attention because of their pride, their jealousy, for sure. Okay. Uh let's go to number four though. And this is the real test. Um If if this has failed, then then um you can be very certain that it's not from God. The prophecy must be consistent with what God has already revealed. Why must that be true? What is it about God that would make that necessary? What's that? He's immutable. He's immutable. He doesn't change. He's the very definition of truth, right? He doesn't say anything that's wrong. He doesn't change. So he doesn't He doesn't contradict himself exactly. He doesn't um say, well, I told you this, but we're gonna change the rules now. It's gonna be this. God is consistent. He is. Um always right. So Deuteronomy thirteen, um God made it clear through Moses Where it says, if a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder. Now, how could they give them a sign or a wonder if they're not from God? It could be some kind of a trick, sleight of hand, or it could be actually Satan or demons working through him. That's why any one of these, apart from this one, um, could be inconclusive. And it says, and the sign or wonder comes true, concerning which he spoke to you, saying, Let us go after other gods whom you have not known. Let us serve them. And you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams. Why? For the Lord your God is testing you to find out if you love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul You shall follow the Lord your God and fear him, and you shall keep his commandments, listen to his voice, serve him, and cling to him. But that prophet or that dreamer shall be put to death because he has counseled rebellion against the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of slavery. To seduce you from the way which the Lord your God commanded you to walk. So you shall purge the evil from among you. So God's warning them, if you get somebody, it appears that maybe this is from God, but he's saying something that's contrary to what I've already said. That's the killer. There's nothing from God in that You see examples, particularly in Acts 17, do you remember the Bereans? The brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea, and when they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. Now, these were more noble-minded than those in Thessalonica, although that wasn't a very high bar. For they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see what these things uh see whether these things were so So if they examined the scriptures and they saw a conflict with what Paul was saying, what would their conclusion be? It must not be from God. Because here's what God has said. But if it is consistent with what we see in the scriptures, tell me more. Right? Therefore many many of them believed. Why did they believe? Because it was consistent with the scriptures. Along with a number of prominent Greek women and men. And then even in the among the qualifications for elder that are given to us in Titus 1, It says the overseer must be above reproach as God's steward, not self-willed, not quick-tempered, not addicted to wine, and so on and so on, holding fast the faithful word, which is in accordance with the teaching, so that He will be able both to exhort in sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict. How do you refute those who contradict? You go to the Word, right? If it's inconsistent with God's Word, then it's false teaching. It's that simple. So it's interesting that even in in Deuteronomy that that some of these other tests may appear to be met. But if this one isn't met, you know it's not from God. Okay. So um It may be helpful depending on where you're at in your relationship with somebody in a cult or another religion. and they're ref they're relying on sources other than Scripture, it may be helpful To say to them at some point, you know, God has actually revealed what tests should be applied to evaluate whether something is from Him or not. Would you be interested in exploring those in the Bible? God actually gave them specifically to uh the Jews in the Old Testament. And you can kind of walk through some of these verses and examples and so on. But be sure you get to this number four. If it's not consistent with what God has revealed, then you know it's not from him. Okay. It may also be helpful in that context, in those conversations, to make a couple more points. And the next one is that God's written word is complete and sufficient. It's not lacking this idea of progressive revelation. God is continuing to reveal things. is a very tempting position to take if you're a cult, because pretty much anything goes Right? Um and particularly if you're not concerned about this fourth test, about it being consistent with what God has already revealed. Uh and so you you get, you know, Mormons, you get Jehovah's Witnesses, um, Seventh-day Adventists, all of these are well even the Catholics we talked about. All of them are relying on things that presume that the scripture, even if they say it's authoritative, they presume it's not enough There's got to be other revelation. And so several points on that. Number one here on page 104. There are no longer any apostles or prophets through whom God would reveal new revelation. So we know from Ephesians 2. Says you're no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens of the saints, and are God's household, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. So is the foundation continuing to be built? No. No, that's all past tense. And it's it's Christ Jesus the cornerstone, the apostles and prophets building on that and extending the teaching of Christ. The teaching of the apostles, apostolic teaching is essentially the teaching of Christ. And that's all foundational. That's the beginning, and the rest is being built on that. There's no longer a foundation being built. Secondly, the last New Testament book, Revelation, closes with this stern warning. I testify to everyone who hears the words of this prophecy of this book. If anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues which are written in this book. If anyone takes away from the words of this book, of the prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life and of the holy city, which are written of in this book. There are similar warnings in the Old Testament. I've made note of them here on the top of 105. that um revelation is something that God does in his timing, in his way. It's not initiated by people. Um that's one reason why this this whole thing we've been talking about is one reason why the gift of prophecy in the New Testament in the early church was given um to establish this foundation, this this new revelation from God that built on the Old Testament. But once that foundation was set, the teaching was complete, there was no need for additional prophecy. And likewise, the miracles that were attesting to the authenticity and the divine origin of the teaching. was no longer needed because the scripture was there and we can apply this test of um Is it consistent with what God has said? And um and so on. Did I see a hand? Okay. Okay, and a third, top of page 105, Scripture clearly teaches that it is the fully sufficient guide. for sound doctrine and Christian living. Nothing is lacking. And so you're probably familiar with 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17? All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training and righteousness. Why? So that the man of God may be adequate, that is Fully trained, equipped for how many good works Every good work. Everything that we would need to do in response, we're e already equipped for from scripture. All scripture. 2 Peter 1, 2 through 4. Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. Seeing that His divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness through the true knowledge of Him who called us by His own glory and excellence. For by these he granted to us his precious and magnificent promises, so that by them you may become partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world by lust. So everything we need pertaining to life and godliness is already in our hands. Which God revealed. by his kind intentions and power. Lots of other places in scripture you can go. Psalm 19 is a good one. That just make it clear that God has revealed to us in Scripture everything we need. It's sufficient. It's um it's not lacking in any truth that is going to have any bearing on life and godliness. Right? If there's any kind of moral issue, any kind of um belief requirement that's not covered in scripture It's not anything there the there isn't any. It's all addressed by God's Word And so you get others coming along and say, well, no, you need you need uh this Book of Mormon or these writings from so and so. And um The very desire for that is contrary to God's clear revelation that we have everything we need for life and godliness. Salvation. You know, it was somewhat veiled under the Old Testament law, but still people were still saved by grace through faith under that. Um there was uh progressive revelation even during the Old Testament times. Uh even during Abraham's time, he got things kind of progressively. And of course a lot of it was was rounded out and completed in the New Testament, in the teaching of Christ. And the apostles. Um but having all that, it's complete, it's sufficient. And anything that would attempt to add to it, to add any new teaching or not just a commentary on it, but new teaching It's not only not needed, it's almost inevitable going to contradict what's already there. So, yeah. The Catholic Bible has a few roles books in the followers. Um I'm not familiar with the books. Do you know what they're about in the book? That would be the Apocrypha, some writings that happened between the Old Testament and the New Testament It's a longer question, how do we how has the church come to understand what books are actually inspired and referred to in 2 Timothy 3, all scripture, versus other writings that are of some historical interest and whatever, but are not actually inspired by God. And the early church, uh, which came after those apocryphal writings, very early made it clear. They understood that those those things didn't meet these tests. They weren't scripture. Some of them have some historical interest. Events and so on. But um they're not actual scripture. Uh and then third on page one oh five God's written word is complete and sufficient, but also God warned that false teachers would arise. Don't be surprised. And we see that not just in the warnings in the Old Testament to test the prophets, but even in the New Testament. Jesus himself said, Beware the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will know them by their fruit. So not only is a genuine message from God authenticated by the signs of an apostle, But you'll know them by their fruit. If if their if their lives are not consistent with you know they they they Talk the talk, but don't walk the walk. In fact, Jesus gave the example of those who said, Lord, didn't we do this, do this, and do this in your name? And what does Jesus say? Depart from me, I never knew you. Their lives, their hearts particularly, were far from him. Anyway, false, you will know them by their fruits. In Acts 20, Paul speaks to the elders in Ephesus and says, Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. I know that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. And from among your own selves men will arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them. Therefore, be on the alert. Likewise, Second Corinthians, Philippians, um Second Peter as well So uh perhaps some of this might be a helpful resource if you're in conversation with someone who is relying on on some authority other than the Bible. And that's probably pretty common, but hopefully some of that will help. Yes? Oh, the Apocrypha. Your test that they didn't need. Partly for the time that something was written A, that it wasn't time as it was written away. Yeah, I'd I'd have to review on a case by case basis, but um I I I know Um the the Jews kind of were, you know, before and at the time of Christ, I think the Jews were aware of and uh of those writings, the apocryphal writings that were written during the inter testamental period. Um but The church um very early on recognized that they were not inspired and I don't know off the top of my head, but there may have been some specific uh indicators on some of the books, and then different other indicators on other books. I'm not sure. But um Uh these basic tests, is it consistent with what God has already revealed and uh is it attested to by by miracles and those kind of things, um were the kind of tests that the early church would have applied. Yeah, I'm not aware that the Apocrypha is a source for that teaching. The teaching of Mary, yeah. Okay. Well I want to turn the corner here on page one hundred six. Uh because again Um someone's understanding of of Jesus is crucial to understanding The gospel, right? And so there are a lot of groups. Most of these groups don't deny that there was a Jesus of Nazareth. And in various ways they say he was a good person. And they either say he wasn't God. Or like the Mormons, he became God and just completely I think misunderstanding is too gracious. Um completely ignoring What God has actually revealed about Christ. And so it's usually taking issue with Christ, but there's also a broader Set of heresies about the Trinity. Now, it shouldn't surprise us that there's a lot of questions and head scratching when it comes to the doctrine of the Trinity Because how many of us have figured it out? Right? Um and it also shouldn't surprise us. To realize that we as finite mortals shouldn't expect to be able to understand the nature of God, our Creator, except for what He's revealed to us. Um but people say, but that doesn't make sense. Or this certain thing about about Jesus or about God doesn't make sense. Well in what way does it not make sense? It doesn't make sense in the context of our experience, in the context of our logic, so how can our experience and our logic be a judge on what God has revealed about Himself? What's that say about us? It's rather proud, right? So that's not a that's not a I don't know what the right word is. It's not an argument you could say to to prove that God is triune, for example, or that Jesus is both God and man We have to understand those things by what God has revealed in Scripture. But it is to say we ought not to be so proud and arrogant to think that if it doesn't make sense to me, it must not be right. No, if it doesn't make sense to me and it's about God Why should I be the judge of what God has revealed about Himself? Or uh His very nature? Uh it's outside of my experience, okay. God is not me. He's beyond me, right? Um And my logic, hey, it's good. God created us to have minds and an ability to process facts and draw conclusions. We're accountable for him to him for that. But is that infallible? No. I mean how many times have you made logical conclusions that you knew you later learned was wrong? Right? We are fallible. Not only that, but we're fallen. Our minds are corrupted by sin. So it shouldn't surprise us. that we we have anybody has a difficult time getting a mind around the nature of God But that's not a cop out. He has revealed everything we need to know about him. So How do people respond? Well in in you know in the early church I would say Most most of the main heresies that developed had to do with the person of Christ. And you know, there's this uh collective understanding from the teaching of Christ and of the apostles that Jesus Was God, and Jesus was man. And so the early heresies that developed Started from the position that both can't be true. I'm gonna go with this one. That's true, and this one's not. So he is God, but he's not a human being. Or they say, I'm going to say he's a human being and not God. Either one of those I can get my head around, they're saying. But they can't get their head around he's both God and man. And yet anything that departs from that is heresy. Then there's the relationship, I mean the the the Trinity itself. How many of us can figure out the Trinity? Same thing, right? Our finite minds, our mortal minds, even have a hard time absorbing what God has revealed to us about Himself. Does my struggle with it mean that it must be wrong? Not at all. Now, if I come up with some ideas to try to rationalize it and so on, and s try to make it fit with something that makes sense, If that is consistent with Scripture, or at least doesn't conflict with Scripture, what teaches about Christ Perhaps it's helpful. It doesn't mean it's inherently correct, but it might be helpful as an illustration or something like that. But more likely When I come up with something like that, it's going to be inconsistent with what God has revealed. And so there we need to be very alert to error and heresy. So these next many pages, I'm not going to go through in their entirety today. They're mostly for a resource for you in case questions come up about the Trinity. Or the deity of Christ. Or in some cases, even the person and work of the Holy Spirit. So on the Trinity and I'm on page one oh six, usually Um well, I don't know about usually, but often uh the error What people are responding to as being nonsense is not actually the doctrine of the Trinity, but their characterization of what they think the doctrine of the Trinity means. And so, for example, um uh a lot of the cults we've talked about already think that the Godhead, the Trinity, either doesn't exist, but if those who do think it exists think it's um Three different gods. But that's not the doctrine of the Trinity. We're talking about one God. In fact, the doctrine of the Trinity wouldn't be Wouldn't be possible without there being only one God. If there were multiple gods, it wouldn't be the doctrine of the Trinity. It would be Polytheism. Right? And scripture is very clear But there's only one God. We don't become gods. There isn't a group of gods up there. There's only one God. And You see, starting on page 106, you see that testimony of Moses, of other Old Testament prophets, Jesus, the Apostle Paul. And clearly elsewhere, um it's very clear that there's only one God. So that's the foundation of what God has revealed about Himself. There's only one God. He says, there is no other. God says very clearly, right? And like Judaism, Christianity is staunchly monotheistic. And so in a few weeks, we're going to look at Islam, and they are also staunchly monotheistic. Their view of the Trinity, actually in the Quran Allah, Jesus, and Mary. That's what they think we're teaching about the Trinity. God, Jesus, and Mary. And so their big opposition is because they don't understand what God has actually revealed about Himself. There's only one God. Um where do they get married? Where do you think? It came around um The mid or so six hundreds AD? Muhammad where do you think they got the idea that Mary was part of the Trinity? What's that? Yeah. Yeah, early departures from doctrinal Christianity which um became Roman Catholicism. But they even misunderstood that So the doctrine of the Trinity is that God there's only one God However, God has also revealed about Himself that He has existed Eternally, not progressively, but eternally, in three persons: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Now I don't know if we may have touched on this before, but we say persons. A lot of people, when we use the word person, what are they thinking? Human being, a physical body. Um the reason we are persons Or we call them people in the plural, right? The reason we are persons is because we're created in God's image. We have personality because God has personality. What are the marks of personality Intellect, emotions, will, uh, spiritual dimension Which in our case allows for fellowship interaction with our Creator, who is Spirit. God is spirit, right? We're distinct from animals, who are not people. They're not persons. They're not created in God's image. All people, all persons have personality, are persons because they're created in God's image. The question often comes up, and it comes up with Mormons, I think, primarily, and that is: is the Holy Spirit distinct? From the Father. They just think of it uh of the Holy Spirit as God's power and um expressions of God's actions and so on, not a separate person But Jesus particularly always referred to him, the Holy Spirit, as He. Personal program pronouns. So uh let's see where we at. So look at um Deuteronomy 31. Bottom of page 107. Moses spoke in the hearing of all the assembly of Israel the words of this song until they were complete. Givere, O heavens, and let me speak, and let the earth hear the words of my mouth, let the teaching drop as the rain, my speech distill as the dew, as the droplets of the fresh grass, and as the showers of the earth For I proclaim the name of the Lord, ascribe greatness to our God, the rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are just, a God of faithfulness and without justice, without injustice. Righteous and upright is he. They have acted corruptly toward him. They are not his children because of their defect, but are a perverse and crooked generation Do you thus repay the Lord, O foolish and unwise people? Is he not your Father who has brought you, who has bought you? He has made you and established you And likewise in in Isaiah uh we see him referred to as father. So several places God is referred to as Father. And that's how Jesus taught his disciples to pray to him as Father. Right? But also the Son is God. And so, for example, Psalm forty five My heart overflows with a good theme. I address my verses to the king, that is, to God. My tongue is the pen pen of a ready writer. You are fairer than the sons of men. Grace is poured upon your lips. Therefore, God has blessed you forever. He's speaking to the king, divine king, but God has blessed you, King, forever. And then verse 5, your arrows are sharp, the peoples fall under you, your arrows are in the heart of the king's enemies. Your throne, O God, is forever. He's speaking to this king. God has blessed him, but he is also God Therefore, God, your God, anointed you with the oil of joil of above your fellows Isaiah 9, the bottom of page 108. For a child will be born to us, his son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor. Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace. Now You might think, well, that's that's speaking of the Messiah who is going to be born, this child, right? And it's referring to him as eternal father. I think more literally, what that's speaking of is the Father of eternity. In other words, he's your source. Your eternal source, uh, eternal creator. Uh so it is speaking of the sun there. But he's from eternity. In fact, he's the author of all things, creator of all things Uh good question. Um how much did those prophets understand their prophecies? It's not clear that in every case they understood everything, but they were God's vehicles through which He would reveal His truth. Some of them I think at least got most of the import of the prophecy, but they might not have um In Isaiah fifty-three it's clearly the all description of one thing. Right. Yeah, but it's it's easier for us to understand it looking in hindsight, right, and see how it was fulfilled in Christ. It's probably in fact I'm sure it was much harder before those things were fulfilled in Christ to put all the pieces together. he just got inspired by God what he was saying not knowing what he's talking about? Well the first part is correct. He's inspired to say these things and to write them down and to announce them How much he understood, we don't know. Um but we know that um Even a prophecy like that needs to be understood in the context of all of Scripture, and these prophets probably had exposure only to what had been revealed up until then, not all of Scripture And so their understanding, even if it was um somewhat advanced for their time, it might not have been complete the way we can understand it because we have a lot of it more revealed history to us. So, yeah, but they could clearly be saying things that they don't fully understand. Yeah. I think there are lots of examples of that among the prophets. There is one other um uh starting on page one ten um There's a table here that goes one by one to show how each the Father, Son, the Holy Spirit are attributed with attributes that are true only of God Okay, so it starts with omnipresent. That's true only of God. Omniscient. Father, Son, Holy Spirit. Omnipotent. And eternal. Now, I'm on page 111, and maybe as we close, I wanted to bring your attention to Micah 5. 2. Micah five two of course is the one that that speaks of the Messiah being born in Bethlehem. And even the the the teachers at the time of the Magi who came asking where is the where is the king of the Jews going to be born, um they Apparently fairly quickly, said, Oh yeah, well. Micah, 5-2. But as for you, Bethlehem Ephraitha, too little to be among the clans of Judah. From you, one will go forth from me to be ruler in Israel. His goings forth are from long ago, from the days of eternity. So scratch your head on that one. Here's somebody who's going to be born in the future who is from eternity past. I don't think those guys who were advising the Magi's to go to Bethlehem either read or understood the latter part of that verse. That this king of the Jews is no normal king of the Jews, which is why the Magi came to worship him. Right? But he existed from eternity past. He's always existed, but he's going to be born. He's going to take on human flesh. So anyway, there are lots of passages you can work through here concerning the The trying nature of God, because it almost always comes up. And I'm not I don't have time to delve into it today, but beginning on page 115 There's a section that helps us understand what it means that Jesus was begotten, what it means that he was the only begotten of the Father. And in some passages, what it means that he's firstborn. A lot of the cults just get these things wrong. And I want to make sure that we don't get these things wrong. And so I've got more detail here for you. Okay, well I hope those help. And if you've got any questions, I'd be glad to Father, we um In our finite minds, in our fallen state, it's no wonder we don't understand Everything about you are infinite, eternal God. But by your grace you have revealed everything we need to know. Everything that has an impact on our decision making, on our doing what is right And we thank you that you have revealed to us not only what to do, but who you are. And you've given us the faith to act accordingly Pray that uh we'd be effective in helping our uh friends, uh family members, um acquaintances, co-workers, whoever is caught up in some kind of heresy or cult That you give us the grace to speak the truth to them in love, letting your word be what convicts them. And your Spirit who draws them. Thank you, Lord, that we can be a part of that. Pray that we'd be good stewards of that opportunity. In Jesus' name. Amen.