All right, well welcome to lesson three in our survey of local cults and religions. Before I start today, if you have your notes and can turn to page 12 That was from our first lesson where I gave a sort of a synopsis of the cults and religions we're going to be talking about this quarter. But I wanted to alert you that um I know this is surprising, but I made a mistake in this. Alright? First time ever. Yeah. It's gotta happen. So uh I indicated there that Mormons do not believe that Jesus rose from the dead, and that is wrong. They definitely do. They definitely do. I can thank my son-in-law for questioning me about that. And I double checked and sure enough I did make a typo there. Um I think probably it was a copy and paste, you know how that works? And I didn't uh edit it. So that's just the correction. That will be in the next edition, but for now Go ahead and mark in fact even if you're using one of the the um visitor copies, feel free to change that no to a yes. It's the one in Mormonism. Question five. Do you believe that Jesus rose from the dead? Switch that no to a yes. And that of course is a good example of the fact that these notes are not inerrant, but God's word is. And so if there are quotes here of God's word, now that piece is inerrant. The things I write around it, feel free to question. Okay. Okay, so last week we started our actual look at these various cults and religions by looking at uh Roman Catholicism. And of course one of the themes there was it's it's a religion of works Which I think most of you already were aware of. But as I point out here on the top of page 29, when it really comes down to it, all religions except for biblical Christianity, have a works mentality. A works mentality. The belief that we need to do things to make ourselves acceptable before God. However, they would describe God. Uh uh maybe it's just to better ourselves and uh whatever, but it's essentially it's what it's about what we do. And There are lots of reasons for that, I think. It's our fallen minds, and yet our conscience is telling us that there is a God, we're accountable to Him. and that we fall short. It's amazing how much of the gospel people have in their conscience if it hasn't been hardened. Um And yet our pride kind of says, well, I can I could be good enough if I do enough, right? And so that mentality generally is what we'll find throughout here. And I thought it would be helpful in this class after we sort of got a good look at a Gospel of Works. to step back and see how we might address a work's mentality because it's going to be helpful not just in are conversations with Catholics, but for pretty much all of these cults, religions, a lot of what we're going to cover today may be helpful dialogue you could have with them. Okay? Now, uh I quote here from from Mark ten, for example. As Jesus was setting out on a journey, a man ran up to him and no uh before him and asked him, Good teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? That's the question most people are asking in one way or another. It's all about what we do to have right standing before God. Well, what if I were to tell you, how would you respond if I were to say That salvation is by works. By the works of Christ. Yeah, you would either um Declare me a heretic or ask a question. What do you mean by that? Right? And so Greg's been in another room on the classes. The reality is we are saved by works, but it's not our works. It's the work of Christ. Right? And so I'm going to go through that a bit this week. Starting here in letter B, God will certainly justly, correctly, condemn unbelievers on the basis of their works. You look at the great white throne judgment account in Revelation 20, where it says, Then I saw a great white throne and him who sat upon it. From whose presence earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and the small, standing before the throne, and books were opened And another book was opened, which is the Book of Life, and the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books according to their deeds. According to their deeds. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. So our own deeds testify against us that we're not suitable For a relationship with God, for heaven. And then let us see there the gospel that Jesus Bore the wrath of the Father against our sins and his perfect righteousness good works is imputed to us on the basis of faith. That's sort of an intro to everything I'm going to cover today. So in 2 Corinthians 5, 21, we read, He made him who knew no sin. Who's that? Jesus. To be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Do you see the switcheroo there? He took on our sin and we took on his what? Righteousness. Righteousness. What is righteousness? Doing the right thing right. Doing the right thing. Good works. That's righteousness. His his um Normally, when people talk about our salvation, they focus on the fact that Christ died for us. That's true. That was essential. It was necessary. That's why he came. At least it's one reason why he came. What's the other reason he came? Fulfill all righteousness. To fulfill all righteousness, to be righteous Um and his right living, his righteousness is imputed to us. So that he has our sin and paid for it, we have his righteousness, and we reap the benefits of that. So when God looks at us, what does he see? The righteousness of Christ. Man, that is good news. It's not just that he bore our sin. That's half the good news. The other half is we have his righteousness. Placed on our account. God looks at us. He sees righteousness by his grace. And the the perfection, the sinlessness, the obedience of Christ. That's a heart. Man, that's good news. So can we just say that on righteousness? God refers to us as holy. Same thing. Well th the they are different. I may I may have said last week or the week before Righteousness is doing the right thing. What's holiness? It's being. It's being separate from sin. Righteousness is Doing things that are not sin, basically, doing the right thing. God calls each believer a saint. You know, the Catholic Church will say, well, in order to be a saint you have to do this, do this, do this, do this, and do this. God, in his word, calls every believer a saint. What does it mean that we are saints? Set apart. We're holy. The word saint is uh derive from the same word that the the Latin word sanct, like sanctification, we're becoming more holy Progressive sanctification. It's the same word. It means holy. A saint is, you might see in your marginal notes in your Bible, saint means holy one. So when God sees us, he sees that we're holy. And he sees the righteousness of Christ. Righteous. We we c and we are in scripture, we could be called righteous ones as well. Somebody's talking. Oh you so righteous. You Bible study. Oh oh so and I said but no I'm not righteous, I'm a sinner, but Okay. But then so by saying that it's not correct then, right? I mean I well how am I supposed to respond to that? Yeah. Take 'em to Ephesians two, eight through ten. We've looked, I think, already at 8 and 9. By grace you have been saved through faith. And not that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not as a result of works, lest anyone should boast. But verse 10 Says we were created in Christ Jesus for good works, that we would walk in them. So not only do we positionally have the righteousness of Christ, But by his grace, he's working in us to make us more and more holy so that the works we do are actually consistent with our position. So yes, the mark of a true believer is that they are becoming more and more righteous, more and more doing um the right things. Say that and declare that I am righteous because Christ. You know, um imputed righteousness Yes. Yeah, that's that's absolutely true. They might not quite if if it's an unbeliever, I don't know. Um they might not understand imputed righteousness or my position in Christ is that I have all of his righteousness on my account. What they were asking about, I think, was the actual works that you're doing now. Yeah, we're the point to make is we're all a work in process and God is superintending that work to make us more and more like Christ. So that our experience matches our position. So that we've become progressively doing what we should be doing by God's grace. Because our actual position is that we already have the righteousness of Christ, and He's making our experience conform to that progressively. So both are true. Does that help? Sort of. Okay, yeah. Okay. Um I think I read Second Corinthians five. that we might become the righteousness of God in Him. Philippians 3, I count all things to be lost and view the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord. for whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them but rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ, and may be found in him not having a righteousness of my own, derived from the law, that is, by works, But the righteousness which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. So the righteousness we have is the righteousness of Christ in our position, our standing before God. And he works that out in us in a process of progressive sanctification so that, yes, we actually, even in real time, become more and more righteous By God's grace. And that's good news. Needing to stand before God on the basis of our own righteousness Good luck with that. That's not gonna work, right? So let's actually delve into that whole point here. Now starting on the bottom of page 29, I'm illustrating something that I would recommend you try doing, not necessarily in this context, but really with every interaction you have with someone from another religion or a cult or something, is take them to the Word of God. Have them read the appropriate passage, verse or paragraph or whatever it is, and then ask them questions that they would answer from the text. Okay? To get them to interact with what the text is actually saying. You might have to coach them a little bit and say, where do you see that and and whatever? But get them into the Word of God. So, for example, you can take them to Isaiah 64, 6 to show them that what the nature of our righteousness is. For all of us have become like one who is unclean, all of our righteous deeds are like filthy garment, all of us wither like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away. So you can ask questions like, well, according to that passage, what is righteousness? Well, it you know referring to righteous deeds. Okay, so Righteousness is doing the right thing. So what are all of our righteous deeds like from God's perspective? Get him to read the reverse again. We've all become like one who's unclean. All our righteous deeds are like a filthy garment. So what does that suggest? Well it's not a good thing. From God's perspective, everything we would do that would in our mind count as a good deed doesn't count as a good deed in God's economy. In God's perspective it's like a filthy garment. It's unsuitable. Well, then you ask them, and this is the important point here, what does the passage say about how many of this is true for? Well, let's see, it says all of us We have all become I guess it refers to all of us, you're right, it does. Every single one of us All the righteousness we might do, including some things that probably are good things, but most of it, if God looks at us, he's seeing filthy rags And th they might push back on that and say, well, I haven't killed anybody. Well, take them to the next section. Let's just kind of work through this here In order to understand the need for salvation and our position, you really need to take them to the character of God, particularly his holiness. And so you have them read Isaiah 6. 3. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. Leviticus 11, 44, for I am the Lord your God, consecrate yourselves therefore, and be holy, for I am holy. Habakkuk 113, your eyes, God, are too pure to approve evil. You cannot even look on wickedness with favor. So you might ask them, why does God regard our good deeds as filthy garments? Because we're not holy like He is. You might have to help them with that answer, but that's the answer. So what does it mean to be holy, you would ask him? Completely separate from all sin. Most of us, probably all of us, even us, have too low a view of God's holiness. It's so far outside of our experience what true, pure holiness is, that even in Scripture, people who are confronted with the holiness of God, what did they do? Fell down like that man. Woe is me, for I am a man of unclean lips, right? Isaiah six. Um Helping your friend just gain even a little bit of a glimpse of God's holiness, his purity, complete separation from any sin, is a starting point. And then let us see here. The required extent of righteousness. We learned some things from the Sermon on the Mount. In Matthew 5, 20. Jesus said, For I say to you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. Now, that may not be too surprising to you, but to Jesus' hearers Who understood that the Pharisees were the cream of the crop when it came to righteousness? In terms of obeying the law, and o in terms of obeying all the things they loaded on top of the law Like Paul said in his testimonies, how blameless he was as a Pharisee. And so how in the world Someone who's listening to Jesus was thinking, how in the world am I going to be more righteous than those Pharisees? It's hopeless. Ah, that's right. Right answer. It's hopeless. Based on our righteousness. Right? But what was Jesus getting at here? Look at Matthew seven. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father, who is in heaven, will enter. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles? Pretty good works, right? And I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. So being righteous is doing the right things, what God requires So righteousness in these passages refers to our good works. And you could point out to your friend who you're talking with that the Pharisees were Jews whom the meticulously followed all of the law of God, plus their own regulations and traditions and all that stuff. And so no one hearing this statement from Jesus could have imagined anyone more righteous than the Pharisees. Yet, Jesus said that none of those good works would qualify the Pharisees for heaven. Why? Well, the righteous deeds of the Pharisees were like a filthy garment from God's holy perspective. And In reference to Matthew 7, they actually didn't do the will of God. All this righteousness they did on the outside, but they weren't actually doing the will of God. So you can ask him, is it enough to do good things in the name of Christ? By Christ's own teaching, no, it's not. I never knew you, he said. So what is necessary to enter heaven? Well, even from these passages so far, we can discern that it means having done always done the will of God. Have any of us always done the will of God? No. And actually knowing God, it says. Christ said, depart from me, I never knew you. So that'll raise some questions. How do we know God if my righteousness doesn't accomplish it? Right? So what does it mean to do the will of the Father? Well Jesus answered in John 8, 29, He who sent me is with me, and he has not left me alone, for I I always do the things that are pleasing to him. How many people can say that? Only Jesus. And John later in that same uh chapter, verse 46, which of you convicts me of sin? Of course nobody could. Hebrews 4. 15. We do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weakness, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet what? Without sin. Um Jesus is the only one who always Please the Father. Always did what was righteous, never sinned. So By always doing the will of the Father, he was the one who was completely sinless. Okay. Top of page thirty-one the cause of our separation from God. Isaiah fifty-nine. Behold, the Lord's hand is not so short that it cannot save, nor his ear so dull that it cannot hear. But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. And of course, Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death. So you can ask your friends, what does our sin do to our relationship with God? From the text. What's it say? It separates us from God. Why would it do that? Because God's holy. Right? Because does God listen to sinners? Nope. His he's capable of hearing, but he's not hearing those who are opposed to him. What do we earn when we sin? Death. It's it's the wage we earn. We're thinking about earning eternal life. What do we earn when we sin? Eternal separation from God. I'm wondering if it was actually possible to be a true believer and a Pharisee and to actually be doing what they did for the right reasons and God would have considered them righteous. I guess as a category, the Pharisees were in the wrong cat they were wrong and they were unrighteous. Right. Their their their theology was wrong and therefore their ac actions For the most part, were wrong. Was it possible to be a Pharisee and a believer? Yeah, we know of at least two in Scripture. Nicodemus. Nicodemus? Joseph. He might not have been saved completely at the time of John three, when Christ was he came to Christ at night, but why did he go to Christ at night? He had to try to figure this out, right? His heart was right. And Jesus worked with it. And what evidence do we have that later he came to Christ? Yeah, he at great risk of his own reputation and standing and whatever, he sided with Christ. Um not the Pharisees. And who else do we need seeing from Scripture? Joseph of Aramithia. Joseph of Arimathea. He was also a Pharisee and on the council. Um when did the office of Pharisees Yeah. Uh that's another whole rabbit trail. Um but Pharisees were not an office. There it was a a religious movement within Judaism. I have a question. Um so you know it says that God does not hear, you know, um the unbeliever, but what about like when you know God asks for us to call out Like I I remember a time in my life where I called out some deep in sin and I I feel like I don't know, you know, whether that was also maybe played some form of a Yeah. Excellent question. I'm glad you asked that. And the question was, if God doesn't even hear unbelievers Um how could they ever be be saved, in fact? Because to be saved, you have to call out to God, right? Well the answer is God does listen to the prayer of a repentant sinner. Why? Because he put that repentance and that faith in that unbeliever's heart to begin with. If God has not Called someone and uh given them faith and repentance. then any f faith and repentance they might be demonstrated is going to be self-generated and God doesn't listen to us like filthy rags. Okay. Uh letter F. Speaking of the Pharisees So our righteousness needs to be greater than that of the Pharisees. Well, the point is that their righteousness was external only. And back to the Sermon on the Mount here where it talked about the Pharisees. In verses 25, 27, 28 of chapter 5, Jesus said, You've heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. That's of course in the law, Ten Commandments. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her in her uh uh for her has already committed adultery with her where? And his heart. What's God looking for? The heart. And then later in Matthew chapter twenty three Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Man, Jesus just was strong. In confronting these guys who are full of pride and self-righteousness and whatever. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and of the dish, but inside they are full of robbery and self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee. First clean the inside of the cup and of the dish. So that the outside of it may become clean also. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs Which on the outside appear beautiful, but inside they're full of what? Dead man's bones. Dead men's bones. And all uncleanness. So you too outwardly appear righteous to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. So how well uh let me ask the question I'm suggesting here you ask your friend. Scripture uses the term heart To refer to our inside, the the immaterial part of us, not our the pump that pumps blood But the it's it's the real us on the inside, sometimes referring to our soul, our spirit, or heart. It's all the same thing in scripture. So, what is someone who does the right thing to be seen by man, but inwardly is quite the opposite? A hypocrite. You get them to think through those terms, right? So then you ask, how can our unrighteousness then surpass that of the Pharisees? By doing the right thing, but what? From the heart. Not just superficially for show, but doing the right thing for the right reasons. That's what God's looking for. It was that immaterial being that was dead in sin, and that's what He gave us. New immaterial being made Elijah in Christ? Is that the first one? He makes us alive. Yes, he gives us a a new heart in the sense that it's it's all things have become new. Our our soul isn't changed uh isn't it's not a new soul. He hasn't swapped out the souls. Um and our spirit, same thing. But All things have become new. Right? So he's he's changed us. He's changed our our our heart. O our willingness to obey him, our desire to uh please him and do things do the right things for the right reasons. And that even grows over time. Uh for sure. I was just I was just gonna say about what you So the heart doesn't change automatically overnight within twenty-four hours you're we're in because I know as my walk with Christ it's taking me some time and I'm still growing um to be convicted of a couple of things that I just didn't understand or wasn't clear about. So, you know, ten, eleven years into this walk and I know I have a whole lot more to accomplish. So anyway, going to this clean heart or whatever, it's it's every day the process. Yes, and it starts with genuine repentance. Yes. Genuine saving faith. And um But he's made us a Exactly. We are complete completely righteous, holy in God's eyes because of Christ. And he's energized our hearts to be uh completely opposite of what they used to be. Not bondage to sin and and so on for sure. I I always think of it as just your ability to see the truth and recognize that that's what's new. Because take the blinders off. Right. Right Yeah, and that has implications, yeah. Right at the two words are justification, which is which is instantaneously your heart of stone and your heart of flesh. So that that's instant but sanctification to the process. And that that's something that does take over time. As many of us as all of us ever believe there's experience. Yeah, actually, uh I think I mentioned this last week or the week before Scripture uses the term sanctified or sanctification in two different ways Mostly, most of the time, it's this progressive becoming more and more like Christ. That's what it's talking about. But there are some times in Scripture where it uses the word sanctified in the past tense people who have been sanctified, already done, it's that's dealing with our position in Christ. That because of our our being in Christ, uh we are sanctified. He can call us holy at that point. That's our position, and the progressive sanctification is what he uses to make us make our experience more closely match our position. So uh yeah, normally when we talk about sanctification, what we're talking about is that progressive aspect of it. Yeah. And that's what we're talking about here is that progressive work in process. Yeah. Okay. Um Letter G, the nature of man's heart. Jeremiah 17, 9, 10. You take them to that, have them read it The heart is more deceitful than all else and is desperately sick. Who can understand it? I, the Lord, search the heart and I test the mind. And again, not only do most people have too low a view of God We tend to have too high a view of ourselves. Right? And that's an example of it. The heart is more deceitful What's what's so deceitful about it? We're being self-deceived and thinking that we're better than we really are. Right? Desperately sick. Proverbs 20, verse 9. Who can say, I have cleansed my heart, I am pure from my sin? Uh and then of course Romans three quotes a lot of different passages from the Old Testament that indicate that nobody Is sinless. In fact, um people don't on their own even seek for God. And there's no fear of God before their eyes. So uh yeah. So the heart inside and intention of this thing The heart and intentions. Yeah, intentions or motivations, reasons. Um yeah, we some things we do Inadvertently? Yeah. But the fact that they're inadvertent doesn't mean that they weren't sinful. Yeah, but so they're excusing themselves because my intention was to you shouldn't be mad at me Yes. And and it it's helpful to point that out, if it's true, that it wasn't a deliberate sin against you, but it could have been a sin against them that still needs to be uh worked on There's a whole list of requirements in in the law of Moses for what to do about unintentional sins. As opposed to the intentional ones, which are far greater, right? Um so yes, it is material to your relationship for someone to know that I didn't actually mean to do that. Uh it doesn't mean that it wasn't sin, but I didn't intend to do it. Pre med pre meditate. Premeditate, yeah. Uh and so if it is premeditated, then it's a higher standard of of what's required to restore your relationship with them for sure. Um but the fact that it was not your intent to sin doesn't mean it was any less sin. We still need there there's sometimes broken relationships and so on. Yeah, if you've offended someone even though you didn't intend to, you apologize because you still have to deal with the aftermath. Right. Yeah. So it is important. Even when you're you're correcting your children, you need to as best you can discern whether it was Malice intent or unintentional. But both could be sin that need to be corrected. But they'll be corrected in different ways based on the intent. Okay? Okay. So how does God describe the heart, deceitful, sick, and pure, wicked? That's not a good picture. For how many of this is true? All of us? Then you take them to James 2 to look at the effect of just one sin. You know this passage, I'm sure, for whoever keeps the whole law yet stumbles on just one it'sy ditzy teeny weeny point, he has become guilty of all And Galatians 3:10. For as many as are of the works of the law, in other words, those who are depending on the law for their salvation. They're under a curse. For it is written, Curses is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them. So the question you can ask your friend is how perfect do we need to be? A hundred percent. And then ask them, can any of us reach that standard? They should realize the answer is no. We can't. Does God grade on the curve? You know what grading on the curve is, right? Um grading on the curve. So if he did, he would allow the best people into heaven, even though they wouldn't be perfectly holy. Does God do that? No. That's a very low view of the holiness of God. What is the curse exactly? Is it like a declared curse from the Lord? It's just declared and no What is the curve? Well, what he's referring to here in Galatians is um if you're setting out to have a right standing with God Based on your good works, keeping the law, doing whatever. Guess what? Is that gonna work? No. Why? Because you're not sinless The sin because of God's holiness and justice needs to be paid for. That's the curse. Yeah, you're y you you're on the road to death. If if you're relying on those good works To be acceptable before God. Okay. Yep. Um number four here. Even if we were perfect from now till the day we die Would that make us holy? No. Our prior sins disqualify us from heaven, even if we're perfect from today onward. Yeah. And then number five, can God let us into heaven if our good deeds outweigh our sin? You think that's a very popular view out there? And we're gonna see later it's actually written in the Quran. Um and The answer of course is no. Why? Any good deeds that we do, well that's what's required And those good deeds don't carry with them any extra merit to counteract our sin. So there's let's say there are some good deeds. Most of the things we think are good deeds are filthy rags in God's eyes, but let's hypothetically think there are some good deeds None of them carry any extra merit to counteract and pay for our sins. So if we had only one sin on that side of the scales, and all these great good deeds, let's say, for example, they they qualify before God That sin has to be paid for. And to believe that God would look at those and weigh the good against the bad is to have that very low view of God's holiness. I I don't want a war picture. So you have you got your tale of your bad deeds and your good deeds, but he says if you Commit one sin, you're guilty of all. So you have to put the weight of all sins, and there's no amount of good deeds that's gonna counter. Even if they did have marriage. Yeah, yeah, I think mostly what it means is that if you're guilty on one point, there's no difference in the outcome than if you're guilty of every single thing. And of course most of us are guilty of so many we can't count, right? So it's sort of immaterial how good are we. It's as if we were the most evil person and and and and everything we did was evil, it's no different in the outcome with one who o only missed by one little point. Exactly. So what we think is righteousness. It's it's it's not it doesn't come close to what God would um require of us. But if you are in Christ You have the ability to do righteous things, right? That aren't filthy, right? For sure. That's what he produces in us. But the ki the key thing for our salvation, and that's what the balance means the the the bit scales is for, the key thing on our salvation is that it doesn't depend on even our faithfulness and doing good works from the moment of salvation on or are growing in that righteousness, what it depends on is the righteousness of Christ. Because he never sinned. And uh there's nothing there to pay for for his own sin, so he can then apply that to us. That's the key. The problem of people wanting to apply the the word picture up to scales and like weigh their good deeds, kept their bad. But then if you just take them and you kind of set them in the the mindset of what if this were a legal trial you're being tried on this specific count it doesn't matter what else you've done with your life you're being tried on this specific town Now, if you are guilty, you are guilty. And you must have the punishment for that crime. So so a lot of times you know trying to even just bring this scale into the picture is setting them up for a wrong frame of reference before a right judge. Yes, a a wrong frame of reference, a wrong understanding of God Himself and His standards. But that's a good example that that, you know, someone is on trial for murder and he his defense is, well, you know, I've done this this this all these good things I give to my church. I'm a member of Hope Bible Church for goodness sake. And all these long lists of things, and that's not going to interest the judge whatsoever. Because what's at issue is this thing right here. Right. I've heard a lot of people use an argument about well, what about all the people in the Old Testament? What do we What's the response to that? Tell them to read Romans and Galatians. And the example is Abraham. Abraham did what? He believed God and it was credited to him as what? Is that works? No? Paul makes a very strong case in both Romans and Galatians that it's faith, taking God at his word, that God's looking for. Could they use that to say, well, then why do I need Jesus if I just believe what God says? Well, then I can see the Bible and you're not believing what God says. Exactly. That's why you need to keep your word interaction with him based on scripture Good. Okay. Um Letter I, I think you can you can go over it yourself. We can't be saved by doing good works. It's repeating some of the things. In fact, I I just quoted from one of the passages here. Uh two of them actually. Uh but that's where you can speak about what justification is. those passages are talking about justification, that's the legal pronouncement by God, that you now have right standing with him. And that's not a process like the Catholics would teach. It's it's a legal declaration. by God. And the example, a good example of that is Abraham. And then letter J, I've actually got a little picture here of of the scales. And why it doesn't work that way. Letter K, Christ lived and died on our behalf in our place. You can take them to Isaiah 53. It talks so much about his substitutionary death for us, right? Crust for our iniquities. And then Romans 3. We've read from 2 Corinthians 5. 21 and also Philippians 3. So We're running short on time. Flip over to L. We are saved by grace, through faith, not on the basis of our works. And of course there's a bunch of passages you can go to. Here are some of the more common ones. One that um I think it would be very helpful to share with your Catholic friends. Look in the middle there on page 34, Romans 11, 6, where you know we see that salvation is by grace. But 116 says, if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works. Otherwise, grace is no longer grace. What is grace? Unmerited favor. What's the difference between mercy and grace? Mercy Exactly. Everybody hear that? Mercy is when he doesn't give us what we do deserve, which is what we're doing. Death, separation from him eternally. Grace, and that is that is true. That that's part of the story, the the gospel. But grace is not saying grace is giving us what we don't deserve, which is what? Everlasting life. Everlasting life. The righteousness of Christ on our behalf. His death on our behalf. Everything on our behalf. Um we don't deserve any of that. So it's both both um Mercy and also grace working together. But uh we as we saw last week, Catholics are very fond about This is all uh you know, God's giving us more grace as we do these various things, but Romans 11. 6 says, if it is by grace, it is no longer the basis of works. We don't do things to earn grace because grace is a gift. It's a free gift. That's what the word grace means, caris in in Greek. It just means gift. Um Okay. M. Christ's death paid for all sins, past, present, and future, of those who repent and trust in Him alone. There is nothing we can add to what he has already paid. And so John nineteen thirty, for example. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, it is finished. What is finished? The payment. The payment. Yeah. So uh that in the Greek is is a word tetelesi, which means paid in full. It's an accounting term. Paid in full. And then when you look at Colossians 2, there's a good Therefore, here, when you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh, he made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt, Consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us, and he has taken that out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. It is finished, paid in full. The certificate of debt. The debt we owe God because of our righteousness. Christ paid, nailed it to the cross, essentially, as he was nailed to the cross. And um So his death accomplished that. It might also be helpful to take them to, among these other verses, Romans 6. 10, which is on page 35. For the death that he died, he died to sin once for all. He's not recrucified every time we have the Lord's Supper. He died once for all. Okay, then letter N Because our salvation is completely paid for by Christ, genuine Christians cannot lose their salvation. If we had to work to stay saved, then salvation would not be a gift. It would And it would not be eternal life. Yes. Yes Um that's oh what what do I mean by genuine Christians? If you're talking with someone who thinks they're Christian and they're relying on works, they're not a genuine Christian. So when I y y you might use other words like um um biblical Christians or or genuine believers Ah. That's a good segue to letter O. If we can't lose our salvation when we sin, then why not sin as much as we want? Well, Paul understood that would be a logical question, so in Romans 6 He says, what shall we s say then? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may increase? Right, the more I sin, the more I get God's grace and demonstrate God's grace, doesn't that glorify God? That's warp thinking. May it never be, he said, how shall we who die to sin still live in it? Even so, consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus. And he asks in verse 15. Shall we sin because we are not under the law but under grace? May it never be. Do you not know that when you present yourselves to someone as slaves for obedience, you are slaves of the one to whom you obey Either of sin resulting in death or of obedience resulting in righteousness. But thanks be to God. That though you were slaves of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed, and having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. And then as we somebody quoted earlier, 2 Corinthians 5. 17, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creature, the old things passed away. Behold, now new things have come. So You can take your friend to these passages, have him read them, then ask him this. Why would someone who is saved from the wrath of God by his gracious gift no longer desire to sin? Well, this passage gives us lots of reasons. First, the person is dead to, that is freed from sin. able not to obey sin as his master, and therefore able to avoid sin's negative consequences. And so take him back to verse 14 to see that. That person also thanks God for his magnificent gift and lives in gratitude to him. You've probably all experienced that. I desire to do the right thing because I'm very thankful for the price Christ had to pay for me. I didn't deserve it. My desire now is to please him, to serve him. And that's what verse 17 is getting at. The latter part of verse 17 is also because the person who is saved became able to obey God from the heart. Not just outwardly. Uh and so we are changed, right? We're not dealing in the same mode as before we were saved. And then verse eighteen, it's because we became a slave of righteousness, doing the right things. And then, of course, 2 Corinthians 5. 17 emphasizes that God transforms the believer from the inside out at the heart level. So why would someone who is saved desire to live a Christian or a a righteous life For those reasons. God's changed us. Yeah, none of us is going to be perfect in that. That's why these things, even in Romans 6, Paul is exhorting them into obedience. Uh it's not something that comes automatic without we're not robots. Our sanctification requires our cooperation. Um But the truth about our sin nature, who we're slaves to, who we're not slaves to helps to work in our heart to affirm that, yes, my desire is to do the right thing for the right reasons. Paul, just like us, struggled with sin. He was not perfect. I think he made a lot more progress than any of us have. But um he recognized his own um sinful heart that needed to be following his own advice here. Um So when we become Christians, we're not sinlessly perfect. We are not fully in our experience. holy. We're commanded to be holy because God is holy. The way God in His wisdom has designed it is that we would Yield to the Holy Spirit, who is prompting us to recognize sin in our life and forsake it. And also prompting us to um do the right thing for the right reason from the heart. And we don't do that perfectly. But um presumably, I mean the intent is that we're doing it more perfectly as we mature. And um It's the work of the spirit in our life to help us become more and more like Christ. We need to cooperate with him, but yes. We can't do it on our own strength. But we need to bear fruit. So if there's no fruit, then obviously we are not doing it. Right. Yeah. We need we will it's not that we only need to, but we will be bearing fruit Because we're genuinely saved and the Holy Spirit's working in us to create that those results, that fruit. Yeah. Well, you're gonna have to listen faster next time. Um let's pray. Father, what a joy it is to know that our salvation is secure in you. It's based on none of our righteousness. but on the perfect life and substitutionary death of Christ, for which we can take no credit at all And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to work through passages like this with our friends who are caught up in a works mentality. So that they would see just a glimpse by your grace, they would see a glimpse of your holiness, your perfection, your standard, and how far we fall short. So that they would by your grace come to the point where they would ask, how then can I be saved? Thank you, Lord, for using us in that process. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.