August thirteenth, two thousand twenty-three, lesson eleven All right, so we are on lesson eleven today. Does everyone have a copy of the notes, or does anyone need a copy of the notes? Raise your hand. Okay Um we're beginning a series uh today on Islam. And um let me maybe start with a show of hands. How many of you uh have maybe a neighbor or a coworker or someone you know in the area? Who's a Muslim? Anybody know quite a few, sure. Um You know, it it used to be we needed missionaries to go to Muslim countries to uh share the gospel, but now A lot of them are here and we have more opportunities than you would have in a Muslim country to share the gospel. And so um I'm hoping that this will provide some uh context and and background so that when you encounter those folks and befriend them and and begin talking uh about their experience with Islam and presumably they'll ask you about your experience with Christianity, that God would use that and draw many of them to himself. So I'm on page one thirty-three in the notes. And I think it's helpful, particularly with Islam, although we've done it with most of the the the cults and so on we've looked at so far, but to look at the the historical and cultural backdrop. Um Islam of course uh i came out of um uh Arabian culture in around the the uh seventh century in the six hundred AD. And what existed prior to that in Arabia was pretty typical tribal uh gods. So, you know, every people, and you see s evidence of this around the nation of Israel, um, every culture, every people sort of had their own god or gods. And Uh that was certainly true in in Arabia and many tribes and many gods. Um and And yet there there was there was you know when we think of today we think of Saudi Arabia. That's that's one country, right? Uh but back then it was just many tribes. They weren't officially Um connected, but they were culturally connected. And um and so they would They would all have the same language and and um many of the same uh practices and so on. But um the the uh central place of of worship was in Mecca, um long before Muhammad even though it was a worship of many, many gods. And among those gods, and they each had a name, Among those gods was one that was considered to be the chief of the gods, and his name was Allah. Now the word Allah really just means the God. That's really all it means. Um and uh Sort of like in sort of Greek mythology culture where each god had sort of a distinctive role or characteristic like the god of war, you know, and the god of this and the god of that. And that was sort of the case here as well with these many Arabian gods. Allah, being the chief god, had uh the uh I guess the responsibility to oversee uh commerce particularly. And so um Because of that, they were all interested because they all had to have commerce with one another. They all had to travel, they had the caravans and everything for for trade and And um uh there were dangers associated with that and so they needed uh uh the protection of this god Allah. And so they didn't mind worshiping Allah along with their own tribal gods. The central place of worship was in Mecca, um although there was separate worship in all the the tribes, but at that place they they built What became known as the Ka'aba. And that's still there today. That's where Muslims worship in Mecca But it was a place that exalted all of those tribal gods, like three hundred and how many? Three hundred and sixty-ish. Um sixty seven, yeah. Uh tribal gods. They were all recognized throughout with little statues and whatever in the Ka'aba. Um And that was their culture. The the ruling party in or ruling clan in Mecca at at that time was the Quraysh uh tribe. And Muhammad was born into that tribe. In fact, into a rather his father and grandfather had significant roles even in the Ka'aba itself. And so he came on the scene in that kind of background. If you look in the middle of page 133, there's a note here that Pagan Arabians, which was pretty much all Arabians, before Muhammad instituted several religious practices that carried over into Islam. And so, in particular, the Sabaeans prayed toward the Ka'aba in Mecca five times a day. That predates Islam. Uh they also practiced thirty days of fasting on an annual basis, and that carried over into uh Islam as well. Those who lived outside of Mecca would often make a pilgrimage to Mecca. It wasn't I'm not sure that it was as formalized as it is in Islam. But uh the idea of coming to this central place and the Ka'aba being the the the the place to come to uh had its start even before Abraham was born. It had nothing to do with Islam. It had everything to do with these multiple gods. The Arabs uh had quite a bit of Jewish influence You know, the Jews were not just located in Palestine. Uh they were sort of all over the place in various concentrations. Um but w we see rev uh reference to Arabia multiple times both in the Old Testament and the New Testament. And Jews certainly did settle throughout the whole area, including various places in in Arabia. Um And that picked up a lot after seventy AD when remember what happened in seventy AD. Yeah, the Jerusalem fell under the Romans, and so there's a great dispersion uh all over the place. The Jews went everywhere, including uh to Arabia. Uh and of significant note with regard to Islam is a very strong uh Jewish concentration in the Arabian town of uh Yathrib, which later became known as Medina, uh under uh Um I think it was changed the name under Muhammad. Uh but that's where his mother was born and he spent a lot of time there. We'll talk a little bit about that in a few minutes. But there were a lot of Jews there. And so um Muhammad clearly had a lot of interaction with Jews. But he also had interaction with um Christians, or at least people who themselves were influenced by Christianity. There were already offshoots of Christianity by the time of Muhammad in the 600s. So there are two well I'm going to get to that actually on the next page. But you see the the area, the the Arabian peninsula, the Arabian area, uh was Uh you know, we're used to the US being kind of a mixture of people from all sorts of backgrounds and there's some of that here, except that um a lot of it was just the Arabian tribes themselves having their own distinct uh characteristics within the greater Arabian uh culture. Uh but they were influenced by other peoples as well, in and religiously influenced by both Jews and uh uh Christianity. Yeah, so the question is, is that why the Quran referenced Jesus as a prophet? Um it is significantly related. I don't know that I would give it a causal relationship But um and we're going to come back to that. Yeah. Okay, so that's just sort of the general setting. Muhammad comes on the scene. He was born in 570 A. D. And as I mentioned, he was born into that ruling Quraysh tribe in Mecca. Uh his mother died when he was six years old, and I think his father if I'm not mistaken, had already died at that point. So he was pretty well orphaned at a at a very young age and he was brought up by uh grandfather, uncle, and um um and so for all of his life he was very sensitive to the plight of orphans because he had experienced that Uh it didn't really hit with him until later, but that background proved very significant in shaping his concerns and and so on. Um so he eventually began working for a wealthy uh widow from the same Quraysh tribe. Her name was Khadijah. She ha she ran a a caravan business, uh sort of like a uh not just shipping but also trade and you know just the normal kind of caravan um uh type of activity. And he ended up marrying the boss. Uh she was roughly forty and he was twenty-five at the time, so it was a little bit of a mismatch. Um but he had impeccable uh lineage and he's probably uh quite the personality and um He b before they got married, while he was working for her, he was sort of supervising and and going on some of these caravans and and traveled widely and and so on And apparently it proved to be uh effective and and uh responsible. Um But anyway, they got married, and uh she bore him two sons, who both died in infancy, and four daughters. Uh particularly two of them figure pretty significantly in Islam later So because of the mix of of uh religions and uh different gods and so on in Arabia, and The fairly widespread presence of Jews and Christians or Christian offshoots Um he had quite a exposure to a mix of things and going on those caravans Uh you know, you you go a a day's journey. Um it might be that you would I I'm assuming there might be times when you would just sort of camp out, um but in the Arabian uh desert areas particularly, you might not want to do that very often. Um but there were these oases and places where people would would come to to um stay over and um Because there are a lot of these caravans from different directions, from different peoples and representing different uh cultures. Um they did a lot of socializing, talking, uh learning about each other's culture and um obviously their religious practices and so on. And so That was one way that that Muhammad gained some familiarity with uh Judaism and the Old Testament. as well as uh Christianity. However, I should mention here that um Muhammad Very similar to everyone else in Arabia, with some exceptions, but uh he couldn't read and write. And that was not rare at all. That was that was the typical experience of people in that culture. Um and so how did people um learn? How did they convey what they learned? It was all oral. It was an oral based culture. And much of the Old Testament had very similar things. People uh handed down from generation to generation um their experiences. But anyway, Muslims, I think it's generally understood by Muslims that he couldn't read nor write, which they take to be actual uh uh evidence that look what look what Allah has done through such a such a person who couldn't read and write and yet um he's He's he's done so much and he's worked through Allah has worked through him in such a big way. So they they take that as a point of uh confirmation But because of that, it wasn't like he read the Old Testament Or the New Testament. They were around, but they weren't printed in Arabic anyway. So uh at the time he lived Uh so how did he learn these things? He learned them by talking to people, hearing their stories, hearing their their description of biblical events and biblical doctrines and so on. And not all of their their um stories and the spin they would put on them were actually accurate, he probably heard conflicting stories from different groups and and whatever. And so He and he had no way of con checking those, and probably most of the people who told them these things didn't either, didn't have any way to check it against the text like we would, you know, could the Old Testament or the New Testament Anyway, he just over time developed this hodgepodge of of ideas and perceptions and and so on. An important another important factor here with the Arabians is that even prior to um Muhammad They understood that their lineage went back to Abraham, but not through Isaac, rather through Ishmael. And Um that's probably largely true, although the people who settled in Arabia were kind of a hodgepodge of people, but a significant part of them, it seems like uh were descendants of uh many of them descendants of Ishmael, others descendants of um other sons of uh Shem, going all the way back to Shem who was one of Noah's sons, right? Uh and you see reference to some of the people groups in Arabia listed in the Bible as descendants. You know, the the um the leaders of those clans are listed in the Bible. Well, two things about that. One is um do you know what it means to be Semitic? We tend to think of it as being Jewish But being Semitic is being a descendant of Shem, which Abraham was, and therefore his descendants were, but so were many other people in Arabia And so, you know, today we see this this big uh conflict between Arabs and Jews, but they're all Semitic. Um something of an irony there. Uh we think of being anti Semitic as being anti Jew. But um even the Arabs are largely Semitic. The Arabic language is very similar to Aramaic, which and ancient E Hebrew, very similar. The scripting on Arabic is a lot different from the the the characters and so on, but the the language and the a lot of the vocabulary are very related, very similar apparently I don't know either one. They're all Greek to me. But but um they are very similar. Okay. So um Yeah, I was going to mention two things there. Um about the oh yes. So I don't know, I forget if we're going to mention it in the coming weeks, but um Muslim's understanding of history is that um A couple of things about the the Ka'aba in Mecca. There's a a black stone there. Uh I didn't review this for today, but my recollection is their understanding is that that's connected with uh Abraham and Ishmael or maybe it's even Adam. Anyway, it goes way back Um and there is a um that stone is is is associated with with their ancient ancestors, they say. Um But more significantly, I think, for us, is they understand uh Abraham's sacrifice of his son, or at least his willingness to obey God to sacrifice his son, was Ishmael, not Isaac. And they point to the Quran for that, but as I read the Quran, it's not at all that clear. But it is definitely the the tradition and and the teaching that it was Ishmael. He's the fe he's the featured one, uh and they're descended from him, and so that's what counts in their view. Um well anyway, the bottom of 135, because Muhammad married into wealth, he kind of retired early. and didn't have to kind of put in quite the work that he did before he married Kadija. And so he ended up having a fair amount of time for Well, what retirees do, right, Ross? Um kind of sitting back and and and just sitting back and reflecting um and Uh there are a number of things that were on his radar. I mentioned the thing about the orphans. Well they really got uh it wasn't it wasn't unique to Arab culture, but They weren't treated well at all. They weren't cared for all that well. He had personal experience with it and was fortunate that he had relatives who were able to take him in and he was okay. But He had quite a quite a burden for how they're treated officially. Um but He also had a number of relatives and his own kind of thinking that all these gods doesn't make a lot of sense Um there was some contradictions and and i it it i it I don't know exactly what what his thought process was. I don't know that he knew what his thought process was. But um he was already gradually getting to the point where he was realizing that this whole idea of multiple gods didn't make much sense. But then in um six eleven A. D. , at the age of forty, he experienced what He claimed was his first visit by the angel Gabriel commissioning him to uh be a prophet of Allah to reveal what what God wanted for uh his people and even for the world. Now his first um uh we're gonna get to that later um No, let's let's go through it now. On the bottom of page one hundred thirty-six. That first revelation quote I put you know revelation in quotes. that he received, he was told to oh by the way, the word Quran means recite or recitation. And that's very much what it was. Um he his job was to receive these revelations and recite them to others so they could learn these things and be taught. And that was that was sort of the natural teaching mode anyway, uh the the the oral uh explanations and traditions and so on. But anyway, the first uh revelation was recorded in the Quran, and you might be wondering why is it numbered uh chapter 96 rather than one. And I think we'll talk about that when we talk about the Quran. But basically um there's no particular order in the Quran Other than perhaps the largest chapters are first, and it kind of gradually goes down, but there are exceptions to that. Anyway, uh it's 96, that's the very first one. Where it says, proclaim or read in the name of your Lord and Cherisher who created man out of a mere clot of congealed blood Claim or proclaim, and your Lord is most bountiful, he who taught the use of the pen taught man that which he knew not There you go. There's his first revelation. Muhammad's initial reaction, as probably yours would have been, was it really? What is this? Are there evil spirits here doing something, playing things with my mind? Um it wasn't at all clear to him, but it was his wife, Khadija, and her cousin who was very much a monotheist, one god. They convinced him that uh he was visited by Gabriel. Apparently he didn't announce who he was like he did often. Um and that this was a message from Allah commissioning him as a prophet. So they had to convince him of this. Um and it it ought not to be surprising that uh especially since he was initially concerned that that this was some kind of um evil spirit uh and so on. A lot of the people who heard him subsequently thought the same thing. What's this this guy is demon possessed or he's got some evil spirit who's talking to him. They didn't didn't latch on to his uh proclamations at all in really going. And it turns out there are a lot of verses in the Quran, I've listed them here for you on page one hundred thirty-seven. that try to encourage Muhammad that even though people are saying he's he's insane or he's got an evil spirit or he's mad or something, um That just shows how foolish they are. And so this is to encourage him to keep pressing on in spite of all that uh um those claims. Um Well, of course, Jesus was accused of that as well, right? But he very quickly and very forcefully explained why that didn't make sense in his case. But people believed it anyway. Alright, well let me go back to the history here. That sort of is the beginning of of Islam, where he began having these series of uh revelations and He got into the mode of, you know, he he's got another one and so he repeats it then to others around him. And he became sort of a um uh walking, talking prophet, uh in progressive revelation from Allah. And he just uh dutifully Communicated whatever was communicated to him to those around him. Well, back to the top of page 136. Some of the the history here. He gained converts Very slowly in Mecca. A lot of this this initial reaction thinking he was demon-possessed, which by the way It's pretty accurate. You read the Quran, you see Satan's fingerprints all over it. But anyway, um uh very few converts in the early going. Uh he faced a lot of opposition, not just because of what he was saying religiously, uh and what he was saying religiously was um Uh like touching the third rail in Arab culture when he starts saying there's only really truly one God, Allah, and the rest of these gods are just made up. Well, you say that in in Arabic culture and particularly in Mecca, and you are not popular at all. Uh in fact it's worse than that. So he didn't get a lot of support in the early going. By 621, two years after his wife died, as well as his uncle apparently, um He saw that he wasn't all that welcome in Mecca, and so he was looking for an alternate place to to gather with those who were following him. And that ended up being, I guess, a place that he knew well, Yathrib, which became known as Medina. That's where his mother came from. And about a hundred he had a following of about a hundred Muslim uh I'm not sure if that's people or families. Maybe it's families. Um they migrated there from Mecca to say, okay, we're not welcome here, let's just go up there and start from scratch and and so on. That was very pivotal in the development of of Islam because in the absence of outright opposition, they had the opportunity to coalesce and build a um a common belief system, uh but also not just a common belief system, but having quite a large community there They needed to establish their own um civil um structure. So uh civil government and and and And Muhammad ended up becoming um what we would call the mayor of Medina, although he was both the religious head and the uh civil authority to making decisions and so on. But that that came after uh the controversy with the Jews in Medina came to a head. Jews were roughly fifty percent of the population before the Muslims got there and Initially, they were respected and welcomed because their uh i in the Muslims view they were worshiping the same god and they have the same ancestor, Abraham, so there's some commonality here But um when time went on, the Jews just had nothing to do with this new cult And um tensions grew and eventually the Muslims uh got rid of the Jews, either by killing them or forcing them out. And so Medina now was completely controlled by the Muslims. And that's when this development of a both their religious and civil um um authority structure and and and way of life got established. Messianic Jews. No, no, they were not Messianic Jews. Well they are all dispersed. They're they were in Medina because of the dispersion. This is generations, it's like what? Um six hundred years after the destruction of Jerusalem. And so the Jews had dispersed and they were a part of that dispersion. Uh okay. So because of that lack of opposition when they finally got rid of the Jews And presumably other people who bailed out or were killed for much the same reason, it became pretty much solely Muslim and the only place in the world w was Muslim at that point. While in Medina Uh one of the things they did, ironically, was to um raid caravans. And so, you know, you see all these movies and stories about caravans in Arabia and you've got um uh raiders who come and and well that that was what they were doing with Medina as their base. Um and they would they would uh take the spoils and that was a large part of their subsistence that way. And as you can imagine That didn't win many friends. Uh and so they were kind of they have kind of an outcast kind of um um status, not just in Arabia, but even beyond, because a lot of these caravans were were coming from elsewhere. But during that time, they they um had a a rather large battle and it's very large in their own thinking, their own um um their own sense of identity because they were outnumbered three to one and yet they won. And Um personally I think one of the reasons they won is that those warriors, the Muslim warriors, had been thoroughly what indoctrinated to believe that if they died in battle, they'd go immediately to paradise. And if they won, that's also good news, because then they'd they'd have all the the the temporal advantages of booty and and so on So they end up becoming very fierce warriors and uh very effective and Uh, although it seems to them t to be a miracle that they beat an enemy who outnumbers them three to one. Um uh th they were well conditioned to do that. But they saw that as confirmation of Allah's um uh being with them, endorsing their this new religion, and it was all um a good movement to be a part of in their minds. because of that. Well that led um on September twenty fourth six twenty two AD No I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This is uh item three on page one hundred thirty six. September twenty fourth, six twenty two, that's when Muhammad himself fled from Mecca and joined the others he sent ahead to Medina. And that date is important in their thinking because that's when the calendar begins, the Muslim calendar begins, September twenty-fourth, uh, six twenty-two AD. So that fleeing from from Mecca to Medina on uh Muhammad's part is called in Arabic the Hydra. I don't know how it's pronounced Hydra. uh which means migration. So he migrated from Mecca to Medina and that event uh is the foundation for their calendar. So every year now is instead of the year of our Lord, it's the year of the Hydra, AH. And that fleeing and developing a a uh civilization community elsewhere actually is also a pattern for them even today, where they go into another country, a a country that allows them to come, and their their goal eventually is to take over But they they uh follow Muhammad's example and uh build slowly over time and either force people out or kill them. until they can take control. And it's it's a strategy that still works today. You see it very clearly happening as we speak in Europe. Okay. So uh item number six says January first, six thirty, so that was like eight years later. Muhammad led an army of 10,000 men. They had grown enough, they were bold enough, they were experienced enough, that they went to take on Mecca. Now that was big for them to even with 10,000 men to take on Mecca. And the idea is to bring all of Mecca into submission to Allah as the only true God. In fact, the word Islam means submission, to submit to Allah. Well Turns out their reputation went before them and all of Mecca just surrendered without a battle. And so you can imagine what happens at this point. He takes over Mecca. He personally destroys all those other gods in the Ka'aba. And now he's And and and other places follow. I mean if Mecca fell, um other places in Arabia uh join suit Or if they didn't like that they that he destroyed their their God, uh they either fled or they got killed. Um so within a fairly short period of time, Arabia came under his um domain. And um The Quran, which what wasn't written down at all during, well, it wasn't compiled in a written form in Muhammad's lifetime But he was receiving these revelations continually throughout this entire period and was teaching these these things to his associates They would memorize them, and I guess they would be repeating them just so they wouldn't forget and that kind of thing. And that was happening continually throughout all this period. And so there are revelations that made it into the Quran from this early Mecca period that he had. A lot of them are from the Medina. period when he was settled there and then others came later while he was back in um in Mecca. And uh it's it's fascinating to see the development of of of those verses based on the history around uh when they happened. So basically He's kept hearing this voice. Yeah, he kept hearing voices. Having these visions and and revelations. Yep. Okay, so on page 137, I've inserted here the tests of a prophet that we see from Scripture. We went over those a couple of years ago. A couple of years. A couple of weeks ago. Uh and let me just review them here. The prophecy must be authoritative, speaking directly for God. The prophecy must include the foretelling of future events that could not be predicted apart from God's knowledge, and those events must come true. The prophecy must be authenticated by signs, attesting miracles, and the prophecy must be consistent with what God has already revealed. Well, if you look at Muhammad's track record and revelations, he claimed to be speaking the words of God. But he didn't give any proof of it, like foretelling events that only God would know about and then they came true. or uh miracles, signs that would attest to the divine nature of of his statements But the real kicker, like we discussed a couple of weeks ago, is that he revealed many things that were in direct opposition to what Scripture had been saying all along. And as we're going to see in a couple of weeks, uh no, next week. As we're going to see next week The typical Muslim answer to that is that um It's not the Quran that's wrong, it's the version of the Bible that's been handed down that's wrong. Now they say it's originally it was from Allah, but Uh it's been corrupted over the years. We can't really trust, at least not all of it, and that puts them in the great position of picking and choosing what they want to trust rather than the whole thing. Um but one of the reasons for the Quran was to set the record straight. You've had all this corruption going along in in Judaism. And it doesn't help that the Jews um didn't obey the law and and and everything that that um uh they had heard and i it was pretty obvious that ms uh at uh Muhammad was able to put connect the dots a bit and see that the Jews were not living up to everything that God had revealed to them. Um and so it became necessary for God to set the record straight. Now, one of the ways they believed he set the record straight was to send Jesus. The idea was that Jesus was preaching the the Muslim gospel, which is we all, everybody needs to submit to Allah. And that that That's the the gospel, the Injil in their understanding. It's basically getting everybody back to the religion of Abraham, who submitted to Allah And uh Jesus came to bring people back to the religion of of um Abraham. But even that got corrupted and so on. So by the time uh Muhammad came along, um that even the message of Jesus had gotten corrupted. And so even the New Testament um can't be believed as they currently had it. That's their understanding. Now there are easy responses to that. We're going to go over some of those things, but uh that's where they're coming from. Because they they sort of know that um If, as they claim, this is the same God, which is not true, it's not the same God, they're worshiped being a false God, but they believe it's the same God as Abraham worshipped So they're kind of obliged to believe that the message that came through Abraham and the subsequent prophets, who they do believe were prophets, um that if there's any inconsistency with this new revelation to Muhammad, it's because the older documents and revelations had gotten corrupted over time and God was just Correcting the record. No. Uh that's where they're coming from. Uh and you see it all the way through the Quran. Well, see, they're not saying that the original was wrong, but they're saying that man has corrupted it Uh and if you look at the Quran actually in verses that Muslims go to to prove this corruption, it doesn't talk about the corruption of the text. It talks about the corruption of the people not obeying the text Big difference. Um but that is an interesting point because um our understanding of God's um revelation is that he didn't just inspire the the biblical authors to write what he wanted written and then uh take hands off No, he was also sovereign over the the transmission of that, the translation of it, the the interpretations of it uh through you know church councils and this kind of thing. Uh that whole process so that we have a Bible today in our language that's faithful to the originals, God was supervising, superintending that entire process. Um He didn't just say, Well, I hope I hope they They obey it and and um we'll see what happens. No, he's more sovereign than that. And the irony, of course, is that Muslims have a very strong understanding of the sovereignty of God But they don't connect the dots. If he's that sovereign, why did he allow his revelation to get so corrupted? Um anyway. A little bit more about Muhammad. Clearly he was a religious reformer, almost single-handedly transformed the Arabian polytheism into staunch monotheism. In fact, the main sin in Islam is to think there's anybody or anything equal to Allah. That's the main sin. They call it um shirk in Arabic. Uh not the shirk like you shirk your responsibilities. It's an Arabic word that that means um having anything or anyone equal with God. And so here again is Satan's fingerprint because You look at verses in the New Testament and the Gospels, for example, where that was a big issue with the Jews and Jesus. And Jesus affirms, I and the Father are one, he who has seen me has seen the Father, uh coming from uh the Father, the Son of God, all those things were very clear to the Jews, this guy's equating himself with God. Um that's the main sin anybody in Islam could imagine. And so there's another example. Well, Jesus didn't actually say that, he said, they say. Um those things have been corrupted and and his words twisted and and whatever. Um because they believe Jesus really was a prophet who Um up until the time of Muhammad was the greatest prophet who had come, trying to get people back to the religion of Abraham. And um The Quran actually speaks very highly of Jesus as such a prophet, but it speaks very clearly that um uh it even affirms that he was born of a virgin. Mary. It gets the story mixed up a little bit, but um that he was virgin born. But the Quran says very clearly that he never claimed to be equal with God. That was Anathema to Jesus, in his own words, they say. Um and so it's this this twisting of the core, I mean, the the the identity of Christ, the the attack on the identity of Christ, where is that from? Satan. Anyway, uh yeah, the question is do they believe he resurrected? Well that's um yes and no, mostly no, because they don't believe he actually died. They don't believe it was him on the cross. And the Quran is very clear. Now it was it was somebody else. And it's not clear who or why or how it happened, but The belief is that Jesus didn't actually die on the cross. Why? Because Satan knows that the reason Jesus died on the cross was to pay for our sins, the very core of the gospel, and What does Satan want to do with that? Deny it? Um just wish away the whole the whole doctrine. So what do they come up with? They come up with, well, he was ascended, he he went up to heaven in spirit, but he was not resurrected from the dead because he didn't even die. He wasn't even on the cross. Yeah. No, there's no sacrifice for sin. Although it is interesting, part of their ritual, particularly on the um um uh what do you call it? The Hajj. When they make the the m the uh pilgrimage to Mecca, one of the ritual things they have to do is an animal sacrifice, but it has nothing to do with c the covering over of sin or anything. The question is, w how would they respond to the question, what must someone do to be saved? Well that presumes that you believe We need salvation. And but more importantly, and we'll talk about this in a couple of weeks, Like everything else, Islam is a religion of works. And so you have to do these very important things to be a Muslim and to stay a Muslim But when it really comes down to it, because Allah is so sovereign, even if you do all those things you have no assurance that He's going to give you a thumbs up. So um there's there's works but there's also uh they say that it's faith. Well you've got to have pretty large faith to believe what they have to believe. Um but also there's fate, which is basically God's thumbs up or thumbs down, and they have no idea. Unless they die a martyr for Allah'cause cause. Then it's a sure thing according to the Quran. And twenty one virgins. It's not they don't call it heaven, they call it paradise. Yeah. Yeah, the the 9-11 guys were very certain that that was going to happen to them. Yeah, when they crash those planes into their towers. Yeah. So anything happens with God that's on sale. They go to hell. Hellfire for eternity, uh, if if it's thumbs down. And uh the Quran is just full of verses that say Allah is most gracious But they don't know what grace is uh when it really comes down to it. Um they're hoping for the best, but like anybody who lives by works You can't know for sure. The Quran very explicitly talks about the scales of good and bad and him judging. It's very explicit about that in multiple places. Um and as as I think I mentioned earlier, that's a very low view of God, a very low low view of His holiness. Um because if if if some good works could cancel out our bad works And we're okay, then those those bad works are completely ignored by a holy God. And there's no justice. there. So it's a very low low view of holiness, a very low view of justice. Um but you don't have anything left if you're depending on works. So they're hoping for the best. Now that gives us an opportunity because our hope is not built on whether my good deeds are outweighing my bad deeds, uh and I'm doing various things that are required, but it's um It's based entirely on the work of Christ, who was uh sinless, didn't have his own sins to pay for. And because of that, I can know for sure that I'll be with God for eternity. And that's something completely foreign to them. You can know for sure. But it's really foreign to anybody who's relying on their works. Because you can't know. Okay. A couple of minutes. Both the Quran and the Hadith, we'll talk about those next week, make it clear that Muhammad was a sinner. They don't make any claim that he was sinless at all. Although, interestingly enough, the idea that Jesus was sinless does not um cause him any difficulty. It's rather strange. Even though most Muslims deny it, the Quran makes it very clear that Muhammad has sinned, and I've cited here three verses from the Quran. And there are other accounts in the hadith where it was clear that he asked for God's forgiveness on multiple occasions. The other interesting thing was that he was a polygamist. Well, so was Abraham, so were many of the the forefathers, uh even Jacob. Um but Muhammad seemed to take it to the next level Um he basically added after his wife Khadija died, uh during which time he didn't have any other wives. Um but after that basically added one more a year. Um his favorite one he married um When she was just six years old and began having sexual relations with her when she was nine. I've got this on page 139. And this is all documented. Others were taken as the booty of war. um and others for sort of political reasons, but um they all came to uh believe that he was um the prophet of God and they all fell in line. Um anyway. Page one hundred forty. He died June 8, 632, at the age of about 62. He had gone back to Medina little after his victory over Mecca in six thirty. Um But he didn't leave any instructions or there's nothing in the Quran and no instructions about who would succeed him and how that would work. And so it just sort of evolved. Uh the first four successors, uh, where the successor had the title of uh caliph Um the first four were connected with Muhammad in key ways. They were his um they're they're made they're known as the companions uh the close companions of Muhammad, and it made sense for them to have a successor drawn from that small pool of close companions. Um and uh so on page 140 I've I've listed uh who they were, some of them were related to him. in various ways. Um but after the f fourth one of them died, then the caliphate um um started taking on uh a hereditary uh sort of like uh a regular kingdom would where the the guy's son and his son and his son followed him Um and one of the main differences that split um the Shiite Muslims off of the the normal Sunni um caliphate was that they believed that the the caliph needed to be a direct descendant of um uh Muhammad, or more particularly of the fourth caliph who was um Ali. And they seem to have succeeded in getting successors uh as Shiites for quite a while until um that there was cut off, there was no successor, the the line stopped And so they believe um in a return someday of um it's kind of like a messianic uh return of Christ They believe this this last Caliph is going to uh return someday. Anyway, so in that early history you get the split of the two major groups of of Muslims Uh the Sunnis Sunnis, which are the the largest, thank um Saudi Arabia, the Sunnis, uh and and the Shiites split off from them And when you think of Shiites, think of um Iran, even Iraq. Now Iraq is interesting because it had both. The majority were Shiites, like from Iran. But Saddam Hussein and company were Sunnis and they were the minority controlling the the majority Shiites. That's why you had this conflict, that's why Iran got involved and um Anyway, that started very early in Islam, the split between the two groups. And there are other groups and offshoots and and even cults within Islam as well. A lot of it goes back to the early days. Okay, so next week we're gonna take a look at the Quran and Hadith. See what they're all about, some characteristics, and give you information that might be helpful when you are talking with your Muslim friends. Okay, let's pray. Father, thank you so much. that were it not for your intervention, we would be caught up in something just like this, if not Islam itself. Thank you that by your grace you have called us out of darkness into light Thank you that your word is your word and it's dependable. It's inerrant and we can t trust it with confidence. And we know that you use it, Lord, as we proclaim it in the hearts of even unbelievers. Lord, we pray that you would help us to be faithful in representing you well among our unbelieving friends and uh even our Muslim friends, and uh that you would be glorified. You have brought them here, many of them. I pray that we would make good use of that opportunity and that this would please you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.