Uh well welcome to our second session on the teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses. Does everybody have a copy of the notes or does anyone need a copy of the notes? Diane has some in the back. We're on page 65. Last week we introduced some of the history and major teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses. And today we're going to delve into some of the specifics of what they teach and how we can use scripture effectively to address those things. I will warn you, I don't know if you've already noticed, but this the notes here in this session seem like they go on and on and on and on. It's there as a resource for you. We're not going to cover everything today. I hope to hit the high points and orient you to what's there. But it's it's definitely there as a resource because if they throw some verse at you and you haven't thought through it Um you can tell 'em, well let me study that further and we can talk later. And Uh chances are if they brought it up it's going to be in these notes and it'll help you to get oriented. You can look at that passage in greater context to understand what it's saying. Uh but the notes should be helpful as well. So we've already mentioned generally for any of these these uh cults and e even religions that we're gonna be talking about Um understanding them really boils down to just a few essential questions. And One thing to be very clear about and for them to be very clear about is what are they basing their teaching on? Now, in the case of Jehovah's Witnesses, they will Well, if you were to ask them here on the top of page 65, do you base your teachings on the rev on revelations other than the Bible? And they might surprise you by saying, no. Everything we teach is from the Bible. And you gotta be prepared for that because uh what they mean by the Bible is not what you mean by the Bible What they mean by the Bible is their New World translation, which gets the Bible to say what they want it to say. uh or even more technically accurate what their founder wanted it to say. Uh and what he wrote about what he taught. Now that raises two um Two important questions that it may be helpful for you fairly early on in any conversation you have with Jehovah's Witness or even Anybody who is using the Bible and You know what it means w when we say that they're using interpreting a passage out of context? Well that's so common. Um and in in their case, where they've come up with their own translation in quotes Uh it's important to start with a question like this. Um Do you know what languages the Bible was originally written in? They might know. Do you all know what were the languages the Bible was originally written in? Hebrew and Greek. Hebrew, the Old Testament, Hebrew, a little bit of Aramaic, which is a variant of Hebrew, and Greek in the New Testament. Those were the prevailing languages at the time they were written among the people who were writing them. Uh the New Testament could have easily been written in Aramaic because the Jews Jesus and the Jews were speaking Aramaic uh in his time, but Greek was far more widespread and the whole purpose was to spread this, and so it made sense for it to be the New Testament to be written in Greek. Um Well anyway, so a follow-on question, maybe they know that the original languages were Hebrew and Greek. So a follow-on question would be, do you know either of those languages? I'm guessing they'll have to say, no, actually I don't. And you could say, well, I don't either. Right? It's all Greek to me. But then a a follow-up question is, well, do you think it would be important for any translation of the Bible, say, into English? To be based on an accurate understanding of the text as it was originally written. And they'll probably say, yeah, that makes sense Well then you could say there's a long history of Bible translation based on the earliest manuscripts in the original languages Conducted by teams of scholars who are experts in Hebrew and Greek. And did you know that the New World Translation, that's their translation, was developed by a committee of just seven members? led by the president and vice president of Jehovah's Witnesses, who had final say on the wording, even though they didn't know Hebrew or Greek. Um they might not know that. But then you can say, well There are several recent translations of the Bible into English that are faithful to the original Hebrew and Greek manuscripts. And you might even suggest, you know, New American Standard, the English Standard version ESV. Even the New King James is is pretty good. There's a new one, I don't know if you've heard of the Legacy Standard Bible. It's um uh very, very similar it's based on really the New American Standard Translation, but it's Um what? Improved um a a tiny bit in some good directions. It was a project that um uh a team um led by John MacArthur recently conducted um in cooperation with uh Lochman Foundation, who are the the um copyright holders, I guess, of the New American Standard. Anyway, um, there are some some good More literal um wordings in a lot of places that that are helpful. Uh but it's probably ninety-nine percent the same as New American Standard. Well anyway, you could just cite several of these and then ask them, uh, don't you think it would be best to study God's Word using one or several of those that are faithful to the original languages? by experts in those languages. And that may be a a uh a fork in the road. If they say, yeah, that makes sense, then you could actually you can have them choose. Which one of those would you like? You know, it it's actually helpful to look at several that are faithful to the original, just to get different understandings of the translations of specific words, phrases, and whatever together they're even better than any one of them separately. But um you can volunteer to use one of those. The idea is to get him away from the one he's been ingrained in. Because it's not faithful to, and there are several places in these notes give you examples of ways that it's not faithful to the original text or even any basic understanding of Greek grammar in a lot of New Testament places. So if you have that kind of conversation, rather than get into um a debate About, well, your Bible says this, my Bible says that, start with the principles that it was written in a different language, and so the translation process is important. And if it's not faithful to the original, then that would be misleading. Right? And why is that important? Because it's God's word. They would agree with you. This is God's word to us. So let's get it right. Okay. Yeah. So which version or translation did they use to change Um I'm not exactly sure of all the details, but I think it was mostly King James. I've heard, I haven't had personal experience, but I've heard that sometimes they will allow you to use the King James, but they're trained in um How to make how to take advantage of the fact that the King James type of English um puts things in ways that if we said that today it would mean something different. And that's what they're looking for, the something different. Languages change over time, and that's why translations need to kind of keep up with modern speaking, but always based on the same original in terms of the Bible. Well, um so which tr wh when you're talking with Jehovah's Witnesses, which translation you use of the Bible is critical and hopeful with that kind of Interaction with them will emphasize the need to have an accurate translation. But there's a second thing, and this is common really with any cult. Quite apart from whether they have other sources of authority in their teaching, but to the extent that they use the Bible, which should be the only thing they base it on The next challenge is um what's the right way to interpret the Bible? And like the example I gave earlier, you know, it's very common for people to read a passage like a birth And make a mountain out of that verse that seems to be consistent with that verse and completely ignore the immediate context or the context of all of Scripture. And that's that's just so typical of how cults find their way. Uh even other religions. Islam does that same thing with with uh the Bible. And so fairly early on, it would be helpful for you to um Have a conversation not just about which translation, but um responsible interpretation. of the Bible. And so you can make several points with them that I think they'll see the logic in. First of all, all scripture is God's Word. I think a Jehovah's Witness would agree with you about that. At least on the surface of it. All scripture is God's word. And you can point to verses like 2 Timothy 3, 16, 17, and so on. And secondly, none of God's word is in error. In other words, it's inerrant. It doesn't have any error at all. So it's entirely God's Word. It's without error. It's faithful. Because after all, it's God's Word. God isn't inconsistent. He never misleads us. He never tells us any lies. So all of Scripture, being God's word, is without error. And then third, because of that, Scripture is consistent. So you won't find a verse here that is inconsistent with a verse here if they're understood properly. Now of course, and you could you can um mention this to your Jehovah's Witness friends that um certainly there are people out there who will say there are contradictions in the Bible and and point to those things because they're essentially unbelievers and they're not willing to understand either of the two texts. completely and understand um it's because they they're approaching it without agreeing with those first two points that all scripture is God's word and none of God's word is in error If they start by disbelieving both of those, then they're going to come up with all sorts of excuses about what Scripture says and doesn't say. But anyway, since all of Scripture is consistent, Scripture is the best interpreter of Scripture. Scripture is the best interpreter of Scripture. That is, if I'm going to understand this passage, I need to understand it in light of everything else the Bible says. Not what people say necessarily, unless what they say is consistent with the Bible. Right? So Scripture is the best place to go to understand anything else. in Scripture. That's going to be a challenge for him because they're so used to taking verses out of context and and making a mountain out of out of nothing. Um and so If you are working through a certain issue with them in the scriptures and you point out other verses that say these other very explicit things, you can ask them things like So how do you justify your position on this passage given all these other examples in Scripture? It's all God's word. God is not trying to mislead us. It's all without error. So we need to understand the really the only way to properly interpret any passage of scripture is in light of Um well let me listen to several things here. One is you You understand it's God's word. He's communicated it to us for our benefit. He's not trying to mislead us. So we should take it literally Unless it's obvious in the context and the language being used that he's using a figure of speech. Like when Jesus said, I am the door. or I am the light. He's using a figure of speech, a metaphor, in order to drive home a basic truth, right? And it's clear from the context. If any of us were to say some things like that, we would understand that it's it's a figure of speech to make a point. But Having said that, the basic approach to Bible interpretation is to understand that it's literal. You wouldn't well I Maybe I'll I'll step back from this a little bit. But it it's often been said you wouldn't read a a a regular newspaper and try to read into it things uh you would just understand from the from the context and the historical context and and um um uh what's actually said in it and the grammar used in it and not take it as as um figurative but rather as literal. And the reason I back up from that because just about any article I've seen in the newsprint or even heard on the radio where I happen to have personal knowledge about the facts They've gotten the facts wrong. That's only because they're human. But um The same basic you know, the way you would approach anything that's that's uh written in a book or or uh wherever is that you would take it to mean what it says unless it's clear using the language or the structure or whatever that it's meant to be a figure of speech. And so that leads to the second principle, and that is that grammar matters. The meaning of something hinges on the grammar. Is it present tense or past tense? Seems pretty simple. The words themselves make it pretty clear, right? But the meaning is a whole lot different if it's in the present or in the past or in the future. Uh whether it's something that's continuing or a one-time event. All those things are caught up in the grammar. And so to understand what words mean, you have to understand not only that it's meant to be literal, but also the grammar. And we just do that all the time without thinking. We interpret sentences based on how they're structured. And if it were worded slightly differently, we would take away from it a different meaning, right? And it's the same way with interpreting scripture. The grammar is important. And by the way, the grammar that's most important is in the original languages, not in the translated version. And that's where translation gets um um sometimes technical and and um Needing some what explanation for mere mortals like us who don't understand the original languages. It's very helpful for those who do to point out the grammatical use of of some words or structure in the sentence. And this is what we've tried to convey in the translation, they say. So that's helpful. And fortunately, actually, for us um who are not expert in those languages, there are a lot of tools that, you know, um study guides and and um uh Hebrew and Greek dictionaries and tied to actual words and verses in the Bible so that um even without being completely conversant in the languages you can benefit from those who are and have been and make use of the tools that they've provided in your research. Okay, so taking it literally, um uh Interpreting with the actual grammar in mind, and then context I mentioned taking things out of context. What is the context? Well, uh, there's certainly the immediate context. You're reading a passage in John 8. Well, let's let's understand This is a historical uh narrative, and so let's understand the history, what's going on in this time period in the life of Christ, and who he's interacting with, and um Often understanding that immediate context, wherever you're at, gives you w whether it's a historical narrative or whether it's just some teaching like in the epistles. Understanding the flow of thought and the flow of of time and whatever in the passage helps you to see, oh, I see where this fits in, right But in addition to the immediate context, you also have the overall context of all of Scripture. Right? So if I come away with an interpretation of this verse Such such a way, and I feel real comfortable that I've got the right interpretation, but then I come across another one, two, three, four, however many other passages that seem to say something completely different What should I how should I handle that? To say those things are wrong and my interpretation of this one's right? That's pretty arrogant, right? So The the context of all of Scripture, any passage, the um it's all inspired by God God is the author ultimately of all of it, so any part of it is going to be consistent with the rest of it. Taking into account progressive revelation, not everything in the Old Testament, or not everything in the New Testament was already revealed in the Old Testament, right? progressive revelation. Christ came and then the teaching. Therefore the need for the New Testament. But so the immediate context, the uh the general context of all of Scripture, and then I mentioned briefly also the historical and cultural context. When Jesus uses a Hebrew or Aramaic idiom Or there's some cultural practice that's described, which may or may not be the central point of the passage, but there's some cultural practice and and so on. like um reclining at table. You've seen that phrase in the New Testament, right? Well, it helps to know what their practice was when gathering together for a meal, just to understand what that means and so on. That's somewhat trivial because it not a whole lot of doctrine swings on that. But there are other things that if misunderstood can be uh misapplied outside the the original uh culture. Now you've got to realize what what I'm not saying here is that There are some things that were true for them but not true for us. We can kind of pick and choose. That's not what I'm saying. But we do need to understand the cultural context of the writers, the those who are in in the events. Um not only does it help to interpret particular verses, but things like You know, you read uh uh an epistle sent by the Apostle Paul and you realize, oh, he was in prison. He was in chains when he wrote this. That might not have a major impact on most passages in that book, but some of them That may be actually very helpful background to know. That's the the historical context. So anyway, you get the point. You can't just take a verse, it says this, and I'm gonna run with it to mean this, and I dare you to to disagree with me. That's pretty arrogant, right? And yet that's what they often do. So you don't want to be equally arrogant and say, no, you have to believe my version and my interpretation. Help them with the principles here. That all scripture is God's Word. None of God's Word is an error. All Scripture is consistent. And therefore, Scripture is the best interpreter of Scripture. So we need to use, our interpretation needs to be subject to all these other contexts, the immediate context, the general context, the grammar that's being used, because indeed God is consistent and His Word is consistent. Yeah, well and Ju mentions that often they do interpret and and take the words and so on literally. The problem is they pick and choose. Sometimes within the same verse They'll take some things as literal and other things as not. Like, for example, speaking of Revelation, the 144,000. So they take that 144,000 literally Which is good. That's right. But that same verse says 144,000 of the nation of Israel, 12,000 from each tribe. And they say, oh, that's figurative. In the same verse. You can't pick and choose. Just willy-nilly. Now if the if there's reason in the text and the context and the grammar and whatever, um But there's none of that in cases like that. Yeah, are are you on a particular page? Yeah, uh six six two number five. From last week. That interpretation is in fact pretty close to Ours. Without much they're taking it pretty much directly from Revelation twenty. Yeah. So I'm not saying that every time they they uh misinterpret But they have a penchant for misinterpreting. I was going to say all, but it's it's a common thing And it can be even common for us, we've got to be careful. It's a common thing to go into a passage of Scripture With a meaning already in our head. And we try to explain away what it actually says to fit our preconceived idea. We need to be very careful not to do that. We always need to use the the principles I've been talking about. Yeah, but the millennium isn't all that central a thing for them. Um but yeah, see that that's fine. We can agree. I mean, just r go ahead and read through Revelation 20 And chances are really good they're going to agree with you that's that's what's going to take place. Now, there are implications though of other teachings they have that relate to the millennium And that is, for example, the 144,000 they take to be the only ones who will uh be in heaven for eternity with God. Uh everybody else is going to be on a paradise on earth, which is the next chapter in Revelation 21. So the fact that they would agree with us and not twist what is well actually it's it's important because there are people um Many of them are actually truly saved Christians who think the millennium is figurative, not a thousand years. And so on that particular minor point, we're more agreement with Jehovah's Witnesses than with other these other believers. But in every case, the problems arise when people go into Scripture with preconceived ideas and try to get the Scripture to say what they want it to say, rather than interpreting it by what it actually does say. Right You've heard the uh the phrase exegesis. It's a Greek word that means you you bring out, ex, you bring out from the text The meaning that's already there. As opposed to isegesis, where you're reading into the text a meaning that's not there. But you're saying that's what it means. And that's usually driven by these preconceived ideas that you have before um going to a text. Now, in the case of Jehovah's Witnesses, and I think to a large degree the Seventh-day Adventist we saw and the Mormons were going to have starting next week A lot of their doctrines were developed by um people Early on in their history, like eighteen hundreds, maybe early nineteen hundreds, um who did what I was saying earlier. You take a verse and without consulting the rest of scripture, you build that up to mean something that it doesn't really mean. And then these teachings became so entrenched that they became more official, more uh authoritative than the scriptures itself. And um that's pretty common and we need to to avoid that for sure. Anyway, so you've got these two things, particularly with Jehovah's Witnesses, witch translation, and basic principles of Bible interpretation. And if you can cover those things fairly early you might be able to avoid a lot of the back and forth because y you you don't want to have a a debate with them. It's just going to be a waste of time. Um you want to get them into the Word and let the Word do what only God's Word can do in their heart. And if they're not ready for that, they're not open for it, say it's been nice talking to you, I'll pray for you. Um you don't you can't convince them into the kingdom of heaven. That's true of anybody. But you can help them to think outside the box a little bit and if they they see where you're coming from in terms of which translation and a proper approach to interpreting scripture, um, then you've got something you can deal with. And um pray that God would indeed soften their heart, open their minds to the truth. And if not, then They've let you know where they're at and say, I don't think we have anything more to discuss, I'll be praying for you. Okay. But if in the process of Further communication with them. They're genuinely um Sticking with a particular trans um uh interpretation of a particular passage Say, I'm I'm sure, for example, that um uh Jesus was created. And that he then created all other things. That's standard Jehovah's Witness teaching. And If he's generally wanting to understand what the scriptures say on that, and you've you've gotten to the point where he's willing to look at a good translation, Then you can take them to the various passages that we have here in the notes that will allow God's word to do in their part what only God's Word can do. We can't do that. Um we can't argue them in. Um But God's word can can work because it is powerful in a two-aid disorder, right? Okay, so I want to use the rest of our time today to walk through some of the examples here. This is in two sections Starting on page sixty five, uh we've got a set of of questions that we introduced in our first class, you know, the the the fundamental questions about uh their doctrine. So dealing first of all with the the authority they base their teaching on And then on top of 866, their mission is your main business proclaiming the gospel of Christ. Um that may or may not be helpful diagnostic question. Uh but one that's very crucial is on the middle of page sixty-six, the deity of Christ. Do you believe that Jesus is the Christ, the eternal word of God, who has come in the flesh? And Jehovah's Witnesses would say, yeah, yeah, it's both yes and no. Um We believe he has come in the flesh, but we don't believe he is Jehovah. We believe Jehovah created him and that Christ or Jesus then created everything else, although he wasn't called Jesus then, he was called Michael. So anyway, we we've got some description of their possible answers with which in they wouldn't necessarily quote these things, but for your reference, there's some actual quotes here from Jehovah's Witness writings That will tell you what their official position is. But then starting in the middle of page 67 You can walk through several passages that might be helpful. And some of those then are Amplified starting on page seventy-two. So starting on page seventy-two, there's another whole set of of notes that are key on topically but uh which passage they might bring up And what they would say about that passage and the right way to be thinking about that passage and questions you can ask them about um the consistency of their position versus the rest of scripture and even the immediate context And so that section, starting on page seventy-two, goes on for quite a while. It looks first of all on the um Uniqueness and authority of the Watchtower Society. And then moves on page 77 to the Person of Jesus Christ and That's probably one of the two main sections you want to address. When they get the person of Christ wrong, they're probably going to get everything else wrong. Um and then the third is on page eighty eight A section on salvation. So it's really the person of Christ and the nature of salvation that are things that would be most fruitful typically to address. They may well raise several of these verses with you and say, there, see, the Bible proves our position. But in each of these cases, you you know you read the actual text and an understanding of of its meaning and then some actual questions you can pose to them So if this is true, then why isn't that true kind of a thing? While we're at it. Of course the the um Yeah, that's the last major section. The thing with salvation, of course, is they are uh very much a works-based religion. Remember we mentioned last week that they believed that when Scripture refers to Christ having made a ransom, what that meant was He paid for the sin of Adam. So we're not culpable for Adam's sin. Basically took care of, I guess they would maybe they wouldn't say it this way, but We are sinners. We inherited a sin nature because of Adam. And their teaching is that Christ did away with that. But each of us individually then have sort of a clean slate like Adam did. And unlike Adam who sinned, our responsibility now is not to sin. And so we're going to stand before God on our own record, not because of Adam's sin. As if that's uh hopeful what happens first. Yeah, I mean that's um um That's not exactly good news. That's what gospel means is good news, right? And so it definitely is uh a a religion of works. And so there's just an abundance of passages you can take them to, and we've got many of them here. That show us very clearly that um no one can be justified by works. It's all by God's grace or not at all. Yes. Yes. And so the reason they go door to door is they're earning their salvation. For sure. Yeah, it's necessary to publish um not publish in the way we think of it, but to like publish glad tidings. Well what they have to preach isn't glad tidings. But it's it's proclaiming their teaching to others. And uh the point is to be faithful. faithful in proclaiming what they believe to be God's truth. If they come to us, what do you do? You encourage them to come in Um if if you are um If your heart is right and and you you want God to use you and you feel uh like you're enough oriented, not an expert, but enough oriented to what the teach and and so on. Um yeah, it would be good to to talk with them. But from the very beginning, you want to make it clear That you're a Christian, that you have trusted Christ as your Savior and Lord. And that you're dependent on his sacrifice on the cross for your sins. And You pray, you're hopeful that they too would come to know Christ. That may be enough for them to turn around and not want to not want to deal with you, but hopefully that will be enough convicting. God can still use that as sort of seeds that are sown. But they may well be trained thinking that they can they can um uh outmaneuver you in in a conversation like that. Um be alert to their Their tactics, their presuppositions, they're they're not being consistent with actually what Scripture says. And if they can't answer your questions to their satisfaction, they will offer to come back with their leader. But again the the the the point The point is not to win a debate with them. The point is to speak the truth in love. And hopefully to act use the actual words of scripture That God would then use to bring conviction. Now that conviction might not come immediately, but um God uses his words and and his word in ways and in timing and whatever that we don't understand. But it is his word that saves souls. It's not our eloquence. It's not our debating techniques or anything like that. So if you think that um uh the conversation and and whatever are not leading to um a legitimate interaction with God's word and they're wanting instead to indoctrinate you on what they believe. then you can just politely say um it it's obvious that you you don't get it and so I'll pray for you. But um Um don't feel like you have to extend the conversation longer than it's necessary to figure out where they're at. But who knows? I mean there are people who have come out of Jehovah's Witnesses and these other cults because God did a work in their hearts and used differ like any of us. Use different events and our interaction with what he said in his word to open our eyes to the truth. And he can do that and he has been doing it with people caught up in these cults. Um but don't expect that it's always going to happen while you're talking with him. Your talking with them can be a helpful step along their path, but you may never know what God ultimately does in their life. Some of it may be because you've planted some seeds. And that's good. So I I wanted to provide for you here as much background and resources because if you do get into some of those conversations, it's helpful to Bring to memory scripture, but also how they're misusing scripture might be helpful in your in your conversation. So this is mostly just a resource in the event that um uh uh you or someone you know is having some conversations with them. But again, particularly for Jehovah's Witnesses, the two key things are the nature of Christ and the nature of the gospel. That it's it's not works. Oh, for what it's worth, I've made a note of it here somewhere. Page seventy-six. The name Jehovah. They're a real stickler on that. It's God's name is Jehovah. And so in Exodus 3. 15, the New World Translation, their translation says, This is what this is God speaking to Moses. This is what you are to say to the sons of Israel, Jehovah, the God of your forefathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name. To time indefinite, and this is the memorial of me to generation after generation And so, as it says here, their interpretation of this is this is to be taken as a command to refer to God as Jehovah forever and ever. Since Jehovah's Witnesses are the only ones who consistently call God by this name, they are the only true followers of God. And so they they're ingrained with that understanding And that if we don't refer to him as Jehovah, we're obviously um not only not saved, but um not correct. Well, it turns out the w the word Jehovah um doesn't appear in the Bible. uh as a word. It's it's a man-made term and it's not found in any of the Greek or Hebrew manuscripts. It would it would be a Hebrew word The word that's actually used in Exodus 315 is Yahweh. Yahweh. Now, that YHWH Um doesn't seem like a word to us, but in the um in the Hebrew and throughout the whole Old Testament Uh it was only consonants, not vowels, but it was pronounced Yahweh. And The ancient Jews avoided pronouncing the name Yahweh, fearing that doing so would break the third commandment, don't take the Lord's name in vain. So they had a very long standing custom that they would not pronounce Yahweh Often when referring to him, they would use an alternate word, Adonai, which means Lord. Or in other cases related words. But eventually There was a kind of a compromise or uh clever alternative among the Jews to combine the consonants, Yahweh, which is the actual word, with the vowel from Adonai, which means Lord. And so if you insert those in You get I don't know how to pronounce it, but it basically becomes something like um Yehovah. That's where it comes from. It's a it's a combination of Yahweh and the vowels from Adonai. And and so that was that was a a um Convention I guess among ancient Jews and it kind of stuck. Um for what it's worth, uh I mentioned earlier the Legacy Standard Bible that came out fairly recently that is a more even more literal than New America Standard in a lot of ways. Whenever the word Yahweh is used, it uses the term Yahweh. It doesn't even use the word Lord when the original is Yahweh. If the original is Adonai, it uses Lord, but if the original is Yahweh, it uses Yahweh. It even uses that where the New Testament makes reference particularly to the Old Testament passages that use Yahweh. But yeah. We've gotten so used to using the word Lord and realize that really what it means is Yahweh, the name of God And by the way, that what does that Yahweh mean? Look at number three here on page seventy-six, the correct interpretation. Both the name Yahweh and the name I am, in that same passage, come from the Hebrew verb to be. And so the name I am who I am describes God's self-existent, eternal being. And it's shortened to Yahweh in verse fifteen. Just I am. So it it it's not like, you know, when we think of a name It's just somebody's name. But when Moses says, well who who should I tell them has sent me, he says, Tell them I am has sent you. Thanks a lot. What does that mean? Well what it means is he's eternal, self-existent. He doesn't owe his existence to anybody. Talk about somebody who's in authority, that's supreme authority, sovereignty. Um So anyway, that's Jehovah. Yeah Yeah. So yeah, Sharpe's rule comes in when you have a sentence that says something like our God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Is that referring to two people or one? From Sharp Ruist the understanding would be one person. Right. It's referring to the same person. Jehovah and Jesus Christ who Jehovah created. Uh uh it's not enough time to get into much else other than to emphasize that if you're gonna um read up on Some of their doctrines and how they interpret various verses, the priority sections here are about the person of Christ and salvation. Um you get the person of Christ wrong, you're gonna get salvation wrong. And if you get salvation wrong, uh you're not saved. Now they would actually say, well, um the only ones who are going to be saved are those hundred and forty-four thousand who go to heaven. The rest of us are merely hoping we'll make it to paradise here on earth. But that requires um faithfulness. And by the way, um You know, we talked about some of the conversations you can have with them, but if if you sense that s anybody is open to Understanding what the Bible actually says about salvation, then take them through a very straightforward presentation of the gospel. And you know, I've got one in I think probably lesson one. Um you just take them through the the nature of God, the nature of man. the problem that that creates. There's a dilemma there. And what God did about that and how we need to respond. And if they're at all open to understanding what you believe the gospel actually is Uh and you can go through that, you could very easily say, that, my friend, is good news. That's what gospel means. If my future with God depends on how good I am, there's nothing good news about that. I'm not worthy. He's too holy. Maybe God will use that. Just stand up for proclaim uh the truth in love And um they might not believe it at that point, but God can still use it. Any other thoughts or questions at this point? Okay, you're all experts now, right? I hope this is uh helpful. If that was easy, we'll go on to Mormons next week. Okay. Yeah. I have not personally gone over that with anybody, but it's a very good question. I mean um if you're dealing with the They're understanding about the person of Christ and they're not accepting the fact that he is God. Then it's a reasonable question to take them to verses like that and say, well why did he accept the worship of of people? Yeah. Yeah, what's also somewhat inconsistent, and we didn't get into their interpretation of John I and their mistranslation of John I, in the beginning was the word Um and the word was a god. Well how many gods are there? Um so they misunderstand the Trinity. Uh they don't believe in the Trinity, they don't believe the Holy Spirit is any different from Jehovah. It's just Jehovah's manifestation. Um, but even their own translation isn't consistent. The word was a God, small g, not big g. And they'll probably say something like, well, Jehovah created him, he created everything else. And so he is chief among God's created beings. They get hung up, of course, on the term only begotten Which means um preeminent and And favored, um unique. It's very similar to um The way God addressed Abraham about his son Isaac in uh Genesis twenty two. Where he says, Take now your son, your only son, Isaac. Um I'm pretty sure if I remember correctly the Septuagint translates that, that's the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament, translates that with the same word as only begotten, because it it is the picture there Abraham became a picture of God's um sacrifice of his only begotten son. Abraham was to do that. um as as a picture of what God would one day do. But was Isaac his only son at that point? No. Isaac was younger than Ishmael by what 12 years? God said, take Isaac, your son, your only son. In what sense was he his only son? The son of the promise, uh most favored one, the preeminent one. The term firstborn is use of Christ. And so they they say, oh, see that? That means that That um he was the first one created by by Jehovah. And that's not what firstborn means. Um firstborn has to do with the prerogatives of a firstborn, the stature. It's used of people like David in the Old Testament. Was David the firstborn in his family? Which one was he? Last out of what? Seven? Yeah. But he's referred to as the firstborn why? He's the preeminent one. He's the one through whom God was working to accomplish his purposes. Um it means preeminent one. Um and it means that with Christ as well. Anyway, we better wrap up. A lot of these same principles are going to come up with other groups that we talk about, so I think you'll see a common theme. But they each have their own unique twists on scripture. Let's pray. Father, uh it is humbling to know that Except for your intervention in our lives, your opening our eyes, softening our hearts. We would be just as bad, if not worse, in our misinterpretation, misuse of Scripture. And so we're thankful that you have grounded us in your truth, which we weren't exactly seeking. And um So that humbles us, but also gives us an interest in in being part of your proclamation of that truth to any who will hear. And we pray that we would be well equipped in terms of our own understanding of Scripture And even uh at least uh a rough idea of where these other groups are coming from, so that uh you could use us to um proclaim the truth in love and allow you to do what only you can do in their hearts Lord, we pray that would be uh fruitful as as you deem fit and uh it would bring glory to you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.