Well welcome to lesson two of our study of local cults and religions. Uh if you're following on in the notes, we're on page twenty-three Uh a couple of background things. Last week on page six We highlighted sort of a working definition of what is a Christian cult. And I wanted to review that before today's lesson. And by the way, uh we say Christian cult because it's it's a uh springs out of Christianity as an offshoot as opposed to springing out of some other religion So it's a religious movement that claims the support of Christ and the Bible, but misses the heart of Christianity, i. e. , the gospel. Because it adopts an additional authority alongside but really superseding the Bible Or it gives prominence to a secondary tenant in place of the core of the Christian faith. So it's kind of broad, but it's also pretty characteristic of all these various groups and traditions and so on. However, I will say that the ones that we're going to be focusing on is not an exhaustive list. I wanted to focus mostly on the ones that are very common, prominent in our area, our local area. Um and ones that may be uh most of us need a little bit of background and help and so on in terms of reaching out to them. But um Uh maybe by way of historical review. Um Particularly for today's lesson. Actually before I do that before I do that, um I wanted to make a correction to something I said last week Um that that I got mixed up actually and someone helped me remember it um afterwards. I said last week that uh um We're talking about uh the resurrection of Christ. I said that well even Muslims believe in the resurrection. That's not actually true. Muslims don't even believe that Christ died on the cross. They believe in that his ascension into heaven, but not either his death or his resurrection from death Uh so we'll get to Muslims later, but I just wanted to clarify that I misspoke uh on that point last week. But anyway, uh by way of historical background Today, of course, we're looking at uh key areas, uh key error errors of Roman Catholic doctrine. And um I don't know how much of a student you have been of the Reformation, where around 1500 and to some extent a little bit before God raised up people from within the Catholic Church to understand from His Word and to rediscover in His Word the truth primarily about salvation, but also things about the church and Christian living and and so on. And Uh their intent in the early going was to reform the church. Get them back to The word, right? Back to basics, back to sound doctrine. That's hence we call it the Reformation. But they didn't. They realized this isn't working. there's there's a brick wall there. Um and so they ended up um going their own separate ways. And it turns out that several of these reform movements uh even had differences with each other. And they they became separate um uh traditions, separate uh denominations, we would call them And uh today those those uh initial denominations that came out of the Reformation are what we call mainline denominations, mainline Protestant denominations. And where are they today? Just as bad, if not worse, than what we were trying to reform back in the 1500s. Uh drifting away from sound doctrine. Right? And the the purity of the gospel, you don't see it there anymore. Right? So what I want to emphasize here is it's not just Catholics. It's a universal problem that if we don't keep our eyes on Scripture, we're going to be led astray. Right? Now is God thwarted by that? No, he'll raise somebody else up who will uh be devoted to the truth of scripture and its its application. Um that Ought not to be the case that he would have to do that. We should be faithful to the word. Our responsibility is to be devoted to sound doctrine. And obedient application of that sound doctrine and grow in that so that he doesn't have to set us aside and raise up somebody else. Right. But we're going to be focusing here and just the several um offshoots of Christianity, biblical Christianity. And we're starting with Catholics because we're in Maryland. Maryland was actually founded by a Catholic people, the Calverts and and so on, who wanted to uh have freedom to live as Catholics And uh um Maryland became their their sanctuary for doing that. There's actually some benefit to that, benefit from that to us, because there's a very, very, very long tradition, legal tradition in Maryland for religious liberty Because of that history. And who knows how long it's going to last, but but uh that's very helpful in Maryland. Anyway, so we're turning today to um our understanding of Catholic doctrine. Now I know many of you have are are from a Catholic background. And there are aspects of Catholic uh uh doctrine and and life and so on that you're far more versed in than I am. But um I hope this will be a helpful summary and analysis as we go through this to help all of us to be reaching out to our Catholic friends. Okay. Well, I've uh started this lesson with a several page table Categorized by different um aspects of theology, starting with the question of authority. And when it comes to um any deviation from biblical Christianity, it always comes back to what are you basing your beliefs on, right? The authority of what you teach. And so that's crucial, as you would expect, even here with Catholic doctrine. And specifically I'm not going to talk through every single one of these. I've presented the basic position, the Catholic doctrine on the left. And if you have access to or can get the most current catechism of the Catholic Church The sections in that document are referenced here. You can get more detail on the actual teaching. But then opposite that, what God's Word says, in contrast with the Catholic position. So I I provide this as a resource. I'm not going to go through every single one of these, but I do want to highlight some key ones. And particularly here on page 23, I want to look at number four. Actually, four and five together. And the the the doctrine or the position is that the magisterium is the authoritative teacher of the church. Well what do we mean? What do they mean by magisterium? I've provided a footnote here. From that great spiritual resource, Rik Wikipedia. The magisterium of the Roman Catholic Church is the Church's authority or office To give authentic interpretation of the Word of God, whether in its written form or in the form of tradition. According to the 1992 Catechism of the Catholic Church, the task of interpretation is vested uniquely in the Pope and the bishops Through the concept of a complex history of development, scripture and tradition make up a single sacred deposit of the Word of God. So God is expanding his revealed word progressively through these interpretations and pronouncements by the Catholic hierarchy. Scripture and tradition make up a single sacred deposit of the Word of God, which is entrusted to the church. And the magisterium is not independent of this, since all that is, all that it proposes for belief as being divinely revealed Is derived from this single deposit of faith. So it's a single deposit of faith, which is the scriptures plus And whenever it's scriptures plus, you've got to be careful. Right? It's not sola scriptura, it's scriptura plus Man's. Now they believe that it's not man's word. But um Um that's where the that's where the error begins, right there. That that inclusion of Non biblical, non inspired word added to the Word of God. And whenever that happens, what's inevitable? This contradiction. There are lots of things in that um the the tr the traditions that are added to scripture that actually um Conflict with, disagree with Scripture. And so for every one of these doctrines, look at the Word of God. And of course The verses that I've added here are just a sampling of ones that you would go to to shed light on the inaccuracy of the Catholic position. But they're Pretty good examples of the problem. Number five here. The magisterium is the infallible interpreter of Scripture So um that was one of the contention points in the Ref Reformation that And it it be it had become entrenched that the only true interpretation of Scripture had to come from the church, the hierarchy of the church. And so keeping it in Latin meant that the common person in most places didn't really have access to scripture. They had to be told what to believe. And you have to believe it because, well, trust us. Right? The Reformers, what what was their primary um strategy. Once they became alert to the the teaching of Scripture, we need to put this in the hands of everyday people. So that it it not that they would all be expert in interpreting it, but it's it's full disclosure, right? It's the word of God itself that that um changes lives. and can set straight what is sound doctrine versus what is not. And therefore one of their rallying cries, well, so la scriptura, right? And get that into the hands of even the common people. Um okay. Uh Let's see here. Let's go down to number seven. Scripture and tradition together are the Word of God. So yes, the Bible is the Word of God, but it's not the only. Um it's not the complete Word of God because In their view, God has been adding to it. And he adds to it through the the um the hierarchy of the church It's interesting that Jesus said in in Matthew 15, you say whoever says to his father or mother, whatever, um that I have would help you, has been given to God. He is not to honor his father or his mother. And Jesus said, and by this you invalidated the word of God for the sake of your traditions. You hypocrites, rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you. This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Uh in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the precepts of men. And Jesus had to deal with that within Judaism, right? But it's just so Pervasive, that that we allow traditions and and we we we characterize those traditions as being equal with God's word And it actually undermines God's word. Catholics are not the only ones who do this, by the way. We're going to see this repeatedly. Um and w it's probably a good um warning for us not to allow Tradition. We've always done it that way. Or uh we've always believed that. Well that's not in in and of itself a bad thing, but what's the test? Is it biblical? Right? So we all need to be humble in that. And then number eight, scripture and tradition together are the church's supreme rule of faith. So again, that's very comp comparable to um um number seven. Jesus in Mark 7 said, neglecting the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of men. You're experts at setting aside the commandment of God in order to keep your traditions. And that's exactly what happens. You sort of elevate this non-biblical it's called tradition, set of beliefs, uh whatever And that takes not only equal to, but actually supersedes the Word of God, particularly when they conflict. And that's That's certainly it's worse than a slippery slope. It's a precipice going going over the edge. Let's look at some other categories here. The next category on page 24 is their teaching about salvation. And here, before looking at the details, I wanted to and and If you don't have a copy of this in front of you, you probably do want to call her number and get the PDF because there's a chart here that I want to walk through a little bit that helps prove uh help us to understand the the um complexity really of what the Catholic Church uh understands to be the gospel. And boy, it's it's interesting. So if if you're there with me, this is on page uh twenty eight. And this is not my creation. I benefited greatly from this, so much that I copied it. a uh a pamphlet written by James McCarthy called Roman Catholicism, What You Need to Know And uh he's done a very excellent job of of putting it all together in a way that you can sort of understand a very complex belief system. So the thing here is uh it separates into four quadrants this space. where there's a you see the heavy horizontal dashed line a little bit below the center, going across left to right. Below that dashed line, people are spiritually dead. And above that dashed line, people are spiritually alive. So two main categories, right? But then there's a vertical dotted line about two thirds of the way across from the left. And everybody to the left of that is physically alive, and everybody to the right of it is physically dead. Okay? So you've got these four quadrants, whether you're spiritually dead, spiritually alive, physically dead, spiritually. Physically alive. That's sort of the the map. So you start this little journey, like you start your life, or at least your journey with the Catholic Church, uh at the lower left corner. There's a a set of green uh they're in a green background there. And if you're an adult, just coming into an understanding of It's the Catholic Church, Catholic doctrine, or whatever. Um you start basically at the bottom center and uh They would say that you you encounter, you uh even maybe receive some actual grace from God. Um Uh it it could take lots of different forms, but it sort of draws you into wondering about uh the church and God and so on. And if your response to that is cooperative, yes, I'm I'm I'm interested, then they would direct you uh to kind of turn the corner there and you would be putting faith to action by some good works. A key good works would be getting baptized Okay? So they would say that someone is justified, that is, someone is saved. through baptism. So an adult gets to that point, he says, Yes, I want to do that. I want to please God. Um and they would say that that baptism is salvific. They're saved because of their work to be baptized. They call it a sacrament. They don't call it an ordinance like we do. What's the difference between a sacrament and an ordinance? Well, you know, an ordinance is basically an official rule, right? A city ordinance, whatever. A sacrament is something that conveys God's grace. So you're receiving something by doing that. Okay? So the sacrament of baptism is Is what basically saves that person, gives them justification. What is justification? It's being right in God's eyes. Right? Now, as we're going to see here, Catholic doctrine, and you can see here that that that whole green space is called justification. And if you go up to the upper left hand corner, uh kind of a purplish color background. That whole area is called increasing and persevering justification. So justification is something that you grow in. It's progressive And that light gray space, the box in the middle, is titled re-justification. So justification is something one can lose in their thinking, and it's something that needs to be sort of re-reupped Whenever there is sin and of uh the the worst sins, the mortal sins, um you actually lose your salvation, you've got to start from scratch, basically. And that involves re justification through the sacrament of penance. Um Now it's interesting. You know, we we think of uh biblically we we understand what repentance is. It's not something you do, it's something that that um well the the the Greek word for repentance is metanoia. And you hear that and you think, hey, that's similar to paranoia. Well, it is. It is similar in this sense. Um paranoia is basically having two minds. conflicting um mindsets and and so on. That's the para, one alongside the other. Metta noya is metta is about change. So you're changing your mind. Now we normally think of repentance as changing your direction, right? You're you're forsaking sin and you're repenting, you're turning from it. to to um grasp hold of Christ, right? Um Technically, that's a result of repentance. Repentance is changing your attitude, your mind about it. I'm forsaking that. That's what's going on in my mind. And because I'm forsaking it, the substitute is Christ. Right? Um for the Catholic Church They understand that concept as not repentance, but as doing penance. something that you do to achieve more merit before God, more grace even. Now there's an interesting thing. Grace is something that you earn. Seems like a contradiction of terms to you? What is grace? It's a gift. Do you earn a gift? No. Biblically it's very clear that salvation, justification, is a gift Nothing we can do to earn it. And uh in fact Paul in several places, I've I've given you the verses there, um, says, well If you have to work for it, grace is not grace. Right? Anyway, that doesn't seem to be a problem with Catholic theologians. But the point I was trying to make here, the kind of the big picture point, is that to them justification is a process. Biblically, we understand justification to be what? A pronouncement of God That person is saved. That person is, it's a legal declaration. That person now has right standing with me, God. That's what God says. That takes place at a point in time. We normally refer to that time as our time of salvation, our time of repentance, and so on. And What did we do to earn that justification? Nothing. Can we lose that justification? No. No, we're going to talk about that more intensively here today and next week. But um The Catholic mindset is justification is a process. And it's all about your earning merit before God. And if you mess up, you've got to make up for that. It's all about w it's not only that you need to work for getting justified, you also have to work to stay justified And uh it it has degrees. You have um um More and more or less and less merit before God as you go along And so there's this process here. Let's kind of travel through this in a little bit of detail, and then you get kind of help to see the big picture. So a person is justified. Now if you're an infant, how do you start that? Well, someone else helps you to take that step. And you get baptized as an infant, and that is the moment of your justification. You have nothing to do with it, right? But you're justified because of the faith and obedience of your parents And you basically are starting out the same way as an adult who later in life comes to the realization that this is where they want to go. So that justification begins sort of that that walk with God Uh following that baptism is these rites of first confession and first communion These these are um activities that are necessary to continue your journey, your growth, your uh gaining merit before God. Um and so in the upper left hand corner you see the green box. Um these various things result in increased justification. Uh nowhere in scripture do you see any reference to justification being increased. But it's because of this mindset that that they're accumulating merit before God and therefore they're increasingly justified, even though justification in Scripture is is a legal pronouncement by God. It's a one-time deal. And so that happens through the reception of sacramental and merited grace. Merited grace. Can you imagine that? Okay, so then you kind of turn the corner to the right, and um just like at the very bottom where there's a pivotal point are you cooperating with God's grace here and leading you? And if yes, it's good, you go on the right path. If it's not, um Then um and it persists even until the time you die, then y we'll we'll get there later. But uh up here in the upper left-hand corner, you've made some progress. You're you're increasing your justification in their view. And then there's the question, to what extent are you cooperating with God's grace? So if you are cooperating, then you're exercising faith, you're doing more good works that results in more merit being stored up for you. And if that's the state you're in when you end your life, well we'll get there in a minute, but right now I want to see that that if this is not the end of your life, what it does is it takes you back into this cycle where you participate in the Eucharist, you know, the the Uh we call it the Lord's Supper. Uh that's a sacrament. It's not an ordinance in their view. It's a sacrament to convey grace of God to you. It it builds up your merit before God. Um and so that's g that's a good thing in their view. And you're increasing your justification, and you're kind of going counterclockwise around this box at the top left corner As long as you're cooperating and you're doing good works, you're participating, you're storing up more and more merit, everything's hunky-dory. That would be ideal for any Catholic who is alive, that would be their ideal for you to be in that that uh progressive justification cycle. But what if you get to that that yellow triangle, are you cooperating with grace? If there comes a point when you're not, well that's sin. Right? And that sin puts you down into this gray box in the middle. And now it depends on what kind of sin it is. If it's what they call a venial sin, then uh that means it's it's not as serious, not as conscious, as maybe um inadvertent perhaps, um or not deliberate Then there's some temporal punishment. You're gonna pay for that someday. Um And it may be partly in this life, partly in the life to come, but there's going to be some payment on your part due because you messed up a little bit here. But if you do acts of penance, do penance, then you can get back up into this good cycle up at the top left. and you're back and humming along the way you should be. So it's a temporary detour back into this this gray box. But if it's a very serious sin, if it's a mortal sin Mortal in the sense that if you do it, you die spiritually. Now you're down into this other below the horizontal dashed line, you've lost your justification De-justified by the moral sin, and now you're spiritually dead again, like you were before. How do you deal with that? Well, if you deal correctly with it, you do various sacraments of penance. Uh y it's again it's what you do, you can be re-justified back into a a state of uh spiritual life, although probably with some baggage. Um but and again there may be some temporal punishment stored up, acts of penance needed, and you can the point is to get back to this cycle at the top left where you're you're humming along, doing good things, storing up uh Merit again. And yes. How are these different types of thin defined? Is there like a do they get a list of these things? You know, such a which are these and you know, this is immortal standings from vineyard stands. Yeah, I'm not an expert on that, but I see a lot of nodding heads here. Um that that's the inevitable requirement. People need to know. You know? Maybe even know before they act. Let's see, am I going to lose my salvation if I do this? No, it's not on the list. Alright, I'll go ahead and do it and I'll pay for it. You know, that's human nature, right? Is that maybe a confession thing? Yeah. Confession is is a part of that, for sure. Um And you know the the there's first confession, but there's also it it doesn't show in any of the boxes here. Some of this penance may involve confessions and formal yeah. The whole idea is that you confess your sins. priests, there's a whole confession thing. It's not about one time confession. It's you can you're supposed to confess all the time. Right. Whatever you think those sins are. So your sins are whatever you think because that's what you're telling them. What you're not telling them is you know, probably beyond what you want him to know. And then he tells you, here's what you need to do. You need to do a hundred Hail Marys and you know this is how you confess. And yeah. That's the part that broke like I was always very confused with I was like, well, how does this guy decide what is or isn't? What didn't I tell him versus what did I tell him and why is he the one who is able to tell me what's going to bring me to call Mm-hmm. So is the act of penance determined by the priest? Yes. I think for the most part are directed by the case. He d he tells you what what to do. He says, you know, here's what you need to do and you know, do a hundred Hail Marys and come back to me tomorrow and tell me next week and tell me what you did this week. Right. But is it like that is the confession does it only count when you tell it to priest like what you do at home. Big like you know, it it has to be official and then it's a confession. Uh between that time of going to the priest is it like a I'm thinking about it. You know, and then but it's not official until you go to a priest. Like he has to hear it, then it's a confession Right. He's the only one you don't know. You can't talk to a friend. And then it it's a good thing. Yeah, well, it will be done by him. Yes. Wow. He has the power, yeah, because he has special power that we don't have. Okay. So you have to go to him and confess to him. That's why because he has the direction lines of God. Right. So when you when you're on your desk set and they do the final confession, you gotta have a remember you have a sort of super memory to get all that like well by then you've already gone through your entire life with you know, share. So you're you're sharing your last what you feel you need to share at that line. Because you're doing you you do this weekly. You know, you you do this as you go to mass And I and and so and that was my my thing always, like what do you tell them? You they're not even supposed you're not supposed to share those with anyone else but the priest What says there, it stays there. You you gotta you have you have two hours that you sit there. They have yeah, they really literally sit there and listen to you. They do. It sounds funny, but it's it they take this very seriously. Yeah, and um A a good example of how serious this is is you remember when well you don't remember, but you remember hearing about um Martin Luther you know nailing those ninety five theses to the Wittenberg uh chapel door. Um what came from that was that the church uh hierarchy put an interdict on that church, meaning they shut it down. Which means, and people understood this very immediately, that the source of forgiveness and God's grace was cut off from all the people. And That sent Luther just d um the orbital. I mean he said you know, if they were concerned about the welfare of the people, why are they doing that? But it's because it's it's a power thing. That pe the forcing the people to depend on the church for salvation. That's where it really comes down to. Yeah. So it's it's um a patient came up and was to tell us what prices is for a crop then. what would it what would it look like? Because it wouldn't look like forgiveness of sin and grace if you had to continue to do things. Like how would it Well, you know, we're gonna get to that a little bit because that gets to the Mass as well. Right? They see that as the continuation of the crucifixion of Christ. It wasn't complete on the cross. Um maybe some of the former graphics can answer this. This sort of wrap or diagram Do you think or know that going through Catholic catechism you'd be able to explain this? At least watching evangelism video fucking the Catholicism It probably maybe can only explain the the tenants part, the do good works part. So I don't think that uh maybe uh on the street cat could probably fully understand this diagram or even explain it to you if you said, Hey, how do I get to heaven? They probably wouldn't have this process in place. Maybe uh a former Catholic can ask There's a lot in the religion that's failed from the people. They have for example They have a Bible and they have it up on the and they speak from it, very few parts. But they're not you're not really supposed to have a Bible at your house You're not supposed to read the Bible from what I've heard from other people. Because I was always it was always kind of strange. It was like am I not supposed to have a Bible and people would say yes But you're not really supposed to read it, you're supposed to have it. You know, it's like, well, and then what's the purpose? Well, if you read through the whole Bible, a lot of the heresy that's in there would come out immediately So they really don't want you to know that. And in a lot of ways that's the same thing here is they don't I I get the feeling that they don't want you to know all that. Which as you grow up and you say, Okay, I accept, you know, I come to Mass, I do the same thing every week. I get through mass every single week. And then once you get to a certain age, and I don't know, maybe this is just me, you start to say what else What's going on here? What's the di what am I getting out of this? Who's this person who's up on a cross? I don't even know who he is. You know Yeah. Um and for example, um Just before and certainly during the Reformation, it was illegal in most places to um Print the Bible in the local language. Um it was illegal even to Um memorize it. Speak it in your mother tongue. It had to be Latin. Um a lot of people died because they were hungry for God's word. To your point, I've had Catholics or have eight Catholic persons say to me, Can I always tell the difference between a Protestant and a Catholic? because you guys always walk or leave the house, go into church proud with a Bible. I'm jealous of that. We don't do that. Interesting. Well anyway, let me um cover a few more points on this chart and then we'll go back to our table to look at some other other doctrines here. So you kind of get the point here that the justification is a process and you're you're storing up merit But let's take the good case up at the top center. You get to the end of your life and you've gone through this, uh you your status becomes, you know, your final Your final status. And in this case, you died in a state of grace. You actually are spiritually alive. You're above the the horizontal line uh you died in a state of grace, you've got um basically stored up enough merit and not enough demerit uh that you you make it through. However, and that's the big however, um Uh i it it's called merited eternal life. That's because you've received credit for in that green box Acts of penance and any endure earned indulgences, things that earn you merit before God And then there's this question, is there some temporary, temporal punishment due? And for almost everybody the answer would be yes. The only question is how much and uh the how much depends on the balance, right, of good works and and and so on during your life And that's the purpose of purgatory, to purge you of any remaining uh balance due, if you will. Um and once you've done that, then you can go to heaven. And um the there are degrees of merit even uh within heaven and and and so on But then on the below the horizontal line, someone who is not spiritually alive, he's in a state of final impenitence, he's unrepentant dies in a state of sin, that person definitely goes to hell. No ifs, ands, or buts, and there's no um Crossing that line into spiritual life. There's no going to heaven once you've died in that state. It's always to hell. So Where's the good news in that? There is none. Right. So I thought one part of the Catholic faith And I don't see it on here, so just I don't know the answer. Um I thought that someone who died you someone else who's still alive could do Yeah, we're gonna get to that. That would be if they're in purgatory. Not if they're in hell, but if they're in purgatory. So they're eventually going to make it to heaven. It may take a long, long time for them to have their their sins purged. Someone else doesn't have to but could accelerate their process And allow them to get to heaven sooner. So the like seven eight is the first math to guarantee that that person will have it And then there was another mess every thirty days of the death, of the Nicolas de Death. And then a year, two years and And you continue doing that in like the family does that in the name of the the deceased to guarantee that they'll go to a few place. I was raised Catholic and my family. My dad passed away about six years ago. And his family was the old kids. asking that if he's gonna have a mess for him every whatever and we're like, not really Yeah. So um then that's how you send them to have it. So And then if you don't pay to have the mask is something they then you'll just a horrible person because you would love to want to see the mask and more so that's only a fair Yeah, it's doing purgatory. Which most people go to unless you know Hisper or something you go to hell, but most people 'cause it's based on like murder, if you ask any Catholic, you say, Well, I never killed anyone. So yeah, I'm a good person. So it's all about being good and being you know, so you most people go And then you ask Mary. Mary asked Jesus. Jesus asked God. And then raise when you get out of there. So it's very easy. Let's go to page twenty-five. I want to cover a few more points before we wrap up today. We're still on the topic of salvation. I skipped a lot of that because we covered it on the chart But on the top of page 25, number 14, purgatory is necessary to atone for sin and cleanse the soul. So what would God's word say? What is it that takes away sin? It's only Jesus, right? There's nothing we can do. Right? Number fifteen, those suffering in purgatory can be helped by those alive on earth. Offering up prayers, good works, and the sacrifice of the Mass. So by being helped, it's I think some believe that it would make their time in purgatory less onerous, less Hard, but also perhaps shorter. Number sixteen, no one can know if he will attain eternal life. Well, of course not If you have a system that is based on works, how are you ever gonna know if you've done enough to make it? Right? And I've included here 1 John 5, 11 through 13, the testimony is this that God has given us eternal life. We haven't earned it. God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his son. He who has the Son has, not will have, has the life. And he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life. But then he says, These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that you may what? Know that you have eternal life. Because why? It's based on whether you've got the sun or not, not whether you've got enough good works or whatever. Now that is good news. Right? Okay. Uh number seventeen, eternal life is a merited reward. When does eternal life begin? At salvation. When does eternal life end? If it ended it wouldn't be eternal, would it? And then number 18, we talked about this. The Roman Catholic Church is necessary for salvation. If the church is not there, you're dead meat. Right? Um you need the church in order to uh g get this extra credit and uh the merit and all go through all the steps and everything. And um Okay, then the Mass. Still on page 25. Number two, the the bread and wine become the real body and blood of Christ. Christ's body and blood exists wholly and entirely in every fragment of the consecrated bread and wine in every Roman Catholic Church, around the world, across time. Number five, each sacrifice of the Mass appeases God's wrath against sin. Man. All you have to do is is read scripture. I I've got here uh Hebrews ten, for example. Every priest now this isn't referring to Catholic priest, this is referring to a a Jewish priest. Every priest stands daily ministering and offering time after time the same sacrifices which can never take away sins. But he, that is Christ, having offered one sacrifice for sins for how long? For all time sat down at the right hand of God, meaning it is finished, right? For by one offering he has perpet perfected for how long? For all time those who are sanctified. To be sanctified is to be Set apart, holy unto God, which happens because uh when someone is justified, when we have right standing before God. There are two aspects of of uh sanctification. One of them is Our positional sanctification. If we're in Christ, we are holy. God looks at us and he sees the righteousness of Christ. And that's true for the moment of salvation. But our experience is not quite there yet, right? So mostly when we think of sanctification, we think of the process of becoming more and more like Christ. But both are true in Scripture. You see very clearly there's a positional sanctification. That's why we can be called saints. What's the saint mean? Holy One. Right? Um but there's uh very much of an emphasis on this progressive sanctification We're becoming more and more like Christ. As we yield to Him, He's working to uh make us more like Him and so on. Okay. And flip the page to number seven. The sacrificial work of redemption is continually carried out through the sacrifice. of the Mass. But again, you see in Scripture that the work of Christ what did Christ say on the cross? It is finished Right? It's done. It's paid for. Paid in full. Okay. Then of course there's the issue of Mary, which came up earlier. And I'll I guess I'm gonna read every one of these because it's so interesting. Um Mary was preserved from all stain of original sin from the moment she was conceived in her mother's womb. So you probably heard the doctrine of Immaculate Conception. They're not referring to Christ there. They're referring to Mary. Alright? Mary is referred to as the all-holy Mary, and she lived a perfectly sinless life. And yet Mary herself said, as Jesus was in her womb I've got printed for you here, Luke 1. 46. My soul exalts in the Lord and my spirit has rejoiced in God, my Savior. She needed a Savior and she understood it. Number three, mu uh Mary is the mother of God. Well you can see where that comes from, right? She's the mother of Christ, Christ is God, she must be the mother of God, and therefore they attribute more to her than is really the case. But therefore, number four, Mary is the mother of the church. And yet there's no reference to that in Scripture. The church is founded on uh the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. Of course. Number five, Mary was a virgin before, during, and after the birth of Christ. And yet scripture makes it clear that um For example, Joseph kept her a virgin until she had given birth to Jesus. And then later we see reference to um Some of Jesus' brothers, James, Joseph, Simon, and Judas, two of whom wrote epistles in the New Testament. James and Judas or Jude. And his sisters who actually were not named. So there were multiple sisters, multiple brothers, as would have been typical in a family like that. So passive. Do the Catholics believe that these cat siblings were also virgin births? I mean How did they help you? You you couldn't have them because Mary didn't Mary didn't have any children other than Christ. If you want to handle a uh a cow breaking with you, you tell Mary Yeah. Yep. Num number six, Mary is the co redeemer. For she participated with Christ in the painful act of redemption. Number seven, at the end of her life, Mary was assumed body and soul into heaven. Just like Christ. Right? Number eight, Mary is the co-mediator to whom we can entrust all our cares and petitions. I think the term is mediatrics, the female term for mediator. Yeah. So if if they say that Siblings then how do you possibly relate the scriptures that talk about his other siblings? Like mention the brother, mention the the family, like how do they merge that together? Is it not in their text or is it not read out loud or I'm not exactly sure how that's danced around, but I think the the version of the scriptures they have It doesn't have that. But it's also a good reason not to let people see the scriptures anyway, right? Sorry? Most of Catholics don't read the Bible because So it's a non-instrate believe. Yeah, they don't have the knowledge for the sense. So most of them they don't read the Bible, that's or they don't know this thing. One last thing I wanted to to cover before we leave. I know there's a lot of questions, there's a lot of points, but um One of the th I think probably the last religion we're gonna talk about is Islam. And The Quran views the Trinity as taught by Christians, and of course it says it's nonsense according to Islam, but in their view the Trinity is God, Jesus, and Mary. Right in the Quran. And where do you suppose that came from? Yeah, it ho had already become widely understood in the Catholic Church by the six hundreds or so when Muhammad was born And um yeah, no wonder they're they're um confused. Anyway, we Um we better end at this point and uh pick up on this next week. Next week we are going to talk about um how should we address a works mentality in our evangelism. Okay? Let's pray.