Well good morning. We are making a bit of a transition today in our in our study. Till now we've looked at uh various cults or uh perversions of biblical Christianity into some other thing. Today we're going to switch gears and start talking about a couple of different religions we might encounter. actually are probably pretty certain to encounter in our communities here. And the first one is Judaism. Lots of Jews in our area. Perhaps you work with some or you've got some neighbors and they may be in various states of openness. Um they may be in various states of adherence to uh their faith it may be just cultural or it may be actually active in their life. And so um I wanted to include uh this uh session on Judaism to help us think through some things we might be able to say to these folks. Um to uh help them maybe dispel some some um misconceptions that they might have about Christianity. Uh they may be uh confused on some point And so uh what I have here, I'm on page 119 in the notes. Does everybody have a copy of the notes? Anyone need a copy? We're all covered? Okay. Um I'm not exactly sure. It would've depended on the situation, the context of your relationship with uh whoever it is you're You're talking with maybe you already knew that they were from a Jewish background or you just find out. And what the entry point is to talking about the gospel and the relationship of Judaism to Christianity. Um it may be very different depending on who you're talking to. So uh it's not like there's one cookbook kind of method. to communicate the gospel really with anybody, but even with Jews. Um but I've assembled a number of uh um passages from Scripture and kind of walking through some some points where uh hopefully those will be a good resource for you. No matter where your conversation with them goes, you can have some some thoughts about things to share with them from the scripture Now I've I've mentioned all along, um, with uh more emphasis I guess every now and then that um I I think the best approach in our um evangelizing people of some other kind of faith uh is to use scripture, to let the Word of God do what only the Word of God can do, and the Spirit working through that, to um uh soften hearts, open people's eyes to the truth, you know those things. And um Uh I'll show you some examples here of how you can do that. But generally the idea is is just open your Bible to some passages that you've you maybe got some references. You can okay, let's go down to this one. Um and have them read the the paragraph or the section and then ask them some questions about that w so that they are uh interacting with the text to see exactly um what it says, you know, observation, interpretation, right? And then application. uh get them to be making the um direct observations from the text and then ask some questions to help them interpret what they're seeing. So what do you think it means When Jesus said such and such, you know, or and use that as a starting point for conversation And it may be that that discussion will lead you to then another passage that will help to shed some light on the same thing. Um and you know, th that's that's not the kind of thing you would do if you're if you're knocking on doors necessarily or you just um uh doing some street evangelism and it's y you kinda talk with somebody for twenty minutes or half an hour and then you move on to somebody else This would be more of a relationship where you're you're um uh building a an ongoing conversation around scripture. about uh salvation and in this case maybe about Judaism, how it fits into God's plan. And um so I started here in this this first section. What does it mean that the Jews are God's chosen people? It may be that your Jewish friend is will will raise that, yeah, you know, the Jews are God's chosen people. But they might not know what that means or maybe why God would have chosen them. And so I start with this first question. What does it mean that the Jews are God's chosen people? Well, first is that God chose Abraham, through whom he would raise up a nation for his purposes. And they may be familiar with that, but it might be helpful to work through some of these verses that actually record in Genesis God's calling of Abraham. But um as part of that I I would be sure to highlight Deuteronomy seven, six through eight, which is there in your notes. Uh it says Where where Moses toward the end of his life uh is telling the Israelites shortly before they enter the Promised Land He says, For you, that is, nation of Israel, you are a holy people to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his own possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth The Lord did not set his love on you, nor choose you because you were more in number than any of the peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples. But why did he choose you? Because the Lord loved you and kept the oath which he swore to your forefathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And the Lord brought you out by a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh and the king of Egypt. So um To be a holy people, the the meaning there is to be a separate people, separated unto God. And um um that ought to carry with it uh as per God's command, uh separate in terms of uh devoted to him, obedient to him, um uh uh righteous, and we'll talk about that in a second. So God chose Abraham through whom he would raise up a nation for his purposes, but then the question is, what are those purposes? And so that's the second part here on the bottom of page 119. Two main purposes we see in Scripture. One is to display to the world the goodness and righteousness of God. And so look again here at Deuteronomy, in this case chapter 4, verses 5 through 8. See, I have taught you statutes and judgments, just as the Lord my God commanded me that you should do thus in the land where you are entering to possess it. So keep and do them these commandments For that is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who will hear all these statutes and say, surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. For what great nation is there, Moses asks, that has a God so near to it as is the Lord our God whenever we call on him. Or what great nation is there that has statutes and judgments as righteous as this whole law which I'm setting before you today? So um one of God's purposes in calling out Israel to be a a nation separated from all the paganism out there in the world, putting the nation of Israel on display and thereby putting God himself on display when they see the um um the righteousness, the good what is righteousness? Good works, right? The the um um uh the the God honoring lives, the uh reverence for God, their creator, all these things the other nations were to see in Israel and God that was basically God's um evangelistic strategy for that period. So why was the promised land That little strip of land between Egypt and the Euphrates River, essentially. Um because it was exactly what God wanted w uh where God wanted the nation of Israel to be. Um separated from the the major centers, but on the pathway, the highway, between them. And so as people went through the nation of Israel they would um news would travel about the how unique Israel is relative to all the other nations. And God's plan would be that as they as Israel was obedient to him, living out the righteousness that was embedded in the law and giving testimony to um the need for uh sacrifice for sin, uh all those things that were accomplished pictured in the law. And ideally, and the intent was pictured also in the righteous lives of the Israelites. uh would be apparent to um the other nations and they would they would get these observations and the news about what's happening in Israel and so on would would c just flow naturally because uh the they're on the international highway essentially between the major centers. Um That was still in place when Jesus ministered. Um the the impact that Jesus had um was multiplied because most of where he did his miracles and teaching and so on was right on that international highway. And news traveled fast Um and it wasn't until his resurrection that Jesus changed the the mode of evangelism. Rather than the world coming to see Israel, now the church was going to go out to the world to evangelize. But here in the nation of Israel, God raised them up to put his goodness and his righteous standards and his faithfulness on display. And that was one reason he chose the nation of Israel. It wasn't because of anything inherent in them, but it was because of his plan to uh be a light to the world. I flip over to page 120. There's a passage there from Psalm 98. It's another one. All these verses might be helpful for you though. to digest, but Psalm 98. Uh oh sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done wonderful things. His right hand and his holy arm have gained the victory for him. The Lord has made known his salvation. He has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations. How has he done that? By working through the nation of Israel. He has remembered his loving kindness and his faithfulness to the house of Israel. All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. Shout joyfully to the Lord, all the earth. Break forth and sing for joy and sing praises. But there's a second reason that's related. A second reason God uh called out the nation of Israel, and that is to bring blessing to the entire world through Abraham's descendant, the Messiah. And so going back to Genesis twelve, where God uh called Abraham initially, one of the things he said there was, in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. So he was calling out the nation of Israel to be his chosen people, but his his aim was for the entire world. But it would be through the descendants of Abraham. And then you're familiar with Isaiah 9, 6 and 7. For a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders. And his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace. There will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace. on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. So um God promised a Messiah to come who through whom um All the nations of the earth would be blessed. We'll talk a little bit more about the nature of that blessing, but Uh it wasn't just the nation of Israel, but God was doing this through the nation of Israel. So it's both to put God in his his goodness on display as a nation, but then also to bring forth through the nation of Israel the Messiah who would be not just Israel's Messiah, but the Messiah for the whole world Top of page 121, Isaiah 49 continues that thought. Where it says, Is it too small a thing that you should be my servant? And here the Lord's talking to the Messiah, to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the preserved ones of Israel, I will also make you a light to the nations, so that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth. So right from the beginning, as God reveals the the role of the Messiah and the fact that the Messiah would be coming, The scope there is, yes, the nation of Israel, it's uh a savior for Israel, uh, but also for the world. Okay. So the point there is when we're talking about um Israel being God's chosen people, I I think most Jews may be thinking, um rather inwardly about that. Not necessarily either of these two reasons why God separated out Israel. One to put God Himself on display to the world, but then also through the nation of Israel to bring the Messiah who would be a blessing. to fulfill the promise to Abraham. Okay. So then what I have left here in section two, well, and three, I guess it continues. But um the the point is the gospel. That leads to a a discussion of um uh the the ministry of the Messiah uh what he accomplished and why why there was what the need was. And so we start with um the Messiah was promised to deal with our alienation from God. It's important for uh your Jewish friends to understand that the Messiah was not just a a a political um uh you know ruler, yes, um taking the throne of of David, but his his core reason for coming was to uh deal with our alienation from God. Why are we alienated from God? Well the problem is we're all sinners. And we fall short of God's holiness. And a couple of passages you might want to take them to. And again, I'm for the most part, I'm dealing with Old Testament passages here. Um we'll eventually look at some New Testament ones, but um I want to get them grounded in the the uh what God had revealed in the Old Testament as to uh the coming of the Messiah and and the reasons and so on. So Psalm 51, verse 5, where King David, after uh uh during basically his his prayer of of repentance after sinning with Bathsheba And Uriah, her husband. David says, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin my mother conceived me. Uh he's not saying there that his conception was sin, but that he was a sinner from conception, as we all are. And then Isaiah 53, 6. All of us, like sheep, have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. And so here I've I've started um uh showing some questions you might ask if you get them to read these verses. You could say something as simple as, so how many of us have sinned? Well they might not have to read these to acknowledge that yes we're all we're we're all sinners, but it's helpful to see it in scripture. But the second question is, so according to the Bible, is there anyone who does completely right in God's eyes? And the answer, of course, is no. Right? So that brings the second point here. Sinful man is unacceptable to God. It's not like You know, we have some good, we have some bad, and God kind of weighs them and kind of um um uh um tries to to balance one off the other, but that that's incompatible with God's holiness. Um so you might uh take them to Isaiah sixty four For all of us have become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a filthy garment. And all of us wither like a leaf, and our iniquities like the wind take us away. So the obvious question to ask your friend is, what do our best efforts to be good appear like to God? Trash. Filthy garment. You know, not acceptable. And what's the result of that? We wither like a leaf, our sins take us away from God. Our sin is completely incompatible with a truly holy God. And If you need to emphasize that point, you can just take them through Exodus, Leviticus, and see in in the law how God required um Very um strong measures to ensure that the worship of God would not be um what, um casual, haphazard, um uh that you know it The the the point the point of all the the religious requirements, the the sacrificial uh requirements, the the separation of the priests and all the preparation It was all about the holiness of God. And you can't just barge in to the presence of God in a sinful state. and expect to be on equal terms with God, right? The whole point is to emphasize in everything just how holy God is. And of course there were times when um people didn't really catch that picture and they went out of bounds and what happened? God zapped them Right. Um and it was important that God do it because he wouldn't compromise his holiness, but also he needed to teach the rest of the people a lesson. God is holy. You don't just approach him casually. Your sin has made a separation between you and your God. So that's the third point. Sin results in death, separation from our holy God. And we see this right from the beginning in Genesis 2. God warned them, in the day that you disobey me, you'll surely die, and of course, that's what happened. Uh but then you might take them to Isaiah 59. 2, which I just quoted a few minutes ago, on the top of page 122. But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. And so you can ask your friend, what is the result of sin? Well, it's pretty clear from all these verses that the result of sin is death Uh both physical death and spiritual death, a separation from God. What is spiritual death, you can ask him? Well, being separated from God forever and therefore Not knowing him. Yes, that's that's why we're starting here, and it hinges on their understanding of the holiness of God. Because You know, um not just Jews, but everybody, because of our self-centeredness really, and our pride, um, we have too low a view of God and too high a view of ourselves And if we view ourselves kind of close, we can think of some things that we can do to to bridge the gap, or we can uh assume that God's going to be be forgiving and so on. But if they understand that God is not here, but He is way up here in terms of holiness, separated from us, separate from any taint of sin. And we're actually way down here. My arms aren't long enough to show the difference between them. And if they realize this is not the reality, but this is the reality And there's no way we can bridge that gap. And for God to turn a blind eye to our sin compromises his holiness. And is justice. So yeah, the place to start is the character of God. And if they understand the character of God what they already know about the character of man, even the things that are maybe just little errors and not perfect, but it'll become more clear that those things are not acceptable to God. And you know, passages like what we read that all of our righteous deeds are like filthy rags in God's eyes. So what is sin if you were to Sin. What it if it's if they ask you to define sin, but basically sin is uh lawlessness. Which is not um anything that that anything that puts devotion, puts our devotion toward anything other than God So if we fall short of what God has commanded, then we we're motivated, we're actually doing things that put ourselves or something else in place of God. It's a heart condition. Yeah. It gives rise to actions. But it's the heart condition that's essentially when it boils down to it, it's rebellion toward God. Yes, and so why is it that someone who has is guilty of just one thing, is guilty of all. It's because of the holiness of God. Right? He i i i in his holiness He can't have fellowship with any sin. He's completely separate from sin. And it doesn't matter how many or how much weight you put on them, anything that departs from uh his holy character is disqualifying. Yeah, and if you have that kind of conversation, um it it may be A little challenging to know when to start referring to New Testament verses with your Jewish friend, but one way to do it would be to say Let's look at the interaction of um well let's put it this way. Who were who were the most uh righteous Jews in Jesus' day? The Pharisees. The Pharisees. And so you say, well, you know, it's an interesting study to go through the the the New Testament record of Jesus' interaction with the Pharisees and what comes up over and over and over again is what? Their hypocrisy. They were expert at keeping the law and even the regulations and traditions that they piled on top of the law. But Jesus said You're like whitewashed tombs. Look real nice on the outside, but inside you're full of what? Dead man's bones. Dead men's bones. And so over and over Jesus would say it's a matter of the heart. And if the heart is right, the actions are going to follow. The actions themselves aren't the issue. You remember the parable of the um Well in in Matthew 7, at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus gave the illustration that you will know them by their fruit. And yet, right after that, he said, uh many will come to me on that day and say, Lord, Lord, didn't we do this in your name and do that in your name? And you know, uh we're we've got good standing, right? And what was his response? Depart from me, for I never knew you. And then he gives an illustration using the house built on the sand and the house built on the rock The two houses, for all intents and purposes, look the same. What are the houses? The outward appearances, right? The the works and and so on. The outside, what's the difference the foundation that you're not seeing, how do you know which foundation it is? Well, it's gonna prove itself when the storm comes. Right? So you'll know them by their fruit, but you'll also know them by the result of their um Well, their response, what happens when what's inside gets revealed. When the foundation they're relying on gets revealed, that's also going to help you to know who's who. Yeah, so when you talk about sin, make sure they understand it's not just actions, but it's more importantly what gives rise to those actions. And because of that, um it's it's what, more convicting? It's more more um pervasive and it's hard to argue with God on what's in your heart. Okay. Well uh death uh let's see Look on the middle of page 122. Since we have our own sins to pay for, none of us is eligible to pay for anyone else's sins. Psalm 49. No man can by any means redeem his brother or give to God a ransom for him, for the redemption of his soul is costly And he should cease trying forever, that it should live on eternally, that he should not undergo decay Um so I'm not eligible to pay for your sins because I've got my own my God's counting me accountable for my own sins. And we're all in that boat. So that's the bad news. You know, before you can understand the good news you have to understand the bad news. The bad news is it's it's pervasive, it it it's uh um It applies to all of us. Uh we're all sinners, we're all separated from God, uh, and we have no capacity to um well th the the just result of that is that God holds all of us accountable to him to pay for those sins those sinful rebellions and and so on. Uh and what is the payment for those things? But eternal separation from him And that's the bad news, that it results in eternal uh damnation. Uh none of us can argue our way out of it, none of us can work our way out of it, uh none of us can uh pay for anyone else's sins because we're we're half our own sins to pay for. And so if they understand that, if they're tracking with you, then they're probably ready to hear what God's solution to this problem is. And if they misunderstand the holiness of God or the justice of God or the pervasiveness of sin and that and and the consequences of sin, then they're they don't understand the bad news and they're probably not ready for the good news. Um but anyway, when they're interested in in inquiring, okay, so what has God done to uh bring a solution to that Uh that's Roman numeral three here on page one twenty-two. God from eternity past made a plan to save people from this dilemma. He would provide a sinless substitute Who would pay for our sins by shedding his blood in death for us. And then going right back to Genesis. how God first gave a glimpse of the need for that in the sentencing of uh the curse actually to the serpent Where in uh three fourteen and fifteen the Lord said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you more than all the cattle, and more than every beast of the field, on your belly you will go, on the dust and thus you will eat all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, he shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. So even Jewish scholars have understood this to be an an early um reference or prediction, prophecy even, uh, about the Messiah. So that there would be a a man who would come who would um uh uh bruise Satan on the head, what's the difference between a a blow to the head versus a blow to the heel? Fadal? Right. Um and so there wasn't a lot of detail there, but it's also in the context That uh yeah I'm gonna come back to that in just about two minutes on the next page. But let's, well we're on this point about God uh giving a picture of the need for this substitute. You can then take him to uh Isaiah. Most people start with Isaiah 53, verse 1, but you might actually want to start a couple verses earlier in chapter 52, where it says, Behold my servant, and here it's speaking of the Messiah. My servant will prosper, he will be high and lifted up and greatly exalted. Just as many were astonished at you, my people, so his appearance was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men. Thus he will sprinkle many nations. Kings will shut their mouths on account of him, for what had not been told them they will see. And what they had not heard, they will understand. And then chapter 53. Who has believed our message? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he, the Messiah, grew up before him, the God, like a tender shoot, and like a root out of the parched ground. He has no steady form, or stately form, or majesty, that we should look upon him, nor appearance that we should be attracted to him. He was despised and forsaken of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And like one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we did not esteem him. Surely our griefs He himself bore, and our sorrows he carried, yet we ourselves esteemed him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was pierced through for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The chastening for our well-being fell upon him And by his scourging we are healed. All of us, like sheep, have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way. But the Lord has caused the iniquity of us all to fall on him. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth, like a lamb that is led to slaughter, and like a sheep that is silent before its shearers. Uh the good ends verse ten. But the Lord was pleased to crush him, putting him to grief, if he would render himself as a guilt offering. He will see his offspring, he will prolong his days, and the good pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand. As a result of the anguish of his soul, he will see it and be satisfied. By his knowledge The righteous one, my servant, will justify the many, and he will bear their iniquities. Therefore I will law him a portion with the great And he will divide the booty with the strong, because he poured out himself to death and was numbered with the transgressors, yet he himself bore the sin of many. Um someone suggested to me uh a long time ago that uh it may be helpful in your interaction with your Jewish friends. is to write out Isaiah 53, or maybe start with chapter 52, verse 13. Write it out without the verse numbers, without any reference to Isaiah. Just write it out and hand it to him and have him read it. Say, um Who do you think that's talking about? And a lot of times they'll say, oh, it's it's probably something from the New Testament without Jesus and I don't believe all that stuff. Well, did you realize it's actually from Isaiah? Mm-hmm It was written like what seven hundred years or something before Christ. Uh it was definitely about the Messiah. Um that might pique his interest. Who knows? But the point is, God had a plan to provide a substitute. And it made it clear through um um Various prophecies like that. But on page 123, section B here, God provided many illustrations of that plan to Adam, to Noah, to Abraham, to Moses, and the all the people of Israel, uh, in anticipation of the plan actually happening. We don't know um who God has chosen. You know, we can't read the heart. We don't know people's hearts. But we need to spread the gospel widely, regardless. And people their response is not in any way because of our eloquence or our activity. God just has chosen to use us to present the truth and it will either um help to draw people to Christ because of what God's doing in their heart Or it may actually harden them because of their hardness of heart. That's not on us. That's between them and God. What's our role? to just be faithful, to share the truth in love, and God will take care of the results. Judaism, like even a lot of so-called Christianity, is more cultural and and um tradition based than based on scripture. Like this little roof. Tradition, yeah. Um So yeah, I d I have no idea where where he would have been at, but it wouldn't surprise me that he's not well y you may well be more well versed in the Old Testament than even a Jewish rabbi. No. The fact that God chose the nation of Israel for these purposes doesn't mean that they're all saved. Yeah, just read through Romans nine through eleven. You know, there there will be a remnant And certainly many Jews have come to Christ right from the very beginning. They were all Jews. But even nowadays there's still Jews like like Ross and others who um have come to Christ. But there will be a remnant who Um God will save, not the whole nation, not the political Israel that's in the land now, but uh of the descendants of of Abraham, there will be a remnant saved. But not all of them. Yeah, read Romans nine through eleven. It's a lot about that. Anyway, real quickly here, I wanted to highlight on page 123 that God provided many illustrations of his plan. So I I mentioned earlier in Genesis three, even as God um well you remember the the uh the the command that God gave to Adam. He says, From any tree of the garden you may eat except this particular one, the tree of knowledge of good and evil. And he said, in the day that you eat of it, what will happen? You will surely die. Okay, so he ate from the tree. Genesis 3. Did he die on that day? He died spiritually and he died eventually, but he didn't die physically that day. Who did die physically that day? Some animals. Oh God killed some animal the first death of anything in God's creation were probably more than one animal that God killed to cover the shame of Adam and Eve. Picturing the need for a substitute. There was death on that day, but by God's grace it was an animal, not Adam and Eve. Picturing the need for a substitute for sin. And what he said in Genesis 3:15 that uh a descendant of Eve would one day um you know inflict the lethal blow to Satan, again, he's picturing in the context of his grace, he's picturing that the solution is already known. And so it builds the the need for faith and and so on. Skip down to Genesis eight and we get Noah. Uh God had commanded Noah to to take uh two of every kind of animal but more of the clean animals. Why more of the clean animals? Well, sacrifice, but also that's what they would eat. Um we don't have explicit record of how God explained to them what which ones were clean, which ones were not clean. We get that later in the law But somehow God told him and it was clear well actually they came the animals came to him on the ark, but he made it maybe that was the way to illustrate. Oh I've got more of these uh lambs on here than ever than crocodiles. So uh I guess those are the clean ones. Or God may have been very explicit to him. These are clean, these are not. Anyway Both for eating, because prior to the flood there was no eating of animals. It was only after the flood. Um, but also for sacrifice. And as soon as They got out of the ark, Noah, in Genesis 8 20, Noah built an altar to the Lord and took of every clean animal and of every clean bird and offered burnt offering on the altar That wasn't just a pro-forma kind of worship. God had instituted that early on, even uh in Genesis 4, you saw, uh I skipped over it, but um Uh it w it was understood that people would have to uh bring sacrifices, animal sacrifices to the Lord. To picture the substitute and to come in worship to God, acknowledging His plan for a substitute for our sin and how our sins separate us. from him. You see that in Abraham, Genesis 22, we had the uh sermon last week, right, of Abraham's uh obeying God and um picturing, even more specifically than an animal sacrifice can picture, the fact that God would provide for us a human substitute for our sin. I it it seems pretty tr inevitable that Abraham wasn't able to connect the dots completely. But it really drove home the message that in fact even Abraham said God will provide himself a land, right? And he's thinking they're not just right now a substitute for Isaac, but even more generally. a substitute for man's sin. So he believed what did he believe? He believed God. He just took God at his word. He didn't have to understand all the details. That's the nature of faith. Take God at His Word and act accordingly. Yeah. So Abraham, uh, you flip over to 124, Moses. Um very specific instructions about uh the lambs for sacrifice and uh the whole nature of that. all to picture and to to and to um just ingrain in their understanding That in order to approach God, the sin problem has to be dealt with, and the God's provision for it ultimately is a substitute who doesn't have his own sins to pay for. You see in Psalm 51, in David's prayer of repentance after sinning with Bathsheba He says, Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, the God of my salvation, then my tongue will joyfully sing of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips. That my mouth may declare your praise, for you do not delight in sacrifice, that is, sacrifices we would offer, otherwise I would give it You are not pleased with burnt offerings. Even though God had commanded it, it's not the ultimate solution. And that's what David is acknowledging here. It's not the ultimate solution. You're not pleased with burnt offerings just as, you know, check the box for a burnt offering, right? Um the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit and a broken and contrite heart, oh God you will not despise. By your favor, do good to Zion. Build the walls of Jerusalem. Then you will delight in the righteous sacrifices, in burnt offerings, the whole burnt offering. Then young bills will be offered on your altar. So if they're offered from the right heart of repentance and contrition, God will be pleased. Okay. Then on page 125, at least in my notes, I'm transitioning to who this Messiah actually was. Jesus was that Messiah. The word Messiah, of course, means anointed one. And the Greek form of that word is Christ. Christ was not his Last name, it was a title. And he lived a sinless life and shed his blood in death as our substitute. for sin, fulfilling all these prophecies and all these these prophetic picturings of the need for a a um a blood substitute for our sin And so you can take them through um the the the birth announcement to Mary, for example. uh some of the things that Jesus said about himself. Um top of page one twenty six in John ten Well actually at the bottom of one twenty five, they they um the Jews got around Christ and and said um How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. And Jesus answered them, I told you, and you do not believe the words that I do in my Father's name Um and then later, top of page twenty-six, he continues and says, um, my father who is Given them to me is greater than all. No one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. In verse 30, I and my father are one. And the Jews picked up stones again to stone him. And Jesus answered, I showed you many good works from the Father, for which of them are you stoning me? And the Jews answered, For a good work we do not stone you, but why? For blasphemy, and because you, being a man, make yourself out to be God. So did they have any misunderstanding about what he meant? No, they understood it very clearly, didn't they? Um And then at his trial in Luke 22, the Jewish Council of Elders said, If you are the Christ, tell us. But he said to them, If I tell you you will not believe, and if I ask you a question, you will not answer. But then he says uh in verse seventy, they asked him again, Are you the Son of God then? And he said to them, Yes, I am. And then they say, well what further need do we have? You know, he's he's obviously blaspheming and so it's it's a death sentence, right? Uh on page 127 you might want to uh point out that there were some Jews who were very much anticipating the arrival of the Messiah and very much rejoicing when they saw that he had arrived. So you've got the shepherds, you've got Simeon and Anna, for example. Um page one hundred twenty-eight Uh it it may not come up much in your conversations with Jews today because they don't do animal sacrifices. But it might be helpful to point out why God instituted them in the law, uh, but then take them to Hebrews, which says, you know, they these animal sacrifices had a a purpose. But that purpose was not to take away sin because they can't. And it should be obvious from looking at the law and their experience that with these sacrifices done over and over and over and over again Every year, the Day of Atonement as well, Hebrews says, The law, Hebrews 10, 1, the law since it has only a shadow of the good things to come and not the former things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually, year by year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise They would not ha they would have ceased to be offered because the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins. But in those sacrifices there is a reminder of sins year by year For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. What did it do? It covered the sins temporarily until the ultimate sacrifice was made, and it had a purpose. But one of the main purposes was to show them and the world that sin is the problem, it's a perpetual problem, and there needs to be a substitutionary death on account of everyone's sin. So this is the same thing. Could I get to that in just a minute? Because we we're just about to end on time. So the point would be to to help them see that the sacrificial system was pointing toward the ultimate, right? It wasn't in and of itself. uh the solution. But and and and so like several places we see here in Hebrews, for example, the the those sacrifices can't take away sin. But you might take them to John 1. Where it says the next day John the Baptist saw Jesus coming to him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So Jesus' role was not to merely cover over the sin because he was the ultimate sacrifice for our sin. He came to take away sin once for all, as Hebrews emphasizes Okay, we're going to have to close down here, but there's a number of points here about the application of the gospel, the the extent of the cleansing. uh the purpose of the law. Uh if good works don't earn us salvation, then why should we do them? That might come up. Um okay. So hopefully the rest of that will be helpful and self-explanatory, but we need to close down. Let's try Father, we thank you for uh the way you revealed both the problem and your solution in Scripture. And um that for many years people were anticipating the Messiah, um, not understanding fully what his role was, but nonetheless understanding that uh you had provided uh a solution. And Lord, we pray that in our conversations with our Jewish friends that um you would Uh work through us to soften their hearts, use your word as we describe it and explain it, discuss it. Um Help us to be conduits through whom, uh, if it be your will, you would draw many of them to yourself. Thank you, Lord, for that great opportunity, and uh we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen