Welcome to our class on evangelizing cults, local cults, and religions. A while ago, I don't know, a year or so ago, someone here suggested that we have a class like this because Increasingly, seems he was encountering people from various cults and other religions just in our area And it would be helpful to have some background on their beliefs, some suggestions of how to use the scriptures to address those relief uh beliefs. Um and so that was kind of the origin here. Uh Bob has a uh uh an announcement to make here. Right. So if you have the notes, we're gonna begin on Page three, our topic today is Biblical Foundations, getting our our thinking right for uh interacting with people who have other beliefs. And so I I start um with the foundation, fundamentals Because evangelism is spiritual warfare, is it not? And so we need to understand uh what evangelism is, how we are to evangelize, and then build on that foundation with specific understanding later as the weeks proceed. with these various other groups. So in understanding evangelism, the first point I make here is that it is the gospel that saves, not our eloquence. Right? Now it's not a bad thing to be eloquent, to have ability to speak and communicate, and as for particularly if what you're communicating is true Um but you remember Moses, he was complaining that Lord I I I can't speak. How can I represent all you and all these people, right? And what's God's answer? Doesn't matter. Um it's God who saves and it's not our eloquence. We can't cause anybody to become a Christian. We can't even cause anyone to question their own beliefs. Where does that happen? It happens in their heart, and who who is the only one who can work in their heart? God. Right? So you might think, well, let him go ahead and do that, and I can just Twiddle my thumbs over here, right? No. God has designed it so that we're involved in the process. But we need to understand that he's the one who does ultimately does the evangelizing. He certainly is the only one who can work in their heart. both to convict them of sin and to convict them of the truth about him. But he's delighted to in fact he's commanded us To be a part of that. What part? Well, uh we we can be vocal, um and we need to be vocal. We need to uh have good interactions with people. Uh but the fundamental part here is that we under need to understand that it's the gospel that saves, not our eloquence. And we're going to get specific about what that gospel is here in a minute. But I would read here from Romans 1, where Paul says, I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. So when Paul was ministering, even though he had a Jewish background, even the Jews were a different religion, essentially. from Christianity. And the Greeks he's referring basically to all Gentile unbelievers, all those pagan religions and so on. Uh and he makes it clear that it's the gospel that saves. um not his eloquence and so on. In fact he gets more specific about that in First Corinthians one. Where he says the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. Then later in verse 23, he says, We preach Christ crucified. To the Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness, but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks. It's Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. So um Paul was relentless in staying focused on what the gospel actually is and the fact that it's the gospel that saves. Not our wisdom. In fact, uh unless God's working in someone's heart, how does that gospel appear to them? Foolishness. Right? Um so a second point, actually uh 1 Corinthians 2. It's probably worth reading a bit from that as well. Paul says, When I came to you, I did not come with superiority of speech or of wisdom proclaiming to you the testimony of God. For I determined to know nothing among you except what? Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Now it's pretty simple, right? That's the foundation. Jesus Christ and Him crucified. It's the gospel, the core message. And then verse 4 he says, My message and my preaching were not in persuasive words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, so that your faith would not rest on the wisdom of men. Of the likes of me, Paul says, but rather what on the power of God to save? And we would do well to have that same attitude, that it's God working through his word, the gospel, that saves, not us. Okay, secondly, God uses his word to produce saving faith in an unbeliever's heart. So he's the only one who can do that, and he uses his word. You're probably familiar with Romans 10. We'll touch on several pieces of this as we move along, but what I wanted to focus on first of all is verse 17 at the end of that. Faith comes from hearing and by the Word of Christ. Hearing by the Word of Christ. And of course in Hebrews 4. 12 The Word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, and so on. So God's at work in the heart. if there's ever going to be any salvation. And he uses his word which convicts it it goes down to our innermost being to uh uh uh if if God so wills, uh to transform the heart, to soften the heart, to open the eyes to understanding, right? And to humble those who are proud Okay, our third point, top of page four. I mentioned this a little bit earlier, top of page four, all evangelism is spiritual warfare. It's taking place in the heart. It's it's um being opposed by the evil one, right? Spiritual warfare, so we should do it in God's power. People in cults and other religions aren't our enemies. They're blinded by our enemy, Satan. Okay? 2 Corinthians 10. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses We are destroying speculations and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God, and we are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. And then in Ephesians 6, of course, where uh the Apostle Paul outlines our uh the nature of our spiritual warfare and how we're we're to be prepared for that warfare. In verse 12, he says, Our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the full armor of God so that you will be able to resist in the evil day, and having done everything to stand firm. And so he outlines here that armor. Right? And most of that armor, as it's illustrated here, is defensive in nature. What's the offensive part of that armor? The sword of the spirit. Turns out that's both defensive and offensive. But um And then he concludes in verse 18 with all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit, and with this in view, be on the alert. So I've listed here below that um how each part of the armor our spiritual armor contributes to our effectiveness in evangelism. So first thing he mentions is girding your loins with truth. Our evangelism needs to be focused on truth, not opinion. Right? And where does that truth come from? God's word. Right. So we need to s be sure that we're communicating truth, not opinions, not um It's good to to to share your testimony, the truth of how God has transformed you. That can often be uh a powerful uh testimony. But focus on the truth. Speak on the truth. If you depart from the truth, then your spiritual armor is going to be um missing there and you might be subject to Uh those darts of the evil one. Then he says also the breastplate of righteousness. What is righteousness? Doing the right thing. That's righteousness. Doing the right thing. I used to think that righteousness and holiness were basically synonyms, but they're not Holiness is being, righteousness is doing. Doing righteousness. So how does righteousness affect our evangelism? Setting a good example? Our walk needs to match our talk. Not a hypocrite. Not a hypocrite. Right? So we're not called only to be a good example and to do good things. Although those are good. We are called to verbalize the gospel, but if our walk doesn't match our talk, are they going to believe our talk? Probably not. Right? So we need to do the right things. Make sure your words works. Confirm your words. Then he refers to um Having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace, now in what sense is the gospel connected with peace? Yeah. The Prince of Peace, Jesus Christ, made it possible for us to have peace with God, right? And so the sharing the message of the gospel is helping others Helping others to enter into peace with God. That's our motivation. Now whether they do or not depends on God's drawing them and and so on But the context is offering true peace. Peace with God. Which suggests that our evangelism should be done in love. Not out of hatred or anything like that. Our motive should be genuine love toward those who are dying. Right? And he refers here also to taking up the shield of faith. Now, often when we think of faith, we think of our original saving faith when we placed our trust in Christ, and that's important. What would be the connection to evangelism? He saved me so he can say it somewhere else. Okay. So we know that's that um uh For anyone to enter into a relationship with God, it's by grace through faith. God does the work, they respond by faith. And so we need to help them understand the need for that, that it's not a basis on the basis of their works, but rather on faith. But yes. you know says it will not be secure to us so there's going to be attacked coming on land. We have to be firm in what we can leave and our ready for the water. Um very firm we could stand strong. Yeah, so when we're in that spiritual battle, not if but when, um We're resolute in our faith that God is the one who saves, that salvation is real, it's very much needed by these people who are lost And not to be deterred by um the lies of the evil one. Even in the process of evangelizing. So it's essential for the person we're talking to, it's also essential for our faithfulness to the gospel. Good. Ben mentions the um helmet of salvation. That's protecting our heads, right? The helmet of salvation. What's the relevance there for evangelism? Many years ago I was at a missions conference and was hearing a testimony of one of the missionaries who said he actually came to salvation on the mission field. Can you imagine being interested in evangelism and even going cross-culturally to share the gospel and not having received it yourself? Obviously that transforms his ministry, right? Um but um yes, we need to be assured of our salvation. So that we can speak with confidence and experience and even the authority of God's Word, because We know it works. That it's established us in a relationship with God. And it's given us the um um ability to overcome sin in our lives because it's God's work in us, not us. The salvation is real. And then, of course, he mentions the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. We've already talked about the necessity of basing our uh gospel message and are are answering their questions about the gospel, basing it on scripture. Right. So it's very much connected with the truth, right? That was already described. But um It's good to use illustrations sometimes if they help, you know, like Jesus used parables all the time to try to communicate. you know, complicated or or spiritual things in sort of everyday language and scenarios. But um Don't think that those examples apart from the Word of God are going to be all that effective. They can be effective when illustrating the truth of God's Word. And it it you're reading the God's Word, and they say, Well, um You can illustrate an example that helps to drive home the meaning of what we just read in God's Word. That can be effective But it's not a substitute itself for the Word of God. It's it's a way to help illustrate that. Does that make sense? And then prayer. He after describing this this uh spiritual armor He says, with all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit, and with this unview, be on the alert, with all perseverance And petition for all the saints. You see the all the all the alls there? It's comprehensive. And he says, Pray on my behalf, that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth To make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains, that in proclaiming it I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. Now, you might not be in chains like Paul was when he wrote this, but that could be your prayer. Prayer for yourself. Uh you can seek the prayers of other people as you're involved in maybe prolonged inter uh evangelistic interactions with others, definitely be bathing that in prayer because we realize it's not us It's a spiritual warfare that God needs to um fight, essentially. Um He's the one who works in their hearts. He's the one who draws them to Himself. And um uh we need to depend on that and ask him to to do that for sure. Yeah, Willie. Kind of going back to the original part of uh see the one thing that I have problems with is that uh I you know in in in making sure that the person that I'm trying to speak with is not not my enemy is that sometimes when you get a little pushback even if it's you you kind of get into debate mode and instead of um instead of being And then that person becomes an adversary in the conversation. And uh one thing a friend of mine was always uh reminds me of he says Willie you wouldn't get upset with the person that has cancer for being sick it's the same problem that an unbeliever has. They can't help where they are, what they believe, because the enemy has darkened their mind. And so therefore it's not their fault you have to kind of you have to go into that conversation. with the attitude that they are not the enemy. It's not their fault. You have to get at the main root of the problem, but the darkness that that uh that the s that enemy of our souls bring to their minds. Right. And uh it's it's for me it's it's kind of a hard thing uh when it comes to when you get that pushback to kind of not get into debate mode and and not make it an adversarial conversation. So just kind of bring it down and to present um what you have to say in love in in in in love and in in and patience. Yeah, it um fantastic point. Um because in our flesh we may easily uh and maybe be baited into that kind of of uh debate mode. Um I think we'll we'll talk about this a little bit more uh going forward, but one suggestion, if you think it's it's going that way, like say he says He asks this this unbeliever asks you, so what about such and such? I don't this this seems like an inconsistency in the Bible or whatever. uh w and if it's very clear that this is kind of uh whether intentionally or not kind of veering away from the central message of the gospel. Um Or if you don't think you have a ready answer for this anyway, but even if you do Tell 'em you know, that's an interesting question. I can see where you're coming from. Um But let me ask you this. If I answered that completely and just satisfied you that that's not an issue Would that cause you to want to consider the claims of Christ more Or something like that. And if they say, no, I was just trying to see what you would say, it's obvious that the their motive isn't isn't in it, right? It's not uh but if they say Um well y you can just go from there, depending on what they say. But yeah. 'Cause this is prompting me to share what I just experienced. So I don't really talk about my faith or at least I never did and I'm working on it, just witnessing and I went to visit a friend. I think I've shared this um in my That I went to visit visit a friend who's who's six, she's seventy-three. And um I knew during the drive that there was gonna be a point that I was gonna ask her or say something. I didn't know what, but I knew I was praying for it. There were two opportunities, two windows, and I felt it really quick. I had seconds. It was when we sat down on Friday with her two friends that came over and I said, Can I pray before we eat one of 'em was like, Yeah, sure, not a problem. She didn't say anything. She just gave me a look like, How dare you, but go ahead And so I did. It was quick quick and brief and her friend, you know, looked at me, she said, Thank you so much, that was beautiful, blah blah blah. So that went through. But the next day I was I I felt this like talk to her, talk to her. And when I was sitting uh towards the end of the the evening I said I had a again, another second. And I said, well, and I can't remember what exactly I said, but she said, I believe what I believe And um, you know, and I respect what other people believe, but this is what I believe. And then this is when I said, but you know there is a hell and And the afterlife. She said, I don't care when I die. Like I don't and then I and that's when I knew so my my thing is this, I knew when to shut up I knew not to push for for further because maybe there won't be another opportunity to come down and see her. I didn't want to be pushy. I don't know if I did the right thing but at that moment I said, Thank you, Lord, for giving me this opportunity but I'm just gonna step back And just continue to pray for her. But I felt but oh yeah. And so I thought, oh I'm never gonna do this again. No, it was the opposite. I said, Thank you, Father, give me more strength for the next time I'll be more prepared. Maybe scripture Or maybe hey, you know, whatever, but she didn't give me that. She shut the doors quickly. So I was like, just sit and sit here and enjoy her conversation. Yeah, well that's that's a great example. Um just illustrating that We need to be on the alert, we need to be available, but ultimately God is the only one who can work in their heart. I didn't write it in the notes, but something that may be helpful to you to have as a frame of mind in your evangelism is that success in witnessing is simply sharing Christ in the power of the Holy Spirit and leaving the results to God Success in witnessing is simply sharing Christ in the power of the Holy Spirit. Meaning godly character as well, right? And leaving the results to God. So You can think you've had a very strong presentation of the gospel, the person seems polite and whatever But there's no evidence that um there's any change there, any repentance. Leave the results to God. Uh it may be that God's going to use your planting a seed there and at some later date uh he'll use other people or other events or whatever and conviction and that person eventually will come to Christ and may or may not even remember the conversation with you. It's not about you. It's about God. Um as uh um frequently people say, you know, I don't I don't believe in the asteroids, I don't you know, I don't uh I believe that when I die this is I usually say to them, you might want to this God says you don't want to think about this. And then the judgment. Just think about that. That might give me something. And just thank them and move on. That's why sometimes uh funerals are a good context for helping people think about eternity and their mortality. I shared price with a with a um a friend and she was not interested. She was not open, she was a part here. Twenty years later she tracked me down to tell me that she could become a Christian and she still remembered the things that I had shared with her. So even if somebody's not open Amen. Yeah, I I uh shared the gospel with my roommate in college freshman year and um Seemed like it was over his head. But three or four years later I saw him in church and said Hey. He had come to Christ, he remembered our conversation, wasn't ready at that point, but uh God somehow used it in his life. And um God isn't obliged to give us those little nuggets of confirmation but sometimes He does just to encourage us. And that's neat. You know they're a part time in another sense. Like people might be open to wow, is this all there is? Right. But it's also a time that's really difficult because when people do the math they go the guy that just I went to hell then is that what you tell them. You know what I mean? When they when they hear your message they're understanding the implications. So that depending on how God's working in their heart, that realization that there's they're accountable when they die can either be a motivation to repent or might even harden them even more It's not up to you. Um but yeah. I was just saying at that point you may just say you know all only the Lord knows their home. Right. You know that that's better back in their court and only the only the Lord knows their home. Amen. Well let's go to uh uh item D here on page four. The Holy Spirit empowers us to communicate the gospel. He is the one who convicts sinners of sin. as God draws them to saving faith in Christ. So in Acts 1. 8, for example, Jesus said, right before he ascended into heaven, right? Speaking to his disciples and those who are gathered, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. And you should be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the remotest part of the earth. The Holy Spirit uh has been given to us by God's grace uh for uh lots of reasons. He comforts us, yes he's called the comforter, comes alongside. Uh but he's uh he also equips us to um live the Christian life. And he um leads us um uh like um uh Guadalupe was saying yeah Th she had this few seconds where the spirit was kind of nudging her, right? Um and uh so he's very active in our being witnesses. In 1 Thessalonians 1. 5, Paul writes, For our gospel did not come to you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit with full conviction. And in John sixteen, Jesus uh in preparing his disciples the night before he died Said, I I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper, that is the Holy Spirit, will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And he When he comes, will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. Concerning sin Because they do not believe in me, concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father and you no longer see me, and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged So the Holy Spirit is really the only one who can convict anybody of that. Uh he he can use our use of scripture in a person's life, but ultimately he needs to do the convicting. Jesus said in John 6, 44, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. It doesn't say even that people won't come. It's that they can't. Because they're dead. They're unresponsive, right? No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. We don't know who God is calling. That's right. And so we as believers are called out of obedience simply to present the gospel Including ones in the church. To encourage them if they're believers. Maybe they're not a believer. They're hearing the gospel Right. So we speak the gospel at the funerals across another countries as missionaries. And we're just doing that out of the eighth Romans ten, right? And then watch for God to do his solid work in your life. Maybe then, maybe many decades later. So he's not only working in that person's life, but he's working in our life. So diligence and perseverance, we don't give up because the love that we have for Christ So because we don't yeah, wouldn't it be easy if we knew people's hearts? Oh, there's somebody who's ready to believe. I'll go with this to him. But um no, we need to sow broadly recognize that some have been prepared Some maybe are in the process of being prepared for the truth and aren't quite there yet. Um I remember in um Acts 17 when Paul was uh preaching on Mars Hill and speaking of uh uh God as our creator and having sent Christ And having raised him from the dead, and that was kind of the pivotal point in that conversation, the resurrection. And it says at the end of that that there were three responses. Some scoffed at the whole idea. They weren't prepared. Others said, um We want to learn more about this. They weren't yet saved, but their God might be drawing them. They were open to hearing more. But then it says others actually did believe. And we're likely to get those same re three responses, maybe not all three in every encounter. But uh you may get some that are just completely turned off and hardened, others who are willing to keep hearing. God by his grace may be drawing them. and others who um immediately believe and don't take that as a confirmation of your your excellence in evangelism. But God's probably been working on them already for quite a long time and you just happen to be at the right place at the right time. Right? That's why the one verse is the first Uh Corinthians five four seconds Corinthians five four is about to reading with you. I implore you to come to Christ. I read that because I'm still not coerced in that. Yeah once once they intellectually know what the stakes are eternally And that we're all in the the the the same boat when it comes to sin and accountability to God. Then uh if God's drawing them, they'll say something like, What then can I do to be saved? Right? Uh but until then, we just sowing broadly, sharing the truth, and let God use it as only He can Okay. So my second major point on the outline is not only understands um evangelism itself, but more specifically we under need to understand the gospel. What is the gospel? Now I've summarized the key points with some verses here on page five. We're going to find at the end of this lesson there's a greater a greater depth example of walking through these points with the actual scripture passages and some questions you can ask someone as you walk through that. So But just to summarize it, the way I summarize the gospel anyway is there are five points. One is you emphasize first God's character. He is basic the key points of it, he's our creator, so we're accountable to him. And he's holy and loving and just But we also need to understand man's character. My experience is that people have too low a view of God And too high a view of themselves. Right? And so if in their mind that's not a big leap between the two of them They're thinking, I can he's kinda great on the curve, right? God before Yeah. But I can see myself jumping up there by my good works and whatever, right? What's the problem? They have too low a view of God. He's way up here. They have too high a view of themselves, they're way down here, and there's no way, no way they can bridge that gap If they come to that understanding, they see the dilemma we're in. Alright? God, yes, is good, but he demands perfection. And that's not any of us. And so we've got this dilemma. But God has solved that dilemma in Christ. But we still need to respond to that. It's it's God's solution, it's God's only solution to the problem. the the uh substitutionary life and death of Christ on our behalf. Um But we need to respond. And apart from God's working in our hearts, we're not going to respond. And so even the faith and the repentance that are needed for salvation, he gives us. They're gifts of God, not the result of works. So that's the core themes of of the Gospel. And we're going to look at that a little bit more as we go along. But turn to page six if you have the notes. The next thing to understand is to understand the counterfeits. Do you think there are many counterfeits to the true gospel? There are a lot. So what is a Christian cult? Well, someone has summarized it by saying it's a religious movement. That claims the support of Christ and the Bible. That's why it's a Christian cult, not some other kind of cult. It claims support of Christ in the Bible, but misses the heart of Christianity, i. e. the gospel. Because it adopts an additional authority alongside or really superseding the Bible. And or it gives prominence to a secondary tenant in place of the core of the Christian faith. Key among those things is um they they they masquerade as if they're Christian. This is true Christianity. We've got the true vision or whatever, right? Um and so they s uh they pay lip service to the Bible. But it may be a translation of the Bible that they've twisted for their own purposes, right? Or it may be just glossing over what the Bible actually says Because they've got some other writings that they turn to as authoritative, which by the way contradict the Bible. And key among the doctrinal distinctives of any cult any religion other than biblical Christianity, the key is it's always salvation by works. It's only biblical Christianity that's salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. And any other religion, any cult uh may claim to be Christian. But if it's ultimately you either have to do works to get saved or to stay saved, or both, you know it's not biblical And um and yet that's where everybody is at. That's where everybody is at, in their own pride and and whatever. I've got to do something to show that I'm acceptable enough to God. Just think how crazy an idea that is. If you know anything about the holiness of God, right? Okay. So I say Christian cults because there are lots of cults from other religions. I know there are uh cults coming out of Islam that uh focus on some things that are that are not taught uh uh in in traditional Islam. And so What we're going to be speaking about here are specifically Christian cults. Not that they're Christians, but they're sprung out of Christianity. That's where they're coming from. But they've gone off astray. Okay, so there's some Christian or some questions that you can Ask people or ask yourself as you understand some of these teachings and doctrines of other cults. Uh that help you to make it clear in your own thinking that yes, this is this is the cult. Not not true Christianity. And so the first one is, do you base your teachings on revelations or secret writings other than the Bible? And if they're honest, they'll say, uh, well, yeah, we've got such and such and and and whatever. And it turns out that they place a whole lot of weight on those others things. Another question, is your primary task preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ? Well, they might say yes, but then you ask them, well, what is that gospel message? And you find that it's not the gospel at all, right? In fact, in um The beginning of the book of Galatians, Paul writes, even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we have preached to you, he is to be accursed. As we've said before, so I say it again now, if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you received, he is to be accursed. That's strong language. There's a lot at stake. The gospel is pure. It's not to be adulterated with other things like which inevitably end up being works. Um Christ's death was not sufficient, they think. It's Christ's death plus works, which means it's a salvation by works. W why why would Paul say that preaching that kind of gospel um is worthy of being cursed. Because that kind of gospel leads people astray. It has eternal consequences, right? Another question, three. Do you believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Christ, the anointed one of God, who has come in the flesh? Is Jesus of Nazareth the eternal Word of God become flesh? And depending on who you're talking to, what kind of cult or um well particularly the cults They may say, yeah, yeah, it would be kind of a so-so answer, yes, yes and no kind of a thing. But that's key. Who is Christ is key in their understanding of the gospel. Do you believe that Christ shed blood is the only basis for the forgiveness of your sins? Only basis for your sins, the forgiveness of your sins. Most of them say, well that's important, but you know we need to do this, we need to do that, whatever. Right? Do you believe that Jesus rose from the dead Now there are some who are in cults who definitely believe that Jesus rose from the dead. In fact, Muslims believe that Jesus rose from the dead. The demons believe it and they shudder. Right? Six, are you personally trusting Jesus Christ as your own Redeemer and Lord? That'll separate the sheep from the goats. You might not want to start with that question, but it's it's an indicator, right? Do you depend upon some achievements of your own for salvation, or is your trust exclusively in the grace of God? So you might have noticed here I've I've indicated in parentheses most of the uh s five solas of the Reformation. And so I included here on the next several pages some of the biblical basis for those five solas. So Sola fide. This is using the Latin, right? Fide is what? Faith. Salvation is through faith alone, without any works Solus Christus, salvation is in Christ alone, without any other mediator. So less scriptura, our supreme authority is scripture alone, no other authority Sola gratia. Salvation is by grace alone without any merit on our part. And then E, solideo gloria, means what? To the glory of God alone. It's all about God's glory, it's not about us Okay, on page twelve I have a little table here that uh provides the basic answers some of these local cults and religions will provide, will give when you ask those those eight questions. Do you base your teaching on revelations or secret writings, so on? And among these, I personally think that number seven is the key Do you depend on some achievements of your own for your salvation? In biblical Christianity, the answer is unequivocally, no way. Our righteousness is like filthy rags. Right? It's all of Christ. Were it not for Christ, I would be a goner. And were it not for God opening my eyes, I would have no interest in it whatsoever. But every single cult, Christian cult, every single religion that's out there is all about works. And it may be natural in our fallen state to think that in our pride that we can convince a holy God that we can do enough to tip the scales, if you will. We'll talk more about that mentality in the future, but um It doesn't make it right. It may come natural to people to think that God grace on the curve, you know, I didn't kill anybody. I didn't rob any banks. I'm I'm better than probably half the people who ever lived, right? Well, no. Um Any sin scripture teaches us is disqualifying. Doesn't matter how heinous, how often, any sin falls short of God's standards. And so we're all deserving of death, eternal death. And That's core to the gospel. And all of these groups are are fudging on that out of pride, essentially. And we need to help them humbly to see that we're all in the same boat. That our sin disqualifies us. From God. Because His holiness is absolute purity. Separation from sin, right? And that's labels. What is the distinction that we use the label cults versus other labels? So at the very beginning here, um at the very beginning, on page six What is a Christian cult? It's a religious movement that claims the support of Christ in the Bible, but because it misses the heart of Christianity, the gospel Because it adopts an additional authority alongside or even superseding the Bible Or it gives prominence to a secondary tenant in place of the core of the Christian faith. And so probably the most surprising one you would have you would see here is Roman Catholicism That's exactly a description of Roman Catholicism. Now the shame is The Roman Catholic Church grew out of the very early church, right? But strayed. Straight from what? Scripture? Um from uh scripture alone from grace alone, by faith alone, in Christ alone, and um became a cult. And um we normally don't think of it that way, but that's exactly what it is. Um, what about people who believe in universalism? Like what's the worst part in that? If you would ask them what what are you trying to this the question is about universalism, people who believe sort of I don't know what they believe. Yeah, that everyone's gonna be saved basically. Uh my brother believes that because my class thing. And I kinda wanna know what's the worst one Um I thought if uh hit or down right now. If if they believe there is a God, which I think they do, um What is it that um allows us in his presence? Well they'll probably say, well it's his love. He loves everybody, he's he's Um, but when they understand um man's character, And they still say that anything goes. Um at the root of it, they're thinking that they're good enough. Right. Um that God will accept me. Ask him you know, will God accept a a serial killer? Will God accept Hitler? Yes. And if they uh if there if there comes some kind of description where they say no Then they're what they're saying is you've got to be good enough you've got to at least meet some minimal standard of of righteousness. It's all about works. And no, y you don't have to be as evil as Hitler. You can be as as good as the Pharisees and still see help. I would ask them where did you get his contact with God from the case? Right. Right. Right. So again, if people's view of God is too low and their view of themselves is too high, they're hardened, typically. Certainly misguided. Okay. This may be a good point to mention that the cults that I've included here and are included in the notes that we're going to be covering. are ones that are very prominent here locally. And that's that's the focus of our local uh context. And so um Roman Catholicism was very central in the founding of Maryland, uh seeking to have freedom of of religion in Maryland. Um actually Maryland was not named after Mary, the Virgin Mary, but named after um the wife of King Charles I, I think. Um But it was very Roman Catholic from the very beginning. Uh and it's still true today, right? Seventh day at Venice, they have their headquarters right here in Silver Spring. Jehovah's Witnesses, anybody have any Jehovah's Witnesses come around knocking on your doors? Uh maybe the same with Mormons. Yeah. Yeah. So these are some of the more prevalent ones we'll have in our area. It's not a uh uh exhaustive list. But I also wanted to cover a couple of uh religions as well, Judaism and Islam, because You often run into people from those backgrounds as well. And it's a little bit different from the the Christian cults, but um helpful to be prepared to interact with them as well. Okay. Just to wrap up here real quickly on page 2013 It's helpful to know all these things, but be prepared to share the gospel. There's some tips there. Take the initiative, some questions you can ask. Two that are very good with with all of these these groups would be number uh four and five, the evangelism explosion questions. If you were to die today, do you know that you would go to heaven? And regardless of how to answer that, number five, if you were to stand before God and he were to ask you, why should I let you into heaven, what would you say to him? And I bet ya, if they're not saved, they'll say, Well, I was a pretty good person. Right? You've heard that. It's always worked. It's always worked. And then some suggestions on sharing the gospel. So starting on page fourteen is that gospel outline that I mentioned earlier that works through the various verses in these topics in that same order With some questions you can ask the person you're talking with. And so what I would recommend, whether it's this outline or another portion of scripture you're you're dealing with Have them focus on one piece at a time. Even if it's a longer passage, you can work through it one piece at a time. Have them read it from the Bible and then ask them questions about what they're seeing it says. And so these questions that are here for you um give you some illustration of the kinds of questions you can ask and the answers that if they say I don't know you have the answer to. You probably have the answer already anyway But just it's just a way to work through what the scripture actually says in a way that helps them to see God and see man. And that causes a dilemma and what the the impact of that dilemma is and how um how God created the solution Which by the way wasn't plan B. God's solution was plan A all along, even before Genesis 3. And then man's response. So I hope that will be helpful material for you. Uh I would encourage you to read through that and and um there's nothing inspired here other than the things in the boxes which is scripture. But it might be helpful Let's uh close up. Next week we're gonna start looking through these various groups. And um Uh get some insights about how we can interact with people. Okay? Let's pray.