Well this is our last class. The last couple of weeks we've been providing an overview of Islam, and we're going to wrap that up today with some uh specifics about what they believe, the main core doctrines and the core duties of Muslims But I want to also spend some time at the end thinking through strategies for reaching out to your Muslim co-workers and neighbors and friends and so on. Okay, so uh we may have touched on some of this uh before, but I'm on page one fifty-seven. Um basically their their view of salvation, if they would even call it that Yeah, in other words, w what what's um what's involved in their eternal destiny. That's certainly a way they might put it. There's definitely a need for faith. Um there is definitely a need for works. So it's faith plus works. But all of that is dependent on the uh sovereignty of Allah Which could be thumbs up or thumbs down, even if you've got faith and works. So that trumps everything. The and and so even if that that um role of fate, as from our perspective, from their perspective, which is the the decision of Allah that's final, even if that weren't the case, and it was based on faith plus works, like all these other cults we've been talking about There's still no certainty, right? And the fact that it depends just on the the the whim, if you will, of Allah makes it even less certain about your future. Um so there really isn't any joy, any certainty. Well that's that's actually true with any uh religion or cult or whatever that depends on work. You never know if you've done enough. And um and so there can be no assurance, no certainty. Praise be to God that that uh because Christ has the only works that God accepts are the works of Christ. And they apply to us who have placed our faith in Him. We can be sure. And Scripture tells us we can be sure that we have eternal life. Not just that we will have eternal life, but we have eternal life Because we're in Christ. Well, what are the main doctrines that Muslims pursue? Um first is that there is one God, that they are staunchly, fiercely monotheistic. Well, we're monotheistic as well. There's only one God. However, that one God, Allah, and again the word Allah really just means the God. Um but that their concept of that God isn't um Um it's wrong. Um it's it's um not consistent with the way God has revealed himself in Scripture. And in fact, it's so fiercely against the way God has revealed Himself in Scripture that there's not much doubt about where this teaching is coming from. Satan, the enemy. Right? You got his fingerprints all over the Quran. So they are Unitarian but not Trinitarian. Uh they believe one God, but what they believe about that God is that he's not um As God has revealed Himself. And so over and over again we see in the Quran, and I've got a couple of examples, several here for you. Toward the bottom of page 157, for example, in Surah 4, verse 48, God forgives not that partners should be set up with him. In other words, that there should be anyone equal to Allah. There's only one God, and so to say anybody else is equal with him is just utter nonsense to them. He forgives anything else to whom he pleases, but to set up partners with God is to derive, devise, a sin most heinous indeed. Um and so it's a direct attack on the Trinity. In fact, um Surah 4, the next one is listed here, verse 171 Oh people of the book, that is, when the Quran refers to people of the book, it's referring to sometimes Jews, sometimes Christians, because they're basing their belief on what God has revealed Sometimes it refers to both. You have to kind of know from the context whether it's both. And in this case it's probably mostly Christians. O people of the book, commit no excesses in your religion, nor say of God aught but the truth. Christ Jesus, the Son of Mary, was no more than a messenger of God. Now where do you suppose that idea is coming from? Satan and his word, which he bestowed on Mary. A spirit proceeding from him. So believe in God and his messengers. Say not, Trinity, desist. It will be better for you, for God is one God. Glory be to him. Far exalted is he above having a son. To him belong all things in the heavens and on the earth, and enough is God as a disposer of affairs. So when they hear the concept of God having a son, what they think of is sort of like uh Greek mythology where the gods had um children and and all that sort of stuff and um They see in that the the the need for some kind of procreation and uh they say God is just above that. And so when they hear Son of God and and um and terms like that That's immediately what they think of. And that puts someone, a a created thing or a person, equal with the creator. And that's just, it doesn't compute for them Um not to um well they completely miss what the scriptures actually teach, even in the Old Testament, uh about the the the Trinity. And um and so they have this this fixed idea, okay, God can't have a son because He's just that's he's above that. Yeah. Yeah the question is, do they attack and persecute Christians more than others? Yes, it is because of this. It is because we are um practicing the most heinous of sins according to the Quran. uh by uh uh believing that God exists in three persons. Now of course what they think about the Trinity e even because of the Quran, they think the Trinity is God the Father, God the Son, and Mary. Where do you suppose they got that idea? Catholics. Catholics. Even by the time of six hundred AD It had already sunk in that this was this was a a doctrine coming out of Christianity. That's what Christians believe. And it shows up in the Quran as a misunderstanding. Yeah. Yeah, well you know what's interesting about that is um the the core doctrine here of Iman um Uh I don't remember the the Arabic word, but there's the this understanding uh of summarizing it as the unity of God. There's only one God Well, that word unity, which is in contrast with our word Trinity, is not found in the Quran either. Just like our word Trinity is not found in the Bible. It's a word that we use to describe what is taught in the Bible. Just like the word they have for unity is not in the Quran, but it's a word they use to describe what is in the Quran. Same thing. So they are okay with other religions? Are they okay with other religions? No, there's only one religion. There's only one true religion from their perspective. But they don't persecute as much as they persecute So what do you think is behind that? This isn't Satan. Satan. So somehow they already know that that the other religions are all false Yes, yes. The ideal world where where everything is headed in their perspective is that the whole world becomes Muslim. Then there will be peace. Yeah. Okay, so um there's only one God, but I want to emphasize that even though they might think And many of them probably don't. There are Christians who think that we worship the same God, but they're a little confused. But if you study What the Quran teaches and what Muslims teach about their God, it's not our God. And so this is one of the key points. Is God a Trinity or not? Is the Bible reliable or not? If God is Trinity and they say the worst thing you could do is to assume a Trinity, then you know they're worshiping a different God. Right? Even though they say they're worshiping the God of Abraham. And that the the religion of Abraham, when it really boils down to it, was Islam. Because he submitted, that's what Islam is, submitting to Allah. And everything ever since has been to preach to people the message, they need to follow Abraham's example in submitting to Allah in faith and obedience. That was the message of Christ according to them. What's interesting is that the faith of Abraham Is summarized in Genesis 15, I guess, where it says, and Abraham believed God, and God credited to him as righteousness. So salvation has always been by God's grace through faith. Abraham's a stellar example of that, and Paul points to that as a point in both Romans and Galatians and probably elsewhere. Um and so it's somewhat ironic that if they really were following the example of Abraham, they would understand that salvation is by grace through faith alone. In Christ alone. Anyway, the second major point of doctrine is about angels. There's not a lot there that's all that unique. They definitely believe in Gabriel and Michael and and uh he shows they show up in the Quran. Uh Satan is the believed to be an evil spirit. The Arabic word there is Iblis, Satan. But they believed that he was cursed by God because he would not worship Adam. Where'd that come from? Well it didn't come from the Bible. It came up from the Quran. And so it's listed there. What's interesting on the top of page 159 is that each human is said to have two recording angels. It's like those little pictures you see, one on the left shoulder, one on the right shoulder, and they're both recording. One's recording all the good things you say and do, and the other one's recording all the bad things you say and do. It's all down and um And there's places in the Quran here where you see that they uh give the final account at the final judgment, if it's all written down. Uh okay. Top of page 160. Muslims also believe that Allah created jinns. They're invisible creatures. They're neither men nor angels. Certainly not gods. Um so they kind of sp Spirit creatures, but they do have a will and they're accountable to Allah. In fact, uh the Quran indicates that even Iblis is a jinn. And you might have heard the Anglicized word for gin. We call them genies. And belief in the gin was uh predates Islam, the Arabic culture and uh religions and so on, uh believe these things and then they show up in the Quran as a result. Okay, the third major area of doctrine, page 160, is holy books. And so in addition to the Quran, they do believe that What we now call the Old Testament and the New Testament are from God, they're from Allah in their view Uh the Quran definitely speaks of the Torah. What is the Torah? First five books, Pentateuch, first five books of the Bible, the book teach uh the writings of Moses. Also the Psalms, they refer the Quran refers generally to the Psalms of David, although they weren't all written by David. He was the primary one. And also the Quran refers to the gospel, the Ingiel of Jesus Christ. But they don't mean by that Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. What they mean is the teachings of Jesus, which were, in their view, in the Quran's view, what I was saying. Calling people back to the religion of Islam, the religion of Abraham, submission to Allah. That was Jesus' message. Where do they find that in the New Testament? They don't. I don't know what they're translating to. No, no, it's it's it's just it's just completely pulled out of thin air. But it's the kind of thing that um is consistent with the satanic origin of the whole thing. The the most common answer to that question um and by the way that question probably and those kinds of questions didn't come up in the lifetime of Muhammad because most of the people had no exposure to the Old Testament and New Testament. But um the common answer is that, oh, well the Quran is true, so those things must have gotten corrupted. So originally those those writings spoke truth, but they've over time gotten corrupted and people have modified them to for their own uh vain purposes I guess. And so so that's a pretty convenient excuse. You can you can use the verses that you like But you can explain away the verses that seem to contradict the Quran. So that's that's convenient. And so this picking and choosing, taking verses out of context to support your teaching um is rampant in Muslim apologetics. But there's no there's no clear um standard by which someone can say, oh this verse or this passage was corrupted, except to say it must have been corrupted because it conflicts with the Quran. Well there is another possibility. And that other possibility is the Quran is the one in error, not the corruption. And um Particularly with regard to the Old Testament. Um You're all familiar with the Dead Sea Scrolls, right? So before the Dead Sea Scrolls were um discovered in nineteen forty seven, forty eight The earliest manuscript available, the oldest one still around for the Old Testament was dated um around nine hundred AD, something like that. And turns out the Dead Sea Scrolls contained large I mean um I think something like 85-90% of all of the Old Testament is in the Dead Sea Scrolls. Um I may be wrong in that percentage, but it's very high. And those scrolls, everybody agrees, those scrolls were written before Christ. So they advanced our um the earliest of the Old Testament manuscripts by a thousand years. And so The big question is, how does that how do those compare with what we had a thousand years later? You know what the answer is? Virtually identical. There are a few transmission and spelling and whatever, but it's clear that's immaterial. But it's the exact same message. Verse by verse. Um what's that tell you? God preserved his revelation For at least that thousand years, miraculously, as only God could, do you suppose he was any less careful in the preceding years? No. Anyway, there's some other other questions you can put to a Muslim who's really hung up on this corruption of the Bible, um, just by asking him, so when did that corruption happen? Before Muhammad or after Muhammad? Because the Quran actually commends people to search out the previous um uh books, the the Torah, the Psalms, the Gospel and And go to the people of the book to learn. It's it's actually a strong um uh point in the Quran. And so if they were corrupted beforehand, then the Quran is pointing people to go back to a corrupted source? Really? Um the only the only other alternative is it was corrupted after the time of Muhammad. But there's abundant proof that what we are have today precedes Muhammad. So they really don't have a leg to stand on. But there's a question. Yeah, I was curious on the quotation from the bomb of page one fifteen. Is that we have had the inspiration Who's the we referring to all God? Yeah, we we had this question a few days ago, a few weeks ago. Um It's always referring to Allah. In the Quran, Allah is always referred to referring to Himself in the plural. But but um any Muslim and any Jew Jews don't interpret the word Elohim, which is plural in reference to God to mean Trinity. Any Jew, any Muslim, any one of Semitic languages particularly would understand in the context that what that means is what has become known as the royal we. So it's like a a a king or a queen When referring to themselves, use language that's not common. So we are not pleased Right. Um we use terms like your majesty to kind of put a separation between us and and someone who's royal. And this is a mechanism to do that kind of thing, to s to to separate us commoners from God. And so any any Muslim would understand that to be the case in the use of the plural Um in the Quran where where Allah is supposedly speaking about himself or for himself or whatever. Okay. Bottom of page 160 then, Muslims believe that the Quran supersedes all previous revelations. So this is God's final Revelation, it it it's uh building on what he had revealed before, but now this is this is the crowning achievement of his revelation, the Quran, this the view of the Quran itself and um uh okay Top of page 161. I already mentioned the Quran teaches that these other earlier revelations, although they have value, uh They must be corrupted to the extent that they're not consistent with the Quran. And I also mentioned that the Quran frequently f refers to Jews and Christians as people of the book because they're following God's previous revelations, the uh the book there. What's interesting on the bottom of page 161 is that Jesus explained that the whole Old Testament The law, the prophets, and the psalms or the writings, that is the Torah, the Nevim, and the Ketuvim, TNK, which Jews Referred to by the acronym, but they call it the Tanakh. That's the whole Old Testament as we understand the Old Testament. Jesus said Uh in Luke twenty-four, these are my words which I spoke to you while I was with you. This is after he rose from the dead. He's he's um teaching his disciples before he ascends into heaven. So I spoke to you while I was still with you that all the things which are written about me in where? The law of Moses. the prophets, and the Psalms. What he meant by that was all the Old Testament, the whole Tanakh. Must be fulfilled. Wouldn't you have loved to hear him walk through the Old Testament and show how it all pointed to him? Yeah. Forty five. Then he opened their minds to understand the scriptures, and he said to them, Thus it is written that Christ would suffer and so on. Um Okay. The fourth top top of page one hundred sixty two, the fourth uh doctrinal foundation, foundational doctrine is that of prophets, and it's very related to uh these books, because how did God communicate these books but through prophets? But there were other prophets as well And some of these are listed, for example, in toward the top of 162, SIRA 6. That was the reasoning about us, which we gave to Abraham. And then later it says we gave it to Isaac and Jacob and Noah and David, Solomon, Job. Joseph, Moses, Aaron, Zechariah, that is the father of John the Baptist, uh Yah, John the Baptist, Jonas, meaning Jonah, and Lot. Oh, and Elias, of course, and Ishmael, Elisha, and so on. So they're all named and in in an approving way. These are some of God's messengers from years gone by. Um And verse 89 of that surah, these were the men to whom we gave the book and authority and prophethood. Uh those were the prophets who received God's guidance. Copy the guidance they received. You see how it's pointing to those earlier Prophets uh in a commendable way, um not in a way that suggests that their message has gotten corrupted. Yeah, so you can pick and choose. Yeah. Okay. And of course Muslims believe because the Quran says so that Muhammad was the last and greatest of the prophets. He uses the term, the seal of the prophets, the last one, having been sent with Allah's message to the entire world. And so Surah 33, for example, says, Muhammad is not the father of any of your men, but he is the messenger of God and the seal of the prophets, and God has full knowledge of all things. And on top of page 163 from Surah 7, O men, oh this is what Allah tells Muhammad to say to people, say this. O men, I am sent unto you all as the messenger of God, to whom belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth. There is no God but He. It is He that gives both life and death. So believe in God and His Messenger, the unlettered Prophet. God and his messenger, that's Allah and Muhammad, who is referred here as the unlettered prophet, which means what? He couldn't read or write, which wasn't strange because hardly anybody could in Arabia at that time. Um but they kind of take pride in it that this unlettered prophet produced such a glorious Quran. So that's a miracle. Jesus, of course, warned in Matthew seven, beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing. But in one lee are ravenous wolves, and you'll know them by their fruits. Okay, the fifth foundational doctrine is a future judgment day. There will be a final resurrection and judgment at which Allah will condemn many to torment in hell and others to pleasure in paradise. Paradise in their view. Uh I'll get there in a minute. Um But in the middle of page 163, Surah 3. 185, every soul shall have a taste of death, and only on the day of judgment shall you be paid your full recompenses. Only he who is saved far from the fire and admitted to the gardens will have attained the objective, the object of life. So the fire versus the gardens. The fire is judgment and hell, the gardens is the garden of paradise. Uh okay Uh so that that distinction, torment in hell versus paradise, is very similar to the biblical understanding of the two eternal destinations, hell or or heaven. Um the hell part Um is not all that different from what Scripture teaches. The paradise part is a lot different. from what scripture teaches, and I'll get there here in a minute. But middle of page one hundred sixty-four, one's destiny is largely dictated by his works. which will be weighed on scales to determine if his good outweighs his bad. And the you'll you've probably often heard people say, well, if my good outweighs my bad, I'll I'll make it, right? Well that's explicit in the Quran. Um for example, toward the bottom of the last verse mentioned in letter B there on page one hundred sixty four Surah twenty-three. Then when the trumpet is blown, there will be no more relationships between them that day, nor will one ask another. Then those whose balance of good deeds is heavy They will attain salvation, but those whose balance is light will be those who have lost their souls in hell, they will abide. Uh there are lots of other verses about this scales. But I wanted to go to the middle of page 165 about paradise. Muhammad taught that paradise awaits those who obey Allah and do enough good works, although we don't know what uh enough is. This paradise is characterized as offering all the human comforts and pleasures that were not possible or frequent on Earth, particularly in arid Arabia. So what awaits them is lush gardens. with rivers underneath, as opposed to the desert I'm used to, right? Um beautiful virgin women for each man's pleasure. So what's the focus of paradise in their thinking? My pleasures. So the if this is for the men, what's for the women? Don't ask. Don't ask. Turns out not in the Quran, but in the Hadith, there are some hadith Where Muhammad is quoted as saying hell's gonna be lined with Jinn I forget exactly the quote. Um the Jin and Women. what would be unholiness or you know corruption. But then in heaven you're allowed to indulge in that and do they like From that angle today that it doesn't really make sense that once you leave the place that you're trying to avoid corruption, then you get to go and I don't think it occurs to them. Um Yeah, so you know, um there's it's it's very clear from the Quran and the Hadith that um a a martyr is really the only one who has any certainty about his destination and that is he goes definitely to paradise if he's martyred for the cause of I have another one. But um a a a good maybe modern example of that is the um nine eleven terrorists in New York, the hotels they were in, I guess it was not New York but in Boston where they originated from, um, were just filled with all sorts of pornography and this kind of thing. Getting their minds ready for what's to come. So it looks like they get what they kind of want a paradise up in heaven, but do they have a notion of being in the presence of God and then holiness, like do they really like is that something they look forward to or is it just like this is now a nice comfortable It's the latter. Yeah. So our concept of of the glory of heaven is being in the presence of God. That's the last thing they're thinking about. Because he's unapproachable. It's all about him rewarding us for living a good life. And um we've got all that big incentive to tow the line and reap the rewards. That's kind of an angled approach. You know, the guard in the relationship was kind of broke. Yeah. It it it can be. And there are even there are there's Muslims, uh the Sufi sect of Islam Is pushing beyond the the teachings of the Quran and Hadith to explore having a relationship with Allah. It's more relational. And so there is, at least among some, this recognition that Knowing our Creator and having relationship with Him is is a good thing, but they're very much a minority and sort of outcast within Islam. But sorry, another question. They believe in bodily resurrection and how is that gonna happen? Yes. They believe in bodily resurrection and there's reference here to that trumpet that's gonna sound. So so they believe that even though you're burnt to death and everything somehow they body will Yeah, pretty much the same as we do. That it'll be a bodily resurrection. And then hell Yes. Right. Yeah. Well should a rationality not like prayer the her life. Uh let me get to that. Let me get to that. Um and As soon as you said the word rationale, there is no rationale other than the Quran and Hadith. So they're following the pattern of of of um Muhammad Um trying to follow the Quran as best they understand it, or at least as it's been taught to them. Okay, so that's paradise. Uh on page one sixty-seven I talk about uh fate, and I'll let you take a look at that. So let's go now to page 170. What are the obligations of Islam? What do you need to do to make sure you're doing the right thing, basically? It's a religion of works, right? So the first requirement on page 170 is the shahadah, which means bearing witness. And here it is. You need to say, I bear witness that there is no God whatsoever but Allah, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah. Ideally you would be saying that in Arabic, which is in the box right up above. But the point is that you're giving recognition to those core fundamentals. There's only one God And Muhammad is his prophet, the messenger. Okay. Um and so As I indicate here, it needs to be recited aloud, perfectly understood, believed in the heart, professed until death, recited correctly, and professed and declared without hesitation. Um I I put the little note here. In fact with all of these things, Jesus had a very direct statement in the Sermon on the Mount. And here there's reference to him saying, Um, many will come to me on that day and say, Lord, Lord, have we not done this? Have we not done that? And what does God say? Depart from me for I never knew you. Right? So it's not what we say uh that counts. The second requirement is the salah or salat, which is the ritual prayer So what is it not? Y y you've heard of, you know, uh Muslims regularly go to uh mosque on Fridays, particularly for Friday prayers, right? Well what is not? It's not conversation with God from the heart as we understand prayer. It's not even individualized by anyone Muslim. What it is, is some combination of reciting portions of the Quran. Usually it's specific parts that have been memorized for this purpose Uh repeating the Shahada, which we just talked about, there's only one God and one prophet, or the main prophet. It may include um some kind of bene benediction, a good thing to say about uh Muhammad or some petition on his behalf, uh brief praises perhaps, uh, or even asking Allah for his aid and guidance. But for the most part, it's wrote. And so descriptions here of when it's done, where it's done, how it's done. These days Devout Muslims are expected to have this this um liturgical uh prayer time five times a day. From the early morning to nightfall. And so I don't have time to go into it a lot here, but starting at the bottom of page 171, how it is done, there's some preparation But the basic ritual, it's a cycle. The basic ritual is middle of page 172, nine steps. You stand with your left hand in your right hand, recite the fahtiha, which is part of the Quran, followed by a few additional verses. Then you bend over at the waist with the palms on your knees and you recite another takbir and say, I extol the perfection of my Lord the Great. Then you stand direct again and you say Alhu Akbar, which means God is great. Then prostrate yourself on the ground to prove submission to Allah. and another Allahu Akbar. Uh then kneel down with a hand stretched out in front. touching the ground with your brow right on the um ground, the base of the nose. And then sit on the base of your heels while still in the kneeling position, with hands stretched along the thighs And another Alhu Akbar. Then you prostrate yourself flat on the ground. You say Allahu Akbar again. Then you sit at the base of your heels again while still kneeling. Hands stretched out on the thighs. repeat the Shahada and maybe an intercession for Muhammad, which is pretty much uh prescribed. And then you turn your head first over the right shoulder, then over the left one, saying the taslim. And there's another uh blessing there. For the most part, it's pretty rigid, but there is some flexibility that has been noted even in Muhammad's case. Well that's those steps are just one rakat, one ritual prayer. And so the full ritual is in the dawn you do that twice, two cycles At midday, you do it four times. Late afternoon, four more times. At sunset, you do it three times. Nightfall, you do it four times. So all in all, you do it what um seventeen times a day. You go through that cycle. Sorry? The Muslims aren't warning people. They're only five. Yeah, that might be it. I don't know. Um Okay, so that's that's the ritual prayer. And as far as I know, that defines their prayer life. It's not what you were expecting. When we think of prayer, we think of conversation with God, right? And uh what they think about is ritual adherence to the formula. Okay, the third requirement is uh the zakat, the poor tax, alms. And again, what it's not, it's not voluntary, it's not really charity in the normal sense, since it's not voluntary. It's um and it's not just for the poor. What it is, is giving to Allah a portion of what He is thought to have provided so that the giver would avoid the suffering of the next life. So what do I get out of this? a avoiding uh suffering because I'm doing what is good, what is prescribed, and it uh helps to um purify the remaining wealth that he keeps because you've offered some to Allah. It is a required duty. You see in the Quran lots of uh references to that. Funny enough, though, the amount is not stipulated in the Quran. But tradition has kind of set it as something on the order of two or three percent of your earnings or possessions. Where do you give them? Just tradition? I mean where's the like do they do the Oh where do you give it? I presume at the mosque. Yeah. Texted up. I don't know. I don't know. Okay, the fourth requirement is ritual fasting. You've heard about Ramadan, right? The the the month of Ramadan. This is a month on a lunar calendar. So the dates kind of shift every year because of the lunar calendar. Um it's Not individualized or profit uh or um private. It's not necessarily spontaneous, it's planned. This is when you do it, right Uh it is self denial, it is required, and it is community wide. And so every day during the lunar month of Ramadan, um You have no eating, drinking, sexual relations, and I think nowadays smoking and maybe drugs, I don't know, are included. But none of that during the daylight hours It doesn't mean that you don't eat during the evening. And so all three or maybe four now are permitted during nighttime hours. So each day be The fast begins after a meal, just before dawn, and ends with a meal right after sunset. So um uh do I have that Yes. Letter E there on page 175. The end of the month of fasting is marked by a great three-day feast, and is usually the time when the required alms are given. So that's maybe an answer to that question. This feast of Ramadan is a time of great rejoicing during which the Muslims exhibit their new clothes and greet one another. Um ironically, due to the eating during the nighttime hours and to the concluding feast, more food is typically sold in Muslim communities during Ramadan than any other months. So um again Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount he says when you fast do what? Yeah, make it so make sure it's private and um and it's between you and God. Okay, top of page one hundred seventy six. Fifth requirement is Fahaj. You know what Fahaj is? A pilgrimage to Mecca. And as you might expect, there's a very um very rigorous prescribed uh program that you have to follow, rules and and steps and and so on through that. And I I'll let you you read that. But I want to get to page 178. Suggestions for evangelizing Muslims. Definitely, if you don't already have contacts with them, you're likely to find some among your neighbors, workplace, community activities, wherever. And so just share with them. Maria's given some great examples of just opening conversations. Do you go to church? Oh, you're a Muslim, so uh tell me about that. And just be inquisitive. And um it's particularly if they're new to this country, they're likely to be very pleased to share with you as much as as you're interested in hearing. And that's all good. Because it then opens the door for you to reciprocate. You can tell them, oh well I I go to a church, I I I I s um I'm uh a Christian, I um am a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And um that may go way over their head at that point, but you're kind of laying the foundation that that um Christ is at the center of your of your relationship with God and can open some doors for a further congregation. Conversation. Okay, so middle of page 178, definitely avoid some unnecessary cultural mistakes. Um if you put your Bible on the floor, a Muslim will typically think that you don't respect it. The Quran for them is held up high. Now, you may eventually be able to convince them that it's not that physical book that's the issue, it's what it says and who said it that's important. But Yeah, so that can s that can send signals, right? And particularly for for Muslims. Um be sensitive to the vast differences in gender roles in Islam versus went Western culture. That's not to say that Their view of gender roles is correct, but you don't want them to stumble over secondary things before they understand the important things. Right. A much um a much more what elevated view of of women, God's design, the relationship between men and women. That I think will eventually appeal to them because they see that's not true in Islam. But it's probably not the place to start. Um and you could be sensitive to their daily, weekly, and annual religious practices and uh to the extent that you can, maybe you can uh learn from them what it's all about, how they participate, and who knows, maybe you can even um visit one of those. Respect issue. Um, they don't like to see writing or underlines in your Bible. That's very disrespectful Yeah. So it really causes us to five Yeah. Writing in it, um It's when you're interacting with them, it's definitely good to use a Bible. It's probably best to use one that you haven't marked up. But eventually Um when you're in discussions like that, y you can explain your own commitment to study of the scriptures. and making notes and and so on. And that you find that um um it it is helpful to put notes and and uh uh lines and connections and whatever. Um but again, probably not very early in your conversations with an Because what you want them to understand is that that the Bible is our supreme authority because it's God's word to us Not that the physical thing itself carries any intrinsic weight um and value, but um It's it's the author, God, who we revere, not the book itself. Uh we revere what God has said in the Bible We seek to understand it and obey it, but the Bible is not God. It is God's Word. Nonetheless, you'd be well advised to show respect for God's word. It would be a good thing. Okay, some evangelistic don'ts. Don't be argumentative. Don't focus on cultural, national, or ethnic issues, even religious practices. Don't make your friend immediately defensive by giving him the idea that you're gonna prove Islam wrong. He'll just turn around and go away, right? And don't address subsidiary issues like even the reliability of the Bible or the fact that the Bible doesn't predict the coming of Muhammad, which they believe it does. Unless your friend raises those issues as a serious concern. But in that case, you could say to him something like this: that's a good question. I'd be happy to explain that to you, but Before I do, I think it's important for you to understand the context, really, of what the Bible actually says about the person and work of Jesus Christ. So would you mind if we focus on that first and then address your questions once we've done that? I think for the most part they'll respect that. That's a pretty useful approach for anybody, whether they're Muslim or whatever, when you're witnessing, don't get distracted by side issues. initially. You can come back to them, but stay on the core important message and volunteer to come back to that later after you've got the main thing covered. Does that make sense? Okay, so do pray for them. Pray for wisdom for yourself. Uh be genuinely loving. Be interested in them as a person. Be a good listener. Begin by being sensitive to Muslim sensibilities. You can deal with some of the nuances of that later. Communicate the gospel, letting the Bible speak directly to him, and introducing him to the true person and work of Christ. So um I'm marking up my notes because they're not inspired. And so we're going to talk about that. Well, we're not going to talk about it. We're going to read it, starting on the next page. Some um if they're interested in seeing what the Bible actually says then um I would recommend that you start in the Gospels and primarily the Gospel of Luke. Uh people who have been reaching out to Muslims for quite a while think Luke is a good one to start with. You don't want to start with John 1 1. Um but the Gospel of Luke provides a lot it's it's got a lot of material and it shows you um the person and work of Christ. And so take a paragraph or something, an an event in the life of Christ, and you maybe work through some chapters, but take it segment by segment and have him or her, read the the text from the scripture, and then just ask him questions about what he read. And so an example of this here is you read through Luke 5, 17 to 26, he reads it. And then you ask him, what kinds of activities does of Jesus does this account describe? So it's just observations. Well there's teaching. healing and there's forgiving of sins. Okay. Well what was the nature of the group of people who were with Jesus? Well it was a large crowd and so on. How did the common people respond to Jesus? They brought their sick to him to heal him? Heal them? How did Jesus respond to the paralytic? He forgave his sins. How do the Jewish leaders respond to that? Well, they concluded that Jesus had committed blasphemy, since no one can forgive sins except God. How did Jesus respond to those religious leaders? He healed the paralytic man by simply commanding him to get up, proving that he could forgive sins. So which was more important or more central to Jesus' message mission? Was healing more important or was forgiving sin more important? Forgiving sin. And so if you can lead your Muslim friend through um an account like this, uh there isn't a parallel account of that in the Quran, but the point of it that Jesus is healing people and teaching and so on is consistent with their understanding. And so here's an actual example of Jesus' teaching and healing and so on. Read through it and get him to wrestle with the text. What is it saying? And what are the implications? And then you can continue reading the next set of verses and continue that cycle where he's reading the passage, which may be just a paragraph. And you're interacting, having him interact with the text by answering questions. And what should we get out of this? What does it say about the person and work of Christ? And let God use his word in that person's life as only God can do. It may be that there will be some questions that come up that you don't know the answer to, and that's fine. Great question. I don't want to give you Something right shooting from the hip. Let me go research that and I'll get back to you, okay? Don't respect that. Yeah, anybody would Okay. Yeah the question is, what is the concept of sin? It is not a biblical concept of sin. But they do understand that if they do the wrong things, God's going to judge them. So that's probably what they're thinking here, and that's sufficient at this point, probably They don't believe in original sin, but that's not all that important to deal with their own sin. And so you've got enough there to work with. Yeah. Well, we got to close. There's a lot more here that I didn't have time to go over, but it's there for you as a resource. And if you're really interested in Muslims particularly, I've got a whole course on that And um if you haven't been through that I'd be glad to give you the notes for that. Let's pray. Father, thank you for um saving us by your grace. Because were it not for you reaching out to us, we would be mired in something very much like this. And trying to be good in our own eyes or maybe even in the sight of other people, but having no concept of what it means to be right before you. We are so thankful that you have, by your grace, saved us and pray that uh you would use us. to reach out to people who are in these various cults, religions, and so on, uh, with love, genuine concern for their souls And a passion to speak the truth in love. And pray that you would use that, Lord, for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen.