Well welcome to our sixth lesson. We're gonna start a two part series on Jehovah's Witnesses. We've talked about Catholic backgrounds, the Seventh day Adventists. And now moving on to Jehovah's Witnesses. I thought I would start with a little bit of history and some background here, although it's fairly high levels mostly as a reference. Um but um There's something about the 1800s, I think, that seemed to spawn various divergent uh religious splinter groups and so on, and that's sort of the case here I don't know what was going on, but um uh so It began now they weren't called Jehovah's Witnesses initially, it was just sort of a a movement. Um but in the uh sort of late eighteen hundreds, Charles Tayes Russell, who actually began his um quest, I guess, for um settling in his own mind various doctrines, he s began with uh Seventh day Venice, but he didn't apparently last too long with them. He differed with them on a number of things. Um But he started a a study of the scriptures on his own. And I guess he involved a few others with him. But He published a series of books, uh one of which actually was called um Studies in scriptures. And it was a series, I think there were maybe seven of them, yes. over a period of time. And this became his his um teaching of what the Bible really means. And uh he developed a bit of a following and uh was uh establishing uh Various pamphlets, um uh book publishing and so on. And so um One of which was called in 1878 Zion's Watchtower and Herald of Christ's Presence. And so It was clear, even from the beginning, that he was seeking to make sense out of the Bible. and of the role of Christ and so on. But the more he wrote, the more it became clear to um um actual Christians that he was deviating from um from scripture in order to put his twist on it Well that kind of um uh continued for the rest of his life and then when he died um Uh he was succeeded in the organization by Joseph Franklin Rutherford. Who was even more prolific a writer than was Russell. Um And many of the the cardinal teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses actually were refined and formulated and even sometimes introduced by Rutherford. Uh one of which, uh on the bottom of page 57 here in your notes. By the way, is there anybody who needs a copy of the notes? Diane has some in the back. Okay. Uh so one of those doctrines was that um Well maybe I should back up. Russell, in um uh before he died, not I don't think too long before he died, he proclaimed that he was himself the faithful and wise servant that Jesus spoke of in Luke twelve, forty two. A rather humble um uh claim, right. But uh Rutherford later proclaimed that that was referring to a faithful and wise servant class, not just one person. And that faithful and wise servant class, or sometimes in scripture he thought, was referred to as a little flock. That refers, they say, or he said, to just 144,000 of the select, I guess. And that of that hundred and forty-four thousand, around fifty thousand of them were still living in nineteen twenty-six. Um and as we'll see, um The claim is not that those are the only ones who are saved in the way we think of saved, but they're the only ones who actually go to heaven. And uh anyone else who is, like I said, saved will have not heaven to look forward to, but paradise on earth. And so there's a distinction between those two classes. Um so anyway, Rutherford um wrote a lot, which maybe consistent with the fact that he was a lawyer and a judge. And he he was succeeded by uh Nathan Noor who was also then succeeded by Frederick William France. Uh in nineteen seventy seven and actually I didn't check to see whether he's still president. But anyway, there's a succession and I guess they're they're they're chosen uh in an organized kind of way. The name, Jehovah's Witnesses, was taken from Isaiah 4310. And the Uh American Standard, not the new American Standard, but the American Standard Version they were using, reads, Ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah. And so they took that personally and said that would be a good name for us, Jehovah's Witnesses. And they have a Watchtower Bible School, I guess Bible School of Gilead, they call it, in New York, South Lansing. where people get trained over the period of a few months to become ordained ministers in their faith. On page fifty eight, on uh toward the middle, I highlight a a seven step. uh strategy program of indoctrination that they pursue with uh others So they give out books and other publications to a prospect. In fact, I get uh got in the mail Um very recently something from somebody locally inviting me to their uh 2023 Convention of Jehovah's Witnesses. Um are you going? I don't think so. Where is it? Where is it? Uh this one is And I think it's Ann Arunzel County. They do international. Oh they have a lot, yeah. Yeah. Um think of all the class. So they they give out l lots of literature, right? Maybe you foresee some that come knocking on your door or whatever. Then they call back the return and so on. The idea is thirdly to get you into some kind of a study of a of a book or something that they have selected. Then they'll invite you to visit their Kingdom Hall and various other meetings that they hold. And then they invite you, challenge you to get involved in publishing, which is handing out, like they do. And then once you're really in, then they baptize you. So Well, I wanted to uh highlight some of the the doctrines, uh the uh maybe some of the origins of those doctrines, and implications and so on. Today, kind of at a somewhat high level to kind of get the framework. And then next week we're going to go into detail on some of those because they may raise these. If if you're in discussions with them, they may raise these and it's it's a way for you to be prepared. Okay, so as we've been seeing elsewhere, one of the critical things with any cult is what are they relying on for their the authority of what they teach? Right? Is it sola scriptura, only the Bible? Or is it something else? Or the Bible plus, which means not so much the Bible, but mostly the plus. And that's the case in in their case. Russell himself said on the top of page fifty nine in the notes that it would be better to read his six volume study this was before he died, the seventh one wasn't published until after he died. It would be better to read his six volumes studies in the scriptures than to read the Bible itself. Now that should tell you a lot. Right? Yet in later years he calls some of his earlier writings immature. Now, what he meant, I think, by immature is that they have viewed God's revelation as being progressive and that it's still progressing. And so um some of the things he wrote earlier were without the benefit of later things that God had impressed upon him So that gives them lots of wiggle room, right? So, overview of major doctrinal errors on page 59. They have, as I mentioned, changed their teachings considerably over time because of what they call progressive revelation. Now, by the way, we certainly see in Scripture that God had a progression in what he revealed. Right? He didn't reveal everything to Adam He didn't reveal everything even to Noah. He didn't even reveal everything to Abraham. Right? And so in in fact, when he revealed things to Abraham, it was progressive. He the the covenant, the promises to Abraham were uh initially just sort of a shell Without a lot of specifics and then Gop got more and more specific as he repeated that promise in later years. Um And throughout all of the Old Testament, the idea of the church um was a mystery, as Paul says. It wasn't really uh understood even to the disciples uh until even after the resurrection, how it all fit together. And so, yes, God has revealed progressively, but what he has revealed is where? in Scripture, right? Not that he's perfecting and adding to what's in Scripture, which is the starting point of a lot of these cults, including Jehovah's Witnesses. So um I point out that their fundamental error, and this is not unique to them. But it's been called rationalism. They're very explicit that if it doesn't make sense it must not be true. That's the basic meaning of rationalism. What's the problem with that? If it doesn't make sense, it must not be true. That has a certain ring of truth to it, right? Sometimes if it does make sense it's not true. And if it doesn't make sense, therefore it must not be true, where is the source of truth? Lean on ourselves. Ourselves. Right? So in other words, rather than Scripture standing in judgment of us, we stand in judgment of Scripture. That's what they're saying. Well that's what they're implying. So if it doesn't make sense, it must not be true. Well that brings to mind um examples like Thomas Jefferson who uh went through the Bible and extracted all the things he didn't agree with or didn't make sense or whatever and what was left was something he could He could stomach. Now that's that's man standing in judgment of scripture rather than the other way around And so that's the fundamental error. I have a quote here at the bottom of page 59 From Russell. He says, We have endeavored to uncover enough of the foundation upon which all faith should be built, the Word of God. So he's sounding good, right? He's trying to get agreement around that To give confidence and assurance in its testimony, even to the unbeliever. And we have endeavored to do this in a manner That will appeal to and can be accepted by the re by reason as a foundation. Then we have endeavored to build upon that foundation the teachings of Scripture in such a manner that as far as possible purely human judgment may try its squares and angles by the most exacting rules of justice which it can command. Let us examine the character of the writings claimed as inspired to see whether their teachings correspond with the character we have reasonably interpreted to God. So that's rationalism. Um man in judgment of man being the ultimate source of truth, essentially. And being able to sift through what God has said and accept only what we can reasonably believe Which opens the door for all sorts of deviation that are added on to the parts of Scripture that they claim to agree with. And Basically becoming a prime example of the need for sola scriptura. Only the scriptures as a source of authority because it's God's Word. Um by the way, um not only is it proud to claim that we can stand in judgment of Scripture as to whether it's reasonable or not, or what is reasonable But that's also inconsistent with the fall. So um sin One of the effects of sin is that it's pervasive in all aspects of our being. Uh it it not only made things harder and you know the the the thorns and thistles and all that and relationships, but our minds We're also corrupted as a part of sin. And we're not capable of reasoning truth. It has to be revealed. And we can't even comprehend that, what God has revealed, unless He works in our hearts. To open our and uh open our eyes, use all these metaphors, to to understand that what he has revealed is truth. Scripture says very clearly that apart from him doing that, we cannot understand. It's not just that we will not, but we cannot understand. Why? Our mind is fallen. It's it's um darkened. Um Romans one says um uh in instead of worshiping Well they they worship the creature rather than the creator, right? It's because our minds are fallen, our understanding is fallen, and we're clueless unless God both reveals the truth And works in our hearts to be able to comprehend it and respond to it. And so in that condition, our reason Isn't capable of figuring out truth in the ultimate sense. Now it may seem like We can work things out and our logic and our reason are um uh up to the task. But in truth, uh biblically that's just not c not true. And it's God's grace that even um provides us what is true in his revealed word, and that he um opens our eyes to understand it and softens our hearts to respond. But uh their position is that um Man can do that. Well, top of page ninety. Start with a Trinity. Uh what they've written is that the doctrine of the Trinity, in brief, this is their their understanding of the Trinity. The doctrine is that there are three gods in one. Well, that's not what the doctrine of the Trinity is, right? But that becomes the the um The boogeyman that they're trying to shoot down. That this can't be true. There are three gods in one, they believe, is the the doctrine. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost, all three equal in power, substance, and eternity. The general thought about the Holy Ghost is that it, they say is a spirit person of the Trinity and equal with God in Christ in power, substance, and eternity. Um and then they say point blank the plain truth is that this is another of Satan's attempts to keep God-fearing persons from learning the truth about Jehovah and His Son Christ Jesus. No, there is no Trinity. So they're pretty clear where their position is, and that their position is a mischaracterization of what scripture even teaches. We're not talking about three gods, but one God, three persons, eternally But that raises a an interesting um point One God in three persons doesn't compute for our minds. Whether they're fallen or not, that's outside of our experience. It's outside of our ability to comprehend. What what does that mean You know, we can go only just so far in uh summarizing what God has revealed about himself, but still be left in wonder. It's outside of our experience. I have to take that on faith. Well, that's the point. Not that it's it's a blind leap of faith because it's based on what God has revealed about himself. But to think that it can't be true if I don't understand it or it doesn't conform to my experience and so on. Do you see the pride in that? And uh the um the starting position that my reason is um more important than faithfulness to God's Word. Arrogance. Arrogance is a good word for it. Yeah. But it's natural for a fallen person to be that proud and and arrogant and so on. There, but for the grace of God, go we Okay, so not only is the Trinity um non-existent in their view. They also deny the deity of Christ, which is at least consistent with their their view of the Trinity. They don't deny the existence of Christ, but only his deity So on the question of his pre existence, that is, before his incarnation, you know, from eternity past, um Oh, by the way, I should mention here, uh, this I'm on the top of page 60. It makes reference here to the New World Translation. That's the Jehovah's Witnesses translation of the Bible. Conveniently tweaked a bit to conform to their presuppositions and their reason. So if they come to you and they're they're using the New World Translation, it's going to have a lot of similarity to your Bible? But in the in in just the right locations, words are changed and and uh the spin is is changed to make their doctrines seem correct when really they're rejecting what God has actually revealed. So anyway, um they write happily the New World Translation of the Greek Now the Christian Greek scriptures renders John, the first two verses of John 1, as such. It says, originally the word was, and the word was g uh with God, and the word was a God. Thus, the word or logos came into being long before one of God's later creatures made a devil out of himself. And they continue, the chief one of God's creatures under him is his son who came to earth and took the name Jesus. Actually, he didn't take the name Jesus. He was given the name Jesus. And the Bible shows that this one had lived as a spirit creature in heaven before coming to earth. So um what they're saying officially is that they are um Committed to the Aryan heresy, which was dealt with in the very early church. You know, it it um it was kind of natural in the early church for people to be wrestling with uh what God had revealed and particularly the life of Christ and uh the accumulating New Testament uh canon It was pretty natural for people to question and and sort of summarize and characterize precisely Some of these key doctrines. And most of them, I would say, most of the important ones, had to do with Christ. And so one heresy, well, let me back up a little bit more. The problem with wrestling with the person of Christ And you're starting from scripture, is you've got to decide how to handle the presentation of Christ as fully human. And as fully God. And so if to reconcile those two things that are clear in Scripture If you use your reason, you say, well, he must be human with some sort of divine blessing or uh purpose and so on. Or he's God and not human, but he was made to appear like a human. And so i it's not that he was both human and God, but th they were trying to explain their way out of the conundrum. Right? And so you get both of those those um positions, the either or very early in church history. And the Aryan heresy, which um is named after Arius of Alexandria, taught that in the early 300s, because to him clearly Jesus was human. He must not have been God. And he wasn't denying that Christ had a divine blessing or purpose and these kind of things, but he couldn't be both man and God at the same time. And so he started from that starting point and said, he must have been just man and not God. And that's basically what they're saying. They're following that same trap. They actually teach that God created his son as the Archangel Michael, who then created everything else. And then later, this Michael came to earth as Jesus, who then returned back to heaven as Michael. That's how they figured it all out. Seems reasonable to them. Even though it's not biblical. Um Okay, so further about the uh uh the doctrines of of Christ, they say yes, he resurrected and ascended But um his human body was sort of Spiritualized, and it wasn't a bodily resurrection, it was a spiritual resurrection. Well again, that flies in the face of the resurrection accounts and explicit teaching of Scripture. As for his second coming, they've written that Jesus Christ returns not again as a human, but as a glorious spirit person. He is now the reflection of God's glory, the exact representation of God's very being, and he is seated on the right hand of his majesty on high. He comes, therefore, not in the likeness of men, but in his heavenly glory. And they've actually taught that he returned in nineteen fourteen. Um but I think that was the time they said he returned invisibly. It wasn't a visible return. But that marked the t the time of the end of the Gentiles. Um and they've even taught that he returned again in nineteen eighteen to his temple. So actually there's there's a little bit of Adventist twist to some of this and you can kind of see uh where the original history kind of plays out a little bit. I think there was a fascination during the 1800s of you know, the return of Christ and predictions of his return and so on. Yes. The time of the Gentiles, let's see, what do they call it? The end of time of the end of the Gentiles. Um my understanding is that they see these periods of time and after that period of the Gentiles, which was sort of what we would think of as as the church age, Because it started, I guess, from the time of Christ. Um that then um The setting aside of the hundred and forty four thousand and um uh you know the the The little flock versus the larger flock, the little flock being the ones who would go to heaven, and the larger flock being the ones who would go to paradise on earth. That's when that was set. So I don't know how they figure this all out in their reason, but that's essentially the idea. And then there's the question of the ransom, uh, which is interesting and it gives you an e an example. Of how much of what they say sounds biblical, but then they've got twists on it that take it a completely unbiblical direction. So to them, the idea of the ransom And there is, of course, language in the New Testament of Christ um becoming a ransom. For us. But their understanding of it is this sinless man, Jesus, gave his life as a ransom. Delivering mankind, who was born sinful, imperfect, and under a sentence of death, from the curse of Adam. So that's sounding okay to a lot of people. Although for what it's worth, um I don't see anywhere in Scripture that says that Adam was cursed. If you go back to Genesis 3, there are two specific curses there. You don't remember what they are? The curse on Satan and The curse on the land. Yeah. Um to Adam and Eve He was sort of unexpectedly gracious because he said, in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Who actually died? Animal substitutes. Now, they died physically later, and they died spiritually. Their close relationship with God was altered significantly at that point, but God was gracious. To provide a substitute for them. What is the curse that Jesus took upon himself? The curse of the law, according to Galatians. The law made it clear that we were sinful, and um uh that we had no excuse before God and Jesus took that upon himself. Well anyway They're making sec uh making reference here to the curse of Adam. Uh and what they mean by that, top of page 61, Since the one man's sin, that of Adam, has been responsible for causing the entire human family to be sinners. And that is true. The shed blood of another perfect human, in effect, a second Adam, Being of corresponding value could balance the scales of justice. Now, what they mean by that is what Jesus did was only um Address the problem of inherited original sin. So that If he's taking care of what Adam did, then each of us have a separate record of our own record before God. And that record stands or falls on our our works. So uh we don't have to in their view we don't have to pay for um What Adam did, Christ did that. And so we're we're limited only to our own works. And um So I continue at the top of page 61. This applies to all faithful men whose course determines that they will ultimately receive benefit from the sacrifice of Christ. And they quote here, he that exercises faith in the Son has everlasting life. The ransom places upon those who want to benefit from it the obligation to inform themselves of God's mercy through Christ Jesus and to abide steadfastly in this confidence. In other words The ransom of Christ pays for Adam's sin, but we have to overcome the sins we commit by passing the test that Adam failed. So the the mercy of Christ's death, in their view, was that we're put in the position, the same position that Adam was, and we can choose to to pass that test or not. But salvation is clearly by works. You see the difference there? And so why they report he that exercises faith in the Sun is everlasting life. Yeah, that's what they say But the faith has to produce works. It's definitely a works based. It's not faith alone It's faith that this process is true, but we still have to obey. I've quoted a few more places here. The ransom for all does not give or guarantee everlasting life or blessing to any man, but it does guarantee to every man another opportunity or trial for life everlasting. They must be recovered from the blindness as well as from death, that they each for himself may have a full chance to prove by obedience or disobedience Their worthiness of eternal life. Now they apparently characterize that as faith. I mean you would do that if you're in the faith. Okay, so that's the idea. So they start with a a uh a term, this ransom term that's used um that um in places in the New Testament, but they twist it in a way to make it more Conforming to their reason, their logic. And characteristic of groups like this, they may start with some scriptural idea and framework insert into it their own teaching, doctrine, and logic, but not double-check whether that stuff is consistent with what Scripture has taught. And which of course it doesn't. So, yes, they believe in the importance of Jesus Christ and that he died, he died on our behalf, but it was very limited in focus, it just basically um got us off the hook for the consequences of Adam's sin. And so now we're on our own. To show ourselves to be worthy of God. Okay. Specifically, the Holy Spirit They deny his personhood. And they deny his personhood because he's not given a name like Jesus, Emmanuel. Jehovah. He's just called the Holy Spirit. And so they reason that Uh this Holy Spirit is not an intelligent person, they say. It is the impersonal invisible active force that finds its source and reservoir in Jehovah God and that he uses to accomplish his will. Now Actually, I'm tempted to go into some things we're going to cover next week, but just suffice it to say at this point that the Holy Spirit is referred to multiple ways in Scripture. Um spirit of truth, spirit of power, um and More importantly, we know he's a person because when Jesus referred to him, he always used personal pronouns. He. So there they're just making a presumption and then running with it rather than sticking with what scripture actually says. And that's just characteristic of what cults do. Uh yeah, so the question is you know Christ taught that there's a um unpardonable sin of blaspheming the Holy Spirit, and does this constitute blaspheming the Holy Spirit and therefore put all Jehovah's Witnesses out of the possibility of salvation, should we even bother you know, reaching out to them, I guess is the implication. Um Well, I think more technically the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit is denying That a miraculous work of the Holy Spirit is from the Holy Spirit. So, you know, the religious rulers in Jesus' day um accuse Jesus, saying, well even um he he must be from Beelzebol Satan because and and these these acts are due to to Satan and they were and tha that was sort of I think so the context of Jesus saying, Well Um there's it's an unf pardonable sin to blaspheme the Holy Spirit. To blaspheme the Holy Spirit uh as I understand it is is to to not attribute to the Holy Spirit something that is genuinely and obviously a work of the Holy Spirit. And to rationalize it away, essentially. Or to attribute it to demons in this case. Um so I I wouldn't characterize their doctrinal error here as, at least for all of them, constituting a blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. In fact, we know that many former Jehovah's Witnesses have genuinely come to Christ. And we can treat them as unbelievers who are darkened in their understanding. But if God by His mercy and grace opens their eyes to the truth, Praise him. Um what's the difference between the Holy Ghost and Holy Spirit? Holy Ghost is a translation, I think, from the King James, became popularized. Holy Spirit, he's the same person. So when we think of ghost, what do we think of? Apart from the fact that it's it's maybe somebody who has died, a ghost is You can't see. Right? It's some spirit being. And so that was the terminology used for the King James translation. Um more recent translations refer to him as the Holy Spirit. Again, the same concept, uh but it's not It's not carrying baggage like, you know, a ghost is the afterlife of someone who has actually lived, and that's misleading. Um that's not true of the Holy Spirit. Um even if that were true. The Holy Spirit is is um uh recognizing his his being a a spirit being, God is spirit, not Not flesh. Now God became flesh in the person of Christ, but um uh the Holy Spirit is uncreated. Um does not have bodily form. And as God the Father doesn't have bodily form. Right. So you could say the same thing, but I think the the term Holy Spirit doesn't connect it with misleading connotations, at least in modern language. Well, let's move on on page 61, move to eschatology. What is eschatology? The study of end times, or maybe more literally, last things. So his return, here's where it gets described in a bit more detail. Christ returned invisibly to earth in 1914 Which marked the end of the Gentile times and the beginning of the time of the end of Satan's rule. So Satan's Days were numbered starting then. And therefore the time when Christ Jesus, the righteous ruler of the new world, receives control. In 1918, they say, Christ came to the spiritual temple as Jehovah's Messenger and began to cleanse it. Does that sound familiar? Seventh-day Adventists taught something like that as early as eighteen forty-three, when Jesus was supposed to have returned and didn't come physically to earth They rationalize that he came to the temple in heaven. So that marked the beginning of the period of judgment and inspection of his spirit-begotten followers. Which leads us to the hundred and forty-four thousand, which is a fascination with several cults. But the the idea here, their idea here, is that when Christ returned, the dead Christians sleeping in the graves were raised with spirit bodies to join him at the spiritual temple. The living anointed Christians on earth could not precede those who had fallen asleep in death, but they have to keep on maintaining their integrity until their own death When this remnant on earth dies, they do not have to sleep awaiting their master's return, but receive an immediate change to spirit life. So they're the ones who go directly to heaven. This 144,000. From the time of Jesus until now, the selecting of the members of the heavenly kingdom has gone on And today, after 19 centuries of selecting, there is yet a small remnant of the 144,000 on Earth. And they wrote this in the mid-50s. Only these 144,000 will be rewarded as priests and kings with with Christ in heaven. And so only these need to be born again. And they will form the body, the anointed class of which Christ is the head. Okay, so that's those are the ones who go to heaven. Then there's the sheep and the goats that Christ referred to in Places like Matthew 24, 25. And they write for the others a crowd of unlimited number, that is the sheep. Belief in the ransom will lead to everlasting life in a righteous paradise earth. The goats are destined for destruction, which they view as annihilation. That is, it's not um It's not uh perpetual torment in hell. It's just you cease to exist. That's annihilation. Then there's Armageddon, Christ Jesus will lead the heavenly host of Jehovah's Angels in the final attack against Satan and his organization, destroying it utterly and delivering obedient mankind. into a new world of righteousness. And that begins now the millennium, a period of a thousand years. ushered in by the victory of Armageddon. This is clearly taken from the scriptural account, particularly in Revelation. Um During which time Satan and his demons are bound, and all faithful witnesses of Jehovah are able to demonstrate their obedience to God. When Satan and his demons are released, Satan will again seek to usurp Jehovah's position of universal sovereignty and endeavor to turn all perfected mankind against God Some will be misled, and those supporting Satan will, with the devil himself, be cast into the lake of sulfur and fire and sulfur. They are drowned in everlasting destruction. For them there is no resurrection. And so that's very much taken from Revelation 20 Uh yes. Yeah, they look at at passages like First Thessalonians four talks about the rapture and say that must have happened already. We're in this new era. They just out of reason, they're twisting what they see in Scripture to say these things have already happened, these things are future, they're trying to piece it all together in a way that seems reasonable. Yeah, I'm not aware of anyone claim I'm unlike Seventh-day Adventists who believes that Ellen White was inspired by God and and was a prophetess and she was speaking for God I'm not aware that anybody claimed that directly, that they got this word from God, but People had by this time gotten to the point where they were believing that these writings coming from these founders were a proper interpretation of Scripture and therefore are to be believed. Yes, I don't think it was so much a f a prediction, but it was explaining what has happened already. And I I'm not sure how the nineteen eighteen got in there, but uh in terms of the actual date But um um it was just the official teaching. The official teaching. Right. Yeah, so the the idea of soul sleep is taken from you know often uh the words of Christ and even um the the apostles referred to death as sleep in the sense that um when you go to sleep Eventually you're going to rise again, right? And um they took that to mean that there was no conscious awareness after death um until if if Well, I'm not sure about the if. But um as you mentioned um later, if you're risen, then um you know, you you you go w the uh to the appropriate place. Um but scripture obviously says that If the believer dies, we immediately are with the Lord. Right? Um Now part of the confusing thing is we are a two-part being. We have a body, a material part, and we have an immaterial part that scripture refers to as our spirit, our soul, our heart, depending on the context. Um and when we die, our physical part, our material part, goes to the grave. Our immaterial part goes immediately to be with the Lord if we're saved. The resurrection that that happens at the time of the rapture and and even later after the tribulation But everyone who's alive at the time of the rapture, the dead in Christ will rise first, says 1 Thessalonians 4. That resurrection is a resurrection of the body. Not the soul. The soul is not asleep, it's immediately with um well those who believe, it's immediately it's with the Lord immediately after death. Those who don't believe Are still in conscious torment. You remember the uh the story that Jesus gave of Lazarus and the rich man? Uh they weren't in soul sleep at all. Right? Uh there is there is good and bad. After Christ, the believer goes immediately to be with Christ, not just Abraham. And the unbeliever is in conscious a conscious state of torment. That's long before the Great White Throne where everybody gets their final or at least the unbelievers get their final sentence. Um but y you've got the resurrection of The spirit, which happens at death, if you're a believer, and the resurrection of the body into its its glorified form, uniting with the spirit Um and but you've got that happening at different times for the saved and the unsaved. So it it can get confusing. Um guaranteed. Yes, there's no hope. Yeah, and there's no biblical foundation. Which is why there's no hope. Yeah. Yeah, the question is whether this teaching sprang from uh like demon possession or Satan's influence and so on. Um I think it's safe to say that every deviation of sound theology is has the fingerprints of Satan on it. Whether any of these specific people were possessed of demons, I d I can't say. But um Satan's fingerprints are always on it when coming face to face to deny um sound doctrine. The deity of Christ, for example, the authority of Scripture. Satan will try to do anything to get people to veer off of sound doctrine, right? And even in the f in the Old Testament, God warns against false prophets, right? And to test them and so on. And it's the same kind of Challenge. Yeah, it's possible. I'm not sure how they came up with specific dates, but yeah. It's it's it's likely that it was an interpretation of some prophecies and it must have happened this. That's certainly what happened with Seventh day at Venice. Uh and the fact that maybe another date would be applied to it for some reason. Um Yeah. Yeah, th there are there are different uh interpretations of scripture concerning the end times particularly. between the other things. Exactly. Yeah, different categories of and quite a few. Um I would say that most of those, if not all of them, have been proposed by serious God fearing Christians looking at scripture Uh again, try to make sense of it. I I don't think the origin of those is directly satanic at all. Um if that's the case like at each other it's like oh you're from citizens you're right so you can't do that. But I I I am concerned that any of us have a propensity to lock in on a particular Interpretation, uh framework for interpreting scripture. Um and Blind ourselves to insights that others might provide from a different perspective, provide from a God-fearing, Bible-believing perspective Uh we can learn from one another, we can be sharpened. You know, if we come up with a an interpretation and a framework and it all seems to make sense to us, And someone else says, well, no, I think it's this way. Well, all right, let's get together. Let's look at scriptures. Right? Let's look at the entire breadth of scripture, the context of any given passage. And thus let scripture be our uh determination. And All too often, any of us can be given to locking in and building actually a tradition on a certain interpretation And the force of interpretation in our experience is a heavy heavy thing. It carries a lot of weight, unfortunately. Um and we would all do well to be objective and rely on scripture rather than scripture plus tradition. Even if those traditions began with very God-fearing, Bible-honoring, Bible-believing starting point. We need to be careful because we're human. And our reason is fallen, even as Christians. Um and it can change our reasoning. None of us can claim that we've got it all figured out. And so we need to be humble and let Scripture speak. Yeah. Good point. Okay. Uh that's about time to wrap up. There's a few more things here about um A few other interesting points. We're going to pick up on this next week where we're going to get into more detail and look at scripture. how it relates to what they're claiming and and that kind of thing on some of the key points. So let's let's close in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for opening our eyes to your truth. That we would um Understand your word as being authoritative, as being true, as being life-giving. Thank you that there but by your grace we would go, just like these various uh cults, departing from sound doctrine. And Lord, I pray that you would equip us and build in our convictions and our hearts a desire to be faithful To your word, not only in our own application, but in our conversation with those who are caught up in these various doctrines. And help us to be wise stewards of the gospel and of your word, so that you would be glorified, and any whom you have chosen will indeed. Uh come to you by your grace. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen