Well, welcome to our eighth lesson on local cults and religions. Last week we wrapped up our look at Jehovah's Witnesses and today we're looking at Mormonism, although I gather recently, somewhat recently, they've more officially Um preferred, anyway, the the name Latter-day Saints as opposed to Mormons. But um Uh earlier this year I um had to go to a a conference actually in Europe And on my way back, I um w waiting for my flight back, I was at the airport. And I was just kind of walking around and I had about an hour or so before the before boarding the flight. And um I heard music. Turned out there was a guy playing the piano, just one of these walk-up pianos, you know, you see it in these public places, playing the piano. And I said, that's kind of cool. But then I noticed some of the songs were hymns that I refer I remembered. So that's even cooler. And so You know, for most of the time I was I was waiting before boarding, he was just playing along and um I didn't think much more of it. But I get onto the plane and he's sitting next to me. And so I I brought it up, say, hey man, I've really appreciated your your playing. And uh so we kind of talked a bit and about our backgrounds and so on. But we got settled on the flight and um I pulled out the the book that I was reading so I could make some headway in the book, and the book was in preparation for this class. And the chapter I was on was the chapter on Mormonism. And so, you know, I'm I open it up and I'm I'm I'm pretty early into my research on this And so I'm flipping through when I'm reading and taking highlighting and taking some notes and so on. And then later he says, um, I forget how it came up exactly, I think he brought it up. He said, uh, I I see you're reading a book on Mormonism Uh I'm a Mormon. I said, Oh well that's neat. Um And so we talked a bit uh about what they believe and and uh uh he had I think one or two sons who were doing their missionary duty in Europe. I don't know if that's why he went. I don't remember But we talked about the nature of that and um I told him um the reason I was reading this was I'm preparing to teach a class in my church And uh anyway it w it was a good conversation. I wasn't uh fully aware of everything they believe to kinda quiz him on some of those things and to kind of get his his take. Um but I probed a little bit uh you know what he believed and and uh found it Uh he was very um I would say gracious and um He wasn't antagonistic. What do you mean we're not a cult? You know, we're the we're the true thing. He didn't say that at all, you know. Um Anyway, I'm wishing now I had learned everything I before that time, learned everything I had since come to know. I could have maybe um Not just ask them specific questions, but maybe help him to consider what the Bible actually says. Um anyway he lives in Northern Virginia and um um We can pray for people like that who um are caught up in that. All right, well I'm on page 99 of the notes. I think most of you who have a notebook have been alerted that I've expanded Uh pages 101, 102 that are back to back. If you have your own copy of the notebook and haven't received the update, do you still have some more, Diane? I have a few and Bob have So if if you have not yet received the update to pages one oh one and one hundred two, raise your hand, we'll get you a copy. If you're working from the electronic version, I plan to have that updated by the end of today. So you can have an updated version of that. It's not taking out anything. It's more I used the extra space we had to actually provide more detail that I had intended to include, but then never got back to it. So hopefully this will be more complete. So I wanted to start with a bit of history. Um to put some things in perspective and then we'll talk more about um what they believe and we'll elaborate a bit more on that next week. So you've all heard of Joseph Smith. Um he was um Born in Vermont, spent uh a lot of his time in New England. Uh but fairly early on he claimed to have visions and divine revelations. And He eventually claimed that the angel Moroni, as if anybody would know who the angel Moroni is, but the angel Moroni revealed to him in September of 1823, a place in New York where golden plates have been buried in A. D. 420. And these golden plates were said to contain the history of ancient America, and they were written in what he called Reformed Egyptian That should be characters. There's another update we gotta make to this page. No, you have said like it's uh Oh you're right. You're right. You're right. I put sick in there. That's that's the way it was actually written. Okay. Um So a couple of observations there. That's just two hundred years ago, eighteen twenty-three. Um and So by eighteen thirty he had convinced others that he had uncovered these plates that he had translated them, the message, into English, using what he called the Urim and Thumim. Which, if you remember from the Old Testament, were um some of the the uh articles that God had given to uh the priests in in Israel to uh help them to judge. Uh and um And apparently the even the Urim and the Thumim were applied uh supplied by the angel uh Moroni. But then after he translated them, he returned them to the angel. So of course there's no there's no physical evidence that they even existed. There were people who he um who were involved in his translation process, and my understanding of it is that um They didn't actually see it either, but he dictated to them kind of word by word or maybe even character by character what was on these plates. So it's kind of wild. Anyway, those plates and his translation of them became what is called the Book of Mormon. Now who is Mormon? Mormon, well let's go back in time There's a footnote here on the bottom of the page. The Mormons claim to trace the history of North and South America to two Jewish brothers. They were named Nephi and Laman, who were told by God to build a boat and travel from Jerusalem to a new land. And that land was now South America. And that was 590 BC, so it was before the time of Christ And so they began populating South America, moving north to North America, and the whole populations of of uh North and South America. they say, uh trace their origins to to these two Jewish brothers. And eventually the descendants of the one battled against the descendants of the other and pretty much wiped out the the descendants of Nephi, the called the Nephites. But before they did, one of the leaders of the Nephi, who was called Mormon, that was his name He apparently, or purportedly, buried the gold plates in the hill Cumora near Palmyra, New York. I mean the hill's there. And It was reportedly in what's called ancient hieroglyphics, Egyptian hieroglyphics. Well, it turns out Egyptian scholars say there is no such thing as as ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics. or or reformed Egyptian hieroglyphics is what it was called. But uh Um Joseph Smith took this very seriously. He he viewed it as um Uh Revelation from God, even though the the book was primarily tracing the history of these people in South America and North America. But it had a lot of Teaching in it as well, and we'll talk a little bit more about some of the content here in a minute. But so he convinced a number of people that this was a thing, a real thing. And because he had a bit of a following around this, he founded what they called the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Um and so the Book of Mormon um turns out it includes Extensive direct quotations from the King James Version of the Bible, which is interesting because that was published in 1611. almost twelve hundred years after the plates claimed to have been written. Um And the stories there attribute various statements given by Christ in the gospel accounts to men who purportedly lived many years before Christ. And it also very explicitly claims that the Bible is insufficient and adds to or changes many biblical passages. supposedly pursuant to divine revelation. Now of course at the time it was supposed to have been um written Well at least the the the tablets were were buried presumably in 420 AD. So it was around the time when the the New Testament um uh transcripts, I mean the the original writings of the New Testament as they were being read, they had been around for like at least 300 years, uh 350 years. Um okay. So um People have noted, you know, they've they've given quite a lot of study to the Book of Mormon and uh It it makes a number of factual errors about not just the Bible, but about history that's well documented. And people have speculated. I don't know that there's any proof of this, but there was a very interesting uh novel. uh written right before this time, right before Joseph Smith. Uh maybe Maybe right around that time, but just beforehand. It's called the Manuscripts Found. And there's been a lot of speculation that the the concepts that showed up in the Book of Mormon kind of owe their their inspiration somewhat to the s the story in that novel. I don't know if there's any proof of that. But the Book of Mormon is officially recognized by both main branches of Mormonism. We'll talk a bit about those branches. The official policy is that it's equal with the Bible in authority, but in practice it tends to overshadow what the Bible actually says. It kind of trumps if there's any change. But um and there's also subsequent teaching that that's um added to what's in the Book of Mormon and even some of that more recent teaching, the official teaching and doctrine of the LDS is not always consistent with the Book of Mormon. So they're continuing to come up with with um doctrinal positions and changing them. Well, so they kind of got the start in eighteen thirty and eighteen thirty-one. Um They received a revelation commanding them to move to the land of Zion in Missouri. And so They had a period here where they were kind of split between a headquarters in Ohio and then what they called Cyan, Missouri. And then because a bank that they operated in Ohio uh went under in eighteen thirty eight, they They fled Ohio and put all their eggs in the one basket of Missouri. Uh but a year later the governor there ordered them to leave also. So then they built a town in Illinois called Nau. I'm not sure what the origin of that name is. And while there, Joseph Smith declared himself a candidate for president of the U. S. Now you know he's crazy if he's wanting to be president of the U. S. , right? Anyway, when he was accused by the locals there of gross immorality, counterfeiting, uh sheltering criminals in the act of fleeing from justice and other misdeeds, officially. He was arrested and jailed. Alright, so this is in uh Illinois. But while he was there in prison, a mob stormed the jail, shot him to death, and both him and his brother Hiram. Now the upshot of that is that he then was viewed as a martyr. By his followers. He was only thirty-eight years old when he was killed. And um And yet he had forty-eight wives. And we'll talk a little bit more about the polygamy aspect of it. Um But then um shortly thereafter um Brigham Young was appointed, became kind of the chief spokesman and then the leader of the Latter-day Saints He was from New York, uh again very little formal education. Um he was um Kind of in the inner circle with Joseph Smith. Um, And so by the time that Joseph Smith was killed in eighty in 1844, Young had become one of the most powerful and influential Latter-day Saints leaders And um so after Smith died, there was kind of a internal struggle as to who's going to be the successor. And he muscled out everybody else apparently. So uh I'm on on page 100 here, number six. So they eventually got forced out of their their uh central, their the city that they built in Nauvoo. And uh so Brigham Young is the one who led the main group of them to resettle further west in what became Salt Lake City. Salt Lake Utah. When they arrived, it was um I think it was technically Mexican territory. But the US was in the process of expanding and and what was the the Mexican Wars and everything, it became part of the US and um Because of his role in in establishing a settlement there and bringing order to that area, Brigham was um Um appointed as uh the first um I think it was governor Yeah. Miller Fillmore appointed him as the first governor of the Utah Territory and superintendent of American Indian Affairs. And so uh he was very much Uh the Mormon, he had twenty-five wives, not quite up to um Joseph Smith's standards. Um Well anyway, I I mentioned that there were two main factions. So when when um Joseph Smith uh died, um there was some disagreement about how to go forward and of course Brigham Young uh sort of took control over the the main sect, but there are others who became co known as Josephites, in other words they're following the Joseph Smith tradition Who ended up calling themselves the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And that came about a little quite a bit later in eighteen fifty two, but um eventually there Their conviction was that the successor had to be a a descendant of Joseph Smith himself. And they eventually got that In the person of one of Joseph Smith's many sons. And they located in Missouri And unlike the original Latter-day Saints, the reorganized group rejected polygamy and other key doctrines. So they distinguish themselves not in terms only of leadership and organization, but also some of the doctrinal distinctives. And that group and further splinter groups from that still exist. Whereas the the main group has what's what most people understand to be Well that's kind of an overview of of some of the history, and again it's fairly recent history. So I want to talk a bit about their doctrine. What do they believe? And how does it all fit together? So I'm on page 101. As we've been looking at these various groups, uh one of the questions we have is where they what do they base their teaching on, right? What is the authority of their doctrine? And um if you were to ask them, they would say that the basis of their teaching is the Bible. But they may quickly qualify that to say properly translated. But also the Book of Mormon. And other writings that have come out of their official leadership, one of them is the Doctrines and Covenants, another is the Pearl of Great Price. And a fairly long stream of other uh writings and and statements of of belief. Which are in the stream of what they understand to be continual revelation, but revelation that tends to have the characteristic of not always being consistent with with even their own prior revelation, let alone the Bible. And so it can get confusing. So their view of God, there's not a Trinity in their view. They refer to a presiding council comprised of the Eternal Father, His Son, and the Holy Ghost. But There's a lot of confusion, I think, in in their minds about their understanding of the nature of God. Because um Their their conviction is that uh Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and that's what they would call him He's the son of the father and a female deity, just like all of us are. Um I'll get to that in a minute. But uh he had a preexistence in heaven, although he was created, he was begotten in their thinking, in a very um um you know, reproductive sort of way. He was begotten by God the Father and some female deity. He came to Earth, lived a perfect life, and died On the cross was um raised Is in heaven. Now, in that in that sequence, so far it sounds good, right? But his death Uh merely, and this is very similar to Seventh day Adventist, his death paid for the sin of Adam. So that now the rest of us don't have to worry about paying for the sin of Adam. We only have to worry about our own sins. That's very similar to the Seventh-day Adventists in their view there. And he rose, but not in a physical body. Because he's going up to heaven he needed a spiritual body. And this is where I think they're jumbled up in their thinking because They think that God the Father, because we're created in his image, he must have He must look a lot like us. They're taking this word image to mean a a visual presence. Even though Scripture is clear that God is spirit. Um and Scripture is clear when Jesus rose from the dead, he's he uh appeared to his disciples and um they're wondering, is this is this some spirit? And what did Jesus say? No, you know a spirit doesn't have flesh and bones as you see I do, right? And they saw the scars on his on his hands. Now he was in a glorified body, which we don't completely understand, but it was a physical body nonetheless. So it's a bit confusing as to, you know, God the f you know, heaven where God is, that's that's a spirit realm. And so God Has to be spirit, but he also is physical. And it's it's not clear from their teaching for me. I mean they they just seem to get it all mixed up. We'll come back to that a little bit because it applies to us as well. But Jesus Christ is the offspring of the Father. So he's inferior to the Father. And um not eternal uh any more than we are. So he had a beginning. Um much like Jehovah's Witnesses. Um Actually I I think I may have said earlier that their understanding of Christ paying Uh only for the sin of Adam was I may have said similar to Seventh day at Venice. I meant what I meant was Jehovah's Witnesses. Um Very similar um thought there. Um Okay. I think it'll it'll help us to understand their their understanding of Jesus Christ. by illustrating, describing what they their understanding of man is and the and the kind of the process that we're in So, first of all, when we think about the nature of man, we need to understand his sinful nature. But to Mormons their understanding of sin is um J basically just mistakes, errors, not a a moral violation of God's being and his standards or a rebellion against God, but just we make mistakes, right? And um So it it's it's uh shed of that moral dimension for the most part. But one of the key things about their their doctrine is that they they model it a bit after their understanding of of Christ's path that he was on. So every one of us, they say, had a um pre-mortal existence. That is, before we were born here on earth, we had an existence in heaven How that came about was we were like Christ was, uh begotten by uh um m uh male and female spirit beings, gods, and We had some pre-existence before coming to Earth, during which time we were we had some choices to make. And if we and so th they they think of it as sort of a probationary period there in heaven before coming down to earth. Um And if we passed the probation, that is, we didn't follow the likes of Lucifer, who rebelled against God in in this state. um then we would come to Earth. Why would we come to Earth? Because it was necessary For us to be tempted by, exposed to basically the sins of the flesh you know, the fleshly temptations and and so on, and to pass that test. This is a when we're on earth, it's a time of testing. And so we're on probation up in heaven, and then each of us is born into a physical existence from that spiritual existence. And we undergo that test while we're here on Earth. That's our mortality. We have premortality. Mortality is here on Earth. And part of that testing is of course a lot of do's and don'ts and things you have to do to to uh pass muster, pass the test. Um and at the end of your life then if you you go back to one form or another of or one location or another of spiritual existence. So you've you've gone through this this um flesh and bones kind of period for testing and then you're back to the spiritual Realm. If you're a Mormon and you go back to that spiritual realm, you go to a place called paradise and continue perfection. with the outcome eventually being that you also become a god. Because you've gone through all that process. Now you're good enough, I guess, to to be a god. Yeah. Um so what do they say about Psalm one hundred thirty nine where it talks about you you God formed us in the wound, uh in the parts, everything? They say that there would be insistent evil before that. Yes. Yeah. So we exist our our soul existed, and so we had to take on flesh. And they're modeling this very much after Christ. Right. He had a pre-existence. Then he had a a life on earth and then he went back up. And so they're using that as their model for this whole nonsense. And um so I I don't I haven't seen anything that directly reflects their teaching on that particular verse, but I'm pretty sure they would say, yeah, I mean, all of us need to be born to this physical life And we pre- our soul pre-existed, and so our soul occupies this physical body. Um and I guess God directs, you know, who gets what body and and this kind of thing. So um Even that that passage um in Psalm one thirty nine talks about him forming us are are the are the substance of us. And so I don't think they would disagree with that. The substance had to be formed in the womb. But the issue is is whether the soul pre-existed that and just occupied that body. So um and so there are these two categories. So if you're a Mormon and you're you know a good Mormon A good Latter-day Saint, then your next destination from here is in Paradise where that process continues and you You know, what w we think of sanctification becoming more holy. They're thinking of it as a process. And that the end of that process, in their view, is you become God. A God. And by the way, um that um Elevation, if you will, to the status of a god, they call exaltation. So someone is exalted And that is eternal life. It's eternal now because you are a God, I guess. And So when they they hear the term eternal life, that's what they're thinking of. We're working toward it, um and once we're gods, then we're eternal. Eternal life. Yeah. Yeah. Um you know like Jesus said you must be born again. Do they believe in being born again? I'm not sure how they view that, being born again. I'm sure they have a ready explanation of what that means, but I'm not sure exactly what it is. Yeah. I think we should speak to that a little bit um from my encounters with one. Um a lot of times they'll be scripture is that it's misinterpreted. Um so they use the King James Bible most of the time. So it's really twist the word around to what we want in what it's got those witnesses. Um but they they think that we have really improper interpretations and understanding of the language. And they use that to take descriptions like that must be born again to mean like, oh well you were first born as a spirit in the pre-mortal life and then you must be born again also in the physical world so you have to be born in both places. So they think that Some people here in the physical world actually don't have a soul. Yeah. Yeah. There there is some really weird like that. It gets really weird. Yeah, it gets weird and you don't have to dig too deeply before you see that even what they write and what they're depending on is inconsistent. Let alone I mean with each other, let alone inconsistent with scripture. Was there another hand? Okay. Well, um So if you've lived a life here and you're not a Mormon, then what happens to you? Top of page 102. If you're not a Mormon, you go to a spirit prison Where Mormon spirits who are in I guess from paradise, kind of evangelizing from paradise to this spirit prison, um They're preaching the Mormon gospel to these these uh uh prisoners who have gone through uh pre-mortal life and then mortality on earth and then that now they're in this spiritual prison with the possibility that if they convert to Mormonism in this spiritual prison in heaven, then they can shift to paradise and continue that process of becoming God eventually. How can people down here know? Yeah, to baptize someone. How do they know that they've oh they've accepted up. I think it's an insurance plan. Just in case. Yeah. Okay Yeah, if if they didn't have any certainty, I mean we were jumping the gun a little bit here. Um I d I didn't note here on on number two at the top of page one hundred two. So that they could be they could be released from prison, but only If a living mortal relative is baptized on their behalf in in a in an official Mormon baptism So baptizing for the dead is is something that's a real thing. And particularly if you've got some uncertainty about whether that ancestor of yours uh was a Mormon. And if that ancestor of yours uh was around more than two hundred years ago, it's pretty much a guarantee that person wasn't a Mormon And so you can imagine how this gives rise to their fascination with genealogies. Right, to know your your um your ancestors and um do what you can to enable them You know, you can be baptized for them and then uh not only might they already be a Mormon, let's say, and then so there's no need to baptize them, but people here don't know that necessarily. But you don't know that they're even going to repent and and convert while they are in this spirit prison. But just in case they do, we get baptized for them and we've done our part. That's the logic. Yeah. Um I'm not exactly sure how official, you know, if there's you know, ten percent or or whatever. But um they depend heavily the the organization, LDS, depends heavily on very substantial giving by all their members. And um they don't even have a huge Paid staff. A lot of the people just volunteer their time and so on. They do have some paid. Um but they are raking in a lot of money and so you see these huge tabernacles, right? I mean you walk around the b uh the beltway and you see the huge tabernacle and that's pretty common um across the country, even across the world. And so people volunteer their time to be missionaries. they um um support financially and that's maybe a good segue to our section five here about salvation but But yeah, before we get there, I also wanted to mention that uh I sort of alluded to before, that Jesus is their pattern for that process. starting in a s um spiritual life beforehand in heaven, coming to earth physically, going back. And uh he was the first um offspring of father and some unnamed uh female deity. And um So they're they're pattering this this doctrine about man's progression through their understanding of what Christ went through. Yeah. Um the the question is um um is it possible to be baptized by uh for more than one ancestor at a time? That's my n that's not my understanding. I think it's one at a time, but only once necessary for each one, I think. Um I don't know if anybody has any experience on that, but that sounds about right. It's kind of one for one. You know, their their name is the Church of Jesus Christ. Of Latter-day Saints. So any who viewed themselves to be truly saints before they came on the scene. are uh not really saved. They're misguided. So they would not call themselves Christians. I think they if you press them, I think they would say that they're Christians, but they they don't want that to be confused with what other people think of themselves as being Christians. So they they've got this longer title. Um I was just thinking maybe like the Roman Catholic Church would consider themselves Christian, but believes are quite different. That's one reason they would want to distinguish themselves. A lot of people think of themselves as Christians. No, we're Latter day Saints. We're the real thing. But if there weren't other Christians, I think they would be comfortable with the name, I think. It's the Church of Jesus Christ. Uh in their view. Yeah. So, salvation. We've seen this before. Faith plus works, right? Let me give you some quotes from some of their early leaders. We hold that salvation from sin is obtainable only through obedience. And that while the door to the kingdom has been opened by the sacrificial death and the resurrection of our Lord the Christ, No man may enter there except by his personal and voluntary application expressed in terms of obedience to the prescribed laws and ordinances of the gospel. So again, Christ made that possible because he took care of Adam's sin. It's not inherited by us because of Christ. But we have our own account to get straight, and that's a matter of works, faith plus works Uh and then they say uh Christians speak often of and here where they're saying Christians, they're saying other people who think of themselves as Christians. Speak often of the blood of Christ and its cleansing power. Much that is believed and taught on this subject, however, is such utter nonsense and so palpably false that to believe it is to lose one's salvation. Wow. Or what? Many go so far, for instance, as to pretend, at least, to believe that if we confess Christ with our lips and avow that we accept him as our personal Savior, we are thereby saved. Now, it is true that some people have a false assurance of salvation because they said a prayer or something, right? And they have a misunderstanding of uh repentance and genuine saving faith. But That doesn't negate the truth of Scripture that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Jesus Christ alone And not by works. But anyway, they summarize here, his blood, without other act than mere belief, they say, makes us clean. Well, indeed it does. But they object to that. And then they say, all men, by the grace of God have the power to gain eternal life. And when they say eternal life, what they mean is not eternally in the presence of God and and separate from sin, but eternally God yourself. This is called salvation by grace, coupled with obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Salvation in the kingdom of God is available because of the atoning blood of Christ. See, that's in paying for what Adam did and frees us up to just deal with our own sin. But it is received only on condition of faith, repentance, baptism, and enduring to the end in keeping the commandments of God. So they say it's faith plus works, which means it's works. Um and it's indeed very exclusive. They say, except men come to these legal administrations and learn of Christ and his laws as newly revealed, newly revealed on earth. They cannot be saved in his everlasting kingdom hereafter. So the legal administrations uh legal administrators uh they're referring to here is the Latter-day Saints church hierarchy and system and and rituals and requirements and so on And elsewhere they refer to the laws of the gospel, in other words, what's required for salvation, to include faith, yes, to include repentance, yes, both defined the way they want to define them. But also requiring baptism within the Mormon organization. I hesitate to call it a church. And then also laying on of hands by the Mormon priesthood for receiving the Holy Spirit. So you've got to be a part of them or you're not in. And that's typical of cults. So that's just an overview. We're gonna address some of those concerns uh which are not always unique to Mormons, uh but some of the things we're gonna talk about next week are gonna be helpful uh with a lot of these other both cults and other religions in terms of uh the deity of Christ, the nature of the Trinity and and that kind of thing So we'll look into those next week. But uh any other observations, questions at this point? Yeah, that's right. So this requirement for a a living mortal relative to be baptized for you does make it all conditional on somebody else. Um and someone else's obedience to the whole process. But um these other things, the faith, repentance, apparently that's happening by the person who's in that prison. That's that's why they're wanting to join up. And their process to becoming gods presumably would be a bit longer up there in heaven because They didn't accomplish a lot of it down here on earth or in their pre-existence. And so it's not to say that they're like at the head of the line to becoming gods, but they now have the opportunity. to do more good works and so on while in that spirit life. Um but it can't start until someone here on earth gets baptized for them because they can't be baptized. They don't have a physical body, they can't be baptized Yeah, well um i uh I don't know that there's a a finite list of things, but basically you have to um put everything into you know all the effort and everything into being um obedient to all the rules of Latter-day Saints And fit in with a system and um being a missionary one of those things because I know they have plain teaching. Right. Right, you have to d do your time in in uh missionary service and reaching out to others and so on. Sorry? Boys, that's right. Yeah, young men particularly. Not required. Yeah. That's the point, what is there for help? Um My understanding is that this spiritual prison that non Mormons go to is basically accomplishing the same thing. So whether that's whether they call that hell or not, I'm not positive. But it's it's your final destination if either you don't Become a Mormon or someone else doesn't do your baptism thing on earth, uh that's your destination forever. Equivalent to growth or just you haven't achieved your God status? I think it's more the latter. I don't think it's I don't think they view it quite in the torment, eternal torment, but eternal imprisonment and a dead end for sure. Yeah, I I would think I mean if they just think that sin is just, you know um w what did you call it mistakes and then you know I mean how can they have any idea of what how should be, you know? Yeah, so it's pretty typical that there's there's a picking and choosing of of doctrines and and certainly verses in the Bible, and even the ones they do pick Um they feel very comfortable twisting to kind of conform to their preconceived ideas. And so ignoring other ones doesn't seem to bother them. Yeah. But that I that's typical, right? Of a cult. You just you read into a certain verse what you want it to mean and then you take it and run with it and who cares that it's not consistent with the rest of the Bible. Yeah. Since I could really have something in common like the the Catholics with the Volkswagen, the Mormons with this prison that you do with the coming back all the node again, so it's a lot of rely on yourself and not in Christ for salvation. Right. So a lot of a lot of common thinking Yeah, if if it's not biblical Christianity, it's basically uh uh a a philosophy, a system of works. That may involve faith. Usually it's faith plus works, but faith in what? You know, basically it's faith in the teaching of the organization. Rather than placing faith in our substitute, Jesus Christ, that is just so offensive to Satan, he's convinced that it's offensive to a lot of other people. Yeah, it's a shame. So if if um you have uh Mormon Friends or acquaintances, co-workers, or just visitors to your door. Um Speak the truth in love. Pray for them. Uh make it clear that um You know that you're saved because Jesus bore your penalty on the cross. And you'd be happy to explain that to them. Um we'll talk a bit more next week about some passages you can use to um Explain the truth and show them the truth. But ultimately, who is it who changes their hearts? It's God. I'm also going to send you in um a post to the hopebook group for this class. a link to a very recent article from someone who came out of Mormonism, and his roots go all the way back to the Joseph Smith error era in Mormonism. Um anyway it's uh it's a very encouraging testimony of how God drew him out of that. And it's an encouragement I think to us also to see that that, you know, God did that and he can still do that. with others. So let's be praying for those folks. Let's pray. Father, um again we're just so frequently reminded that there but for your grace go we And um you have shown us the truth. Help us to um Articulate the truth. Uh even if we're not um experts, may or May our demeanor, our our testimony are y um pointing to your word as supreme truth, bear fruit in the lives of others, whether they be Mormons or whoever. Pray that you would make us useful vessels for your glory. In Jesus name, Amen