Well, as we continue our worship by meditating on the Word of God, I would invite you to turn to John chapter 5. John chapter 5 is our text as we continue to work through verses 31 to 47, which we began studying last week. And we began seeing that in this passage, Jesus lays out the evidence that proves the truth about himself, namely his divine union with the Father. And their common purposes in salvation and judgment. Now Jesus is the speaker here. If you have a red letter Bible, you can see that Jesus is speaking from verses 19 all the way down to 47. But Even though in verses 31 to 47 Jesus is speaking, he is really presenting to us the testimony of the Father. And we began to see that last week. In our passage for today, which really we're going to focus in on verses 37 to the end, in addition to two additional lines of evidence that he gives, For the claims that he has made, he emphasizes the rejection of the Pharisees and that it's a matter of the will, not a matter of ignorance. No one can believe the truth if they do not know the truth. But knowing the truth Often reveals that knowledge wasn't the problem. Bill Bright, the founder of Campus Crusade for Christ, now called Crewe, once wrote this. He says, during my fifty-five years of sharing uh the good news of the Savior with the academic world, I have met very few individuals who have honestly considered the evidence and yet deny that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and the Savior of men. To me, the evidence confirming the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ is overwhelmingly conclusive to any honest objective seeker after truth. However, not all, not even the majority of those to whom I have spoken have accepted him as their Savior and Lord. This is not because they were unable to believe. They were simply unwilling to believe. For example, he writes, a brilliant but confused psychiatrist came to me for counsel. He confessed, frankly, to me, that he had never been willing to consider honestly the key claims of Christ in his own life for fear that he would be convinced and as a result would have to change his way of life. Unquote. Well, that is nothing new, and that is precisely how the Pharisees responded to Jesus. Follow along as I read verses 31 to 47. If I alone bear witness about myself, Jesus says, my testimony is not true. There is another who bears witness about me, and I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true. You sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. Not that the testimony I receive is from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved. He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were unwilling to rejoice For a while, or rather, you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing bear witness about me that the Father has sent me. And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he has sent. You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. And it is they that bear witness about me. Yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life I do not receive glory from people, but I know that you do not have the love of God within you. I have come in my Father's name and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you, Moses, on whom you have set your hope For if you believed Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? This is the word of God. Now, if you're familiar with apologetics, you know that there are various philosophies of how we are to go about defending the Christian faith. The presuppositional approach highlights the inability of evidence to convince a hard heart. And so rather than trying to pile up a bunch of extra biblical evidence to create unassailable intellectual arguments, the presuppositionalist will work hard to convince the unbeliever of the folly of their thinking and then call them to repent and trust in Christ. On the other hand, the evidentialist approach highlights the potential benefit of evidence to answer objections and address and remove intellectual barriers. So they will work hard to prove beyond a doubt that Christianity is true, that the Bible is trustworthy and that Jesus is God, calling together all the evidence available to them. And then there's the classical approach, which highlights the unbeliever's capacity to understand natural revelation that God exists. So they work hard to uh make those arguments for the existence of God from the natural world as the foundation for proving that the truth of Christianity. Those are the three primary philosophies, if you will, of apologetics, how we defend our faith. And there's a good discussion to be had on what is the best approach, and for what it's worth, we would generally be uh here convinced of the presuppositional approach without necessarily denying the value of evidence and intellectual engagement. But what we have in our text as a defense is Jesus offering evidence while at the same time acknowledging the unwilling hearts of the Pharisees to believe. Well, why waste time giving evidence if he knows the Pharisees aren't going to believe? Well, as we said last time, there are two ways the Lord uses evidence in a person's life. First, sometimes it happens that evidence is brought to bear in a person's mind, they realize the truth of Christ. The Lord uses that to open their eyes and their heart and shine the light of of the gospel into their heart, giving them life, granting them faith in Christ. Other times, the Lord uses evidence to prove to that unbeliever and even others that information was never the problem. But rather the problem was their hostile heart, and they won't believe no matter what evidence you provide But there is a third way that the Lord uses evidence that I neglected to mention last week, and that is the Lord uses evidence to strengthen the convictions of believers like you and I. And those who believe in Christ already don't need evidence to be told that we should believe in Christ, but there's no doubt that the more evidence you can pile up that supports your convictions, the stronger your convictions will be. And so it is for that purpose, as well as the other two, that we've been taking a little bit of time to examine each of the pieces of evidence that Jesus provides. here to the Pharisees and even going beyond what Jesus says to look at what the rest of Scripture has to say. Well, carrying forward from last week, our proposition that we're working through is that in this ta text, in verses thirty one to forty seven, We find four lines of evidence presented by the Father to testify to Jesus' claims so that you would believe and have life. These four lines of evidence, again, are John the Baptist, the works of Jesus, the Father Himself. And scripture. Today we'll very quickly walk through the first two and then spend most of our time looking at the second pieces of evidence. So as a reminder, evidence number one that Jesus applies as the testimony of the Father is John the Baptist. Look again at verses 33 to 35. Jesus says, You, speaking to the Pharisees, sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. Not that the testimony that I receive is from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved. He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. John the Baptist was a prophet sent by God to testify to the coming of Jesus. In fact, back in chapter 1, verse 19, Jesus says, or rather, the Scripture says, and this is the testimony of John when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who are you? He confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. And then later, when Jesus comes by the next day, he says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And with that and many other public declarations, John the Baptist, having been sent by the Father, declares to the truth of who Jesus is: that he is the Christ, the Son of God. Evidence number two that Jesus provides here in our passage is the works of Jesus. The works of Jesus. Look at verse 36. He says, But the testimony that I have is greater than that of John. For the works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I am doing, bear witness about me that the Father has sent me. The divine power that flowed through Jesus demands the conclusion that Jesus is God. In John chapter 10, Jesus reveals himself as the good shepherd of the sheep. A remarkable passage that I look forward to spending time in. But when he declares himself to be the Good Shepherd, which by the way is a fulfillment of Ezekiel's prophecy, the Apostle John tells us how the people responded to his words. He says, many of them said he has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him? Others said, These are not the words of one who's oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? And that's the issue. The works of Jesus prove who he is. One of those men who were once blind, but who received a sight from Jesus gave this testimony when He was standing before the Pharisees who were trying to figure out what to do with Jesus, this once now seeing blind man, once blind now seeing man Said in John 9, Never since the beginning of the world has it been heard that of anyone opening the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God He could do nothing. And that's true, isn't it? Without the power of God, you and I can do nothing. Well, unable to refute his words, the Pharisees simply just cursed at him and said, You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us? They had no response to the reality that if Jesus could open the eyes of the blind, in addition to all the other miracles he performed, he had to be from God. If you have eyes to see and ears to hear and a heart that is willing, the works of Jesus provide undeniable truth. To the fact that Jesus is equal with God. Well, that brings us to evidence number three: the Father. The Father. Look at verses 37 and 38. Jesus says, And the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. His voice you have never heard, his form you have never seen, and you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he has sent. Jesus affirms here that the Father Himself has already borne witness to the truth about Jesus, and he offers an indictment for their determined rejection. We've noted time and time again that the Gospel of John highlights that unbelief is not a problem of lack of information, but rather a problem of the heart. Now, Romans 10, 14 is right when it says, How then will they call upon him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? So again, it's right to say that not knowing the truth makes it impossible to believe, but it is not right to say that learning the truth is all that's necessary. If you just tell people the gospel, they will believe. That is not what's true. And so here again in verses 37 and 38, Jesus points out to the Pharisees that even though God the Father has given his own testimony as to who Jesus is, They have not been in a position in their own, as far as the condition of their heart, to embrace that testimony. Now let's see how Jesus communicates this. First consider what he says about the Father. He can't say it any more plainly that it than he does. He says, and the Father who sent me has himself borne witness about me. By saying the Father Himself has borne witness, Jesus can only mean that this evidence is the spoken words of the Father It is the Father's own personal testimony about Jesus. And this is critical. Had Jesus made claims as he did to be equal with God the Father, to be united with him in love and purpose, to be the giver of life and the judge of all, and we heard nothing from the Father? That silence would communicate one word false If God said nothing to anyone that corroborated the statements of Jesus, that would mean that Jesus would be a false prophet. So Jesus asserts here that in fact the Father has publicly testified to the divine identity of Jesus and to their relationship. Now, as you can see here, Jesus doesn't offer the Pharisees what that public testimony is, but for our sakes, I think it's worth going through that evidence of the Father's own personal testimony so that we might believe and be ever more convinced of the truth of who Jesus is. I want to take a number of these from the book of Luke. So if you would turn with me to Luke, I want to walk through several of the public declarations by the Father to the identity and relate and his relationship with Jesus. We'll start in Luke chapter 1. Luke chapter 1. The first time that the Father testified to Jesus is found here in Luke chapter 1, when the angel Gabriel came to Mary. Look at Luke chapter 1 starting in verse 30. The angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever and ever And of his kingdom there will be no end. Mary said to the angel, How will this be since I am a virgin? And the angel answered her, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. And the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Therefore, the child to be born will be called Holy the Son of God. Though these are the words of an angel and not directly the words of the Father, I would submit to you that angels are the mouthpiece of God in many cases. Whenever an angel speaks, they are speaking on behalf of God. They are his messengers, his declarers, his heralds. And so Gabriel declares that Jesus is the Son of God, the Messiah, who will reign on the earth. Turn over to Luke chapter 2. The second time that the Father testified to Jesus was the night of Jesus' birth. And we read this in Luke chapter 2, starting in verse 8. In the same region there were shepherds out in the fields keeping watch over their flock by night. And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. Again, this is not the direct voice of God, but this is God's personal angelic messenger, and he declares that Jesus is Christ the Lord. Turn over to chapter 3. The third time that the Father testifies to Jesus is recorded here in Luke 3 as well as in Matthew and Mark. All three Gospels apart from John record the baptism of Jesus. And Jesus came to the baptism of John the Baptist, and it says down in verse 21 of Luke chapter 3. Now when all the people were baptized, and when Jesus also had been baptized and was praying, the heavens were opened, and the Holy Spirit descended in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven, you are my beloved son. With you I am well pleased. Now, finally, we hear not from an end not from an angel, but from God Himself. This is the very voice of God. And this is a direct and clear statement by God in heaven of his relationship with Jesus. You are my beloved son. And the nature of that relationship is that it is one of love. Beloved. And Jesus is pleasing to the Father. Now, none of the Gospels give us any more information than what we have here, but what we have by implication is a time when publicly all of those who are around Jesus there at the baptism of John Heard this declaration by God the Father. Now turn over to Luke chapter 9 The fourth time that God the Father testifies to Jesus is here in Luke 9, and this event is also recorded in Matthew 17. This is the testimony by the Father given to the inner circle of Jesus' disciples, Peter, James, and John, as they were on the mountain where they saw the glory of Jesus unveiled. And it says in verses thirty-five to thirty-six And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. Moses and Elijah had been with him. They went away, and it says they kept silent that is Peter, James, and John kept silent, and no one told in those days anything of what they had seen. Matthew tells us that the reason that Peter, James, and John didn't tell anybody about what they had seen is because Jesus himself had told them not to. At this point in Jesus' ministry, he had his face set on heading to Jerusalem for the Passover to be crucified. And so having the disciples keep silent was a way to ensure that God's perfect timing for the crucifixion was maintained. There's one more time that we hear from God the Father speaking from heaven. If you turn over to the Gospel of John now, chapter 12. This is the only place where this is recorded. John chapter 12. We hear the voice of God here one more time in the life of Jesus. This is well after the testimony that Jesus gave to the Pharisees, but again, we're not doing this for the Pharisees' sake. We're doing this for our sake. This is now the final week of Jesus' life. Tensions are high between the expectations of the people regarding Jesus as the Messiah as well as the murderous plotting of the religious leaders. And as Jesus considers what is about to happen to him at the crucifixion, he says, starting in verse 27. Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, an angel has spoken to him. It's interesting that it seems that Jesus alone heard the actual words spoken by the Father, but the crowd just heard noise, and that itself was enough for them to know that God responded, even if mediated by an angel. These are the five times that the Father gave public verbal testimony to the identity and his relationship with Jesus. Two of them through an angel. Three of them directly from his own lips, as it were. But there are two other times that we can say that the Father bore witness to the Son. I won't have you turn there, but remember that when Jesus was crucified, there were many supernatural phenomena that took place As Jesus hung on the cross in the middle middle of the day, Matthew 27, 45 says that darkness covered the land for three hours And then in verse 51, it says that the moment that Jesus took his last breath, the curtain in the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. It says that there was a powerful earthquake that split the rocks. And then verse 54 there of Matthew 27 says, When the centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake and what took place, they were filled with awe, and said, Truly this was the Son of God. In other words, these pagan Romans who had crucified hundreds, if not thousands, of people. Observed the phenomenon that took place at the death of Christ, and they concluded that Jesus is the Son of God. Now we can ask the question and should ask, why what would lead them to make that conclusion? Well, the text doesn't explicitly tell us, but having Jesus hung on the cross As Jesus hung on the cross, rather, he prayed to the Father. Remember, he prayed repeatedly, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He cried out to the Father, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And then in that moment, when he breathed his last breath, he entrusted his soul to the Father. Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. It's likely that the soldiers interpreted the supernatural events as the father's response to his son being crucified. Well, there's one more event where the Father personally and directly bears witness to Jesus' claims to be equal with God, to be united with Him in love and purpose, and that He is the giver of life and the judge of all. This testimony for sure was not available to the Pharisees as Jesus was speaking with them. But this turns out to be the weightiest evidence of all of the Father's direct and personal approval and affirmation of who Jesus is. It is so significant that it stands in a category all on its own and overshadows all the other testimony we could put forth. Not to minimize or render meaningless the rest of the testimony, but simply to so strengthen the case that any honest investigator can't escape the necessary conclusion. Do you know what it is? It's the resurrection. It's the linchpin that holds all of Christianity together. God the Father raised Jesus from the dead, thereby publicly demonstrating his approval of the Son. The night before his death, Jesus prayed to his father in John 17, I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And now, Father. Glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. The Apostle Peter, who was there that night when Jesus prayed that prayer, he heard the words of Jesus. He was an eyewitness to the crucifixion of Christ. the burial of Christ and the resurrection of Christ, and ultimately the ascension of Christ into glory And he wrote this about Jesus in 1 Peter 1, 20 to 21. He that is Jesus was foreknown. before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory. So that your faith and hope are in God. In other words, the Father answered Jesus' prayer by raising him from the dead and giving him glory. Very soon after the resurrection, uh Peter preached a sermon to the Jews who were gathered in the temple. In Acts 3, he says in his message, You, speaking to the Jews, denied the holy and righteous one and asked for a murderer to be granted to you. And you killed the author of life. Whom God raised from the dead, to this we are witnesses. Over and over in the book of Acts and throughout the epistles, we find the statement: God raised him from the dead. And just as the Father would not have empowered Jesus to perform the miracles if he did not agree with Jesus' claims, if Jesus did not speak the truth The Father would have left him in the grave. But he didn't leave him in the grave. He raised him from the dead. This is how the Father personally and directly testifies to Jesus, who He is in their relationship. He proclaimed his deity through the angelic messengers. He spoke from heaven at his baptism on the mountain and directly to Jesus. He made his presence known through the supernatural signs at the crucifixion of Christ. And the greatest of all is he raised him from the dead. Well, coming back to our text, though the Pharisees didn't have all the access to this testimony. That m much of which came later, it's possible that they had access to some of it. And so Jesus rebukes them for the fact that they did not properly respond. They did not embrace the evidence that was that was available to them Again it says there at the second half of verse thirty-seven, His voice you have never heard, His form you have never seen, and you do not have His word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom He sent. Notice that there are three assertions there and one explanation. With regard to the Father, they haven't heard him They haven't seen him, and his word is not in them. And the explanation of how we know that's true is they don't believe in Jesus. It's been said that unlike Moses, who uh of whom it is said that he spoke with uh with God as one speaks to uh with his uh face to face with a friend, the Pharisees never heard the voice of God. And unlike Israel, who saw the presence of God on Mount Sinai through the pillar of cloud and the pillar of fire, the Pharisees never saw a representation of God. And unlike the faithful Jews who kept the Word of God hidden and treasured in their hearts, the Pharisees would not allow the Word of God to penetrate into their hearts. And again, we know this is true because they did not believe in Jesus. Why is not believing in Jesus evidence for their deafness and blindness and their hard heart? Because if they believed, they would have heard the voice of God through Jesus If they believed, they would have seen God in Jesus. If they believed the word of God spoken by Jesus would have remained in them. Flip back to John chapter 1. Jesus is the Word, it tells us in verse 1 of chapter 1. When Jesus speaks, he's not merely speaking for God, he is, in truth, God speaking. He is quite literally the voice of God. Unlike the prophets who uh often spoke for God, but most of the time spoke for themselves, every time air passed through the vocal cords of Jesus, he was speaking the Word of God, because He is God. To hear Him was to hear the voice of God. But it was one thing for that to be true, and another thing for people to recognize it. Some didn't, or rather some did, but most didn't. Well, not only is Jesus the word, the voice of God, he was also the visible representation of God. Look at verse 14 there of John 1. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glories of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Verse 18. No one has ever seen God. The only God who is at the Father's side has made him known. Before Jesus, no one had ever seen God in the fullness of his glory. But he was the physical manifestation of God. In the past, whenever someone had a vision of God, it was always mediated through some vision, some form, some Representation that protected the person from certain death. Remember that when Moses asked to see God in Exodus 33, the Lord said, You cannot see my face, for no one can see me and live. But Jesus, it says here, is God clothed in human flesh. He is the manifestation of God. Colossians 1. 15, he is the image of the invisible God. Or Hebrews 1. 3, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature If you've seen Jesus Christ in the flesh, you've seen God. This was made clear to Philip, one of the disciples of Jesus, who said to Jesus the night that he was betrayed, Lord. Show us the Father, and it will be enough for us. And Jesus responds, Have I been with you so long? And you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, show us the Father? Philip was one example of those who saw Jesus and didn't realize that they were seeing the Father And the same is true of the Pharisees. They heard the voice of Jesus. They saw the form. They saw the person of Jesus. But they did not believe that he was God's Son. So they would not believe that He was speaking The Father's words. Again, information is not the problem. It's the heart that is the problem. Isn't it sometimes true that we read a book or we hear a sermon or we watch a video and we think, oh, if my unbelieving spouse saw this, then they would believe. Or of my my unbelieving friend read this, that would convince them. We need to remember that ignorance is not the problem It's necessary to remove ignorance from the equation for sure, but God must open the eyes and ears and transform the heart if a person is to believe. Well Jesus has laid down three evidences supplied by the Father that support his claims. John the Baptist, his works, and the Father's own personal testimony. The final evidence that Jesus gives us for who he is is the Scripture. This is evidence number four, the Scripture. Look at verses 39 to 40 of John 5 You search the scripture because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about me. Yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. Here again, we have indictment mixed with evidence. The scripture is the word of God by inspiration of the Holy Spirit, and therefore it is God's testimony to the truth. But it's possible to study the scripture and entirely miss the point. The verb search here in verse 39 can can either be an indicative or an imperative. Meaning it can either be stating a fact, you search the scripture, or it can be giving a command, search the scripture. The logical flow, though, of Jesus' words really demands that it be an indicative. So the way the ESV and every other English translation, except for the King James translates it, is correct. It would usually seem to be a good thing, wouldn't it, for someone to search the scripture thinking that in them is eternal life? Well, the reason that's a good thing is because there is a very real sense in which in the scripture we can find eternal life. Many people, including some of you, have the testimony that it it wasn't a sermon that the Lord used to save you. It wasn't a book that you read. It wasn't a conversation that you have. It was simply you Reading the word of God that the Lord used to open your eyes and give you faith in Christ. But if that's true, it's not because the scriptures themselves give life. It's because the Holy Spirit working through the scripture gives life What the Spirit does is he opens the mind of the reader to see that the Scripture points not to itself, but rather to God, who is the Savior. And in the same way that a love letter kindles our affections for a person who wrote it, so the scripture kindles our affections for God. We we keep love letters not because we love the letter itself and the paper and the ink. That's not what our heart treasures, but rather we keep it because it keeps reminding us of the person that we love so much As John Piper once said, I love the Bible like I love my eyes. Not because my eyes are lovely, but because they help me to see what's lovely. In other words, we love the scripture because it helps us to know God. And the more we know him, the more we can love him and live for him. But that's only true for those who believe. The Pharisees searched the scripture not to know God, but to discern how they themselves could make themselves right with God. They didn't want to know how God could save them. They wanted to know what does God tell me that will help me save myself? And so they refused to come to Jesus because it required admitting you can't save yourself. Their pride would not let them confess Jesus as Savior, even though that is precisely what the Scripture told them they needed. Well, how does the Scripture witness about Jesus? Again, this is not something that Jesus gives the specifics for in this particular passage, but for our benefit, let's consider how does the scripture testify To the truth of Jesus. Remember that the evening of his resurrection, Jesus was walking down the road with two of his disciples. on the road to Emmaus and they conveyed their sorrows and their disappointment about the crucifixion of of Jesus, who they thought was the Messiah. And then they expressed bewilderment over the report of the women and Peter and John who had gone to the tomb and found it empty. And Jesus said to them, they didn't recognize him, he said to them, Oh, foolish ones. And so of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them all the scripture In all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. That's Luke 24. When the apostles began preaching Jesus everywhere they went in the book of Acts, have you ever noticed? That with the exception of his crucifixion and resurrection, they don't tell stories about Jesus' life. No, what they do is they quote the Old Testament over and over and over. When the Apostle Paul would go from one synagogue to another in the cities that he traveled, he would prove to them from the scripture, that is the Old Testament, that Jesus was the Christ. If you have eyes to see and ears to hear, and again a willing heart, it's not difficult to find proof of Jesus and his identity from the Old Testament. The scriptures bear witness about Jesus through typology and shadows. He is the second Adam who brings life, whereas the first Adam brought death He is the ark that delivers people from the wrath of God. He is one like Isaac, whose father nearly sacrificed him in obedience to God. And he is the true Ram who was sacrificed in place of Isaac. He is the ultimate Joseph who saved the world from death. He is the one greater than Moses who leads his people out of slavery into the promised land. He is the final sacrificial lamb who whose single sacrifice satisfies the wrath of God. He is the great high priest who stands between us and God. He is the king greater than David and wiser than Solomon. In these and many other types and shadows, the life and work of Jesus was foreshadowed throughout the entire Old Testament. So the scriptures bear witness about Jesus through types and shadows, also through prophecy. Isaiah speaks of the Messiah as the suffering servant. whose spirit-led life would perform miracles and proclaim the gospel. Ezekiel speaks of the son of David as the good shepherd. The title Jesus takes to himself in John 10. Daniel speaks of the coming of the Son of Man, which was Jesus' favorite title for himself. Prophetic passages tell us that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem, but would be called the Nazarene, both of which were true of Jesus. There are hundreds of prophecies that Jesus fulfilled through his life, his death, and his resurrection. Consider, for example, just one clip of one sermon from the Apostle Paul in Acts 13, which highlights how the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus fulfills Old Testament Scripture. He says, for those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because they did not recognize him, nor understand the utterances of the prophets. Which are in every Sabbath, which are read every Sabbath, fulfilled them by condemning him. And though they found in him no guilt worthy of death, they asked Pilate to have him executed And when they had carried out all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb. But God raised him from the dead, and for many days he appeared to those who had come up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are now witnesses. to the people. And we bring you the good news that what God promised to the fathers, this he's fulfilled to us, their children, by raising Jesus. As also it is written in the second Psalm You are my son, today I have begotten you. And also for as for the fact that he was raised from the dead no more to return to corruption, he has spoken in this way. I will give you the holy and sure blessings of David. Therefore, he also says in another Psalm, you will not let your holy ones see corruption. For David has For after he had served the purpose of God in his own generation, he fell asleep and was laid with with his fathers and saw corruption. But he whom God raised up did not see corruption. Over and over and over, the Apostle Paul is referring to the fact that Jesus was foretold, his life, his death, his resurrection was prophesied. That's exactly what Jesus said he would do. In Matthew 5, he said, Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I haven't come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. So the scripture bears witness to Jesus through touch and shadows and through prophecy. It also bears witness to Jesus by revealing to us the nature and character of God to mankind. And when you know God in the Old Testament and you know Jesus in the New Testament, you realize Jesus is God. In John 1. 49, after a brief exchange with Jesus, Nathaniel says to him, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. Now, why did he say that? Because he recognized divine knowledge in Jesus. After Jesus spoke with the Samaritan woman in John 4, she ran off to the town and said to the people, Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ? Her very encounter with Jesus led her to believe this was no mere man and not even a mere prophet When thousands of people turned away from Jesus in John 6, after he spoke some hard words to them, Jesus turned to his closest disciples and asked them, Do you want to go away as well? And Peter answered, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. We have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. The disciples heard the words of Jesus. They saw his life as they traveled with him everywhere he went, and they came to the certain conclusion. That given everything he's said and given everything he's done, he fulfills the Old Testament, and he must be the Christ, the Son of God. Again, as we see there in John 1. 14, we've seen his glory. Glories of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. The only way to know that the glory of the Son is the same as the glory of the Father is if Scripture has revealed that glory of the Father to be able to say, yes, the glory of the Father matches the glory of the Son. So again, the more that you know God in the Old Testament, the more you know Jesus in the New Testament, the more you realize that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Now, we've barely scratched the surface on how the Old Testament bears witness to Jesus, but I hope that gives you just a taste of the evidence for Jesus to be found in the Word of God. Well, after the testimony that Jesus offers for himself in verses 19 to 30 of John 5, and after the evidence is provided by the Father there in verses 33 to 40, We now turn to the final section of Jesus' message to the Pharisees, which is really an indictment. For them, these are words of judgment spoken to them by the Messiah. Well, friends, for us, this is a call to make a verdict. Look at verses 41 to 44. Jesus says, I do not receive glory from people. But I know that you do not have the love of God within you. I have come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? Jesus is saying here, you Pharisees, you are so quick to accept every self-promoting rabbi and every self-promoting Messiah, but you refuse to accept me when I come in my Father's name. This basically tells us that their rejection of Jesus had very little to do with Jesus, but rather was grounded in their self-made, self-promoting religion. In a sense, pharisaic religion was like a good old boys' club, where to be accepted you had to be part of the system. And if you're outside the system, you could only get in if you show you're just like them. When Jesus says there in verse 41, I do not receive glory from people. He simply means that he's not looking for praise for the praise of men. He's not dependent on the approval of people. In actual fact, his praise is from God. His glory comes from the Father. In contrast to him, he says, verse 42, but I didn't know that you do not have the love of God within you. What's the contrast between Jesus not having his glory from people and the Pharisees not having the love of God in them? Jesus means that the reason that they don't accept him whose glory is from God is because they do not have love for the glory of God. He's concerned with the glory of God, they are concerned with the glory of man. And that's what he means by verses 43 and 44. Again, I have come in my Father's name and you do not receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him. How can you believe when you receive glory from one another and do not seek the glory that comes from the only God? These religious leaders, despite all appearances, had no real interest in God. They were only interested in promoting their self-made religion. And so it is with all people who reject Christ. When someone hears the message of Jesus, when the gospel has been proclaimed to them, and and if the response is some version of, yeah, no thanks. That simply means that that person is content to sit with their own religion. If you don't believe in Jesus, my dear friend, do you realize that that is true of you? You may prefer to follow one of the many religions of the world. Or you may prefer to have your own defined religion. Whatever the case, you're trusting in yourself And you're trusting in someone else, neither of whom can give proof to the truth of what you believe. You cannot prove, for example, that there is no life after death. And if someone claims that life after death is something different than what the scripture reveals, they can't prove that either. The only one who can prove what they say about God, what they say about heaven and hell and spiritual realities, is Jesus, who in fact did die. and come back to life, never to die again. Now in the case of the Pharisees, because they claim to be followers Of Moses, Jesus goes on to say here that it is Moses that will judge them. He says in verse 45, Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you, Moses, on whom you have set your hope. If you believe Moses, you would believe me, for he wrote of me. But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words? What Jesus says here is consistent with what he taught in Matthew 7, where he said, Judge not that you be not judged, for with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged, and with the measure you use it will be measured to you. The Pharisees thought they were following Moses and condemning Jesus, but they didn't understand Moses at all. And so it will be Moses himself who will judge them on the final day. Now ultimately it will be Jesus, but he will be using the standard of the Mosaic law to judge them. Remember, Moses wrote in Matthew, or rather, Deuteronomy 18, that if someone claims to speak for God, And they prove it, but you don't listen to them, God will judge you. The Pharisees had ample proof that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God. And that proof would not only keep mounting, but it would ultimately culminate in the resurrection of Christ. But did they change their mind? Not most of them. A few of them did it first, Nicodemus, Joseph of Arimathea were both Pharisees In fact, in Acts 15 tells us that among the believers there were some who belonged to the party of the Pharisees. And remember, the Apostle Paul himself was a Pharisee before the Lord saved him. But most refused to believe in Jesus. They just plain refused. It wasn't a lack of evidence. They didn't need more convincing. They just refused. What about you? As you survey the evidence that Jesus lays out here, as you examine the words of the prophet John the Baptist, as you consider the Uncountable miracles that Jesus performed, as you hear the public declarations from the Father, as you trace out the testimony of Scripture, do you really need more evidence? It's not wrong to have genuine questions and not have it all figured out. I mean we're all in that boat. But if you're not yet believing, what further evidence do you need? What we've seen these last few weeks in the testimony of Jesus and the testimony of the Father, if that doesn't convince you, what evidence would you accept? Answer that question, and you will find whether your heart is willing or not. What evidence would you accept? I would urge you, dear friend, if you're not trusting in Christ, to humble yourself, to believe the truth as it is found in Jesus. And give your life to him. Because when you do, you will experience the truth of who he is: that he is the giver of life, that he is the forgiver of sin, that he is the redeemer of your soul. Well for those of us who do believe in Christ, let these truths encourage you Be encouraged at the abundance of evidence for what you already believe in, and grow in being able to articulate and explain these evidences when the Lord gives you the opportunity to tell others about Christ, maybe even this week. Can I encourage you to pray and ask the Lord for such opportunities? Ask the Lord for boldness. For open doors for words to speak, so that whether it's in the workplace on tomorrow or Tuesday, or if it's in the home on Thursday, or in some other venue Ask the Lord to give you the opportunity and the privilege to share the good news of Christ and who He is with those who are lost. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your testimony through these various evidences that you have given to us ample reasons to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, we know that no one here who does believe could believe apart from your work by the Spirit. And so at the same time, if there's anyone who does not believe, they will not believe unless you Work in their hearts, soften them, grant them new life in Christ. And so we plead with you to do that, Father, for the glory of Christ, shine his Gospel into their hearts that they might see his beauty, his glory, his majesty, and that they would believe in him. And use us, Lord, with our family, with our friends, with our community. individually and as a church, help us to be bold for Christ because we have every reason to have confidence in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let us not shy away. Let us not hold back. May we be your faithful ambassadors. To proclaim the gospel of Christ. We ask these things for His sake, Amen