I don't know if you've noticed or not, but here at Hope Bible Church we have a number of people connected with the medical profession. We have doctors and nurses, former nurses, all of our students that come here, the medical students, physical therapists, people involved in insurance. It's interesting. Lord has given us all of this. We also have a lot of people with ailments, so I guess we really appreciate that. Yeah, but that's uh how God designs things. We um, if you're like me, be very thankful for people of knowledge and skill in the area of medicine at times, particularly when we're sick, facing something serious like surgery Surgery can be something pretty serious. It can be something scary. Imagine being asked to lay on the operating table. But the man that they say is about to cut you open doesn't have any experience at all. You'd be wise to run out of that room as fast as you could, bowl over the nurses, assistants, whatever. Just get out of there because you don't want someone without experience cutting you up. Well spiritually speaking, I'm not going to cut you up today, but spiritually speaking We're going to talk about um something today that's gonna feel like surgery. I'm not a spiritual surgeon. We uh no man has the ability to cut open another person, look inside of them, and say what's going on inside their hearts and minds. their innermost thoughts and be accurate. No man can do that. No human is adequate for that. The Bible says that our inner thoughts are hidden and they're complex They're sometimes confusing, often deceitful. We don't even know what's going on inside of us at times. A couple of Sundays ago, we were reminded from God's Word not to judge one another on those kinds of things But wait for the perfect judgment to be done by Jesus when he comes. When he comes, he will reveal inner motives He will show what people's hearts were really all about. However, it is true that we are in possession of a tool, a Holy Spirit-inspired surgical device, if you would. Which is able to perform operation on our hearts. It is this book This book says of itself, Hebrews 4:12, for the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit. Of both joints and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. That's penetrating, isn't it? The Word of God can get deep inside of us and tell us what is going on in there. It cuts open our souls. It reveals what is on the inside. It also shows us what ought not to be on the inside needs to be removed. I'm pretty sure that if I had advertised this Sunday morning as one in which we would be performing spiritual surgery, a lot of you would have just stayed home, couldn't have played golf today because it's raining, but you would have found something else to do. You would have avoided this if you could have at all. To know that you're going to be cut up or cut open is not something you look forward to, is it It's not enjoyable to lay on a spiritual operating table, but beloved, that is exactly what we're going to do today. It's exactly what I'm asking you to do, and I don't want you running out of the room because we have the Word of God here to help us Anything that the great physician sees on the inside that must come out, well then it must come out. It needs to be exposed and it needs to be dug out of there. Any harmful substances To make things a little worse for you, I have to inform you, it's my duty to inform you, there's no sedative to help with the pain this morning. None at all. You're gonna have to take it like a man, yes, even women and children. It's gonna be tough But I do have one word of hope for you before we begin the incisions. Just keep this in mind as you listen this morning and as it begins to hurt. Successful spiritual surgery also means this. It means spiritual health. And when you're healthy, you tend to be happier. Is that not true? When you're healthy and when you're cleaned up, at first the wounds still smart a little, but after a while you taste that that joy on the inside because You're healthy. And that's what God wants for us. He wants us to be healthy. He wants us to experience his joy. He wants us to be productive for his name. And there are just things inside of us that keep us from doing that. So as I said, don't run out of the room. Let's let God do his work. Turn in your copy of God's word to 1 Corinthians chapter 4, dealing with just three verses this morning, verses 6 through 8. But they're strong in their revealing. 1 Corinthians 4, 6 through 8. Apostle Paul writes, now these things, he's reflecting back on what he's written in this chapter, in the previous chapter. These things, brethren, I have figuratively applied to myself and Apollos for your sakes, so that in us you may learn not to exceed what is written So that no one of you will become arrogant in behalf of one against the other. For who regards you as superior? What do you have that you did not receive? And if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? You are already filled. You have already become rich. You have become kings without us. And indeed, I wish that you had become kings so that we might also reign with you One of the cancerous and ugly things that is lodged deep within the human soul is sinful pride. I said it's lodged within the human soul because it's true of all of us, not just you or me, but everyone. I think even those that have been Christians for a long time would testify that they know that they've grown more humble over the years and they've learned to be more Christ-like in responding to different situations of life, they still see pride in there that needs to come out. Well, here Paul is detecting pride among the Corinthian believers. Well, with the Corinthians, that wasn't too hard to detect. It was pretty upfront. This wise apostle actually has been dealing with Corinthian pride ever since chapter one, spiritual boasting that was going on, exalting in their leaders for pride's sake, one against the other. Valuing the world's message and its priorities rather than the message of the cross, which is one of humility. And what he writes right here in chapter 4 relates back to much of what he's already written And as you read these tough words from Paul, I don't want you to judge Paul as being too harsh here. I want you to notice first, right there in verse 6, that Paul still regards them as his brethren. Did you see that? He's not condemning them. He's helping them. He's correcting them as his brethren. He's not wanting to hurt them. He's wanting to heal them. Isn't that the purpose of surgery anyway? He doesn't want to cut them up. He wants to cut them open so they can have something removed and be healed. To put your finger on the source of a person's sickness is not unkind. It is the first step to help Notice he writes also in verse 6, it is all done for your sakes. It is for your sakes. It wasn't for him. It wasn't to make him feel better than others. It was for their sakes. He's already warned anyone back in chapter 3, verse 17, if you glance back there for a moment, that God would destroy anyone who would destroy the church, the local church. So he's not writing something now to destroy the church. This is to build the church up. Notice also in verse 6 before we get started here that Paul says he's figuratively applied these things, the things that he's just written, to himself and to Apollos for their sake, so they would learn. I think Dr. MacArthur has a quote here that explains his meaning. Quote, These things refer to the figures of farmers back in chapter 3, verses 6 through 9. and builders back in chapter 3, verses 10 through 15, and then servant stewards in chapter 4, verses 1 through 5. Which refer to those who minister for the Lord. Paul tells his Corinthian brethren that he has applied these figures of speech and analogies to himself and to Apollos. His reason is to begin To reach them, or to teach them, excuse me, not to exalt in their leaders. In other words, these are lessons that were given through Paul and Apollos to humble them and humble their pride. Now beloved, as I start this, I want to just say that I thank God for this congregation. I thank God that I teach a group of people that when I look at the world around me and even many other churches, I see people that have come to this church because they want to be taught and they're humble of heart. And I've had many opportunities to look many of you in the face and talk to you about things going on in your homes or in the way you talk and to tell you there are things that need to change. And by and large, I see a spirit in this congregation of people who want to grow and who want to learn and who are humble before God's word. And that makes my job and my ministry a joyful thing. So I'm not in this sense saying that we are on the same par as the Corinthians, but we all know that we have pride. We all know there are things in there that God needs to change. I think even the humblest person here in our midst this morning knows quite well they have more to learn to be Christ-like. And so let's learn today six signs of sinful pride. Six signs from this passage of sinful pride. Do I have sinful pride in my life? Where is it? How do I know where it is? Well, here's six signs of it. And we're going to use these signs so we can identify it to let God extract it from our life. First sign. The first sign of pride talked about in this passage is going beyond Scripture. Exceeding beyond Scripture. That's in verse six. Look at it again. Paul writes, Now these things, brethren, I figuratively applied to myself and Apollos for your sakes, so that In us, you may learn not to exceed what is written. Not to exceed what is written. That's the crucial lesson. Paul applied these figures to himself and to Apollos so that they would be taught not to exceed what is written. That's what the Corinthians were supposed to learn. That's what we can learn. That is in large part what all of this teaching has been about. Don't exceed what God has written. Now, to exceed what is written refers to going beyond what Scripture says. The word exceed there is actually a preposition, who pair, which means above or in some cases beyond, above, over or beyond. The Nasby's translation thus to exceed has that idea of going beyond. The word written is a the normal word for something that would be written. Some have postulated that the Apostle Paul here is referring to some kind of writing other than Scripture. There are a lot of interesting theories and interpretations of this statement. But the problem with every last one of them, rather than getting into details about them, is that whenever Paul uses this Greek term, gegraptai, what is written, it comes from the verb grapho, he always means scripture. Every single case. Already it's come up in 1 Corinthians, if you just want to jot these down in chapter 1, verse 19, also in verse 31 of chapter 1, in chapter 2, verse 9, chapter 3, verse 9. It is written, always refers to scripture. Again, throughout the book of Romans, which he also wrote, it always means that. Paul always uses that expression to mean scripture. So Even though it might not be immediately clear what he's talking about here just from the use of that term, he never means anything else by it. I think we know that he's referring to Scripture. Don't exceed Scripture. Don't go beyond what is written. Now specifically, he doesn't have any one passage in mind. He's not talking about one particular verse of Scripture they're not to exceed. He's already quoted five Old Testament passages here in First Corinthians already. He's going to quote many more. As we go through this book, we'll see that But he's saying he's talking particularly about the topic of leadership, to not boast in leaders beyond what the scripture says that leaders are. But there's a broader principle here, not to exceed beyond Scripture in anything. No, you're not to exceed in what the Scripture says concerning church leadership. who leaders are, what they're capable of, whether we should exalt in them or not. He's already talked about them in this passage. It's just being servants of the Lord. But it is a broad, broad principle that we are to learn from as well. The general principle is true. We are not to go beyond Scripture on any topic at any time as Christians. See, Paul is teaching them this Important truth in remaining humble. Stick to what God tells you. Know what God says in His Word. Don't let your thinking, your education, your insights go beyond what God says. Stick to the word. Let scripture and scripture alone form the boundary for your understanding of Christian doctrine and Christian living. Sola Scriptura was not just the battle cry of the Reformation, it was the way to live the Christian life How do I know what is true about myself and God and salvation and the church? How do I determine what to do in my ministry? Sola scriptura. Only from the scripture do I learn But you in your Christian life is you're determining what do I do? How should I live in this situation? What do I say in this situation? How what are my morals to be? Again, it is the same thing. Sola scriptura, only scripture. Listen to scripture and scripture alone. Don't go beyond what is written. To go beyond what God says is then to elevate some kind of human invention, human opinion, or human tradition To go beyond the brilliant mind of God, to go beyond the penetrating word of God. No matter what it is that we are thinking about, we have to always in our thinking be asking, is what I'm thinking and doing scriptural? What are your beliefs and your practices and your standards concerning sexual morality? They should be what the scripture says, and you ought not to step beyond the boundaries. What is the meaning of baptism? How is it to be practiced? How is the church to be run? What about the use of spiritual gifts or even what they are? What saith the scriptures? Don't go beyond. When is it right to be angry? When is it not right to be angry? What priorities do I pursue? How do I manage my home as a leader of my home? What saith the Scriptures? Don't go outside the Scriptures. Why? Well, because the scriptures bring to us infallible thinking. That's pretty good education. That's a pretty good guidebook. The Bible brings to us the brilliant mind of the Creator of all things, and when he speaks, that settles it. He knows what he's talking about. We don't. Not even the experts among us. He can't be wrong about anything. He can't lie. He can't make mistakes. Unfortunately, sinful pride in the area of going beyond what is written is pride. prevalence in our day and age. Many do indeed step beyond the boundaries of Scripture, and they do it all the time, beloved, all the time. Many try to act so educated, they say, you know, I take parts of the Bible, but then there are other parts I just leave alone. And they boast in that. They act like that's a great position to have Who are they to tell God which of his words and teachings are true and which are in error? Maybe they would like to go to heaven and inform him and educate him. The very uttering of that kind of opposition is insolence and it's stupidity. Many these days boldly would venture to correct the actions of the Lord God we read about in the Old Testament and say uh a true God of love would never do something like that. And so they want to give the Holy One of Israel instructions on morality. That's arrogance. That's human arrogance. Many today act as if the Bible isn't all that relevant to our age. They decentralize it in its in its form and presence in the worship service and through preaching. They say it's not culturally sensitive. Beloved, that's not wisdom for the age. That's foolish human pride. It relies on human devices rather than on what God has said and his power. Some would even interpret Holy Scripture today with some preconceived grid and make everything in it come and conform to a conclusion they already had before they began their so-called Bible investigation. Pretending to interpret the Bible while they purposely arrest its words from their context and mold it in any direction they want it to say. Beloved, even those of us who say that we follow the Scripture and believe in its inerrancy and its sufficiency, sometimes we make up our own man-made rules and we want everyone else of our brothers and sisters To live by those rules. And if they don't, we say they're not good Christians, and yet we've created something beyond the boundary of Scripture. We Christians can fall into legalistic tendencies, expect believers to act in certain ways and do things that God never said they have to do. No dancing ever allowed. Is that really true? Is that what the scriptures say? No drinking alcohol in any circumstance? I don't drink, but is that what the scripture says? No movies, no working on Sundays? Does the Bible actually say that or is that a human invention? No women wearing jewelry? A lot of you would be trouble this morning if that were true. Only the King James Bible, I don't know how the Bible would have said that. King James Bible didn't come around in 1609. No going to the beach. No using drums in worship? Does God really say those things? Or do we just sometimes come up with our standards that we feel comfortable with and think that's the way it ought to be, and so that's the way the church ought to be? Do we go beyond and exceed what is written at times? When we do, that's that's proud. You know, you can tell the heart of a humble and submissive genuine believer. People come to me in a membership interview and then and and we're supposed to ask them, Are you a Christian? So how do you know someone's a Christian? You say, well, do you believe in Jesus? They say, yeah. But you know, everyone says they believe in Jesus today. Which Jesus are you talking about? And what do you mean by believe? To me, a believer is someone who's submitted themselves to Scripture. If their heart, though not perfectly, says, look, I I I just I just want to follow what the Bible says. I know that there's There's a believer in Jesus Christ there if if they also acknowledge the true gospel. You can just tell. They're humble. They're submissive. They're genuine believers They don't lift up their ideas beyond Scripture. They don't even want their ideas on level with Scripture. They're below. A true believer has already renounced his own opinion. He got everything wrong in his life already up to this point in time. What good was his opinion? He yields to the greater mind of God, the foolishness of the cross he embraces. The inerrant, infallible, all-sufficient, totally reliable word of the living God of heaven. That's what a believer wants. He's humble, you see. He's down low below the Word of God. He's constantly learning and growing. He doesn't ever say, don't preach to me. Don't quote the Bible to me. No, he wants the Bible. He loves the Bible. Preach it. Preach it to my mind and transform it. Preach it to my soul and strengthen it. He willingly says, Let the pulpit be lifted up high. Why don't we put it on a platform and above our heads so that the Word of God can sit on its throne and rule over all of us? The man standing behind the book is nothing but a servant, a voice piece for the Word of God. He longs for scripture to be preached and taught. Let God speak down on high to me. Change me. Help me to be obedient. He forms his opinions by what the Spirit says through the scriptures, and then he checks and double-checks and rechecks his interpretation, never satisfied with his level of understanding. It is amazing to me that these days people say that those who preach with power and with certainty and with conviction the Word of God that that preaching is proud. That is just amazing to me. Because the only ones that I think are proud are the ones that say, let's not hear the word of God, let's hear the word of man in church. That's arrogance. How you treat Scripture and how you respond to it. How you keep in check your own opinions. Bring those opinions underneath Scripture. That tells whether or not you have a humble heart before God or not. Do you understand? That's the starting point. Don't go beyond Scripture. Second sign of sinful pride is an arrogant posture toward others. That's at the end of verse 6. An arrogant posture toward others. He says, so that no one of you will become arrogant in behalf of one against the other. Well, they're going beyond what was written, led them into further sin. They had divisions and worldly competition of the church It was based upon exalting their leaders over others, making them the rallying base for their pride. We are of Paul, we are of Cephas, we are of Christ And they just were rallying around that, and it was it led them into an arrogant posture toward others. They were arrogant against others. ESV brings out the sense of it, I think, in their translation, quote, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another One group of Paul over that group of Cephas. One group of Apollos over that of Paul. Let the competition begin. You know, you can rejoice over your leaders. Thank God for them, what they teach you and what you learn from them, but you must never align yourself with one against the other. We've already learned that and talked about that. Remember back in chapter 4, verse 1, just for a brief reminder, ministers are just servants of God. That's it. Stewards of the mysteries of God. That's their place. That word arrogant, by the way, is the word puffed up. It comes from the verb fusiato. Sounds like puffing up, doesn't it? To inflate, to blow up, literally. Metaphorically, to have a inflated view of self. Pride. It's a word in the New Testament that occurs predominantly in the Corinthian letters. I wonder why. Three guesses why you find it here. This was a worldly proud church. It needed much instruction. Two huge letters we have in the Bible because of their pride. God took evil and turned it for good for us. This issue of pride and arrogance pops up over and over in the Corinthian letters. Just some samples in chapter four, verse eighteen, a little Later it says, Now some have become arrogant. Maybe there was particularly proud leadership at Corinth. Chapter 5, verse 2, if you look ahead. You have become arrogant and have not mourned instead when they were boasting about having sexual immorality in their midst. You just look forward to chapter 8 and verse 1. It also says, Now concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge makes arrogant. That means puffs up, but love edifies. See, knowledge puffs up self, but love builds up others. That was part of their problem. They were boasting in their spiritual knowledge, and their spiritual gifts, and their spiritual abilities. Why do you think Paul spends a whole chapter, chapter 13, talking to them nothing else about love? They were puffed up. They had grandly expanded their sense of self-worth and self-value. Their church meetings were like a convention of hot air balloons. It was displayed in their party spirit, one against the other, puffed up against the other. That should remind us that our pride always ruins relationships. It distances us from one another. It creates quarrels and disharmony. And beloved, God hates pride. Proverbs 6, 16 to 17, there are six things which the Lord hates. He has seven which are an abomination to him. And what does he list first? Haughty eyes. Haughty eyes. Psalm 101. 5, no one who has a haughty look and an arrogant heart will I endure, says the Lord. That's some strong language. Scripture says pride is often displayed right on the face of a person in a haughty countenance. You know that, you've seen that Proverbs 30 verse 13 says, There is a kind, oh how lofty are his eyes, and his eyelids are raised in arrogance. You see that vain look on the beautiful model on the cover of a magazine, and you see that look, God hates it. You see the pride of an athlete thumping his chest after winning, and God hates that. Psalm 10 and verse 4 says, The wicked in the haughtiness of his countenance does not seek God. All his foss are, there is no God. And there is your professor in the classroom, won't even acknowledge the existence of the very God who gave him a brain to think with God will destroy the wicked. See, God wants his people to be humble. Romans 12:3, for through the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think. But the thing so is to have sound judgment as God has allotted to each a measure of faith. But I have, I have, it was given to me by God, same with you. First Peter five, five through seven says, Clothe yourselves with humility towards one another Put on humility. Put the robe on. Act that way. Verse 6, humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God in 1 Peter 5. Humility is a beautiful garment to put on and leave on. People see humility on someone. It's beautiful to say, I want to get to know that person. I want a relationship with that person. When I have troubles, I'll bring my troubles to that person When I need help, I'll go to that person. That person's a team player. That person cares for others. That person is patient. That person is gentle. That person is thinking of others. That person's not thinking of themselves. Humility is beautiful in creatures. It's just crucial not only for our relationship with one another but for God, for he's opposed to the proud, but he gives his grace to the humble. So practice humility The church needs you to sacrifice your time. Give your time. Don't whine. Does your wife need you to fix something or do something for her? Get your lazy you know what off the couch and go do something and show her she's important. I hear the ladies laugh. Children and teens, did your parents tell you to do your homework, finish your chores? Who's giving you food to eat and shelter? Clothing? Get up and serve them. Don't act like all of this is designed for you. My how we can show our pride in different ways. Sometimes we have a proud posture toward other people's. We value ourselves more, our rest, our this and our that. And it's just pride that seeps into our lives. Does your small group leader each time you meet tell you please be dedicated, do your work, come out out for your brothers and sisters. Do you come out or you make excuses? Just thinking upon yourself. What about love for others? What about caring for them? Where are you? What are you doing? Does someone come to you and correct your attitude? Do you dare start talking about all the wrong ways they corrected your bad attitude? Just deal with your bad attitude. There's not one perfect leader in this church who's going to come to you with the perfect love of heaven above and say the words just exactly right. Okay, you got it right this time. I'll repent. Someone comes to you with the love that they have and they say, look, we see this in you. You start talking about how they they didn't do it exactly right. It's pride. Don't be arrogant one against another. Make your confession. Thank God for a friend like that. As we continue in here in verse 7, you're going to see three questions the Apostle Paul asks. And these next three questions will give us three more of the signs of pride. He asks a who question, a what question, and a why question, and that will be points 3, 4, and 5. They're meant to reveal more of the pride the Corinthians had. They're all related, but I divided them up so we could look at it more carefully. And the word four at the beginning of verse seven shows that Paul is about to give reasons against the appropriateness of being puffed up. Third sign of pride, thinking oneself to be superior. Beginning of verse 7. Thinking oneself superior. For who regards you as superior? That is a great question. This is tough stuff. I think the knife is really starting to cut at this point in time in the past. Literally, superior has to do with who distinguishes you or differs you from others in a positive way, what sets you apart as someone who is special in that way Now, some have taken this question in two different ways. This is kind of interesting. It shows you how you may read the scripture and have one thought in mind, someone else has another thought in mind. Some take this in a negative sense to mean who in the world thinks that you're really something special, huh? This would point to their high view of themselves, but that no one shares that view of them. Or it could be taken in the positive sense, if some has have interpreted this, and it says, Who is it who made you special? In other words, we know that all believers are special, they've been given gifts by God, spiritual gifts. We know you're special, but who made you special? Quit grabbing the credit for that. It's God who gets the credit for that. I take it the more negative way here because I think the apostle is being quite strong at this point in time I think he's about to mock their special view of themselves, and that's what he's doing. In other words, when they had thought of themselves as distinguished, as superior, that was only imaginary. They weren't really that way Someone needed to stick a pin in them and burst their bubble, and that's what the Apostle Paul's about to do. A sense of superiority over others is a sure sign of pride. You know Philippians two, three and four, right? Do nothing from selfishness or empty conceit, but with what? Humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interest, but also for the interests of others. You know, we have trouble with that. A lot of trouble. Through the years, theologians have tried to define the very essence of sin. What is the heart and source of sin? Some have pointed to selfishness as the very core of sin. Indeed, there is a lot of selfishness in sin. Others to unbelief and distrust of God in his word. Some to just disobedience, the actual act of breaking one of God's commandments. Others have defined the essence of sin as that which ruins something else, tries to destroy something else. All of those are true about sin, but the essence of sin is probably seen best in the author of sin himself. Who is who? Lucifer, the great angel, made in glory and beauty and power, the cherub in splendor and might, who served in the presence of God and had great privilege. He became proud, a proud creature, infatuated with his beauty, infatuated with his status and his powers. A creature who thought he could actually be independent from the Creator. Yes, he could even be better than God. Pride was the devil's distinctive error. That's why in 1 Timothy 3:6 it teaches that an elder must not be a new convert so that he will not become conceited. and fall into the condemnation incurred by the devil. That's what brought him down. He became conceited. In his conceit he became Satan, the adversary of God, and thus began an entire universal conflict, the tragic results of which you and I still feel. For pride in creatures leads to all kinds of sin. When a creature forgets that he is but a mere created thing, he loses sight of who he actually is. He becomes filled with lofty imaginations of his own worth and grandness. Pride in creatures leads to a selfish preoccupation with one's own name and fame, one's own health and wealth. Which one of us actually is superior down here? You know, we all have some things in common down here. Every last one of us has our origin in the ground. We are dust from the ground. And even after we were made and given life, we disobeyed our Creator, and we all now deserve death, and we have that in common also. And if there's anything we possess as Christians, it is all by the grace of God, and we don't deserve that either, do we? If we're distinguished in any way, it would just be if we open up our hearts to let God work through us. And even that is the grace of God. Leads to a fourth sign of pride, and that is ungratefulness. The middle of verse 7. Ungratefulness What do you have that you did not receive? Oh, that is such a precious question. It is one of those most honest kinds of questions in the Word of God. For a moment all of humanity is just laid naked and bare before God. And everyone's like, Whoops! What do I have that I did not receive? Look around you. Is there something you think you have, some skill? Some gift, some possession, some experience, some ability. Do you think that's from you Boy, just asking the questions just cuts down and just lays us naked in the sight of God. Everything, that means everything natural or spiritual is a gift from God. Absolutely everything. Did you know that? Are you convinced of that? Do you understand that? You think some things you've actually earned. You actually deserve them. I want you to think again. You put in the hard work. Man, you graduated. You succeeded. You did well in your interview. You performed well in work. You need to handle this situation and this kind of a person, and that's why you have that. O Lord our God, all this abundance that we have provided to build you a house for your holy name, it is from your hand and all is yours. Solomon said at the dedication of the temple. They cut down cedars and they brought in gold, they put it all together, and they said, Well, all this stuff was yours anyway. It all came from you. Every good thing given and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights. James 1. 17 By the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me did not prove vain, but I labored even more than all of them, yet not I, but the grace of God with me. 1 Corinthians 15:10, the testimony of the Apostle Paul Do you have an education? Are you superior because you have your education? You have a better job, pays a little bit more, that puts you cut above your brethren here You have money? Own a home, a car, purchase some clothes, nice clothes this past week? Somebody's saying, no, I I didn't get any of that. Alright, did you get any food to eat this past week? It's all from God. What would you have if you weren't born the United States of America, a U. S. citizen? Where would you be today? Not born having your eyesight as some are, knowing to teach you to read. Parents who weren't home, didn't care for you, didn't raise you. What if you're born without hands and feet? What if you're born with brain damage? Everything you have is a gift from God. Everything I have is a gift from God. Worldly wisdom says, accomplish and strut. Strut around. You did it. Let everybody know. You scored the touchdown. Make sure everyone knows it was you. Yeah, you God says, be humble, be grateful, even at hands to serve him or do anything. Barnes has a great quote here from his commentary. This is not designed to discourage human exertion. But to discourage a spirit of vainglory and boasting. A man who makes the most painful and faithful effort to obtain anything good will, if successful, trace his success to God. He will still feel that it is God who gave him the disposition, the time, the strength, the success, and he will be grateful that he was unable to make the effort. This passage states a general doctrine that the reason why one man differs from another is to be traced to God, not us. Fifth sign, boasting. End of verse 7. Third question. And if you did receive it, it could even be, and since you did receive it. Why do you what? Why do you boast? As if you had not received it. Boasting is lying. The verb is a present indicative middle. Why do you boast? Boast in yourself. Kaukaomai, to boast, to brag, to exalt in self. This question leads them to the proper conclusion Paul wanted them to see. For them to be puffed up and boasting denies that God is the one who gave them everything. that they have. Like when a parent takes a valuable gift and gives it to one child and doesn't give it to the other children in the home. He doesn't give that gift to that one child so the child can then turn around and look at all the others and say, look what I have. He gives it to that child so that child will be happy and use it and rejoice as a blessing. We get something from God we think is special and we turn right around like petulant little children and say, Look what I have. What do we have to boast of in our flesh? Ephesians 2, 1 through 5 teaches that apart from the grace of God we're dead, worldly, demon-influenced, disobedient, sons of wrath. Not my description of God's. Philippians 3, 3 to 9, Paul looked at his old life apart from Christ and he looked at it and he said, you know what its value is? Dung. Done. Apart from knowing Christ. Revelation twenty verse fifteen, the final estimate of the value of each individual soul will be given as God places all unbelieving and disobedient souls into the lake of fire where they'll be cast away from his presence forever, only to serve as an example of his vengeance and wrath against sin. It's the only value they have. A wicked unbeliever is of no use to God except to be an example of his holy and just wrath. His lofty unbelief is unacceptable to the one who sits up on the highest throne and will not let anyone else share that throne. Boasting in self has no place in the Christian life whatsoever. Ephesians 2. 89, for my grace you've been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one should boast. Romans 3. 28, boasting is excluded. You're boasting, think you might get in heaven because you're a pretty good person, you don't stand a chance. First Corinthians 3. 21, so then let no one boast in man. That's what we do. We boast in men. We boast in the men we want to boast in. James 4 is a great example of how we boast without even knowing we're boasting. It's a wonderful little story of some Christian Jews, businessmen who are planning the future. I'll just read it to you, James 4, 13 to 16. Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go to such and such a city and spend a year there and engage in business and make a profit. Sounds reasonable, sounds organized. Yet you do not know what your life will be like tomorrow. You're just a vapor that appears for a little while. And then vanishes away. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and also do this or do that. But as it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. There's an example that brings a principle. Take the principle and apply it to other examples in your life. All such boasting is evil. Not only do we not know the future, we have to also remember the brevity of life itself. You're just a vapor that appears for a little while, then vanishes away. We're an early morning fog that just burns up as far as God is concerned. The Lord alone knows the future. The Lord alone determines the future. When I had a written plan or I had written in it that God works all things after the counsel of his will, just to remind me that anything that I write in there can change. I can't plan in that sense. Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring forth. There's a fine line between rejoicing and boasting. You can start out rejoicing and humble, and then you can start out boasting, and uh it can ruin the party. The old saying, where there is a will, there is a way, is only true with God. Your will can't accomplish anything. You know, if you really want to boast and you just have this urge like you gotta brag and you have to do it, I'm gonna give you a little bit of help this morning. I'm going to give you something you can boast in. Get ready. Here it comes, because you're going to be allowed to brag. 2 Corinthians 12, 9, Jesus said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for power is perfected in weakness. Most gladly, therefore, I will rather boast about my weaknesses. So the power of Christ can be seen in me. Go brag about what God does in your life. You're allowed to. That's called a testimony. Here's another one, 2 Corinthians 10, 17 to 18. But he who boasts is to boast in the Lord, for it is not he who commends himself that is approved, but he whom the Lord commends. Romans 15, here's another one, 17 and 18. Therefore in Christ Jesus I have found reason for boasting in things pertaining to God. For I will not presume to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me, resulting in the obedience of the Gentiles by word and deed. Nothing else matters, only what Jesus did in my life. How about Psalm 20, verse 7? Some boast in chariots and some in horses, but we will boast in the name of the Lord our God. When you worship, do you worship with vigor? Do you understand that when you are glorying in God, you're boasting in the name of your God and in his mighty acts? Do you sing with an intent of glorifying and boasting in the name of Jesus Christ? Because that's what worship is. You're allowed to get on with it and be loud and be mighty in that. Glory in God and His might. Often even the very fact that we don't glory enough in God's greatness is an evidence of pride in ourselves we think we're so important. Sixth and last, verse eight. Oh, hold on because this gets hard. Another sign is self-sufficiency, sign of pride, self-sufficiency And really, here it's part of the next section because he's comparing the attitude of the Corinthians with that of the apostles, and we'll get into that next week He says, You are already filled. You have already become rich. You have become kings without us. And indeed, I wish that you had become kings, so that we also might reign with you. Boy, Paul shows them here how utterly foolish their pride and their boasting is. You know what he's doing here, don't you? He's mocking them. He's mocking them. He's mocking their high view of themselves. Beloved, this is sarcasm. It's sarcasm That's proven by the two statements where he says you were reigning as kings and then he says I wish you really did reign as king because they didn't. That's sarcasm Charles Hodge writes of this verse that the passage is ironical and even sarcastic, cannot be denied. This is not the only instance in which these weapons are used by the inspired writers. The prophets especially employ them freely in their endeavors to convince the people of the folly of trusting in idol. Gordon Fee writes this The words are full of biting irony, attacking their own view of themselves This is a sanctified use of sarcasm. You say, I didn't know there was a sanctified use of sarcasm. Well now you do. Grimachi calls it inspired sarcasm. Of course you have to be careful using sarcasm, because if you use sarcasm in the wrong way to build yourself up, that in and of itself will also be a proud and selfish thing, would it not? But this situation calls for it. In surgery, the sharpest tools must be employed. Paul knew that progress in the sanctification of the Corinthians was going to take strong measures and he was there to do it. His motive was still to get that pride out. Pride is so deceptive, they didn't even want to see it in themselves, they didn't want to acknowledge it. Dr. MacArthur says nothing is more self-deceitful than pride. We are inclined to believe almost anything about ourselves if it is favorable. Even when we say, nah, that's not true. We go and think, uh, maybe he's got a point there, you know, he's got a point. Sarcasm can be a deadly weapon of the flesh, but can also be an incredibly strong weapon of the Holy Spirit. Elijah mocked the prophets of Baal with sarcastic questions. Oh, Baal, send down fire. They're doing this all day long. They're cutting themselves. They're dancing. What's the problem? Where's the fire? 1 Kings 18, Elijah mocked him and said, Call out with a loud voice, for he is a God. Either he's occupied or got aside or is on a journey. Or perhaps he's asleep and needs to be awakened. He had to throw that last one in. Lensky writes of this: it is a bitter medicine, but one that is good for healing their disease of unwarranted pride. Three descriptions of their assumption of privilege are given. To convey this, he writes: Already you are filled, already you have become rich, you have become kings without us. Some of the translations maybe you have this have exclamation marks after each of those statements to show how emphatic it is, how staccato Paul is being right here. Notice how they progress to a climax also. You are full. You're already full. You've eaten all you want. You're glutted. You're satiated. How can you possibly hunger and thirst for righteousness when you have all that you need? They felt no lack here. No, they're more than full, they're rich, which means their bellies could be constantly full from here on out. They have all the spiritual weapons and gifts that they need, and they feel quite proud about that wealth of spirituality. No, they're more than rich. They're reigning as kings. Yeah. Man, they're already there sitting on their thrones and reigning. There's nothing else to strive for when you rule over the land. Nothing else to gain. You already have all the riches. Who needs to walk humbly with thy God when you've already arrived? Who needs to humble themselves under the mighty hand of God so that you might be exalted at the proper time if the proper time's already passed? They had already arrived. That word already. Heyday means they've they've done it so quickly There was no hard roads for them. They didn't have to pick up a cross and follow Christ like the apostles down in verses 11 through 13. No, they found a shortcut and they just already got there. Good for them Christ had to come and humble himself before he could be glorified, but the Corinthians figured out a way around that And they did it without the poor apostles left far behind. They were just so good. Paul still was fighting a war. He was constantly in battle. The Corinthians, they were raining already. All without them, chorus apart from all this raining happens without us. Somehow we missed the boat and you got on. Glad you made it. You did not really need us. You did it all yourselves. Congratulations. Yeah, it's all about glory and no cross. To them, salvation was not already and not yet. It was just already. They were enjoying a private millennium all to themselves. It was special. You know, the truth is that Christ had gifted and blessed these Corinthians, like all Christians, greatly. Remember how the letter began? Chapter 1, verse 5, he said, In everything you were enriched in Christ. In all speech and all knowledge. You've been gifted and equipped. In verse 7 of chapter 1, it said, you're not lacking any gift, awaiting eagerly the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. But those truths are supposed to humble us. Not make us proud. Well at our church we have the gifts of the Spirit. You know, just yours. There's always to be a sense in the Christian life that there's more work that needs to be done on me Not that I have already obtained it or have already become perfect, but I press on so that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ Jesus. Philippians 3. 12 Second Timothy two twelve says, If we endure, we will also reign with him. That I have arrived, self-sufficient attitude has no place at all in the Christian life It's the Laodicean syndrome. Revelation 3. 17, Jesus says, Because you say I am rich and have become wealthy and have need of nothing, and you do not know that you are wretched and miserable and poor and blind and naked. And then Paul wishes that they did indeed rain. I think that that's genuine there. Because then he could be reigning with them. Christ had already come to earth and they were reigning and it was all done, that would be marvelous. But that wasn't the case just yet. Humble yourselves under the mighty hand of God, so he may exalt you when? At the due time, the proper time. Beloved, if God has shown you something inside this morning, It is your responsibility to cooperate with the surgical doctor, the Holy Spirit of the living God who is written in his word. Cooperate with him. You see what's in there. Humble yourselves. Come to God, ask him to remove it. Deal with the actions, the apologies, the confessions, the things that you need to. Humble yourself that God may work through you. Because it'll work through you. You could look like a good religious church-going person involved in the church, maybe even a leader, deal with the pride. We all need to. Don't go anywhere with God without a humble, teachable spirit before the Lord. May God help you to see the importance of removing that out of your heart this morning. Why don't you stand for a closing prayer? Almighty God, as we think upon these words, we just uh Lord, we just ask you to keep us from boasting and being arrogant against each other and pushing our understanding of Scripture beyond what you've actually said. Help us, O Lord God, to be grateful. Help us, dear Lord, not to think of ourselves as superior or beyond anyone else. Certainly not self-sufficient. Teach us all we have comes from your hand, and you've been marvelously gracious to us. May those who haven't even received your salvation humble their hearts and believe today. And for those of us, Lord, who need to learn to serve you greater, help and teach us in all of our communication and all of our dealings to be humble before you. We bring it in the name of Christ, the humble one. Amen.