This morning we return to our studies in First Corinthians chapter seven. Already we have covered a considerable amount of practical wisdom in a three-part series on marriage and singleness from verses one through sixteen. As we look at the remaining verses of this highly profitable chapter, we recognize that Paul continues to answer various questions that the Corinthians had about marriage, about being single, how all of that related to being truly spiritual and fulfilling the will of God. But though Paul addresses different marital questions in the remaining verses, the same basic wisdom that he has already given is simply being applied there as well. So rather than presenting a whole additional series covering what would amount to be much of the same ground, I believe it will be more profitable for us If we cover the remaining verses of this chapter in one giant sweep and really focus our hearts on the main point that the Apostle Paul is driving home in this chapter. And what is that main point? Well, the central thought is not precisely about marriage or being single, though that provides the setting for getting that thought across. Let's just go ahead and begin by reading the text, and then I will explain. 1 Corinthians chapter 7, starting at verse 17 to the end of the chapter. Only as the Lord has assigned to each one, as God has called each, in this manner let him walk. And so I directed all the churches Was any man called when he was already circumcised? He is not to be become uncircumcised. Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? He is not to be circumcised. Circumcision is nothing. And uncircumcision is nothing. But what matters is the keeping of the commandments of God. Each man must remain in that condition in which he was called. Were you called while a slave? Do not worry about it But if you are able also to become free, rather do that. For he who was called in the Lord while a slave is the Lord's freedman. Likewise he who was called while free is Christ's slave You were bought with a price. Do not become slaves of men. Brethren, each one is to remain with God in that condition in which he was called. Now concerning virgins, I have no command of the Lord, but I give an opinion as one who by the mercy of the Lord is trustworthy. I think then that this is good in view of the present distress that it is good for a man to remain as he is Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be released. Are you released from a wife? Do not seek a wife. But if you marry, you have not sinned, and if a virgin marries, she has not sinned. Yet such will have trouble in this life, and I am trying to spare you But this I say, brethren, the time has been shortened, so that from now on those who have wives should be as though they had none And those who weep as though they did not weep, and those who rejoice as though they did not rejoice, and those who buy as though they did not possess, and those who use the world as though they did not make Make full use of it, for the form of this world is passing away But I want you to be free from concern. One who is unmarried is concerned about the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord. But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife. And his interests are divided. The woman who is unmarried and the virgin is concerned about the things of the Lord that she may be holy both in body and spirit But the one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how she may please her husband. This I say for your own benefit, not to put a restraint upon you But to promote what is appropriate and to secure undistracted devotion to the Lord. But if any man thinks that he is acting unbecomingly toward his virgin daughter, if she is past her youth, And if it must be so, let him do what he wishes, he does not sin, let her marry. But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no constraint, but has authority over his own will, and has decided this in his own heart to keep his own virgin daughter, he will do well. So then both he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage will do better. A wife is bound as long as her husband lives. But if her husband is dead, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. But in my opinion, she is happier if she remains as she is. And I think that I also have the Spirit of God. Well, what Paul writes here could be attested by what Paul wrote in Philippians chapter four. I have learned to be content in whatever circumstance I am in. This is the central focus, really. of what the Apostle Paul wanted the Corinthians to consider here, and for us to consider and think about as well. Contentment in each and every circumstance that you find yourself placed in by God. Your marriage, whatever that situation may be, your job, your level of societal achievement. How large your house is, how zesty your car is, how new that furniture in your home is, how impressive your relationships are Contentment is what he's really talking about. Contentment in all those things. We have to remember we're in a transient age. Things are passing away. And how much more important is our service towards Christ and our status in Christ? There's another verse that I think serves to set all of what the Apostle Paul teaches here. in its proper framework so we can understand the details and not get too carried away with what he's saying one way or the other. And that is his words from Romans 8. We know that God causes all things to work together for good. to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. As you read on in Romans 8, you can tell his purpose is that you would be more Christ-like. So, our aim today, our proposition of this lengthy passage would simply be that God would have us to be a lot more content than we currently are. Because the world is indeed passing away, your position and practice in Christ, though, are permanent. He is working in your present circumstances to bring about exactly what he desires to do, and it's something good I guess this is for an outline, though it will be it maybe harder to follow today, but a very broad outline is that we have two broad areas of contentment in Christ that Paul is addressing here as he's asking as he's answering the questions that the Corinthians ask. Two broad areas areas of contentment we need to consider. Contentment in our social status is the first one. And then contentment in our marriage status is the second. Let's look at social status first. Lance arrives back to verses 17 through 24. Let me read them again just so they're fresh in our minds here Only as the Lord is assigned to each one, as God has called each, in this manner, let him walk. And so I direct in all the churches. Was any man called when he was already circumcised? He is not to become uncircumcised. Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? He is not to be circumcised. Circumcision is nothing. And uncircumcision is nothing. But what matters is the keeping of the commandments of God Each man must remain in what in that condition in which he was called. Look at the examples he gives. Were you called while a slave? Do not worry about it. But if you are able also to become free, rather do that For he was called in the Lord while a slave is the Lord's free man. Likewise he was called while free is Christ's slave. You were bought with a price. Do not become slaves of men. Brethren, each one is to remain with God in that condition in which he was called. What's he saying? Be content. Be happy. Be satisfied in the position in which you were called. Live for Christ there. Do not let the focus of your life be status in this world. To God, all of those social standings found in the world are very trivial. He just simply doesn't care too much about that. That's the main thought the Apostle Paul is trying to get across to us here. I want you to notice that this main point is repeated throughout this text, verses 17 through 24. Almost like a refrain of a song keeps coming back to it just so it won't be missed. Look at verse 17. Only as the Lord is assigned to each one, as God has called each in this manner, let him walk Now look down at verse 20, you see it again. Each man must remain in that condition in which he was called. Now look at verse 24 the third time. Brethren, each one is to remain with God in that condition in which he was called. You can't miss it. It's there embedded in the text, repeated over and over. So Paul writes that he's giving the same directions to the Corinthians that he gave in all of the churches. To walk in the position in which God had called them. God has called each Christian through the gospel to follow him, right? The call refers to the salvation call in Christ. Called by the gospel to abandon sin and to follow Jesus Christ. You were called by God. And God has called that Christian when he was in a certain social, ethnic, religious position. Paul even calls that position in the social strata of life, an assignment from the Lord in verse 17. Do you see that? It's an assignment that the Lord has given. So, in that condition, in that assignment, a person is supposed to walk. That is, he is supposed to live day by day. He's supposed to find contentment in the Christian life right there. In other words, get on with your Christian walk Do not worry about becoming something in this world that you are not yet. Just get on with your Christian walk. Walk in the position that God has assigned to you, in which he called you to his son You can trust God's fatherly supervision of your life right there. He's got all of your life figured out. You don't need to worry about becoming free or about getting married or getting richer or whatever it is that might preoccupy your mind. No Rather preoccupy yourself with living out your Christian calling. Living like Christ would have you live right where you are, right in the position that you're in now. The goal of your life ought not to be a better social standing. It's not to make this world the focus of our dreams or our aspirations or our goals. That's a dead end because the world is ending. Know where God has called you and just get busy obeying Him there. Know the will of God from the scriptures where you are and do what He says where you are. His good providence is already at work in your situation. He can be trusted. You can hear Paul's pastoral sensitivity in verse 24. Brethren, Remain if God has called you. This is the best way for you. Listen to what I'm saying. You know, God is sovereign in the timing of your salvation. Some of you saved when you were kids, some teenagers, some when you were young adults And some came to Christ later in life. God was sovereign in the decision about the timing and where you were, who you were connected with, what your situation was. Were you poor? Were you rich When he saved you, he knew exactly what your situation was. He planned it for you, even whether one was slave or free. So trust God. That's not such a hard thing to do, is it? God is trustworthy, faithful. Every promise that He has comes true. Why do we have such a hard time with this? Trust God. God's working in your life. He never stopped working, did he? You don't need to have a midlife crisis. You don't need to have a teenage identity crisis. You don't need to fret and worry about what you're supposed to become in life You don't have to have a pity party if it hasn't happened. Don't let Satan confuse your mind. Let your faith be active right now, right there, in your current setting. He'll continue to do his work through you. See, God places you somewhere in life. He's the gardener, you might say. We're just the plant. We don't decide where we're going. He takes us and puts us right there in the garden. He says that's a good spot for you We're not going to uproot ourselves and try to hobble over to the other side of the garden, plant ourselves back down and over there. That's not what we do. It's all up to the gardener. The gardener knows where we ought to be. You know the old advice: just bloom where you're what? Plant it. Gordon C. commenting on this verse writes, They should remain in whatever social setting they were in the time of their call, since God's call to be in Christ transcends such settings so as to make them essentially irrelevant. He continues to write. That is, the call to Christ has created such a change in one's essential relationship with God that one does not need to seek change in other relationships with people. These latter are transformed and given new meaning by the former. Thus, one is no better off in one condition than in the other. It's all about our relationship to God and what he's done. You know, uh Priya Samuel's mother was here visiting with us uh a few weeks ago from India, and she came to our home and spoke uh to us in our living room about a young man saved back in India who just is constantly giving away his belongings to help the poor there in his country. He just does that so he can minister to the poor, so they can see Christ in him, so they know that he understands how they're living and he's sacrificed the things he has in the world for them. He has no desire at all, according to this testimony, to advance in society in India. He understands he's serving a better society, a better kingdom. He's serving the Lord Jesus Christ, the coming kingdom of this, the coming king of this entire world. And what an example he is setting for those people. He's given up status in the world to have status in the kingdom of Christ. We just have a hard time getting that into our heads here in America, don't we? I mean we figure if we're not living better off than our parents, or at least as well as them, somehow we've we've failed in life. Somehow we didn't achieve what we were supposed to achieve. You have to be ambitious in this world. We even think that's a good thing. We have to succeed in school. We drive our kids to get the best grades. We parents instill that in our kids. It's all about that, you see. We don't scold them when they miss the prayer time. We scold them when they don't get an A or a B. And we put that in our mind. Achieve in this world. Read to achieve And that's how we grow up, and we think we just carry that same mentality into the career. We have to advance, we have to climb, we have to get better, a better job, better status, better people to hang around. Why? What for? What are you doing it for? Is there some wisdom in there that God misunderstood somehow? What are you doing that for? I don't know if you ask people, not really quite sure. Pride? Yeah, maybe. To prove our value to other people Probably. Impress others? Likely. To be able to say, I did it. To have an easier life? That's probably in there too. To retire early. What are you going to do for the rest of your life? What are you working for? What are you attempting to achieve? Paul put it best. He said that he had learned to be content in Philippians 4. Learned to be content. You need to listen to those words if you have discontentment in your heart. You can learn to be content, Paul says. Jay Adams in the Practical Encyclopedia of Christian Counseling says this contentment at bottom Is contentment with God and what He is doing at any given moment. End quote. I think that's true. Our discontentedness Really at bottom is our discontent with how God is supervising our lives. So this is something that we need to learn We learn it with experience with God and with time and walking with him and his commandments according to his word. John Oxenham, who was a prolific British journalist, novelist, and poet, wrote this Is your place a small place? Tend it with care. He set you there. Is your place a large place? Guard it with care. He sets you there. Whatever your place it is, not yours alone, but his who set you there. You have to think of your life that way. God set you there. That's you. You country music fans know that Alan Jackson has some advice for common folk as well, right? It's alright to be little biddy, he sings. You heard that song? Little bitty house, a little bitty yard, little bitty dog, a little bitty car. It's okay, he says. Might as well share. Might as well smile. Life goes on for a little bitty while. Okay, that's fine, that's great advice, but why is it okay to be nothing in this world? The the song really doesn't answer it. What do you tell someone who wants to become something in life? They want to have ambition. Remember those two that came to Christ? Mother came and said, Let these two sit at your right and left hand in your kingdom. That bold mother. And Jesus said, Are you able to drink the cup that I'm going to drink? And they said, We are able to have no idea what they were talking about. Jesus did not discourage their ambition. He just said, you want to be great in God's kingdom. You need to become like a child, become like a servant, and give yourself up completely for service to God. Well why is it okay to be little biddy in this life? Why can we be content with that? Because Jesus Christ has given us meaning in life. When we are placed in Christ at the time of salvation. Don't you understand this? You now transcend significance in this world You've been placed into an eternal kingdom. Your position, and you have to grab this by faith, your position in Christ now is far greater than anything that could be offered to you in the world, anyways. I mean all of this is passing away. You've been given something better. If you believe that, then being itty-bitty, little bitty, whatever it is, in this world, it doesn't matter You are already something significant in Christ. You've already been given by grace something you and I don't deserve, something far greater. Once you understand that, you can be content in this world. That's the reason. Without Christ, I don't know how the advice would really stand. I don't know how it would ever comfort anybody. Nothing that you see around you. Do you have any trophies at home? You got them up there, you still polish them off from the old days, you know Got any plaques, made any impressive accomplishments, had accolades from people. Do you treasure those things most in your life as you look back on your life? Why? All of it amounts to a hella beans in Christ's kingdom. It doesn't matter at all. You need to grab onto that truth. You need to believe that. That's what it means to put faith in Jesus Christ. You see. Can you live passionately for Christ now? Because that's your sole focus, as was the Apostle Paul? No matter what your situation is, can you do that? Notice that Paul provides some examples here. Example number one, look at verse 18. Was any man called when he was already circumcised? He is not to become uncircumcised. Called again refers to being called by God to believe in Jesus. Circumcised in that context would mean they were a Jew. So he's saying, Were you called as a Jew? Don't try to become a Gentile. Remain as a Jew. You were saved as a Jew. Witness to the Jews. That's your setting. Example number two, has anyone been called in uncircumcision? He's not to be circumcised. You Gentiles, be Gentiles. This is not too hard to figure out You don't need to go back to the Mosaic law, be circumcised. You're not under the old covenant anyway. You're under the you partake of the superior new covenant. Example number three. Were you called while a slave? Oh, this is a tough one Do not worry about it. We would never give that advice to somebody today. You're a slave. Oh my, you got to get out of that situation. That's wrong. You're not going to amount to anything until you change that. That's not what Christ says. Christ says he can work through the life of a slave who believes in him better than a rich free man who does not His life will have more significance, more importance, will accomplish more that will be permanent. He just trusts Christ right there. And yet it's not a command. Paul recognizes being a slave's heart, so he adds a little out there. He says, you know, if you can get free, then get free. If God made you a slave, then don't worry about it. Just be a slave and serve your master who's really Jesus Christ. And if you get an opportunity to be free, take it. But the focus is not on becoming free. The focus is on living for Christ. And that makes you free, truly free, indeed. So that's what's important. Freedom or not being free is not the issue. Next you see some of Paul's reasonings, and I think this is really the heart of the passage and provides a lot of the reasoning here Look at verse 19. Reason number one. Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing. But what matters is what? What matters? You tell me. Keeping the commandments of God, that matters. That matters in your life. That should matter to you. Keeping the commandments of God. David Garland comments on this What does uncircumcision and circumcision, slavery and freedom have to do with marriage, divorce, and celibacy? They illustrate the divine principle that no earthly status, such as one's racial heritage or social standing, is incompatible with the Christians calling by God. Those who are circumcised when God called them do not advance their spiritual condition by undergoing an operation to restore their foreskin. Nor do those who were uncircumcised when God called them enhance their standing with God by undergoing circumcision. Slaves are no less accepted by God than are free persons. Both belong to Christ, and their social status has no spiritual significance. Whether a Christian is circumcised or uncircumcised, slave or free, married or single, is inconsequential to God. One condition is not bad, and the other good Nor is one condition less good and the other better. No condition presents an obstacle to living the Christian life, since a Christian is now defined by God's call and nothing else. You know, Paul wrote something similarly in Galatians chapter 5, verses 5 and 6. He says, For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything but faith working through love. That matters. Your faith working through love. How do I see your faith? Love. You love other people, you see your faith. Galatians 6:15, for neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation. Let me ask you, are you a new creation of God? Have you been born again? Are you a new creation in the Lord Jesus Christ? Do you have saving faith where you've placed your full confidence on Jesus Christ that you want to live for Him and you're trusting Him alone to get you to heaven? That's what matters, he says. That's the only thing that matters Jesus said, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. That's the first step. He also said, He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not obey the Son will not see life. But the wrath of God abides on him. I used to tell my fourth graders, hoping to get a message in early in their life, you know, if you you get straight A's in this class, go on, do well in fifth and sixth grade, do great in junior high and senior high, go on, get your degrees and do well And you don't live your life for Christ, you might as well crumple your life up like a piece of paper and throw it in the trash can because that's what you did with your life. You wasted it. Doesn't matter at all. You don't get life from God, you don't have a future, you have nothing. There's no wisdom in that. There's nothing intelligent, educated, enlightened about such a life like that. If you have not believed your status with God and his coming kingdom is lower than low. You're an enemy of his kingdom. You're outside, you're excluded, and you oppose his kingdom, and he will deal with you as an enemy. But if you're born again, you've given up your old life, you've accepted the gracious offer of God to give you a new life, you have instant status in the kingdom of God. No, you didn't earn it. It's a grace gift. So why worry about your status down here? That's really what the Apostle Paul is saying. Reason number two, look at it in verse 22. For he who is called in the Lord while a slave is the Lord's freedman. Likewise, he who is called while free is Christ's slave. Again, our spiritual position in Jesus Christ overshadows our societal position. In a sense, everything gets reversed. Do you see that? Because we're in Christ, if you're a slave in this life, you're Christ's free man. He set you free from sin and death. He gave you everlasting life. No master over you has that. See? If you're a free man in this world, you are Christ's slave. You are Christ's slave. You should serve Him. You should indeed serve Him. You know, a lot of so-called saved people today in the evangelical church think that they're going to heaven. They've asked Jesus into their heart, so they think But they don't really think about it's important for me to obey Jesus Christ and follow him as my Lord and Master, that I am his servant and slave, and I am under his authority, and whatever this book teaches It should be high up over me, over my head, because it is an authority over me. And they don't treat the Word of God as if it's an authority. The preachers don't even preach it like it has authority. They they share five nice ideas that you can take or leave if it makes you feel better. Well, that's a distortion of the Word of God. This is the authoritative word of the living God. You either believe that or you don't. You call yourself a believer in Jesus Christ, he's your master, you're his slave. You have all the freedoms in the world here in America. You are bound by the will of Christ to live a life of love toward God and love towards your fellow man. Jesus is your master. He bought you. He bought you with a price. He bought you with his blood. Now live to fulfill his commands. You hear it again, just keep your eyes on Jesus. Keep your eyes on Jesus. Not you, not your will, not what you want. Keep your eyes on Christ. You call Jesus your Lord. Do you call him that? Do you remember what Jesus said to people who were calling him Lord, Lord? Remember that? Luke 6. Why do you call me Lord, Lord? And not what? Do what I tell you. What's the point? It's an empty profession. Your good works don't get you to heaven. Your good works prove your faith. It's your faith in Christ, the work that Christ did for you that brings you to heaven completely. But you have to prove your faith by works The point again is just keep your eyes on Christ, not on your outward circumstances. H. A. Ironside tells of a Christian who asked another how he was getting along. Dolefully, his friend replied, Oh, fairly well, under the circumstances. I'm sorry, exclaimed the other man, that you are under the circumstances The Lord would have us living above all circumstances, where He Himself can satisfy our hearts and meet our every need for time and eternity. We just don't think like that often, do we? Dr. MacArthur writes, Contentment is a highly prized but elusive virtue. Though it comes only from being rightly related to God and trusting his sovereign, loving, purposeful providence. People nevertheless seek it where it cannot be found, in money, possessions, power, prestige, relationships, jobs, or freedom from difficulties. But by that definition, he writes, contentment is unattainable, for it is impossible in this fallen world to be completely free from problems In sharp contrast to the world's understanding of contentment is this simple definition of spiritual contentment penned by the Puritan Jeremiah Burroughs. And he quotes him: Christian contentment. Is that sweet, inward, quiet, gracious frame of spirit which freely submits to And delight in God's wise and fatherly disposal in every condition. Would that we would have that, believing in Christ, huh? Contentment and trust in God go hand in hand. You can't have one without the other. Psalm 42, 5. Why are you in despair, O my soul? Why have you become disturbed within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him for the help of His presence. The soldiers who came down to the river to be baptized by John the Baptist, they said, what should we do? He said, be content with your wages. Paul spoke of his weaknesses in 2 Corinthians 12 10. He had weaknesses, kind of hurt his ministry, you know, kind of messed up his ministry because of these weaknesses. Not at all. Listen to what he said Therefore, I am well content with weaknesses, with insults, with distresses, with persecutions, with difficulties. I'd like to kind of erase all of that, that part right there, because I don't want to be content with those things. I don't know about you, but you know, content with persecutions. Oh no, I'm not content. Distress us. Oh no, let's get that one out of there. That shouldn't be in the word of God. Oh my. Take the next one out. No, let's not have that. For Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then I am strong. I guess I want to be strong in my own strength instead of in the strength of Christ. What about you? First Timothy six, we brought nothing into the world, so we cannot take anything out of it either. If we have food and covering with these, we shall be Content. Some of you have that memorized. Hebrews 13, 5 and 6, make sure that your character is free from the love of money. Have you made sure of that? Be content with what you have, for he himself has said, I will never desert you, nor will I ever forsake you. So that we will confidently say, the Lord is my helper. I will not be afraid. What will man do to me? Well, there's a second area of contentment, the area of marriage. Verses 25 through 40. I know you don't think we're going to get through this, but we are. Because now that you understand that, a lot of this just unfolds Because that's the main point here. Paul is providing wisdom for unmarried virgins and for widows, and he's just saying The same thing. There's a lot of details about their situation, their circumstance, but he's basically applying that same wisdom to their situation. Notice again in verse 25 he states the principle all over again. Now concerning virgins. Again, that's how he's responding to this letter that they wrote to him and some question they had about virgins. I have no command of the Lord, again that Jesus did not directly teach on this when he was on earth, but I give an opinion as one who, by the mercy of the Lord, is trustworthy. I think then that this is good in view of the present distress that it is good for a man, and there it is again, to remain as he is. The Corinthians want to know, should virgins marry? Is it better to do that? Or is it better to stay single to serve Christ? What should we do? And he again talks about the same principle. He writes the same exact principle. And yet this time he gives even more reasons. He says it is in view of the present distress. Do you see that? In view of the present distress. What is this distress? Well, the commentators debate it. The word is ananke. It means necessity. imposed by some external condition or even distress or even calamity. It can mean all those things. Some view it as a this distress as some imminent persecution that was about to come upon the church there in Corinth. That was possible Some suggest that Paul is anticipating the end time events coming quickly in their life. That also is possible. Others believe it was some economic or political trouble that was just around the corner. No one is really certain. It could be any or all of those things. However, clearly it was something that would make it hard for a marriage. Someone to get married and start a marriage in that situation, it would put a strain on the marriage. It would become hard. And so the cautions that you see against marriage here are not because Paul has a low view of marriage, but is about these distresses and about what Singlehood, when someone has the gift of being single and is committed to serving Christ, can accomplish in their life, if they really think about it And so he applies it to various examples. Look at the first example, verse 27. Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be released. You know, he's already shown the goodness and permanence of marriage earlier in the chapter. We already talked about that. You know, God will work in your marriage. God can do good right there. Don't be discontent Don't think you have to change something to become more spiritual, that you got trapped in some setting where you can no longer accomplish the will of God or be useful to Him. Don't think that way No matter what the difficulties are in marriage, thank God for those difficulties. When you are weak, then you can be what? Strong Learn to trust God in the midst of your circumstances, not after they're changed. What's the point in learning to trust God after the difficulty is removed? What do you prove there? God's help toward you in the difficulty is what he wants to demonstrate to you and others who are watching your life. The second example is the opposite. Are you released from a wife? Do not seek a wife. Release from a wife could refer to being widowed or divorced. Don't get Remarry, he says. Just stay the way you are. But then he says, if you do marry, you've not sinned. He's not trying to say that. If a virgin marries, she has not sinned. He's not trying to say that. He's just teaching contentment and usefulness to Christ. So again, you see that it's okay to marry. Marriage, you know, marriage is fine. It may be inexpedient in that situation, but it certainly wasn't a violation of the law of God. In fact, it was the norm from the beginning He's not trying to denigrate marriage. He's just teaching believers to have a different focus, a life of contentment in one's life and marriage status. Focus yourself, your service, your energies on serving God. Note more of his reasons. The end of verse 28. Such will have trouble in this life, and I'm trying to spare you. There's Paul's motive. He's trying to spare them trouble. There is trouble that comes with marriage. There's there's a lot of things that come with marriage and having kids and you have to set your mind and attention on that. Some people think they're going to get married and it's going to solve all their problems. They're only going to bring in you problems, buddy. That's all that's gonna happen. There's new things that are gonna happen, and you're gonna be distracted, take care of this, take care of that. Oh, watch out for this And all of that's fine in marriage. You're supposed to do that in marriage. But these are people that are thinking about it. What should I do with my life? Well, maybe remaining single as he was would be better. And we talked about this before too He's not ragging on marriage. Remember, he has a beautiful description of what marriage pictures in Ephesians chapter 5, the love of Christ for the church. But he saw the advantage of them being single. To clarify, Paul presents verses twenty-nine through thirty-one, and here you really see Paul's eternal perspective. His eyes were upon Christ. Verse twenty-nine. But this I say, brethren, the time has been shortened So that from now on those who have wives should be as though they had none. He doesn't mean to ignore them. And those who weep as though they did not weep, and those who rejoice as though they did not rejoice, and those who buy as though they did not possess, and those who use the world as though they did not make Full use of it. And here's the key phrase that governs all of that. For the form of this world is, that's present tense, is what? Passing away. Everything down here, everything beautiful you see on this autumn day, everything surrounds you when you go to the workplace. Everything in your neighborhood, all of it is presently in the process of passing away. It's not going to be there in the future. It's going away. God has a different plan. So don't get so fixed on it. Don't get your life wrapped around all those things. So your mindset is there and your worries and your heart. Don't let it pull you in to thinking about it. Remember who you are in Christ and what's coming, what kingdom you're a part of. As good as marriage is, we're not going to be married in heaven. You know, and there is a sense in which we must remember that about our situation. Remember that, believe that, see beyond a relationship on into the future. Sure we enjoy our marriages, but something Christ said, far better is coming. Those who cry and experience losses now, the weeping shouldn't be all that heavy and all that extreme. Because it's never as bad as we think. If we remember what Christ has promised us, what He's going to do in our life. If we believe that, we can see through all of that Paul suffered a lot more than any of us. He said, For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. Man, something good is coming! Your weeping should not be so heavy. Rejoicing shouldn't be all that great either. You get a new job. Yay! You know you're excited about it. Your birthday's coming around, young people. You can't wait for all those packages You got an A on an important test, you know, you nailed it. Your stocks went up. Yay! Your team wins on Sunday. Whoopee! They're gonna lose next week anyway. It doesn't matter All of that is less important. That's all he's saying. There's a new age rapidly approaching. Our life needs to be embedded in that. But see it's not, and that's the problem, and that's why we keep saying it over and over again, because our life is surrounded by all of this, and we let it be embedded here. Did you buy something? You don't get to own it. It's passing away. New clothes. Ladies, you got new curtains at home, new dishes, it's wonderful. Guys, you got a new computer. It'll be broken before long. You know that. You possess nothing in the world? You can't take any of it out with you? You remember those Egyptian pharaohs, they try to take everything out with them, right? Put all your own in the little coffin, wrap the body all up as a mummy. Maybe we could take it all into the eternal No they didn't they didn't get one penny to go with them, not a penny. Paul is unwaveringly pressing this truth on the Corinthians, and I think, beloved, we need to listen to what the Holy Spirit is saying here. Don't you understand this? Can't you see this? Don't you get it? Don't you know the form of this world is passing away? You're a believer. Don't you believe that? Keep your eyes on the everlasting one. He's coming. He's coming to take over. Every eye will see him. He's going to usher in a whole new age. Your marriage, your house, your family, your car, it's not important. So don't act like it is. Don't get so discontent when you don't get those things. Your perspective is off. Just stay focused on the Lord. And that's why he gives the same advice there in verses 32 to 35, when he says, Well, I want you to be free from concern. One who is unmarried is concerned about the things of the Lord, how he may please the Lord. But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how he may please his wife, and his interests are divided. The woman who is unmarried and the virgin is concerned about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit, meaning she's serving God in both realms. She's totally, completely undistracted to the Lord and her service. But one who is married is concerned about the things of the world, how she may please her husband. Well that's what someone who's married is supposed to do. That's not bad This I say for your own benefit. Verse 35 is very important. Not to put a restraint upon you. He's not saying you can't marry. That's not what he's saying But to promote what is appropriate and to secure undistracted devotion to the Lord. Paul just knew how good it was to serve God full-time. It was the best. Consider it, pray about it It's not a command not to be married. It's not to make those of us who feel married feel bad. Someone who's trying to decide about marriage, think about how best to serve in the kingdom of God. That's the top priority for life. Marital status should take a back seat to service to Christ. Notice in verse 35 he says he's not writing to put a restraint on them. He's not commanding them to be single. Just secure undistracted devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he has another family situation to apply these same principles just briefly in verses 36 through 38. But if any man thinks that he is acting unbecomingly toward his virgin daughter, if she is past her youth, and if it must be so, let him do what he wishes. He does not sin, let her marry. But he who stands firm in his heart, being under no constraint, but has authority over his own will, and has decided this in his own heart to keep his own virgin daughter, he will do well. So then both he who gives his own virgin daughter in marriage does well, and he who does not give her in marriage will do better. Some of the daughters in here are getting worried what their dads are thinking. You know, the word daughter actually is supplied by the New American Standard Bible translators. It's not in the original. And so some have argued that the the verb to give in marriage would be better translated or could possibly be translated just to marry. And it's not talking about a father, but a young man who's thinking about marrying the one he is betrothed to. Don't quite understand the reasoning since betrothal was already marriage. But scholars debate this and the context provides uh some points back and forth on that. I don't have time for all of that. today. I'll just say what persuaded me is that verb, give and marriage. I think it really does mean given marriage, and I think that's what he's talking about here as the Nasby translators do that. But why would he talk about that right here in this in this paragraph? Well Leon Morris comments, he says, the parent has acted on the view that celibacy is to be preferred to marriage and has kept her unmarried, the daughter He now wonders whether he's doing the right thing. To withhold marriage from a girl of marriageable age and anxious to marry would have been to court disaster in first century Corinth and bring dishonor on both father and daughter. Why? Because of all the immorality that he talked about before She wants to marry. She doesn't think she has the gift of singleness. And Dad says, no, I'm going to keep you. Now he's wondering, uh-oh. Maybe uh maybe I should have let her marry. Because uh maybe there'll be some disaster with sexual sin that comes. Fathers obviously in those days made decisions about marriages, they were arranged and he had to make the decision and so the question came to Paul and they were he was answering it. What should they do at Corinth? What should we do for our daughters? Should we have them married or should we not have them married? And Paul again is just simply giving the same advice, showing the advantages of serving the Lord full-time as a single, but a father would need to make sure that uh he was uh properly responding to the Lord and that his his daughter he was doing the right thing for his daughter as well. Same exact advice Given to the widows in the closing verses, verses 39 and 40. He says, A wife is bound as long as her husband lives, but if her husband is dead, she is free to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. But notice how he ends. But in my opinion, she is happier if she remains as she is, that is single. And I think that I also have. the Spirit of God. Corinthians were a very proud bunch and knew of their gifts of the Spirit. We'll see that later. And Paul's reminding them, I too have the Spirit of God. My opinion comes from him. Well, widows can concentrate on serving Christ. You know, in another place in Paul's writing, he commands the young widows to get married because of the temptation that they would have to fall into sin. But here he's probably referring to older widows and he's saying, you remain single if you can, if you want. Think of how you can use the remaining part of your life focused on service for God. Think about that. Think about how you can maximize your later years for the kingdom of God in a greater way even than when you were married before. You might not think so, but God can do mighty things through women who give their lives to the Lord. By the way, younger folks, don't miss that important statement that you may marry whomever you wish only in the Lord. It is a sin. It is disobedient to the expressed will of God for a Christian to marry an unbeliever. And I mean a An unbeliever is a true unbeliever. There are many people that go to church and been baptized, but they do not have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. You need to make sure The person you marry, the person if you're in a relationship now and you're thinking about marriage, is indeed in the Lord Jesus. That is God's expressed will. God is an amazing, amazingly generous God Marry whomever you want. Whoever looks good to you, there's one boundary in the Lord. And God knows what he's talking about. So trust him. Are you a discontent person? Do you regularly wish your marriage situation was different? You wish she never got married What about that job? Constantly daydreaming about a new job? It's not a sin to change jobs. That's not the point. Ladies fretting about uh your husband not getting that raise Wishing you've chosen a different career track, but now you've committed so much time to it you don't know what to do. The only thing that will impart to your soul lasting, joyful contentment is not a change in what you're dreaming about in the world. But a refocus on the greatness of a person, the Lord Jesus Christ. Whom have I in heaven but you? The psalmist asks. And besides you I desire nothing on earth. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. That's a satisfied psalmist. Psalm 16, 11, in your presence, God is fullness of joy. And in your right hand there are pleasures forever. Who says heaven's going to be boring? Tom Stewart in What the Bible says about contentment found it online Says this: true Christian contentment is a satisfaction with God in all of His word, will, providences, promises, and prophecies. I like that. Can you attain to that kind of contentment? Brothers and sisters, you better believe you can in your heart, even if you've never experienced it up till now. Listen to Psalm 84, verses 11 and 12, as we close and ask yourself, can God satisfy me? For the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord gives grace and glory. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, how blessed is the man who trusts in you! Oh God, we just pray for that strength of trust in our heart and lives that we would know you better. And we would taste of you and see that you are scrumptious to the soul. Oh God, that we would delight more fully in you. Grant your people contentment through faith. in Christ and His Word. We ask it in the satisfying, glorious, and wondrous name of our Lord, Master, and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.