I wanted to read you Jeremiah 6, 16, which goes along with our last song. that we uh the ancient words and that Jeremiah in the chapter six is uh he's prophesying and he's talking about and the Lord is is talking about that um the people have been on the receiving end of false teaching of just the the leaders in Israel and the teachers And in verse uh fourteen it says they they have healed the broken brokenness of my people superficially. And the reason that they have healed God's people superficially is because they're giving a worldly message. Uh in verse fourteen it says that they say, peace, peace, but there is no peace. And then God talks about um That they're not even ashamed that they're giving this worldly kind of counsel. And then in verse 16, God says, This is God's counsel. For peace and for comfort and for help for us in our world. Stand by the ways and see and ask for the ancient paths. Well this is the good way. This is the where the good way is. And walk in that way, the ancient pathway. And you will find rest for your souls. And yet Israel said, We will not walk in it. This whole conference has been focused on becoming women who smile at the future. And the way that we do that is by sticking to the ancient past. And yet even here, even for some who have attended You may be saying in your heart, no, it's just not really doing it for me But we know from the Word of God that you will, if we reject what God says, we will never find rest for our souls. That's what Jeremiah 6. 16 tells us. And there will never be healing. It will be a superficial healing if we seek help in any other way than the ways that God has prescribed for us. It is a peace, peace where there is no peace. It's a superficial healing. That is the peace and the kind of healing that the world offers us It will not do our souls any good. And so in this last um our last time together, What I want to do is really kind of equip us from the Word of God. And we're going to be in Acts. And we'll be looking there. But what I wanted to do, you know, we've we've talked a lot and it's kind of been a little bit warm and fuzzy. You know, we're dealing with things and the things of our hearts. But this session is really where we're we're looking at what is it that we need to do What is it that we need to think about? What are the things that we need to put into practice in our daily life so that we can be women who smile at the future. What's the practical part of that? And so that's what this session is all about. And I hope that it will be equally encouraging for you because it kind of is going to lay out for you, this is the way. Walk in it And that's what we're going to be looking at here. So at our church every year we plan the events and You know, we look and look at kind of the year ahead and uh the women's committee and I we we talk about what are the w the needs for our ladies. What are we seeing? What are we seeing in our own hearts that we need from the Lord? Where are we headed in this next year? And what I I think we've just have realized in these last couple of years, we kinda, you know, we're needing to be a bit tougher. You know, a couple of years ago, I d I think we were a little fluffy in our walks with the Lord. Our faith was a little bit of you know, a little bit of Twinkies, not so much stake And uh, you know, we were we kind of have been tested more in our faith. And what are we gonna believe? What are we gonna uh focus on And uh I definitely for myself, I have felt like I need to go back to the basics. Am I being grounded in my thinking? And where am I headed? Am I going back to the Word of God? Because I just felt like if I'm not anchored in the Word of God, I'm going to be swept away. I am going to be a mess. It's gonna I'm gonna be flustered, I'm gonna be fearful, I am not gonna be any help to anyone, and I am going to bring shame. Upon the Lord Jesus because I'm just gonna be a little quivering mess. And that's just not okay So, you know, it's been challenging uh for us not to be fearful or to worry or to be bitter about what's going on. Now we know from 1 John 5. 19 that the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. We know from 2 Corinthians 4. 4 that the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving so that they might not see the gos the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. Christ, who is the image of God. And we know from Ephesians 2. 2 that the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. We see this at work in the world. And yet though those things are true, that doesn't mean that hope is lost for us. God has told us some amazing things about the true state of things. First is that we don't have to fall prey to Satan's lies The world may lie in his power and may rest in his power, but believers have been freed from his power in their lives. Second Timothy 2 2 25 through 26 tells us that the Lord's bondservant is to use gentleness while correcting those who are in opposition, if perhaps God may grant them repentance When you come to know the Lord Jesus Christ, you have come to the knowledge of the truth. You've come to your senses. Don't you feel like that, some of you who've come to know the Lord later in life? You woke up. You came To your senses. You escaped the snare of the devil because you were held captive by him to do his will before, and now you've been set free. Believers through faith and repentance in Jesus have been led by God to the knowledge of the truth. And in salvation, the spell that the evil one ha has over the world is broken. We come to our senses and escape his snares. John tells us in 1 John 4, 1 through 6, in fact why don't you um Turn there. 1 John 4, 1 through 6. John says, Beloved, do not believe every spirit. but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. This is the time in which we are living. We have false teaching taking place. We have really subtle kind of error coming upon us and just this is what God's word is and they just there's a little bit of deviation and it sounds Okay, kinda, but what's wrong with that? And so there's a need for us to learn to be discerning. Because not everything we hear is true, even though it comes from someone in a pulpit. And in verse 2 of 1 John 4, it says, By this you know the Spirit of God, which means by this you know whether or not the teaching that you're hearing is from God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus is from the flesh, From God is not or yes, that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming and now it is already in the world. And in verses 2 through 3, we see in this verse that we can assess what we're hearing. We need to see what things line up with the Word of God and affirm what God says. Now, it might feel a little bit overwhelming, which is why we're told in verse 4 of 1 John 4, you are from God, little children. and have overcome them because greater is He who is in you than He who is in the world. So we don't need to be anxious or lash out or curl up in a ball no matter what is happening. We may not like it, but we know that God has allowed it and which means that He will aid us to live well in the world. can use his word to assess what we're hearing. Whether it's from the world, it's like, well does that make sense? That's not what the scriptures teach. So how can I um live well in spite of what the world is saying? or even from the pulpit. We've seen this in the last years, and it's growing increasingly more so. That those who profess to be Christians, who are giving a message, it's wrong. They're leading people astray. And that is exactly what God has told us will happen in the end times. Difficult days will come because the message of God is getting perverted. Because we have false teachers rising up with So what can we do about it? Well, first, verse four, do not be afraid, do not be anxious. You are from God's little children And greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. The Lord Himself will help you. And then verse 5 tells us that we can view these events with clarity in a way that the world never can. They are from the world. Therefore they speak as from the world, and the world listens to them. So if you're hearing a message that all the unbelievers around are going Then that's when we say that's not it. Because the line between what the world is teaching Teaching and and uh applauding and what God says is always opposite. It's not gonna be the same. First John four five explains why the craziness continues because unbelievers listen to each other. So even within a church Or when we have false teachers and we've we've heard them and they're out there. Um the f one of the former presidents of the SBC um, who claims to be a Christian is not, and he has led people astray by his teaching. Russell Moore, I'm just gonna say his name because of the things that he has said. And unbelievers have applauded him because of what he has said. And it's wicked, but it it can't we can discern the difference because of God's word. First John four six reminds us believers have the capacity for understanding the true state of things. Verse six says We are from God, and he who knows God listens to us. He who is not from God does not listen to us. By this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. When other when we hear teaching, we we're going to um other believers are going to affirm that this is true when we're listening to these things and we can trust what is there. God desires that we listen with discernment 1 John 4, 1 through 6 is an example of that. We have other places in the scriptures where we're told to assess what we're hearing. It's really comfortable and it's really nice to just not have to worry about it, but that really isn't necessarily the case. We live in a world of podcasts YouTube, all kinds of th um there's bloggers, galore, and so we need to make sure that we're being discerning with who we're listening to I know many of you have all kinds of people that you listen to, and it may be that some of you are listening to people you really shouldn't be listening to. And so we want to use wisdom in what we're listening to, the truth that we're taking in, that it aligns up with the truth. We've escaped the snare of the devil by placing our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation. But that doesn't mean that the devil gives up and waging war against us. If the devil cannot have your soul, then his next battle against you is to make you miserable by getting you off the path. To get you to sin, to make you believe wrong things about the Lord, to get you perverting the gospel to believe something that is not true about the Lord Jesus Christ. Because it will bring discredit and dishonor upon God's children and upon God Himself. The evil one is a deceiver. He's been a deceiver from the beginning. And he wants to get God's children off track. In any way he can. In the smallest ways, in big ways, it doesn't matter, as long as we are off. Because he knows there will be consequences for that That misery for our souls, wrong thinking. It will create sin and chaos in our homes, um, in our lives. Has the devil been successful with his nefarious plan for you? Has he been able to build up in you anxiety so that you have trouble sleeping because of his evil plan In the world to make you fearful, to get your eyes off the Lord, so that you're so distracted by the headlines and all the stuff and by the the sniping even among those who say they're believers that you're caught up in that and you're caught up in politics and you're caught up in all of these things Has the evil mind been successful? Will we let the devil have his way and fall prey to his schemes I say no. Let's not let him win in any way. Let's not let him have one quarter of an inch in our line We are living during the time of the Great Deception. We are told that this is going to increase. And so that means we must be increasingly more word-minded women. The lies abound in the world. But among God's word, God's people, and in within God's word, there is truth. And this is where we go to find truth. Christians are succumbing to the lies of the world because they're not going to the Word of God. Christians are confused, Christians are flustered, they're swayed, and they're struggling how to think about and understand the times and events in which we are live. But we don't have to be like that. We can stand firm and we can become women who understand the times. And so we can smile at the future because we know what God has already told us. Satan and his followers will continue their attacks. This is nothing new. He has always thought to deceive the world and especially God's children. Even though he is a conquered foe and has no real power over us because we are believers. And because greater is he who is in us than he is in the world, yet Satan is still going to try to do his best to get us off track. We live in a spiritual war. It is spiritual warfare. And without a doubt, we can say that the winds of change have been blowing through our country Storm clouds are not only on the horizon, they are over our head. They are here. The tempest is above our heads. And all of the all that is happening is a result of sin. This is sin in the world. We are experiencing the consequences of sin in the world, in our society, in our country, and even in our churches. And what we are seeing unfold in the world and and in our country is judgment. God's just and righteous judgment upon sin and rebellion. And yet for believers, this will only be for our good. This God is going to use this for good for us. God is not thwarted in his designs for good for his children. God sees all that is going on, and He has brought you here. It is no mistake that you live right now. And that for some of you, you are raising your children right now, in this season and in this time. God has called you. To be this this woman, to live in this time for this season, to be a light in the world. There are no mistakes Now it's kinda nice to be thinking yeah, but I kinda liked it when a couple years ago and it we'd we were only kinda worried about a few things Whoever knew that we'd be worried about getting toilet paper. And then uh and here we are, you know, and and it's uh all different One of the ways that God uses troubling times like this is to strengthen our faith so that we aren't flustered, swayed, or swept away. That we would be stronger in our faith Not strong women. Who cares about that? We want to be stronger in our faith. We want to recognize our weakness. I am weak. Always. But God is strong, and I'm gonna cling to him. John MacArthur says, spiritual instability leads to disappointment. Doubt, discouragement, and ineffective witness. Unstable people are likely to be crushed by their trials. They are susceptible to temptation. I do not want that applied to me, and I don't think you want it applied to you either. I'm an unstable person. Hello. Yeah. That is not my name tag that I want to be wearing. We see a pattern in the scriptures where Paul and the other Bible writers were really concerned about the believer's spiritual stability. And we see that over and over again where Paul especially you just see him wanting to make sure his people are doing okay. We see it in Acts 15, 36, where it says, After some days Paul said to Barnabas, Let us return and visit the brethren in every city in which we proclaim the word of the Lord and see how they are. How come? Because he wanted to make sure that they were stable, that they weren't getting swept away by the evil one's devices. And so we want to make sure that we're doing okay. Then your leaders want to make sure they want to see how you are 1 Corinthians 16, verses 13 through 14 says this. Be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, and ladies, act like men. Be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. That is a I love that passage, especially for women, because that passage was preached To the whole congregation, to the whole church. And yet Paul is telling all of us, act like men and be strong. We're to be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong. And that means we must continue to grow in maturity, to not be weak or swayed by circumstances. Over and over again we see in the scriptures that believers are to stand firm in the faith Which is all well and good. But how do we get there? How can we become firm in the faith, established, not moved? And we find a really excellent example of how we can grow into someone like this in the Bereans from Acts 17. The text says, Now these were more noble minded than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily. to see whether these things were so. So I thought what we would do is look more closely at their lives so we can follow their example. So our first point, our noble example. The first thing we learn about the Brians is that they are described as noble-minded, which I think is an interesting description. It basically carries the picture of all that is best in someone. When someone is noble, there is no meaning Or pettiness of spirit in them, a noble person does what is good and is willing to sacrifice their own personal comfort to do good to someone else We don't really talk about being noble anymore. That's a word that has kind of fallen uh out of favor in our modern vocabulary, and yet The nobility of purpose is still something that we see in Christian circles and we talk about it. But definitely we it was talked about a lot more of when you read a lot of old books There's that nobility. It's part of what made even uh King Arthur and the Round Table so wonderful, that nobility in the nights in seeking to do what is good. There's a loftiness to that quality that's that just when someone is noble They're they're living above the normal crowd in the the way that they they live in the world And even when we might have trouble pinning down the concept of noble-mindedness and what it means, the text in Acts 17, 11 teaches us the components of noble-mindedness. and how it's going to show up in our lives. And what we see in Acts 17. 11 is a comparison that's being made between the Brians and the believers in Thessalonica. And I think this is interesting because the Thessalonian believers were a wonderful group of believers. They were absolutely captivating. Paul loved them. He called them my joy, my crown. Paul loved the Thessalonians. So much. And yet the testimony of the Brians is that they were even they were more noble-minded than even the Thessalonians It says in 1 Thessalonians 1 6 that the Thessalonians became imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much tribulation. with the joy of the Holy Spirit. And in 1 Thessalonians 2. 13 it says that the Thessalonians received the word of God which they heard and accepted it not as the word of men, but for what it really is, the word of God which performs its work in those who believe. And yet while the Thessalonians received the word in a similar way as the Brians did, there was a difference. And there are some hints as to the reason for these differences in Paul's letters to the Thessalonians. The Thessalonians read their Bibles. The Thessalonians loved God's word. received it and as soon as it was taught to them they're they're like Yes we love God's work and it's Yay That's what we see in the Book of Thessalonians and how they came to it. But the Thessalonians were also besieged by false teachers and they were confused. They didn't quite know how to deal with the false teaching that was coming at them. And in 1 Thessalonians 3. 5, Paul says to Timothy, For this reason, when I could endure it no longer, I also sent to find out about the Thessalonians' faith for fear that the tempter might have tempted them. The Thessalonians had the false teachers infiltrating the church, and so they weren't sure who to believe. And they hadn't equipped themselves or been equipped to strain everything through the word of God. There were some among the Thessalonian believers who were confused about the Lord's return and how to live until um he came. And some were so confused that they kind of just quit working and kinda they just sat on a hill waiting for the Lord to come back. Um in which so Paul had to tell them in chapter four. No, you you gotta keep working, keep going until the Lord does come back And so uh you know, they needed that. And th second Thessalonians chapter two, he had to repeat it again because there were still those who were still being kind of confused So though the Thessalonians were really great example of believers who just loved God's word, they were they n weren't necessarily being wise in how they were filtering They received the word of God, they accepted it, but they weren't effective in how they were dealing with God's Word. So that was the difference. And what we see with the Brians is they were effective. What we want to be is we want to be effective. We want to understand how to deal with God's word, how to use God's word wisely so that we can live well in a world that's kind of crazy. And that brings us to our second point, which is the noble-minded Bereans received the word. Acts 1711 says that these noble-minded Brians received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so The word received means receive favorably, to give ear to, to approve, not to reject. And in this time in Acts 17, the j Jews and Berea were hearing Paul preach that Jesus was the Messiah. Yet rather than respond with stubborn, hard-hearted unbelief, they responded to that life-giving message that their Messiah had come. And they were eager to hear it. Matthew Henry in his commentary said they received the word with all readiness of mind. They were very willing to hear it. presently apprehended the meaning of it and did not shut their eyes against the light. They attended to the things that were spoken of by Paul, as Lydia did And we're very well pleased to hear them. And we see many examples in the scriptures of what receiving the word should look like in our lives. Job said in Job twenty-three, twelve, I have not departed from the command of his lips. I have treasured the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. And from Job 23, 12, we learn that receiving the Word of God is treasuring it. It's being faithful to the word that is spoken. Solomon taught his son in Proverbs 2, 1 through 5, how to receive the word. He says this, My son, if you will receive my words and treasure my commandments with in you, then you will make your ear attentive to wisdom, incline your heart to understanding. And then you should need to cry for discernment. Lift your voice for understanding. Seek her as silver, search for her as for hidden treasures, and when you do that, you will discern the fear of the Lord, and you will discover the knowledge of God What we see when we receive the Word of God, we treasure it, we're attentive to it, we incline to it, we lean into it, and we see its value. Asking the Lord for understanding. and seeking it as after hidden treasure. The Thessalonians, as we looked at before in chapter 1, verse 6, says they received the word in much tribulation with the joy of the Holy Spirit. And we see here that receiving the words oftentimes come is linked to God uses trials to quicken our hearts to receive his word. Spurgeon said it's like a um a like a a curtain being pulled back w trials reveal hidden writing uh upon the scriptures. So uh even when we have trials, they can make us treasure his word even more. When we um uh receive the word, we understand something special about the word of God. First Thessalonians 2. 13 Tells us that the word of God performs its work in you who believe. And so that's why we receive it. It works. The word of God changes us. It performs its work. The Word of God has been appointed by God and the Holy Spirit works that in us to make his word living. and active and sharper than any two edged sword. That's what that's why the word of God pierces our hearts. The Holy Spirit uses his word faithfully like a scalpel to get in where it needs to get in. It performs its work. The Bereans receive the Word of God with eagerness. And not only that, it says that they received it with great eagerness. You have to ask yourself, Lord How am I really receiving your word? What's my attitude toward getting up in the morning and spending time with the Lord? You know, am I really looking forward to getting up and spending time in the Word or am I looking more forward to checking it off on my little list? We need to ask ourselves, what are the things that make us eager to get up in the morning? What are the things in our lives? Is it the Word of God? Does that make us eager to get up? Eager to spend time with the with the Lord? Are we hungering for the truth? You know, sometimes we are just lazy and we don't really we don't really want to set aside the time. or or even be faithful to study. And yet the Bereans were eager. They received the word of God eagerly. And it says here that they prepared their hearts to hear more of the Word of God. Says that they were they studied, they received the word with great eagerness, examining the scriptures daily. So they they prepared themselves to see what was in the word of God. God. And that brings us to our third point, that they looked at the scriptures daily. Daily We need to do that too, daily. Spend time with the Lord. They were committed and unrelenting. And getting into and learning from the Word of God. The Brians understood the value of what they were hearing. They were listening to the teaching of God's Word, and it was knew and they were learning from it. They recognized this is what we're hearing. God's word is being given to us. We are learning about God. And so they were examining the scriptures daily. Now what was it that they said and they wanted to to learn it better The Bereans did exactly what Peter says the prophets did in 1 Peter 1, 10 through 12. Peter says, as to this salvation, the prophets who prophesied of the grace that would come to you Made careful searches and inquiries, seeking to know what person or time the Spirit of Christ within them was indicating as he predicted the sufferings of Christ. Christ and the glories to follow. It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves, but you in these things and which n now have been announced to you by through those who preach the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. things into which angels long to look. This is a fascinating little section in 1 Peter 1, 10 through 12. as he kind of peels back and explains that yeah, the prophets when they were prophesying, like Jeremiah, when he was prophesying about these things, there were there were things that were pointing to the Messiah that who is to come, who is going to come and rescue us from our sin. And they were studying the other scriptures. And trying to understand what is it that God is telling me that I am to impart to the people. And in 1 Peter 1, when when Peter i it says that the prophets they they studied the scriptures to understand this and that's exactly what the Bereans are doing. They're studying with great eagerness. I want to understand what's going on here. And they're flipping back and forth in their scrolls. We just have to flip pages. They had a scroll they had to unroll and find out where it was. A. T. Robertson notes that the Brians were eagerly interested in the new message of Paul and Silas, but they wanted to see it for themselves. What a noble attitude, he says. Paul's preaching made Bible students of them. The duty of private interpretation is thus made plain. And what he's talking about there is when you are spending time with the Lord and you're reading the word, you're you need to be looking and and studying and and can thinking about it and When you hear something new, write down the verses and then go look up the verses yourself. You want to look it up and read the context, see how it fits in with the rest of the chapter Second Peter one nineteen through twenty-one says, We have the prophetic word, the word given to us right here, made more sure, to which you would do well to pay attention. Like a lamp that's shining in a dark place. And we're to do that until the day dawns and the morning star arises in your heart. But remember this, know this, first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture is a matter of one's own interpretation, for no prophecy was ever made by an act of human And we have learned in Second Timothy three, fifteen through sixteen that the scriptures are able to give you wisdom that leads to salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus because all Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and training in righteousness. The brands weren't just receivers. They were students. We need to be students. And that is what leads to a more steadfast and stable faith. There's always value in hearing and receiving the word as it's taught to us, but the more we interact with the word of God, the more it works on our soul. so that we will stand firm in our faith. And that um that's one of the reasons why even when I'm like when I'm taking notes I I may not take notes on everything, but I always take down the scripture references, all the cross references, because then I can go back later on in the week during my quiet time and I can look those up And I can just see what's there. And it helps me to go back over the sermon, but it also helps me to check context. What's happening here? How did that all fit in there? Does it fit with what I was being told It helps us to interact with God's Word. Matthew Henry said, searching the scriptures must be our daily work. Those that rightly study the scriptures and meditate thereon day and night have their minds filled with noble thoughts, fixed to noble principles, and formed for noble aims and designs. These are more noble. And of course he is talking about the Brians. And so we need to w let's be like the Brians. Let's be like those who have gone before us and search and examine the scriptures daily so that we're not taken in or led astray by false teaching or discouraged by the events of life around us. And as we follow their example, we will grow increasingly steadfast in our faith. And our fourth point, we see from Acts 17, 11, that the Brians used discernment. It says that they examined what they heard with the scriptures to see if these things were so. They didn't blindly trust the message, but after favorably receiving and hearing it, they compared the message they were hearing with the word of God. And so we need to use discernment also. We need to grow in discernment and not be lazy in using discernment. Paul told the Galatians in Galatians 1. 8, but even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel cro contrary to what we have preached to you, he is to be accursed. And so here in Galatians we see that Paul is calling on the believers to use discernment. He says, even if I am the one preaching And so you know think about that. It's Paul preaching. But if Paul is preaching something that he shouldn't, a gospel contrary to what we have preached to you. Then you need to take note of that and reject it because that person who preaches something contrary to the gospel, contrary to the word of God, is to be accursed. And Paul says, even if it's me, don't believe it. If it's wrong, you need to reject me. That's what he's telling them. In 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 2, he says, I don't want you to be quickly shaken from your composure or disturbed either by a spirit or a message or a letter, as if from us Because there were those who were sending around false messages, false letters, to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Even if that message seems like it's one that comes from a trusted source What are they saying? Does it line up with the Word of God? If it doesn't measure up to the truth of the Word of God, then we turn away. from it. Matthew 24, 24 tells us how believers are to respond during the Great Tribulation. And so in preparation For those people, this is what we are told. For false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders so as to mislead, if possible, even the elect. We live in a time where there are false teachers and false messages. being designed and promoted to lead people astray with the purpose of leading even the elect astray. And if that is true, if that's a message and a warning for those who live in the tribulation, then surely it's going to be for us as well. So we need to make sure that we are looking at the truth of God's word. Acts 17, 11, says that we are to examine the scriptures daily to see whether these Things are so. Our rule of thumb, the standard for truth is to be the Word of God. Your rule of thumb, your standard of truth is not to be your pastor. It's not to be your study notes in your study Bible. It is not to be John MacArthur, Vodie Bacom, your favorite podcaster, whoever. You cannot When you go to heaven, tell the Lord, well, John MacArthur said, or my study Bible notes said God will be looking at you to see who were you listening to? Were you studying my word? Did their message line up with the scriptures? We need to be discerning and we need to not be lazy. Men change their position on things. We've m people we've loved, pastors we've sat under, they've they've gone astray. People that we've really admired and respected, they've turned away from the truth. Men change, but God's word does not. We have everything we need here. It has been preserved. It will stay the same. We stick to the ancient past. It is the standard by which we assess the truthfulness and the value of the message. We start with a sound understanding of the scriptures and then we compare what we are hearing to it. Does it line up? Does the message we're hearing line up with the scriptures? If there are new things being introduced, we probably need to run. Nothing new needs to be introduced anymore. If we're hearing a new message that has never been discussed before in Christian history, It is from the evil one. There is nothing new to be given to us because God has given us everything If it does not line up with what's here, it's wrong. It's heresy. The old ways, the old paths From the Word of God has not changed. They will not change, and we can test the messages we hear by the Word of God, which is why I started out by reading to you from Jeremiah 6, 16. Stand by the ways and see and ask for the ancient past. Do you hear that? Stand by the ways, the ancient past. And see and ask for the ancient past. Do you see that? Isn't that great? You give me the Word of God. Do not give me something new. Give me what has been tested by time. Isn't that wonderful? There's so much comfort, so much protection in there for us. And when we walk in that good way, that ancient pathway, we will find rest for our souls. Hebrews 13, 7 through 9 says this. Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, and considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith. But remember, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. So do not be carried away by varied and strange teachings. Teachings for it is good for your heart to be strengthened by grace and not by varied and strange teachings about foods or all the rest of the things that they come up with by which some those who are occupied were not benefited. Charles Spurgeon used discernment even when uh when learning from trusted teachers He said this, I believe nothing because Calvin taught it, but because we find Calvin's teaching in the Word of God I believe it there. We're told in 1 Thessalonians 5. 21, examine everything carefully, hold fast to that which is good. Well how do we do that? We go back to school, we become students. We we ask our leaders Teach us the Word of God. We need to know hermeneutics, which basically all that is is Bible study principles. How do we study God's Word? Come on guys, you've got to teach us. Pastor, I want to learn how to study my Bible. Will you teach me how to study God's word? And when we do, then we can learn how to listen well. We can look up the cross-references. We can check the context. We look to see how it's being used. We become students of God's Word. Because there are so many voices, there are so many writers, so many preachers, so many books, so many speakers coming at us. And they all say, this is the truth. Nobody's saying this is a lie. Come on, come on over here. Follow me over here. It's a lie. No, they're all saying the same thing. Truth. Truth, truth, truth. How are we gonna know? It's gotta be here. It's gotta be here. We have to examine their words carefully, hold fast to what is good, and cast off what is worthless Discernment uses wisdom in what it listens to so that it doesn't end up looking like those in 1 Timothy 4. 1. Those who will fall away from the faith because they paid attention to deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons. Well, those deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons came from someone who was just saying, this is the truth. Just like in Jeremiah's time, this is the way of peace. Follow me. Only it had no peace. This is how you can grow in the Lord, over here, away from God's word. It's like, no, no, no. I need to be over here, paying attention to God's word. Second Peter three, sixteen through seventeen tells us that there are those who teach things that are hard to understand, or well Paul was teaching things that were hard to understand, but the untaught and the unstable distort that. Sometimes people take the truths of God's word, which sometimes God's word is hard is hard to understand, but they they distort God's word and the rest of the scriptures to their own destruction. And so we are told in Second Peter that we need to know this and be on guard against this so that we are not carried away by the error of unprincipled men and fall from our own steps. Discernment requires that we are on guard against error, even just a sliver of it Some distort the scriptures to make their new thing, their argument or message sound plausible. The Galatians are an example of an undiscerning church. If you've ever read through Galatians, you you know this. They were swayed by t false teachers to go back to the works of the law as a means of sanctification and salvation. Don Stewart said, there is an old adage that says, if it's true, it's not new. And if it's new, it's not true. This is certainly the case, he says, when it comes to the understanding of the central teachings of the Christian faith. Charles Spurgeon said, Great men help us understand the truth, but we believe what we believe because we can put a finger on chapter and verse. This is why. They m somebody might say it really well, but you still need to see where it where does it say? Where where did you get that in the script They need to be able to show you from the Word of God. This is where I got it, and this is why Elizabeth Elliott's father told her, a Christian who is saturated with the Word of God is likely to have a calm, wholesome outlook on life. To be kept steady in the path of God's will in either joy or sorrow, wealth or poverty. He is likely to be a pleasant companion not voluble in aimless talk, and he will not be overly disturbed by world conditions. We need to be just like the noble Bereans, that we respond with a steadfast faith, an abiding hope, and unflinching courage in the face of chaos and change. May we all grow even more in our faithfulness to filter the messages of the world so that we will be women of the word to take advantage of the many times that that we hear the word of God, that we would examine these things, that we would be women who eagerly search the scriptures daily so that we will grow in discernment and wisdom them so that we can stand firm in the faith and put God on display in our lives and smile at the future. Let's be like the noble Berean women and men. But let us be noble-minded in that way and search the scriptures. Let's pray