As we look at facing your worst fears with God's strength. And I think this is really kind of the where we're headed as we we consider being women who smile at the future. I mean w if we're gonna be women who smile at the future, we have to deal with this one. The the worst fears, the hardest fears, the things that are the scariest for us And how can we do that? Um relying on the Lord's strength and trusting in Him in the midst of that. So that's where we're going to be headed. When Jack and I were first married My husband um w spent hours fishing. He's a fly fisherman, though he he's still a fly fisherman in his heart. He just hasn't gone in years. Um but when we were first married, he was avidly fly fishing um because we lived in Idaho and so he could get to the streams quickly and easily Easily. And so he would get up before it was light and he would get home at dark thirty, which um in Idaho, dark thirty meant usually by ten ten thirty at night. And this was in the days before cell phones, before you had those Find My Hubby apps where you could look and see where he was. And And so as a a brand new little wifey, I would um be doing pretty good as my hubby went away all day long fishing without me But by three in the afternoon, I would invariably take up a vigil by the front door, waiting for his truck to pull in our street Oh only dark thirty in Idaho in the summertime is a really a long time. And but I would sit there And as I would stand by the widow, invariably my mind would begin to worry. d b drum up all these fears and I would imagine that he had gotten in an accident or something or that he had gotten bit by one of the rattlesnakes. out there and and I would be a widow and stuck on my own and I would have all these fears coming in And then eventually I was rewarded to see his truck lights coming in and then to wipe away my tears and run out and greet him. But they were all fears of my own imagination. I have had other times when the trouble on the horizon had nothing to do with my imagination. It was real. And even the fears that I imagined were actually, they came true. They were exactly what I thought they were going to be. And the trouble that I knew was coming did come. And there was nothing I could do to escape it. Nothing I could do to get out of the path. Um, and I knew that it was going to be devastatingly difficult just as I imagined that it would be. So no matter what our situation, whether there are times that really are difficult because and the things that we are afraid of that are coming really do end up coming or whether they are the fears of our imagination When that time comes, we have a choice to make, just like we talked about in the last session. We have a choice to make about how we're going to respond to the fear that grips our hearts. And that's what we're going to discuss in this session. Now Habakkuk wrote his book, and so Habakkuk is right before um Zephaniah, uh he's after Nahum, he's in the Minor Prophets So you can find him, but we're going to be looking at Habakkuk and then we're going to be in Habakkuk chapter three. Now Habakkuk wrote this little book during a time that was fairly similar to even a lot of the things that we see going on in the world right now. Where Um the news was grim. Um it was uh d there were hard things and for Habakkuk living in Israel, um the times that he was going through was there was a lot of bad news happening and that was coming toward him. And it was um so grim and so difficult and they knew it was coming um that even the stoutest of hearts w were growing fearful. Most likely the Habakkuk wrote Um just prior to the Babylonian, the first Babylonian deportation when um under Nebuchadnezzar when he took the first group of Israelites back to Babylon. And so that was when Daniel was taken away. um out of Israel. And so that's kind of the time that Habakkuk is writing, just prior to that first invasion when all the people were taking out And the fierce and cru cruel Babylonians were on their way. conquered. They had uh the Babylonians had already conquered the Assyrians and the Egyptians, and now they had Israel in their sights. And if that wasn't bad enough, Israel had an unstable and unwise king who was um at the helm, and that was King Jehoiakim. And he was wicked, he was selfish, and he had no thought of caring for the people that God had placed him to govern. He only thought of himself. And so for the people, the people of Israel at this time, they weren't seeking the Lord And so life was scary to them. They had no um help from the Lord because they weren't even seeking him They they weren't looking for his help. And so life felt shaky, it was doomed, it was scary. And so it that's the backdrop really of what um What Habakkuk is dealing with when he prophesied the Lord's message to the fearful people in Israel They were hurting, they were feeling very weak and defenseless. I mean, Nebuchadnezzar's army is on the way. And so the message that we get in Habakkuk chapter 3 is a message for us today that we can apply for this season and our lives today. Because it has power to minister to us. God preserved his word to strengthen us today. So that we can gain a foothold over fear and worry and grow strong in faith. The Bible knowledge commentary says of the book of Habakkuk Though the outlook may elicit terror, the uplook elicits trust. The prophet's complaints and fears were resolved in confidence and faith This is the heart of the message of Habakkuk. The righteous will live by his faith I love how that author in the commentary says this. Though the outlook may elicit terror, the uplook elicits trust. So with that in mind, let's look at our text, which is Habakkuk 3, verses 16 through 19. And Habakkuk says I heard and my inward parts trembled. At the sound my lips quivered. Decay enters my bones, and in my place I tremble. Because I must wait pa quietly for the day of distress, for the people to arise who will invade us, though the fig tree should not blossom and there be no fruit on the vines Though the yield of the olive should fail, and the fields produce no food, though the flock should be cut off from the fold, and there be no cattle in the stalls Yet I will exult in the Lord. I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. The Lord God is my strength, and he has made my feet like hinds feet. and makes me walk on my high places. So let's start with our first point, facing your fearful future. Now different Bible translations have different strengths and weaknesses. I'm sure you have know that. Sometimes in certain passages, how uh translation teams chooses to translate certain words can have a big impact on our understanding of the passage. And one of those places is found here in verse 16 where the translators have a difficult time with verse 16. because the Hebrew is actually somewhat obscure. The New American Standard, which I read from, says, I heard and my inward parts trembled. At the sound my lips quivered Decay enters my bones, and in my place I tremble, because I must wait quietly for the day of distress for the people to arise who will invade us The way the New American Standard translates the end of verse 16 puts the emphasis on waiting quietly for the trial that's on its way, even when we're afraid. But the New International Version, the New King James Version, and the ESV all translate verse 16 similarly, so that the emphasis is upon waiting quietly for God's judgment The ESV says it this way, yet I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us And I think the ESV, the New King James, and the NIV are actually the preferred translation of verse 16 The emphasis on waiting for God to judge the wicked Babylonians fits with the context better than how the NASB team translated it. So if you um are reading from a New American Standard, maybe write in the c in the comments there that you can just change That I will wait quietly for the day of trouble to come upon the people who will invade us. And what it does as we we see that translation in verse sixteen is it it shifts we see a shift from what Habakkuk is saying at the beginning of verse sixteen so that we see a shift fr in his thought from complete terror 'cause he says, I'm I'm de I'm shivering. I'm i my my limbs are trembling. He's so fearful at the thought of the Babylonians. And then there's a beginning of a shift. I'm looking for God to judge the Babylonians and I'm going to entrust myself into God's care. And so I think that that's one of the reasons why those other the other translations take that rendering. And I think it really does the text well. Habakkuk trusts that God is going to deal with the wicked and cruel Babylonians even though God is using the Babylonians as his instrument to judge Israel. So he's he and God is faithful to do that, that God can still bring the spanky spoon to Israel, but he's also gonna spank the Babylonians. He is faithful to judge all because he sees it all. And he has the power to do that. We see in Habakkuk 1 in verses 5 and 6 that God declares, look among the nations, observe Be astonished, wonder, because I am doing something in your days. You would not believe it if you were told. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, which is another name for the Babylonians That fierce and impetuous people who march throughout the earth to seize dwelling places which are not theirs. So God tells Habakkuk, this is what I'm doing. And he says I'd be amazed that I am going to use these wicked people and I'm going to raise them up. I am raising up the Chaldeans Then he says in verse 12 of chapter 1, Are you not from everlasting, O Lord, my God, my holy one? We will not die. You, O Lord, have appointed them, the Chaldeans, the Babylonians, to judge. And you, O Rock, have established them to judge correct. And so Habakkuk reflects back to the Lord this song this prayer of praise and just saying, Lord, you are faithful and you have appointed them to do what is just and right in dealing with your people. Habakkuk had no doubt After God telling him in chapter one, or yes, chapter one, that he was going to send the Chaldeans to judge Israel. God was going to be faithful to do that. When God says He's going to judge a nation, whether it's Israel or somebody else, it's going to happen. Habakkuk knew that God was going to keep his word to correct and discipline his wayward children. Israel had not followed the Lord. They had turned their backs on the Lord And they needed the Lord to come along and bring them back to seeking Him. And yet Habakkuk was fearful. Just like we get when we know that we deserve a spanking from the Lord. Lord, I have sinned and the consequences that I am facing because of my sin Maybe because I lost my temper or I did this thing or whatever. Those things are just and yet we can sometimes be fearful even while fully acknowledging you are right to do this, Lord. because I need to learn not to sin against you. Habakkuk knew that the Chaldeans were on their way to be unique tools of chastisement for the Israelites. And you know, I mean we know that it's kind of a scary thing to even consider something like that. And that's where our country is, isn't it? Don't we always we get a sense that we are experiencing in the United States God's judgment on us because we have turned our back on the Lord. We need to bless God in seeking Him. We keep, you know, the politicians and everybody, God bless America. Well, no, no, no. We need to bless God by seeking him. Habakkuk is dealing with a very real and very fearful future, one that would not be averted. way worse than anything that we are undergoing at this time. And in God said in chapter two in verse three For the vision is yet for the appointed time, it hastens toward the goal, it will not fail. Though it tarries, wait for it, for it will certainly come, it will not delay. to Habakkuk, this prophecy, my plan of dealing with Israel, is going to happen. And he says it like four different ways in verse 3 in chapter 2. And so Habakkuk admits in chapter three and verse sixteen, I'm afraid, Lord, this is scary what you're going to do. But you are just and right to do so. And for us, when we face fearful things, or even when we think something fearful might be happening Or it might come to pass in our lives. It's encouraging to know that whether our fear is real or imagined, the key to overcoming it is the same. And that process is given to us in the text. Habakkuk teaches us how to overcome fear by putting our trust and hope in the Lord. The Lord had a purpose in bringing the fear and devastation and trials to Israel. And Habakkuk tells us it was for the purpose of putting God on display. In chapter two and verse fourteen It says, For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea The people watching would see and understand that the God of Israel was at work with his people. They would watch and see and tremble as God's righteous judgment works for good in the nation of Israel and against the Babylonians. And that is why at the beginning of Habakkuk chapter 3, verse 2, Habakkuk prays, Lord, I have heard the report about you. And I fear. Oh Lord, revive your work in the midst of the years. In the midst of the years, make it known. And in your wrath, remember Habakkuk knows that Israel has completely turned their back on their king, the Lord. The one they had pledged to love and obey at Mount Sinai, that said, We are entering into this covenant with you, Lord. We will follow you. You are a king. But they turned away from him They worshiped the gods of the nations. And they deserved the consequences of their defection from their king. And the Habakkuk knew and understood that what God intended out of God's wisdom that was going to happen. And it's helpful to to see this when we're reading these passages of God's judgment upon on his people, why he's doing that and why he's dealing with his people in this way, because it helps us understand how God deals with us. As we study and learn from Habakkuk, we need to remember the relationship that the Israelites had with God. Remember, and we had talked about this in the last session. that God had entered into this special covenant relationship with Abraham. God chose Abraham. Abraham didn't do anything. Abraham was just living his life. And then God came to him and made a special promise to Abraham and he um it was basically a unilateral one in the in that God made a promise. to Abraham and his descendants. No strings attached. Didn't matter what was going on. God said, I am going to bless you. And yet the people of Israel then later at Mount Sinai entered into a bilateral covenant. So w when we see Israel when they're at Mount Sinai and there is the giving of the law and all these these rules that God said, This is how you live with me so that we can all be happy together. Then they said, We're going to follow your rules, God. We love you and we're going to follow you forever. And they made a covenant with God. But He um they didn't follow through with that. They didn't love the Lord. They didn't obey God. They sought other gods They did all kinds of w deeds of wickedness, and yet God was still operating out of his covenant faithfulness. He was still upholding his side of the covenant, even though they weren't keeping their side of the covenant. And as believers today, we're not under the law of Sinai or Deuteronomy, which is that second reminder of the law there, but we do live under the law of grace. And the law of grace, when we come to know the Lord, we enter into a new relationship with the Lord. It's the relationship of faith. family. And when we understand how God operates, then it helps us understand how He's dealing with us and even how He was dealing with the nation of Israel. When God set up that the unilateral covenant with Abraham and his descendants forever, he he promised to he was gonna love them. going to be their God. But he also had rules for this is how we live well and this is how we you can please me. And so God laid that out. And uh they said, We're gonna do that. Well, when we come to know the Lord Jesus as our Savior and we in Enter into a relationship with God. God has given us His word to tell us how we can live well with God, how what the family rules are basically And yet there are times when we break the family rules, like when God says, do nothing from selfishness. And we we do stuff that is that is selfish, right? We so then we experience consequences for our sin. Well so that's what's going on here and there this is what part of what is um working at is at work, sorry, um with Habakkuk and the nation of Israel at this time. God is giving them the little spanky spoon. These are the consequences for their sin, their s their defection against the Lord. Now, what this means for us and and as as we are living here, we're not living under the same laws, it's different, but we still live within the relationship. of God, where we we desire to please Him, but we're not doing that perfectly. And so God, as a loving father, trains us. and teaches us. And there are times when we experience consequences for our sin. And so we sometimes will get a little fearful or anxious about the things that might be coming because of what we've been doing. And yet, what we can learn from Habakkuk is that we can still run to God even in the midst of chastisement. God is still our rescuer. Even when times are fearful, we can go to God and He will help us. There are times when life is just hard and we've talked about some of those even last night. Like when um your you lose your job, your husband loses his job, you don't have any job on the horizon. Maybe your little one has a serious disease or a learning disability. Maybe your family relationships are strained. To the point that your family has ostracized you, or maybe you've had to remove yourself from your family because of what's been going on there Or possibly that you need to move again. Fourteen times in ten years you've moved, or something like that. Or when your teenager seems to be growing more and more ambivalent toward the Lord. When the doctor calls and says, we'd like you to come back in. When your co-worker makes up lies about you. Any of those things. All those things. Those things can be make us fearful, so much so that we we get physical reactions to that. We get a nod in our stomach, our knees start shaking, we get dry in the mouth. And so it's helpful to remember. God has a plan. God knows what he's doing. Remember what God told Habakkuk and Chapter one verses five and six. Look among the nations, observe, be astonished, wonder, because I am doing something in your days. You wouldn't believe it if you were told. It's good to understand God has a plan. It can be so comforting when so much feels out of control. My husband has said, if God isn't sovereign, then what is the point of living? If God is sovereign, then what is the point of worrying? God has a plan. We need to remember, God has a plan. He is mighty and powerful, and he can bring it to pass. Number two, it's helpful to remember that whatever God has planned, He will bring it to pass. It's going to happen, and there's no amount of frantic activity or fretting that can change it. Isaiah 55, verse 11 says so will my word be which goes forth from my mouth. It will not return to me empty without accomplishing what I desire, and without succeeding in the matter for which I sent it Charles Spurgeon said, Remember this, had any other condition been better for you than the one in which you are, divine love would have put you there. God is going to do all that He has intended, all that is wisest and good and perfect and holy and right and just and loving and kind. That is all contained in the plans that God intends to bring to pass. So we need to remember that God has a plan We need to remember that what God has planned, He will bring it to pass. And three, it's helpful to remember that every detail that intersects with your life has been purposely ordained by your Heavenly Father, who loves you completely, infinitely, and unconditionally. And just like we saw in Habakkuk 1. 12, God corrects his children. Hebrews 12. 6 tells us the very same thing. Those whom the Lord loves, He disciplines, and He scourges every son whom He receives. He does this because He loves us You know, so often when we are going through times of discipline and training, we think, well, God must not like me very much. much. He loves everybody else. He's mad at me. That is the furthest thing from the truth. He only disciplines those whom he loves. And he loves every one of his children, which means every one of you here in this room, if the Lord Jesus is your Savior Then you are going to go through times and seasons of discipline and scourging because He does that for every son whom He receives. Number four, every detail that intersects with your life has been wisely judged as the very best thing for you. Hebrews 13, 21 tells us that the God of peace equips us in every good thing to do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Jesus Christ to whom be the glory forever and ever. So when we look at all the details and we're remembering God has given this to me, He's wisely judged it for me And then Hebrews 13, 21 reminds us that He will equip us in every good thing to do His will. So if this path that you are on is God's will for your life, and it is, then He's also going to equip you to live that will will, to be on that path and he will equip you to do it well. All right, let's look at point two, imagining your worst case scenario. This is what Habakkuk is dealing with next. So verse 16 says that Habakkuk heard, his inward parts trembled, at the sound his lips quivered. Decay was entering his bones, and in my place I tremble because I wait quietly for the day of distress for the Lord to judge the people who will invade us. And then in verse seventeen it says Though. And notice that word, though. Though the fig tree should not blossom and there be no fruit on the vines. though the yield of the olive should fail and the fields produce no food, though the flock should be cut off from the fold and there be no cattle in the stalls though tells us there is more to this thought than what is contained in verse 17. Yet even before we learn what else this verse has for us, there are already some treasures here. Habakkuk, think about what he's saying in verse 17. He knows trouble is coming and he realizes that life is going to change like like crazy and not for the better. He it's going to be really hard and he realizes that devastation and destruction are on the way. if we could paraphrase it, it would be I am terrified. I feel like I'm falling apart. I am so afraid. Have you ever been so afraid like that that you just your whole body is just, you know um kind of taken over with fear. And yet he says, yet I will wait quietly for the day of judgment that God will bring upon that nation. And he says, though the fig tree will not blossom, though there be no fruit on the vines, though the yield of the olives should fail, and the fields produce no food Though the flock should be cut off from the fold and there be no cattle in the stalls. Though life looks bad, though we may face starvation, though we may suffer tremendous loss, though It makes you listen, like, okay, come on, tell me the rest. Because what you're telling me is really scary. It's like, hurry up, get to the yet And yet even before we get to the yet, though gives us hope, doesn't it? Though all this terrible stuff Though says the story isn't over. Don't you just love it how God puts one word that just gives hope? Last night it was now. Here it's though. Habakkuk was able to face his fears and imagine his worst case scenario And he was able to say, though, he went to the worst case. And even though this might be the case He's looking at it and he's judging it. He's considering his situation. And in facing our fears, we need to get to survival mode thinking. I talk about this in my in my new book about survival mode thinking. When we're faced with the worst case scenarios, what things can we still rely upon? And here, here's three things that we can trust in. Survival mode thinking when we are dealing with though. God is with us in our trial. Hebrews 13, 5 through 6 says, I will never desert you. I will never forsake you. With the result that we can confidently say the Lord is my helper. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? God holds us. John 10, 28 and 29, I will give eternal light to them, and they will never perish. No one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. Heaven is waiting. Romans 8:18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that awaits us Though leads us to our next point, your determination to trust the Lord. And we get to our yet here in verse 18. Verse 17 sets up verse 18. Yet I will exult in the Lord, I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. Though leads to yet. Though these terrible things, starvation is on our on our future. We're getting all those that's our though. And we need to be able to look at that and say, though this may happen, all these doomsday things that the news is saying But we know how often they are right. Okay, we don't have to even worry that about that. But even if they are correct, we need to live in yet. Though these terrible things may happen, are going to happen, whether they happen, yet, verse 18, I will exult in the Lord. Lord and I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. Though that leads to yet communicates a choice. I am going to trust the Lord no matter what. I am going to choose faith over my feelings. I'm going to Choose faith over my feel fear. No matter what the whisperings are in my heart, no matter how tempted I am to not trust the Lord, I am going to believe God. We've all heard um the well known verse, the righteous will live by faith. But did you know that it comes from Habakkuk Some of you might have forgotten that. It's repeated all the time in the New Testament, but it comes from Habakkuk chapter 2 in verse 4. And in verse 4 it says, Behold, as for the proud one, his soul is not right within him. But the righteous will live by his faith. 2 Corinthians 5. 7 says, For we walk by faith, not by sight. Living by faith is what believers do. The righteous will live by his faith. Habakkuk says the righteous lives by his faith, which is a little bit different than how it's repeated in the New Testament. And I love what it tells us about our lives. The righteous will live by his faith. Think about what that means for your life. You, the righteous one. You will live by your faith. You will act by your faith. You will rest in your faith. You will respond with your faith. You will walk, you will run, you will think, you will speak by faith. The righteous one lives by her faith. Throughout life, in the ups and downs of life, in the times of ease and plenty, in the times of hardship and sorrow, the righteous woman lives by her faith. Who or what we run to in our times of fear tells everything important about us. Who or what we run to in our times of fear tells everything important about us. If we run to the Lord, it tells everything about us. If we run to our essential oils It tells something else about us. Our being afraid and worried and paralyzed by anxiety tells less about us than how we respond. We're afraid. Yeah. That's that's what people do. That's the human heart. How we respond next Is the supernatural part. It's the work of God in us. When you are afraid, do you run To Jesus? Or do you run to somebody else to talk to them to get help? Do you run to the fridge? Do you run to the store? We find all kinds of ways to get therapy for our fears But believers always run to Jesus. Maybe not right away. Sometimes we're a little crazy. And maybe we we go do, you know, I just need to go shopping. And then we realize, what am I doing here? I need to be at home. I need to spend some time with the Lord. What am I doing? Believers always run to Jesus. Maybe not perfectly, maybe not right away. But we will always run to Jesus. That's what 2 Timothy 2. 13 tells us. If we are faithless, he remains faithful, for he cannot deny himself. Even when we are faithless, the Lord works in us. And He helps us because He can't So despite our fear and the failures and weaknesses, we put our trust in the Lord. Because there's no other place to go. He only is our hope and our strength. He is our refuge. And it's that understanding that's at the heart of verse 18 Yet I will exult in the Lord. I will rejoice in the God of my salvation. No matter what happens, I'm going to keep running to you, Lord. That's what Habakkuk is saying And that brings us to our last point, the foundation of your hope from verse 19. Habakkuk will exult and rejoice in the Lord because The Lord God is my strength. He has made my feet like hinds feet and makes me walk in my high places. Just reminding ourselves, as Habakkuk does here, is helpful when we're feeling fearful and weak and worried. It's helpful to consider what our options would be if the Lord isn't our strength. Just like the psalmist does in Psalm 121, that's what the psalmist does there. He says, I will lift up my eyes to the mountains. Where will my help come? It's not on the mountains. That's where the false gods are worshipped. My help will come from the Lord who made Peter's response to Jesus when Jesus asked if the disciples were going to walk away like so many others were doing a lot Instead of following him. And Peter replies in John 6. 68, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And I think there's something for us to learn here that we need to tell ourselves this truth. Lord, where else can I go? We need to tell the Lord that. I'm afraid, Lord. This is scary to me. But where else can I go? You are my refuge, Lord. You are my strength. You have the words of eternal life. The righteous will live by his faith. Psalm 46, 1 through 3 says, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. I love this. A present, a very present, not just present, but super present. Very present. He's very present in trouble. He's not checked out. He's present in trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth should change, and though the mountains slip into the heart of the sea Though the waters roar and foam, though the mountains quake at a swelling pride. Even though all those things might happen, what do we know? God is our refuge. God is our strength. It's the same cycle that that we are talking about in Habakkuk 3, Psalm 46, 1 through 3, is doing the same thing. Though this situation may happen, yet God is my refuge and strength. 2 Peter 1. 3 tells us that God's divine power has granted to us everything we need for life and godliness. for getting through the day, for going through the trial, for godliness, for life, for times when we're afraid. Godliness to go through with hope, with trust, without curling up in a ball and getting screaming our heads off and sh waving our hands. God gives strength for every trial. God gives patience for every trial. God gives hope for every trial. God gives the supplies that we need for every trial. There's not a checklist though for what this looks like in our lives. It's not like we can just say, I'm gonna trust the Lord. Push that button and then uh outcomes You are now trusting the Lord, little you know, banner uh that we can just put on there. I have trusted God. It's not like yeah, it's like you know the I voted kind of stickers. Wouldn't that be so nice? I trusted And we just we just put it on and then it's better. It would be so great. But that's not how it is It wouldn't that be wonderful. I love that idea just putting on the little sticker. I I trusted. And then everybody would be so proud and they'd all g give you the little pack. Oh good girl. So wonderful. But it's not like that. Instead, there's it walking with the Lord is not this push button, put on a sticker, check it off kind of thing God works in our hearts. We have to trust Him. And it's not perfect. And we have to keep doing it. Psalm 9, verse 10 says, And those who know your name will put their trust in you. For you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. Ron Blue in the Bible Knowledge commentary writes this about Habakkuk. Habakkuk's book begins with an interrogation of God, but ends as an intercession. To God. Worry is transformed into worship. Fear turns to faith. Terror becomes trust. Hang-ups are resolved with hope and anguish melts into adoration. We want to be women who smile at the future. And Habakkuk is our book for us to help us deal with our fears. I want to be that woman whose fear turns to faith. I want my terror to turn into trust I want my anguish to melt into adoration. And when I apply Habakkuk 3, 16 through 19 in my heart, I can be a woman who smiles at the future. You know, our fears, whether they're known or unknown, whether they're real or imagined, can be the vehicles that lead us into a deeper walk with the Lord. That though all these things may happen, yet I will trust him. Worry can be transformed into worry Fear can be turned in transformed into faith when we make the Lord our focus. Let's pray.