So for our opening uh session tonight, which w to this weekend um is really all about um facing the future when life is uncertain. And we have certainly been experiencing all kinds of uncertainty, difficulty. I mean it's been so surprising and different than we thought life was going to be. And uh so what we wanna be looking at is well how can we be women who aren't afraid in the midst of uncertainty and difficulty I don't know about you, but I tend to get a little nervous, a little afraid, a little anxious, a concerned when things are different to when I don't know what to expect. When I see difficulty or trials coming down the road, when I feel squeezed by circumstances. And so we that was part of why I wanted to study these things for myself is because I need to be a woman who smiles at the future. If I trust the Lord, if I belong to the Lord Jesus, then I need to be a woman who smiles at the future And so that's what these sessions are all geared toward, how how we can be strengthened by God's word to be women who are can smile at the future no matter what. God may allow in our lives. So in this first session, we're going to be talking about facing unbelief armed with God's promises. And we're not going to be facing unbelief out there, but we're going to be facing the unbelief that's in here. The things that we see in our lives that um where we recognize I'm not trusting the Lord. I'm being unbelieving here. I I'm not believing God's promises and it's showing up in my life by um fear or anxiety or anger or bitterness or any of those kinds of things. So that's what we're going to be looking at tonight. from the book of Exodus. So we'll be we'll be looking there. Now the kind of I'm I'm going to be referencing this phrase a lot and so I want to introduce it to you right now. And that is The path to blessing is not necessarily easy. The path to blessing is not necessarily easy. Now, usually we think that if we are going to experience blessing, that it's going to be wonderful, that the way will just open up for us and everything will be easy. But that is not necessarily how it works in the kingdom of God. And so we need to hear that. So um a number of years ago, probably it was probably about 15 years ago, uh Jack and I, my husband, we were I think on a little date or something. We but we were along the California um ocean front, we were out walking and we were on a dock And um we were walking along this dock, and it this dock was one of those docks that has the wooden slats Now most docks have between the slats maybe an inch in between, which is not a problem for me. This dock, the slats were further apart. And they felt like if I wasn't careful, I would stub my toe and I would fall through is what it felt like to me. So it was um they were farther apart and I felt like, man, I need to pay attention to what I'm doing as I'm walking on this dock because if I s if I catch my foot or something, I'm gonna fall. And um And so I didn't want to stub my toe or whatever. So I was walking very carefully. I was walking with my eyes on those slats and placing my feet very carefully. Well, because you're on a dock and then there was the the slats, I could see the water below me And so there is this little bit of vertical thing that was going on. And I'm walking and I'm trying to step over the cracks. And pretty soon As I got my eyes glued on these on the dock, I I couldn't move my legs. It was the weirdest thing I have ever experienced. I've never experienced it since But I was walking along really carefully and all of a sudden it got where it was like I was walking in concrete and I could not get my legs to move And finally I just stood there and I'm and my husband's always out way in front of me. It's like, honey, I I'm stuck. And he turns around and I said, I can't make my legs move. And he got it in that second. He knew exactly what my problem was because I was standing there with my eyes glued uh to the the dock and he said honey look at me Get your eyes up, focus on me, and start walking to me. And as soon as I did that, I could move again, my legs unglued And is I just kept my eyes on him and I was able to walk down the dock just fine and I didn't even trip. Well That is kind of like what we see here in the book of Exodus. We're going to be looking at a group of people who got so frozen in place by their circumstances that they couldn't even conceive that life would be different than what they were experiencing. And so what we're going to do is look there. So if you could turn in your Bibles or your devices. Um as to Exodus 4, starting in verse 27. And we're going to read there and we're going to kind of pick up as we go. And it says, Now the Lord said to Aaron, go meet Moses in the wilderness. So he went and met him at the mountain of God and kissed him. Moses told Aaron all the words of the Lord with which he had sent him, and all the signs that God had commanded him to be a man. Then Moses and Aaron went and assembled all the elders of the sons of Israel, and Aaron spoke all the words which the Lord had spoken to Moses. So you know, many of you know, that what's happening here is God has commissioned Moses. to go back to Egypt to deliver the nation of Israel, to take them out of Egypt, to bring them back to the promised land. The nation of Israel has been in an incubator in Egypt for 430 years, and now the time is ripe. for them to be brought out of the land. And so Moses and Aaron have been separated from each other. They got to meet up at Mount Sinai, which is called the mountain of God. And then they go back together to Egypt. And then in Egypt is when Moses and Aaron Tell the leaders of the people, this is what God has told us. And so in verse 31 of Exodus 4, it says, So the people believed, and when they heard that the Lord was considering Concerned about the sons of Israel and that he had seen their affliction, then they bowed low and worshiped. The the people, of course, you know, they were slaves in Egypt. And so when they heard that God was going to deliver them, that he was concerned about them. They were so encouraged. I mean, how wonderful is that? You're telling us there's a God who sees us You're telling us that there's a God who loves us and has prepared a place for us? Wow! And so they bowed down and worshipped. They liked this God because remember they were used to all the gods of Egypt and now they're hearing about this God, the God of their fathers, who cared for them And the life was so good, it was so exciting, and things were looking up. And so it seemed to be that the path to blessing would be easy But what did I tell you at the beginning? The path to blessing isn't always easy. So we look there in Exodus 5 in verses 1 through 20. I just real quick quickly, we learn that Moses and Aaron go before Pharaoh to ask that he let the Israelites go to worship God in the wilderness. And of course, if you know the story, I mean Most people do that Pharaoh said, No, you cannot go and take and go worship in the wilderness. And he was so offended that they would even ask this that he decides that he's going to punish the Israelites by making life even harder and more difficult for them So almost overnight the Israelite circumstances seemed to contradict God's promises that he would help and deliver them. Life was hard for them already. But it got harder. And yet God said, I'm going to deliver you. But what did they experience? More hardship, more trials They weren't provided with straw anymore. They had to go gather it themselves and still make the same amount of bricks. The work was made harder for all the men. The foremen were beaten and blamed for not working the people hard enough. Pharaoh berated them for being lazy. Then the foreman blamed Moses and Aaron for their miseries. And in verse 21 of Exodus 5 it says that the foreman said to Moses and Aaron, May the Lord look upon you and judge you. For you have made us odious in Pharaoh's sight and in the sight of his servants to put a sword in their hand to kill us Without a doubt, the Israelites needed God's deliverance. Their job was hard. Life itself was hard. And in their sorrow and in their desperation, they lash out and they blame Moses and Aaron for the increased trials and suffering in their lives. The Israelite circumstances seemed to contradict God's promises that He would help and deliver them. The God who had seemed so wonderful and seemed so ready to do amazing things for them now didn't seem so wonderful. Their circumstances seemed to indicate that God was not the wonderful God that they thought he was. In their hearts and attitudes, they moved from Exodus 431, which was when they bowed low and worshipped as soon as they heard the wonderful news that God was going to deliver them. They moved from bowing low in worship to almost overnight, blaming Moses and Aaron just at lightning speed because their circumstances grew more difficult. They moved from worship to whining when their circumstances changed. And this was not at all what they had in mind when God said he would deliver them. I mean when we hear certain promises or we find out somebody's going to help us with things, oftentimes we we build up in our minds like, oh, that means you're going to do this, this, and this. And that's exactly what they thought that the Lord was going to do for them. They thought the God's blessing on their lives, God's deliverance for them would be easy. And so Moses was on the receiving end of all their disappointment and the difficulties that they were experiencing. Moses then, in fear and disappointment and confusion himself, complains and begins blaming the Lord about the hardship that he is experiencing. So in verses 22 and 23 of Exodus 5 it says this. Then Moses returned to the Lord and said, Oh Lord, why have you brought harm to this people? Why did you ever send me? Ever since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done harm to this people, and you have not delivered your people at all. Moses forgot that the path to blessing is not necessarily easy. Moses himself is completely unprepared for the blame that was being heaped upon him. He expected the people the people would get that he had come as God's agent to deliver them. He expected that they would see him as the hero, not the villain But villain is how the people saw him. They thought he was the bad guy. And again, to the Israelites, their circumstances seemed to contradict God's promises to help and deliver When we look in verses 22 and 23 of Exodus 5, you can't help but just hear Moses' complaining spirit, Lord, why have you brought harm? to this people. Why did you ever send me? You can just see this. I'm so terrible ever since I came. So he's he's embellishing it Ever since I came, he's done harm to the people Pharaoh has. You haven't delivered your people at all. And all of that shows us that Moses did not expect what was happening He expected that God would deliver the people and they'd be out of out of Egypt. Time to go, let's go. Everybody's happy. But that wasn't what God had in mind Deliverance wasn't supposed to look like hardship and suffering and humiliation. Deliverance was supposed to be victorious This whole deliverer gig wasn't going as Moses expected. And Moses and the people's expectations of how God would deliver them is revealed in how they respond to the trials, as we see in Exodus 5, 22 through 23. When God said he intended to deliver them, they thought it would be quick and wonderful and easy. Instead, God's deliverance took way longer. It was way harder. It was humiliating and discouraging. God's rescue was nothing like what they thought it would be. In fact, nothing about their present circumstances seemed to indicate that God really was going to deliver them from their miseries. And so they didn't believe his promises. It was their justification for why they couldn't believe his promises and why they wouldn't believe his promises. Now what's amazing about this passage is not how the people reacted or how Moses reacted. I mean, that's kind of normal. We see ourselves even in their responses. But when we read their story, it's easy to see and understand how they would act that way, how they would respond that way. We because we feel those same kinds of things. When life gets harder and we think that God is going to rescue us by this certain thing or that thing And then it gets harder. What do we do? Oh Lord, and we get a little a little complainy like Moses. We blame, we complain, and we certainly don't believe God We don't stand firm or we and we don't wait upon him. But what is really amazing in this story is not how they all respond. It's how God responds to Moses' complaining and blaming of him and how patient God is with the people. And that brings us to our first point, which is our God is patient with us in our weakness. And we're also in chapter 6 now of Exodus, verse 1. Then the Lord said to Moses, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For under compulsion he will let them go, and under compulsion he will drive them out of his land. God's response to Moses and Moses' complaining is so patient and so perseveringly unswerving in his commitment to do good to his chosen people whether they deserve it or not. Let that soak in because they didn't deserve God's kindness, and neither did we do we Yet God chooses to do good because of his character, because of his promises, because he is faithful. Not because we deserve anything. We don't deserve his favor. We haven't we can't earn his favor. And yet God always chooses Not only does God remind Moses that he remained committed to his original plan to rescue the people, but he also adds more to his explanation to help Moses and the people trust him When we look at Exodus 6 in verse 1, there's this word there, now. The Lord said, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For under compulsion he will let them go. under compulsion he will drive them out of his land. Now implies change. Now implies that a time of action is going to happen. Something is going to be different. Now indicates I have a plan and I'm putting it in place. Now In just the right time, in just the right way, in just the right circumstances Exodus 6. 1 reveals that God has seen the injustices and the suffering that the children of Israel have been undergoing, and now he is ready to act on their behalf. And he tells them, Watch and see what I'm going to do to Pharaoh. God tells Moses in Exodus 6. 1 that Pharaoh will be compelled to do what God wants, even though Pharaoh is unwilling. God will ensure that Pharaoh does what God wants when God wants it, how God wants it, and in the time and method that God ordains. So while the people had lived so long under Pharaoh's rule and Pharaoh's reign, they had lived under Pharaoh's compelling hand. Now Pharaoh was going to be compelled by God to let the people go. Nothing gets by our just and perfect God. He always deals faithfully God is opposed to the proud. He gives grace to the humble, 1 Peter 5. 10 says. And it tells us here in Exodus 6. 1, that word now, that God sees. And now he is ready to act. If you look at verse 2 of Exodus 6, we see this: God spoke further to Moses. God gave Moses more encouragement to communicate to the people to help them, which is so gracious of the Lord. In verse 2 it says, God spoke further to Moses and said to him, I am the Lord, and I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as God Almighty. But by my name, Lord, I did not make myself known to them. I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they sojourned. Furthermore, I have heard the groaning of the sons of Israel because the Egyptians are holding them in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. And that brings us to our second point, which is our God desires to strengthen us. God's remedy for our struggles and unbelief about his promises. is to give us a greater view of himself, a greater view of his character. And so what God does in verses 2 through 5 of Exodus 6 is reveal himself. In verse 2, God declares, I am the Lord. In this statement, he identifies himself and he reveals so much about his character that he is king, that he is mighty, that he has power to make all things happen. In verse 3, God says that he appeared to the fathers, and here he reveals his past deeds of goodness and graciousness. He goes back through their their history to remind them, this is what I did to your forefathers. I appeared to them. And in verse 3, we learn that the fathers never knew God's name, which he has now revealed to the Israelites They knew him as God Almighty, but they didn't know him by his special name. That he we see is is um translated as Lord, but it was that special name, Yahweh. I am This statement shows that God had singled out the Israelites in this time, in this place, with a special blessing. to know God in a unique and new way that had never been known before. They had got to know God by His special name. In verse 4, God says, I made a promise to the fathers to give them their own land. We learn that God hasn't forgotten his promise that he made to the fathers over 400 plus years earlier. He he brings up his promise. You know, if God wasn't going to keep his promise to the fathers, he probably wouldn't have brought it up. But he brings it up because he wants the Israelites to know I made a promise to them 430 some years earlier. It was actually even more than that. And I'm keeping my promise. Isn't that cool? In verse 4, let's see, in verse 5, God also reminds the Israelites that he has heard their cries and has seen the injustices that they have had to endure. Though they may have felt alone or even abandoned, nothing was further from the truth. God had been watching them. While they were slaves in Egypt, God saw. God saw their suffering. God saw their oppression. He had seen it all. And now he reveals that he knows, that he sees, and he understands the depths of their trials and their difficulties. And in verse 5, it also says that God says he has remembered his covenant that he made with the fathers. It's helpful and it's interesting to remember that God made the covenant a blessing with the fathers. Which means that it that covenant, that pro that he had made with the fathers was still in effect all that time. Even though the Israelites weren't necessarily experiencing it. God promised it. It was in effect all that time. And God now brings that up. He's bringing that up to remind them, I made a promise to your fathers. And it's still in effect. I haven't wiped it away. It's still there. God indicates now that the time has come. To act. And when he says that he remembered, he is now ready to act to deliver them. In verses 2 through 5, God reminds Moses and the people about who he is, his past promises, and his past faithfulness. And this is a pattern for us to focus on when we are discouraged that life isn't turning out the way we expected or the way that we wanted it to. Just like Moses and the Israelites, we can and need to focus on the Lord and His character. That's why God brought up all those deeds of His faithfulness. He wanted the Israelites to know that about himself. And we have it in the Word of God written down for us so that we can focus on those truths about God's character too. We need to remember God's past faithfulness in our lives and in the lives of those in the scriptures He appeared to the fathers. He initiated a relationship with them. He has given us his word. We see God's past acts of faithfulness in our lives. We too need to remember the ways that God shows kindness and showers us with special blessings. The Israelites got to know God with a special name. Something that the fathers didn't know, even though they had received the promise. But God has given us special kindnesses too, like the preservation of his word. God has given us this It's the best. We don't have to try to remember it. Uh uh you know, we just hear it once like from Moses and then what what was it that Moses said? We could look it up. We have got God's word preserved for us. Everything that God wants us to know about him is here. And we just we can look for his kindnesses. We also can remember that God stands by and keeps and acts on his promises, and we can remember that God has compassion and hears our cries. We are never hidden from him. And we can take those principles from just looking at how God interacts with the Israelites from verses 2 through 5 in chapter 6. So let's move on to the third point, which is our God goes out of his way to strengthen us. So when we consider verses two through five, I think really What God says there is life-changing. We could live off of verses two through five and be encouraged if we just spent some time meditating on the things that God tells us about Himself. I am the Lord. I have made promises. I see. Now is the time to act. I have remembered all those things that He says. We could spend time on that. And yet God gives us more. He gives us more and he gave more to the Israelites so that they would have greater courage and greater hope in trusting Him. In verses 6 through 8, God reveals his step-by-step plan for the nation's deliverance, and in doing so, he goes out of his way to strengthen Moses and the languishing Israelites. He tells them ahead of time, here's what I'm going to do. Well, ladies, we also have that. God has told us what he's going to do. And it's all right here at the end of our Bibles. God has told us. how we can look forward to his plan of rescue and redemption at even towards the end of time. But in Exodus 6, 6 through 8, what do we see? He says, Say therefore to the sons of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from their bondage. I will also redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments. Then I will take you for my people, and I will be your God, and you shall know that I am your God. uh who brought you out from under the burden of the Egyptians. I will bring you to the land which I swore to give to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and I will give it to you for a possession. I am the Lord. And again, just like in verses two through five, these verses, verses six through eight, reveal God's answer for their struggles to trust Him in their present circumstances. It's important that we examine what God says here carefully because they contain answers for us in our present circumstances and in our present struggles too. Verses six through eight contain God's solution to the Israelites' unbelief. They were struggling to believe God. They didn't believe God's promises. They were discouraged over their circumstances. And verses 6 through 8 is God's verbal way that he encouraged the nation of Israel. He tells them who he is in verse 6. I am the Lord. He reminds them of his intentions by using eight I will statements. I will bring you out from under your burdens, verse six. I will deliver you from their bondage and slavery, verse six. I will redeem you. And he does this with great power and miracles, verse six. I will take you to be my people, verse 7. I will be your God, verse 7. And then you will know that I am the Lord your God, verse 7, when you see how I deliver you. I will bring you to the land I promised the patriarchs, verse eight. Not only will I bring you to the land, but I will give it to you for a possession, verse eight. And then the Lord finishes this incredible pledge of blessing, commitment, deliverance, and help by shoring up the people by saying, I am the Lord. That pronouncement alone should be enough for us. I am the Lord. It's the amen, isn't it? It's the amen to everything that He has said. And that alone should be enough for our hearts, but God gives us more. He gives us all of these ways that He intends to act. And He does it ahead of time because it will be encouraging. And he has done that for us in his word. He's given us promise after promise because he knows it will encourage us. God wants the nation of Israel to know him. He wants them to know of his commitment, of his faithfulness, his power and ability to bring all things to pass. He wants them to be strengthened by the one statement, I am the Lord, which he makes at the beginning and end of his encouragement to Moses and the people. When God says, I am the Lord, it's everything. That sums up all of his character. It tells us everything that he wants us to know about him. It can be summed up in who he is. Isaiah 43, 10 through 13, God says, Before me there was no God formed. And there will be none after me. I, even I am the Lord, and there is no Saviour besides me. It is I who have declared and saved and proclaimed, and there was no strange God among you. So you are my witnesses, declares the Lord. and I am God. Even from eternity I am He, and there is none who can deliver out of my hand. I act, and who can reverse it? I am the Lord. That should be enough for us, isn't it? If God think about all the times that we read in the scriptures, I am the Lord. And how many times have we passed over it? Yeah, yeah, there it is. I'm the Lord. And we just keep going. But God is saying it so it will give strength to our souls. I am the Lord is used one hundred and sixty-five times in the Old Testament alone And each time it is used is to remind people of who God is and what he's really like. And yet oftentimes we we just read that real quickly. Oh there it is. Yeah, there it is. And we don't see it for what God intends it to be to our hearts and lives. Now if you look at verse nine of Exodus six, it tells us that the people didn't listen to Moses on account of their despondency and cruel bondage. And this is our fourth point. In spite of God's provision, we can often respond with unbelief. So here we have in verses two through five all of the wonderful things that God was going to do. Then we have verses six through eight. God gives more encouragement to the Israelites. And then in verse nine. It says they did not listen to Moses. They did not. They would not. Their unbelief crippled them and stopped their ears from hearing the life-giving, life-transforming hope that God had imparted to them. One phrase from God, one word from God should be enough and and is enough if we think about it. But God gave so much more But they would not hear it because of their unbelief. And the text gives us some insight into why they were so full of unbelief. Um, life was hard for them. Verse nine says they didn't listen to Moses because of their despondency and cruel bondage. They were bummed out because life was so hard. I don't know about you, but I've I've lived like that. I've been so discouraged because I'm so hard that I don't listen to the word of God. I don't believe it. I don't take it in for what it is meant to be. Encouragement, strength. strength for my soul to lift my eyes away from my circumstances and onto the Lord who had given those promises. Life was hard for the Israelites. It was really hard. And their spirits were low, and they found it difficult to take in the soul-strengthening words that God had imparted to them through Moses. Charles Spurgeon says, and yet it's a poor reason for refusing light just because the night is so dark. It's like, it's so dark, no no, we can't have light. But that's what we do When we are bummed out, when we're depressed, when we're discouraged, and someone tries to say you know, the Lord will can encourage you, the Lord can strengthen you. And what do we say? Yeah, right. Yeah That's like that's gonna happen and we respond in unbelief. Spurgeon goes on to say Do not therefore, because of the heaviness of your lot, refuse to hear about God, your maker, your benefactor, for in that direction lies your only real hope The Israelites expected God to rescue them right after Moses and Aaron told them about him. Yet when God didn't, and life got even more difficult The Israelites hardened their hearts and fell into despair. They were unwilling to imagine rescue in any other way. It needed to be easy, needed to be quick, and it was time to go. Only God had a different plan. And because God's deliverance looked different than they thought it was going to be, they refused his help. They refused his comfort. They refused to be strengthened. They refused to believe God's message of hope and deliverance. And instead chose to just wrap themselves in unbelief That was more familiar to them. Romans 1 18 says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. The Israelites actively worked at suppressing the hopeful promises of God. That God worked so hard to remind them of. They suppress the truth in their unbelief. We do this We act just like unbelievers and we suppress the truth in our unbelief. And it's unrighteous. It's sin. There was plenty to convince the Israelites that God would deliver them, but they rejected that evidence. They rejected God's promises and remained unbelieving. So let's talk a little bit about what unbelief it looks like. In Matthew 13, 58, Jesus was in Nazareth, and it says that he did not do many miracles there because of their Unbelief. The people in Jesus' hometown would not receive the blessing and benefit of having Jesus in their midst simply because of their unbelief. So unbelief is stubborn and it actually does us harm. We hurt ourselves when we are unbelieving. When we refuse to believe God. In Mark 6, verse 6, Mark recounts another episode of unbelief. The text says that Jesus wondered at their unbelief as he was going around the villages teaching. And here Jesus marvels at their unbelief. There's only a couple places in the Bible where it says that Jesus wondered or marveled at something. The other place is when the Roman centurion had such great faith that he said, if you just say the word Jesus, my my servant will be healed. So Jesus marveled at the centurion's belief. Here Jesus marvels at their unbelief. He's there amidst them, but it just made made Jesus like, what's going on? How come they won't believe? It made him marvel that they would be so stubborn in not receiving his blessing. Hit the things that God in that he intended to do good for them. Another example of unbelief is in Mark chapter 9, verse 24, and it's the story of the desperate father whose son is demon-possessed. And the father goes to the disciples and says, Could you help me, my poor son? And the disciples are trying to get the demons to come out and the demons won't come out. And Jesus comes and and asks the Father, do you believe? And the Father cries out, I do believe, but help my unbelief. The desperate father vacillates between belief and unbelief as he seeks healing for his son, but he keeps coming. And so his belief that God could do something to help his son helps him. And uh he keeps him moving towards Jesus And what that teaches us is that moving from unbelief to belief means that we need the Lord's help. And it was the Lord who helped this father move from that place of unbelief. to believing that he could rescue his son. In Mark chapter 16, verse 14, after Jesus' resurrection And the disciples were all gathered together and the Lord uh appeared to the eleven um as they were reclining at the table, and the Lord Jesus, the risen Lord Jesus after his death reproached his disciples for their unbelief and hardness of heart because they had not believed those who had seen him after he had risen. So after Jesus' resurrection, the disciples' hearts were hard, and they were unwilling to believe the reports that Jesus was alive. Jesus had told them he was going to rise from the dead. He had explained it very clearly, but they would not believe it when some of the other disciples of the Lord were telling them about it And the Lord actually reproves them for their unbelief and hardness of heart. And so w our hearts are hard against the Lord when we don't believe. And we need to recognize that, that our hearts are hard when we're not trusting in the Word of God. The Israelites didn't believe God when their circumstances were different than they expected. They wouldn't believe God when he didn't deliver within the time schedule that they had in their heads. They refused to trust God when they were worn out and worn down from their trials. And Charles Spurgeon, as he's dealing with this text, once said they were under a misunderstanding, for they expected to be free at once, as soon as Moses went to Pharaoh, and as they did not get immediate relief, they fell back into sullen despair I don't know about you, but to me, all this feels rather familiar. It's I see this in my heart Like my own heart when the when God does things different, then I can see myself going back to Just like what they were doing, not believing the Lord, not trusting Him. It's helpful to remember when or how unbelief can be can crop up in our lives so that when it does, we can recognize that we are actually suppressing the truth in our unrighteous unbelief. And we don't want to be like that Now there are times when we do struggle to trust the Lord, when it's hard when we're going through difficulties and trials, when we find it difficult to believe the promises of God. Now there's times like when you lose your job or when you fall back into that same sin that you've been trying not to fall into. Or possibly when your husband betrays you or a friend betrays you, or when you feel abandoned Or when things don't go according to your plan, like every day. Um, or when someone comes to you and they urge you to uh put away your sin when possibly they're repu reproving you or confronting you on sin and you just don't want to change When we when believing God and believing His Word will take us out of our comfort zone, we would rather stay in unbelief. When believing God means that we need to change what we've always believed or would change in our worldview or our pa favorite pet philosophy. I've always thought this and but it doesn't match up to the scriptures or the promises of God. We would rather stay in unbelief sometimes. Spurgeon noted in his sermon on this passage that the Israelites could not believe God because of the shortness of their judgment. They measured God by inches. They limited the great and infinite God to minutes and days. And so as they found themselves at first getting into a worse case than before, they said to Moses deliberately, Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians. They did as good as say, You have done us no good. Indeed, you have increased our miseries, and we cannot believe in you or accept your message as really from God, seeing it has as it has caused a terrible increase in our suffering So if we want to move from unbelief to belief, then we need to believe the promises of God's Word. We need to apply um the the the truths that we see here in the in our lives and as we're we're studying or we're reading and we come along and we we see the promises of God, we need to begin to apply them to our circumstances. The Israelites needed delivering. What do you need delivering from? What do you need? God's help. Today, in your heart, maybe you've got a really difficult job that you're needing help to just get through the day. Maybe you are in a loveless marriage uh disappointing family life. Maybe you're feeling overwhelmed by life. Maybe you're feeling overwhelmed by sin. You are caught up in your sin Maybe I mean there could be anything. But you need deliverance. And you have the expectation that God will deliver you, but it doesn't seem like He is. How come it's still hard? How come you're still struggling? This is when we believe God over our circumstances. Can we still believe God even if the path to blessing isn't easy? It's always been God's intention to rescue us and for us to respond in faith to Him. Psalm 50, verse 15 says, Call upon me in the day of trouble. Anybody got a day of trouble happening? God says, call upon me in the day of trouble. I will rescue you, and you will honor me. Psalm 18, verse 2, it says, The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock in whom I take refuge. My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. Psalm 68, verses 19 through 20 says, Blessed be the Lord who daily bears our burden. The God who is our salvation. God is to us a God of deliverances. And to God the Lord be can't belong escapes from death. Psalm 74, 12. Yet God is my king from of old, who works the deeds of deliverance in the midst of the earth. When your circumstances seem to contradict the promises of God, remember Hebrews 11:6 and put your trust in Him. Without faith, it is impossible to please God. God. For he who comes to God must believe that he is. I am the Lord. And that he is a rewarder of those who The path to blessing is not necessarily easy, but it is the path of God's blessing for you. Spurgeon counsels us this way when he's considering the Israelites. He says, How earnestly would I persuade them to overcome their very natural tendency to hasty judgment? Press on, dear friend, he says. Be of good courage. Pharaoh will not long be able to make you keep up that enormous number of bricks. Within a very few days he will be glad to get rid of you Wait hopefully, for the God who begins in darkness will end in light. And before long you will come to understand those ways of mercy which are now past finding out Not many weeks after the sobbing and sighing at the brickyards, Moses and the children of Israel sang this song unto the Lord. Sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously in the horse, and his rider he hath thrown into the sea. The path to blessing isn't necessarily easy, but it's the path that God has you on. And he is the Lord. And he's given us his word so that we can be strengthened He is patient with us in our weaknesses. He desires to strengthen us by his promises and the faithfulness of his character. He goes out of his way to encourage us in his word. And he has provided for us in every way. He has given us of his spirit. Let us believe him. Let us believe his word and let us give him glory so that we can be women who smile at the future. Let us pray.