Old Scottish preacher Samuel Rutherford said, Believe God's word and power more than you believe your own feelings and experiences Your rock is Christ, and it is not the rock which ebbs and flows, but your own sea. Isn't that wonderful? If you're at all familiar with Abraham's life story, you know that Abraham was living uh in uh Ur and He was in that land when God spoke to him and told him, Abraham, get going. I want I'm going to take you to a new land. I want you to follow me, and I have um all kinds of promises So we know that. And yet Abraham's life He had all kinds of things that were going on in his life that were difficult. He had trials in his life, even though God intended to bless him. And so when we look at his life, and we're going to be touching on some of that in this session, it's easy to imagine that he may have experienced Discouragement. And yet when we study Abraham's life, the picture that we gain of Abraham is not one of discouragement, frustration, or despair. He's not angry. He's not wallowing in pity for himself. What we see is faith and courage and hope. Even when nothing changed in his life and he was in the perpetual period of waiting He still trusted and hoped in the Lord. Hebrews 11:8 has this to say about Abraham's faith in the Lord By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed, going out to a place which he was to receive for an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. We can imagine that Abraham may have felt fearful leaving all that was familiar and going to a land he knew nothing about. He was basically starting over in life. And anyone who has done that knows the uncertainty all the newness and unknowns can bring. Hebrews 11, 9 through 10 tells us more about Abraham. It says this, By faith Abraham lived as an alien in the land of promise, as in a foreign land. Dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, fellow heirs of the same promise. For he was looking for the city which ha which has of foundations whose art architect and builder is God. And we can imagine that it was difficult living as a temporary dweller in the land, which Abraham did for the rest of his life. He lived as a temporary dweller in tent. So just think about that. I mean the Doyles just moved here. I'm sure there's others of you who have just moved or you've had a change in your circumstances and you're getting settled in your new place. But what if it was a little camp trailer? Or what if it was a tent? Just pitch it in the backyard, in that little tent. There you go, girls. The rest of your life. There was Sarah. They were temporary dwellers in that new land. And we can look at Abraham's life and I can imagine um because I have lived for a a time and a season in our lives too where we lived in a temporary situation. And when you live for a length of time in temporary Uh it you it's easy to feel a little envious for those who are in permanent land. And we can be envious of that. We can feel frustrated over God's timing, wondering when is temporary going to And it's easy to feel that's that longing and frustration and even sorrow over our circumstances And yet Hebrews eleven tells us that one of the ways that Abraham overcame his emotions during that time of temporary in his life was by trusting in the world. in the Lord and his word. He was looking for the city whose city has foundations, whose architect and builder is God. Abraham trusted God in or trusted in God's promises despite his current circumstances, in spite of how he may have felt about his circumstances. And that's why our text that we're going to be looking at this morning, Romans 4, 18 through 21, is so perfect for us to look at when we're desiring to be women who smile at the future. Now Romans four eighteen through twenty-one is an unlikely text for us learning how to deal with our feelings. But it's the perfect passage for us to go to when we want to learn from someone else's example and learn how they process their emotions. to such a degree that they were able to give God glory through their faith. Now, Paul, when he wrote this section, had no intention of teaching women how to deal with their emotions. when life was hard. That is not what Paul is talking about. So the in the context of this passage, Paul has been carefully explaining That salvation comes only through faith and not by any human merit. And to illustrate what he's been saying He describes Abraham's faith, which rested in God alone for his salvation, and that he was right before God because God justified him Because Abraham placed his faith in the Lord. And so that's what Paul is talking about in Romans 4. During Abraham's lifetime and that of Isaac and Jacob, the law of God hadn't even been written or given yet. So that's what Paul is describing and talking about in Romans 4 And yet, as Paul does this, he also, because he illustrates Abraham's trust in the Lord in this section of Romans 4. We're able to take a peek at what's going on in Abraham's life and his trust in the Lord. And from there, we can glean truths and principles that we can apply to our lives. So I just want to make sure we all know where we're going and how we can still gain goodies from this section of scripture. that we can apply to our lives as we look at Abraham's faith in the Lord. So let's read starting in verse 18. It says this In hope against hope, Abraham believed, so that he might become a father of many nations, according to that which had been spoken. This was the promise of God beforehand. So shall your descendants Now Abraham without becoming weak in face contemplated his own body now as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old, and the deadness of Sarah's womb. And yet With respect to the promise of God, Abraham did not waver in unbelief, but grew strong in faith giving glory to God and being fully assured that what God had promised, God was able also to perform. Is this going to be great? Just me reading it, isn't it wonderful? I mean, you've got the goodies there already. So our first point, trusting God no matter how you feel. We're going to be looking at verse 18. In hope against hope. Abraham believed. That phrase hope against hope means to have hope even when a situation appears to be hopeless, to hope very strongly in something, even though it's not very likely that it's going to happen. And so that's what is being described there in verse 18. And so we have to ask ourselves, well, what is it that was going on in Abraham's life? that he kept hoping in even though it seemed quite likely that it wasn't going to happen. Well Genesis 1130 and even the rest of the text tells us Sarah was barren. There there wasn't um there weren't any children from the time of her her childbearing years and there weren't any children clear into old age. They had never had children Yet in Genesis chapter twelve, God tells Abraham something amazing. God tells Abraham, Go forth from your country and from your relatives and from your father's house to the land which I will show you. Now, this might be kind of hard to do, and I'm sure Abraham was thinking about this. How will God make me a great nation? And Genesis twelve four says that Abraham at that time was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. So he's already old. He's already getting past the point or almost to past the point where he would be able to father children. Abraham was 75 years old when God made that promise that he would make him into a mighty nation. God promised Abraham that he would have an heir. God also promised to make him a great nation in a new land. And we know from scripture that Isaac wasn't born to Abraham and Sarah until Abraham was one hundred years old. That means that Abraham waited 25 years for God's promise to come to fruition So if ever there was someone that we can learn from about how to deal with emotions while you're in the midst of waiting for something, it's Abraham. And so we can learn so much from him and his example. Most of us have not waited twenty-five years for anything Now I know there's a few of you who have, um, but for the most part we don't. We God is faithful to us and he answers even before twenty-five years. But there's a lot we can learn from waiting a really long time. And so Abraham is our example in this. Romans 4. 18 tells us, in hope against hope, Abraham believed. And he believed God. There wasn't anything in Abraham's experience that had told him before this that he could have a child in his really old, old age. There he knew his own body. He knew it wasn't working anymore. By a hundred years old you kinda know. Yeah, that we've that ship is sailed And my wife, that ship has sailed for her too. And yet he hoped. And he hoped. And he hoped, and he hoped. Abraham put his faith in the promises of God above his circumstances and Abraham modeled for us that it's possible to trust God no matter how you feel, no matter what you're going through, no matter what your circumstances Now I know that there are some of you here whose circumstances right now in your life are vexing, they're hurtful, they're dire, they're pre- you're under pressure Um you feel like you're being stretched to the breaking point. So with the example of Abraham in our sights, we too can trust the Lord no matter what our circumstances Now Abraham had been given a very specific promise from God that he trusted in. Abraham you're going to have a baby. And not only are you going to have a baby, but you're going to that baby is going to multiply so that you will have many descendants. You might not see them all, but you're gonna have a lot of them, which was amazing. And so he trusted in that specific promise. Now I doubt that that's what the Lord has spoken to. We know that that isn't the case. We have all the promises of God for us contained right here. We don't need to have the special extra ones. God hasn't given them to us. But He has contained Here for us every promise that we need for life that will apply to our circumstances. So may we don't have that specific promise, but we do have all the promises of God. We have the scriptures that we can Stand upon. Like this one. First Corinthians ten thirteen. It's my all-time favorite for all of life. Everything in life can boil down to First Corinthians ten thirteen, which tells us no temptation has So So that you will be able to endure it. If you need help getting through the day, 1 Corinthians 10, 13 is your promise that you can live upon. Even when you're tired and your emotions are stretched to the breaking point, like maybe 7 p. m. tonight after having stayed up late last night and being here all day long and then you get home and Maybe things haven't gone as smoothly at home as when you left them. And so there's a temptation in your little heart We can live upon the promise of God that says, No temptation has overtaken us. It's common. This is going to be normal. And yet, what do we know? God provides a way of escape. And that He is there in the midst of trouble with us to help us so that we can give Him glory. We can endure that trial well so that God is put on display What we learn from Abraham is that it is possible to trust the Lord when we're feeling emotional, when we're feeling weak, when we're feeling vulnerable. When we feel that all hope is lost. It is possible to defer an emotional outburst We don't have to give vent to our emotions. We don't just have to just let everybody know how we're doing We can trust the Lord and be women who smile at the future by reminding ourselves of the truth of God's Word and maintaining Hope against hope by believing in God's word. So that brings us to our next point. Point two, facing facts without becoming overwhelmed in verse 19. Which says, without becoming weak in faith, Abraham contemplated his own body, now as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old, and the deadness of Sarah's womb. Facts are facts. And these are the facts in verse 19. Abraham looked at them. Now I don't know about you, but sometimes I get a little scared to look at facts. You know. There are times in our um in uh in our marriage where um I've been do paying the bills. So like I don't want to look at those things That's a little too scary. That what you've got in the bank and the bills that you've got there it's like Lord. I don't even know. And so I am one of those people who I'm a little bit more ostrichy I just I don't even want to look at that. And yet Abraham faced the facts. He looked at it. He took a good hard look That's what contemplated. Abraham contemplated his own body. So he received this promise from God. And then he thought about it Okay, God is giving me a promise. He says I'm gonna have the Sarah and I are gonna have a baby. Not only that, that baby's gonna multiply into lots of babies And how is that gonna work? My body is not working, her body's not working. And and yet, even after he faced the facts about that He trusted God. And not only that, verse 19 tells us he was able to face the facts without becoming weak in faith. He faced the truth and applied faith to it. I think this is a crucial step that we often miss. I know I do when I'm dealing with our emotions and life When something's bothering us or we're afraid about something, we want to hide from those facts. Or we, you know, even when we do face the facts, then we're looking at them and instead of re applying faith, we turn into the it's the pit of despair. It's never gonna happen. Because we're looking at the facts and oh it's too overwhelming. I can't believe it And then we turn into Exodus six nine people that were like, No, I cannot trust God. Abraham faced the facts, and yet he stood upon the promises of God. Like what we sang last night, standing on the promises that cannot fail, when the howling storms of doubt and fear assail, by the living word of God, I shall prevail Standing on the promises of God. When we're standing, standing, standing on the promises of God, my Savior, standing, standing, standing on the promises of God When we find ourselves struggling with fears and anxiety and anger over something that's happening in our lives, we need to remember that we can, just like Abraham did. Trust the Lord no matter what our situation. Psalm 2510 is so helpful to me when I am struggling this. in this way. Psalm twenty-five ten says this All the paths of the Lord are loving, kindness, and truth to those who keep his covenant and his testimony. Testimonies. All the paths of the Lord. So that means this path that you're on today That's kind of scary, or that's hard, or that you would rather not be on. God's word says this path that you're on that He has placed you in is His loving kindness. It's the best way. Because he puts you on that path, because he does that for all those who keep his covenant and his testimonies. That means for he does this for his children. And so there are no mistakes. And the path that you are on today Whether it feels right or not, is the one that the Lord has placed you in. And that path is his loving kindness for you. What we see from verse 18 is that Abraham trusted in the Lord no matter how he felt, and so can we, when we remember the truths of God. And then in verse 19 we see that Abraham faced the facts about his situation, yet he didn't become overwhelmed by it. It it didn't turn him into a place of despair. And we can be follow Abraham's example when we wait on the Lord in faith. And that brings us to point three, standing firm upon the promises of God, looking at verses twenty. Where with respect to the promise of God, Abraham did not waver in unbelief. But grew strong in faith, giving glory to God, and being fully assured that what God had promised, he was able also to perform. We see that Abraham didn't waver in unbelief. Instead, he grew strong in faith and gave glory to the Lord. Yet this was only possible because Abraham believed that God was able to bring his promises to pass in Abraham's Life. God had promised that he would make Abraham a father of many nations, that he would plant him in the new land, and that from his line all the nations of the earth would be blessed And it was that promise that Abraham kept in mind. And our text says that Abraham didn't waver in unbelief. I marvel at that because I am very much like the the desperate father from Mark Nine I believe, Lord, but help my unbelief. I believe Lord, but help my unbelief. And yet this he says Abraham didn't even waver in his unbelief. So how does that work? What does that look like? He didn't doubt, even while he contemplated his dead body in Seras. How does that work? He didn't doubt while he waited for God to bring the promise to pass. He didn't doubt for twenty five years. I can't even get through a day That kind of puts per a new perspective on trusting the Lord, doesn't it? He's such a great example for about it. Abraham didn't waver in unbelief and a flip-floppy kind of a way of believing God and not trusting him. But and here's something important for us to understand. That didn't mean that he didn't struggle to believe. John MacArthur has some great thoughts on this in his commentary on this passage. He says, struggling faith is not doubt, just as the temptation to sin is not sin itself. Struggling faith is not doubt, just as the temptation to sin is not itself sin. The very fact that Abraham was trying to understand how God's promise could be fulfilled indicates he was looking for a way for it to be fulfilled. Although he couldn't see the way. Weaker faith might have simply succumbed to doubt. Sincere struggling with spiritual problems comes from strong godly faith Such faith refuses to doubt and trust in God's promises even when no way of fulfillment is humanly possible. God's testing of his children's faith is designed to strengthen their trust, and they should thank him for it, hard as it seems to be at the time. When Abraham was tested by God, he grew strong in faith As Abraham trusted the Lord in spite of his feelings, as Abraham faced facts without becoming overwhelmed, and as Abraham stood firm upon the promises of God, his faith grew strong In fact, it wouldn't be too far off the mark to say that the longer Abraham had to wait, the more his faith grew. I love that. Because how how does that work? You know, you're at the stoplights and you're waiting and you're waiting and the light's not changing So then what do you start doing? Looking around. It's like you know that the light is going to change eventually, but what are we doing? We completely check out. And then somebody has to honk the horn behind you in a really nice little way, like, come on lady, get going. The light has changed. Well This is exactly what we kind of see here with when it comes to trusting in the promises of God. Oftentimes we check out. It's like, well, I've been waiting and God hasn't answered. I don't feel like the Lord is rescuing me out of this situation. I'm still struggling and I'm and so we check out. And yet what we see in Abraham's example is that his faith in the Lord, he was actually more intent. The life's going to change. The life's gonna change. I'm ready, I'm ready. So that as soon as it happened, he was ready to go. That's what we see happening in Romans four, eighteen through twenty-one as we're looking at this. Abraham set his eyes upon God, and he chose not to give in to unbelief. Was unbelief a temptation for him? Absolutely. Did he struggle to believe it? Yes, like, well, I don't know how this could be, Lord, but you said it, so I'm gonna believe That's struggling faith. That's that. I don't know how it's gonna work. I can't even conceive of how this is gonna work. As far as I know, this has never happened to anybody. But if you say it, God, I'm gonna believe it. Abraham chose to believe God and he lived by faith. That's what it's that's what living by faith is. By faith. It's impossible to please God unless we come to Him by faith. And so in this situation, we are responsible to Trust the Lord in whatever that God is doing in our lives. That we, just like Abraham, live by faith in this situation. going to respond in faith in this minute and in this minute and in this minute so that by we the end of the day we've we've lived by faith in the minutes and in the hours And in the days, so that each month can roll away, and we have lived by faith upon the promises of God. Verse 21 provides a clue as to how Abraham's faith was strengthened. It says that Abraham was fully assured that what God had promised he was able also to do. perform. And I think this is really important for us to see because it's not us pulling us up by our bootstraps and saying I'm gonna believe God by faith. I'm doing it all by myself. And because we know that does not work, right? We we cannot maintain anything. And if we try to To believe God all on our own, nothing's gonna happen. But if we put our eyes on God God, if we like Abraham are fully assured that what God had promised he would be able to perform. If God has put it in his word, then we can believe But it be it means that we must know God and his character. See, Abraham understood that about God. God knew what God or Abraham knew what God's character was like. Abraham knew that God was mighty. He was He was powerful, he was faithful, and that what he promised, he was able to perform it. God is able to keep his promises Yeah. There's no way we'll grow stronger in faith in times of waiting and difficulty unless we do what Abraham did and think on God's character. Abraham thought on how God dealt with those who had gone before him. He knew of God's complete faithfulness in rescuing Noah and his family in the flood. He knew that. He knew of God's kindness to Adam and Eve in sparing them in the garden. Abraham had already experienced much of God's kindness in protection. protection in his life. And so Abraham grew strong in faith in this new time of testing and waiting. Trusting in God's character strengthens your faith. But it has to be in God Himself. It's not in looking for someone else to fix the situation. It's just Looking to the Lord. Lord, I don't even know how you're going to do this. But your word says, and just for the example of 1 Corinthians 10 13 I'm tempted, Lord. I'm struggling to keep my temper here. But your word says that you will provide a way of escape for me. I am looking to you, Lord, to give me the strength to To give you glory in this situation. I do not have to give way to my emotions, though they are they are right here and they're crying out for me to give way to. I can look those in the face. And say no, that will not give God glory if I give vent to these little yelping things over here. Trusting in God's character strengthens your faith. John Macduff said, O you whose wisdom guides my way, though now it seems severe, forbid my unbelief to say there isn't No wisdom here. Lord, if you bend my spirit low, let it be love only that I shall see, because the very hand that strikes the blow was wounded once more. For me. Trusting in God's character strengthens your faith. And even though Abraham's feelings were most likely all over the place during that twenty-five year period He trusted God. Abraham was realistic about his circumstances and yet he hoped in the Lord, knowing that the Lord was the only one who could rescue him. And so Abraham lived upon God's promises. He filled his mind with the those truths about God's character, and as he did so, he grew strong in faith. And that gives brings us to our fourth point, giving God glory without a change in your situation. Now most of us really like the idea. I can give God glory as soon as I I will be able to I can't wait to see how God's going to fix this because then I can. And yet verse 20 tells us that Abraham With respect to the promise of God did not waver in unbelief, but grew strong in faith, giving glory to God. And that giving glory to God means He did it all the way through. It wasn't just at the end. I'm really good at giving God glory afterward. Oh Lord Thank you for your faithfulness. I wasn't faithful, but you were so faithful. But Abraham was faithful at the beginning. And to the end. In giving God glory. When you trust the Lord in spite of your feelings In spite of your circumstances, when you declare like Job in Job thirteen, fifteen, though he slay me, yet I will trust him. This gives God glory. God is honored when you believe in His goodness, even when it appears that you are not experiencing His goodness. And right now today, I know there are some of you who it feels like the circumstances that you are in are not God's goodness to you. But we know that all the paths of the Lord are his loving kindness. This is God's goodness to you. God is honored when you believe Him and trust in his goodness now, today, tomorrow, and the next day Until the day of rescue. And that may be in heaven. It might be tomorrow. We don't know when. But we know that God rescues us. And part of the rescue that God does is even in the renewing of our minds. We know that each day when we wake up, God's mercies are new to us ever. Every morning. There is new rescue, new hope for us every morning. Experiencing the ups and downs of our emotions and then choosing To turn our thoughts and minds upon the Lord gives him glory. And it is then that we follow in Abraham's footsteps. We become Abraham's daughters. It's like I'm just following my dad. Because that's what he did. Abraham is our example. Now, emotions aren't the enemy here. They are a normal part of being human and especially women. And yet We need to learn to balance our emotions, just like we balance everything in life. I mean, aren't we always talking about I just need to learn to balance my life You know, we're talking about that. Or we need to balance our eating, or we need to balance our sleep. We need to balance our checkbook. We we balance everything But we rarely discuss talking about balancing our emotions, how we respond in life. We um are never God is never never glorified when we let our emotions lead us about. Emotions are never to be um the ones leading us Our mind leads our emotions as we trust in the Lord, as we think on the things that are true. And so we have a choice every single time we struggle with our emotions And we don't struggle necessarily with the joyous ones. It's our sinful ones. You know, the ones that want to have a pity party The ones that are kinda grumpy, the ones that are kinda bitter and unforgiving. You know, those ones, the stubborn ones. Um, we we have a choice to make We need to consider, do I really want to give God glory even in this, in this situation right now? And if I do want to give him glory, what do I need to do or how do I need to think so that I can respond in faith? We need to ask ourselves, am I willing to trust what God says in His Word over and above how I feel in these circumstances? So let's see if that works. Let's talk about some real life scenarios. Here's one You've been up for nigh with sick kids. One child after another has been coughing with the croup. You can feel your emotions rising and tears and anger are right below the surface You know, but that's like and if anybody looks at you funny, you look at the little hot tears right there, you know that getting some sleep would fix everything. It's like I just need to take a nap. But There is no nap in sight. And you know you've got to hold it together for a few more hours before you get to go nine-night yourself. Is it possible, even though you feel weak and vulnerable, can you get through the evening without an emotional outburst? Yes. If you're willing to trust God in spite of how you feel, you can live upon Psalm 57, too. I will cry to God most high, to God who accomplishes all things for me. Lord, I need your help right now. I am weak, I am weary, but I desperately want to give you glory and minister to my family. Will you help me? I need your strength. And I believe that because I'm crying out to you, Lord, you will accomplish all things for me. Can you put your faith in the promises of God of God above your circumstances and your feelings? when you've been called into your boss's office who then proceeds to rail on you for a mistake another employee made Even after you explain the situation to your boss, your boss still says it's your fault. And you know that those above him see this as a black mark against you from this point on. Is it possible, though you feel frustrated and maybe just a little bitter, uh to not give in to fear or vengeful feeling? Well it is if you're willing to trust God in spite of how you feel. You can live upon 1 Peter 3, 16 through 17, which says, keep a good conscience. So that in the thing in which you were slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ will be put to shame. For it is better, if God should will it so, that you suffer for doing what is right rather than for doing what is wrong. Or what about in this situation? Your husband has been working long hours, and though you keep telling yourself that he can't help it, and that he's just as miserable as you are about being gone so much You still find yourself battling resentment and frustration and loneliness. Can you give God glory? When you're feeling tired and worn out and maybe just a little bit um wondering, you know, maybe he's doing this on purpose. You begin to get a little crazy in your thinking is really what's going on. Well you can if you live upon Hebrews 4. 16. Let us therefore draw near with confidence to the throne of the Holy of grace, so that we may receive receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Or what about this situation? You've been dealing with bad hormonal changes due to PMS or pregnancy or menopause or everything. Um you wake up feeling angry and touchy. You're afraid to say much because you don't want to say something unkind. So you just get up and smile and wave at everyone. You find yourself battling your thoughts and And you feel desperately depressed and enveloped in blackness all day long. Now when there's hormone changes, I mean There are there are still things that we can do to help with that. But it's still we still need to apply face in the midst of hormone changes and life. Can you, even while your hormones are getting sorted out, can you still trust the Lord and be give God glory in the Well you can when you stand upon the promises of God to get you through. It's important to remember that God has not left you alone, especially during those times when you your hormones are heightened and life is black and you feel alone Psalm 116 verses 4 through 8 says this. Then I called upon the name of the Lord. Oh Lord, I beseech you, save my life. Don't we feel like that when our hormones are all out of whack? The black darkness is coming toward us. Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Yes, our God is compassionate. Live upon that. Lord, you are so compassionate. You are so kind. You understand what I'm going to say. The Lord preserves the simple. That's me, Lord. You're preserving me. You're keeping me going. One more day. I was brought low and he saved me. Return to your rest Even in this, Lord, even in this, you have been so merciful to me. For you have rescued my soul from death and my eyes from tears and my feet from stumbling. Lord, you can keep me from stumbling into sin even when I am struggling with my mind. We can apply God's word to our circumstances and by faith trust Him, even if nothing changes about our situation. It's possible to trust the Lord when we're feeling emotional and weak and vulnerable. It is possible to defer an emotional outburst by putting our trust in the Lord and reminding ourselves of the truth in Now doesn't that just sound so perfect? Like even I should probably just stop there. But That's sometimes we need a little bit more help, don't we? It's like, yes, that's so lovely and ethereal, but how am I gonna do it really? Well h here's some ideas. Number one, be balanced in how you view your circumstances So Hebrews 12. 5 is one of the perfect balancing your circumstances texts. And it says this, my son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when you are reproved by him. So be balancing your view of your circumstances. And Hebrews 12, 5 says, don't regard God's work, God's discipline. Now this is When in this text, the word discipline is not just the spanky spoon which we often think of when we hear discipline. It's that word training which starts from Go, honey, yay, yay. All the way to son, come here. We need to go to the bathroom And then so we we have we um the word discipline or training there is used for the whole spectrum of training training and so when God uses it, do not regard God's training in your life as light. Don't regard it lightly like, no big deal. Yeah, let's get it over with and then and then you're not considering what God is doing. Or don't faint when you're reproved by him, which is some of the rest of us. It's too hard work And we we w don't have a balance. So we need to balance our view of what God is doing in our circumstances. That's the first thing Number two, we need to listen and believe God's word. We are not to respond like the Israelites did, which we looked at last night from Hebrew or Exodus 6. 9. Moses spoke thus to the sons of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses on account of their despondency and cruel bondage. So there are times when we're in the midst of circumstances and w we're waiting or w we've got these s situations and we do not listen to the word of God. Maybe you've got your loving friend who who just wants to give you a a wonderful scripture verse. She calls you in the morning. And she's got the little Bible verse about do not And your little heart's like and you don't even want to receive that We need to listen to and believe in God's word. We don't want to be like the Israelites in Exodus 6. 9. So number one, be balanced in how you view your circumstances. Number two, listen to and believe God's word. Number three, put off acting on your emotions. Understand that much of living by faith means not giving into your emotions. And it means at times, sometimes not believing them, especially when our hor hormones are out of whack. I mean, our our emotions will tell us all kinds of things, but our j our judgment of the situation is wrong Have you ever had that happen to you? Maybe not. Maybe it's just me. There have been so many times when I've just looked at the situation. Everybody hates me. Nobody likes me. Guess I'm gonna eat somewhere That's my life and how I respond to things. And it's not true. My family still loves me. I just it I wasn't seen in that way So we need to put off on acting our emo uh on our emotions and at times not even believing what our emotions are telling us Psalm 139, verses 23 through 24 tells us, search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my anxious thoughts and see if there be any hurtful way in me and lead me in the everlasting way. Psalm 139, verses 23 through 24, is how we sift through what's going on in the flotsum and jetsum of our hearts. Is what I'm thinking right now even right? Lord, will you just help me to figure this out? Is there you know, I'm I've got these anxious thoughts. Will you try them against the scripture And help me see whether or not they're helpful or hurtful. And with as we come to the Word of God, we're in the midst of this kind of woo that's going on We can test our thoughts by the word of God to see if they are right and true. And then we can begin to apply truth. thinking to our emotions. Now another aspect of this, put off acting on your emotions, um sometimes not giving into them. I think this is uh when we live by faith, it means I've got these emotions and I I've I've heard people say this a lot and I have done this before myself where it's I just need to have a good cry You know? And sometimes we do. But sometimes I just need to have a good cry means I really am just putting off living by faith right now and I really want to just wallow and just keep feeling all the feels for a while. So we living by faith says, I'm gonna look here. There's what I'm thinking is hurtful. So Lord, how can I give you glory in this situation? And that means I need to, by faith, say bye-bye to my little pity party feelings that I was really looking forward to enjoying. And instead, Lord, how can I give you glory in this? Okay, I'm gonna go be kind to my family. I'm gonna I'm gonna speak words of gentleness. I'm I'm not gonna just fly off the handle right now. Sometimes we we want to do that, don't we? And as we learn how to put that off, as as we learn how to put off giving way to our emotions you will see those times when you come up to losing it and when you choose to give into it. Sometimes we c we have to learn and kind of train our hearts to begin to see that there is that choice. Oftentimes We don't think there is a choice between the emotions rising and losing it. There is always a choice to sin. If Jesus Christ is your Savior Savior, you always have a choice of giving in or not. First Corinthians ten thirteen tells us that in every temptation God will provide a way of Escape. If we live upon that, there is always a choice not to give in to sin Okay, be balancing your circumstance and how you view your circumstances, listen to and believe God's word, put off acting on your emotions. Number four, think of others. If you're really struggling to You believe God, you're working in this, then sometimes it's just helpful to mentally get outside of yourself. Go serve somebody else. Get out of your head. Call someone whose circumstances are harder than your own. There's always somebody else. Philippians two, three through four says, Do nothing from selfishness or empty concern. Conceit, but with humility of mind, regard one another as more important than yourselves. Do not merely look out for your own personal interests, but also for the interests of others. Just begin to think of others. It's one of the best things that we can do in being able to serve one another, but also for us in giving God glory. Because it's it's that turning away. Number five, fill your mind with true thoughts. Fill your mind with thankful thoughts. Fill your mind with something other than how you're feeling. Colossians three one through two says, Therefore if you've been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on the things above, not on the things. Colossians three sixteen says, Let the word of Christ ri richly dwell within you with all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual spirit. songs, singing with thankfulness in your hearts to God. We're to fill our mind with something other than how we're feeling. This is not modern culture and is certainly not even modern Christian culture. We are to fill our minds with the things that are true from the scriptures Scriptures. And so we we live in this world where we Feel it all. Feelings. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Feelings. You know, it's um we're not to do that. We are to set our minds on the things above Number six, remember that God always provides a way for us to trust Him. And we I've mentioned this a number of times, and that it's so important. God always provides a way for us to do what is right if we will look for it. 1 Corinthians 10 13 John Newton, the author of the hymn Amazing Grace, said, There is many a thing which the world calls disappointment, but there is no such thing in the dictionary of faith. What to others are disappointments, for believers, they are merely indications of the will of God. Your path may feel like I am on disappointment drive. And yet what we need to do is put a new street sign up there. The will of God. Loving kindness lane. Path of providence. That is where we are living. Our disappointments are God's way of leading us and pointing us This is what Abraham, Job, David, Paul, Peter, the people of Hebrews 11 all understood. When we put our trust in the Lord above our feelings, over our feelings, in spite of our feelings, then we can more easily assess our feelings and respond David said in Psalm 43:5, Why are you in despair, O my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? What a good counseling question, isn't it? Where we're looking, soul, why are you in despair? Why are you disturbed? And what is David's counsel? Holy Hope in God, for I shall again praise him. Did you praise him before? Yes. Are you gonna praise him again? Yes, because he is the help of my countenance. I can smile again. He is my God. And when we do that, the truths of Psalm 94 and 19 will be be ours. When my anxious thoughts multiply within me, O Lord, your consolations delight my soul. Let me pray.