Since the Lord has always been faithful to us, it's appropriate we are thinking of our faithfulness to him. And in that vein, we open again to Malachi chapter 2. In part two of Faithfulness versus treachery, we are prayerfully and humbly approaching this portion of prophetic literature. And uh we are focusing on the attribute of God's faithfulness to us, but more specifically our faithfulness to Him, even more specifically our faithfulness to God expressed in our faithfulness to the community of believers and even more specific to the faithfulness to our wives. Too many these days are faithful only to themselves. They are faithful to their plans. They're faithful to their feelings, their wants, and their desires. That's not faithfulness. Faithfulness means that you're faithful to God first, then to one another in the community of believers, and especially to the wife you have made a covenant before God to keep Malachi 2, verses 10 through 16, I'll read it again. Do we not all have one Father? Has not one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously each against his brother so as to profane the covenant of our fathers? Judah has dealt treacherously, and an abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah has profaned the sanctuary of the Lord, which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign God. As for the man who does this, may the Lord cut off from the tents of Jacob everyone who awakes and answers. or who presents an offering to the Lord of hosts. This is another thing you do. You cover the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping and with groaning. Because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. Yet you say, For what reason? Because the Lord has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth. Against whom you have dealt treacherously, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. But not one has done so who has a remnant of the Spirit And what did that one do while he was seeking a godly offspring? Take heed then to your spirit, and let no one deal treacherously against the wife of your youth. For I hate divorce, says the Lord, the God of Israel, and him who covers his garment With wrong or violence, says the Lord of hosts. So take heed to your spirit that you do not deal treacherously. Now last time we noted that these verses present two treacheries which Malachi the prophet exposed and then denounced. Two treacheries. Last time we considered in verses 10 through 12 the first treachery, that is towards God's people. The Israelites of the 5th century BC were acting with treachery by marrying outside the chosen nation. taking foreign wives who worshipped false gods. This intermarrying polluted the nation with idol worshippers and endangered the spiritual health and protection of a future generation of Israelite children. Furthermore, it was an act of defiance to the law of God and the covenant given through Moses. It also broke faith with everyone inside that covenant. their fellow kinsmen who might have been obeying that covenant and keeping that covenant, but they were not And that is, of course, because faithfulness to God means that we have to be faithful in our own covenants and in our own promises. We left off really at verse twelve, and uh today we're going to finish that first treachery. And then consider the second one. Look at verse 12, if you would, as we uh get started here. It speaks of the judgment For that first treachery. Verse twelve says, As for the man who does this, may the Lord cut off from the tents of Jacob, and everyone who awakes and answers, or who presents an offering to the Lord of hosts This describes the Lord's punishment for this sin of marrying unbelievers. It's actually a wish. For a curse, a curse from the Lord upon all who would do this. May the Lord cut him off. That's a malediction wishing a judgment upon them. And it's specific as for the man who does this. So it's not for the whole nation, but for those inside the nation who do this That man who marries an unbeliever, may he be cut off from the tents of Jacob. We know that refers to the people of Israel. Cut off is strong imagery, isn't it? Uh Kara. It's been variously understood what cut off means. It could mean death Could mean excommunication, could mean that his line of children uh dries up, so he has no posterity. The word basically just means ended. as the picture of cutting something off would bring to our minds. So it either means ending the life or the line or the future or all the above. Most likely it refers to death and cutting off the line. A similar use of cutoff seems to be used in Numbers chapter 15 and verse 30, where it says, the person who does anything defiantly, whether he is a native or an alien That one is blaspheming the Lord, and that person shall be, same word, cut off from among his people, because he has despised the word of the Lord and has broken his commandment. That person shall be completely cut off Joshua eleven twenty-one, another similar use to this. Then Joshua came at that time and Cut off the Anakim from the hill country, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah, and from all the hill country of Israel. Joshua utterly destroyed them with their cities. Their cut off obvious obviously means brought to an end and destroyed them. It may seem to you as you're sitting there that this is too strong of a punishment or too harsh to kill someone or have their entire line removed because of this sin. But God would really rather cut that man and his line off than have to cut all of Israelite society off and and shrink back from the whole nation and bring it through some kind of judgment. So it's much more merciful to have the person bear his own sins and to save the nation. One of the things that people who have a very permissive outlook on life, whether it's permissive parenting or whether it's permissiveness with the laws in our land or whatever it may be, and I don't know where you fall in that spectrum But one of the things that people like that often overlook or forget is that when you allow a lot of poor behavior In the name of tolerance, there are damaging consequences for everybody else who has to endure what that bad behavior brings. There are bad consequences for a country that becomes too lenient. Sexual deviance allowed by law or not enforced hurts good people and hurts good families And it hurts integrity, not to mention physical health and ultimately the economy itself. To be permissive with the law of God is to invite erosion of integrity into the land and that always brings consequences and it's only short-sighted people that don't see those consequences coming There are natural consequences for sin in the land, and there also is God's wrath on top of that In Israel, this was doubly true, since God was in covenant with the nation of Israel, and therefore to break the commandments brought explicit curses from God upon the land. And so the Prophet, who is one of the Israelites himself, sees how the man who marries foreign wives would damage the nation, pollute the nation, and bring destruction and hurt to the nation, and so he wishes their end instead. Pretty strong, right? The Hebrew phrase next that is translated everyone who awakes and answers is ambiguous and it's notoriously difficult. to translate. It probably is a Hebrew idiom which means something like both ends of the spectrum or everyone included in between. It's an expression that may have originated among tent dwellers to the east of the nation of Israel, with those who would stand guard at night over the tents, and those who would have to answer also from the danger when one called out. The point is that no one who does this sin will escape the judgment of God. Everyone included, that's the idea. And in addition to that, the offering that these people would bring to the Lord also would not count. We already talked about this earlier in Malachi, but the Lord does not receive the worship of the person who comes to worship but disregards his law. The offering would not keep him from the punishment, is the idea. He could not disobey and then try to manipulate God by bringing an offering and hope he could get out of the punishment. You know, like little kids, mommy and daddy tell them to do something and they don't do that, but then they run off and do something nice for mommy and daddy that they didn't tell them to do, and hope that sort of placates mommy and daddy and they get away with it. Some people treat their relationship with God that same way Well, I'll disobey him, but I hope because I'm doing these other things, God will look graciously upon him. No, he said to obey. That's what he said to do. You can't manipulate God. So the offering would not count. Both Malachi and Nehemiah were very strong against intermarrying outside of the nation. Because of the law of God and because of the covenant and the tendency of the people when they would intermarry to go into idolatry, and of course idolatry would bring the wrath of God upon Israel. They were a holy nation set apart for God So they needed to be obedient. That was the requirement. They had to be obedient for God to bless them. There was no way around the obedience. There was no way to ignore the Word of God or say that they forgot the Word of God or they didn't know the Word of God Or they obeyed it a little bit, but not a lot. The only way to invite God's blessing was with obedience. Same with us today. We're under a different covenant, but God never blesses disobedience. He provides his grace, but his grace is there to help you learn to be obedient, you see. They needed to obey Listen, we need to know God's will, and God's will is found in the scripture, and we need to do what it tells us to do. Some people think that obedience is legalism, it is not. Obedience is obedience When God gives a command, he wants it obeyed. And it doesn't matter what it is. We don't have the right to be selective. He is God. If you want to see God at work in your life, start obeying Him in the areas that are hard right now. Our faithfulness to God should be high and it should be unshakable. The first two of the Ten Commandments have to do with our faithfulness towards God, right? You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make an image so as to worship it. The greatest commandment in all the Bible we don't need to interpret because our Lord and Savior told us that is to love God with what? All of our heart, soul Mind and strength, right? If you are not faithful to God or to the community of believers, God's chastening hand will catch up with you. Proverbs 11, 3, the integrity of the upright will guide them, but the crookedness of the treacherous will destroy them. It will catch up with you. Proverbs 22, 12. The eyes of the Lord preserve knowledge, but he overthrows the words of the treacherous man. We are to be faithful, brethren. Faithful. Colossians 1:2 says to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are at Colossae. Grace to you and peace from God our Father. Is that you? Are you a faithful brethren? Are you a faithful person to God and to his will? One day you want to have this said about you when you stand, think of it, when you stand in the presence of Christ, and and he in the way that only Christ could say it, puts his hand on your shoulder and says, Well done, my good and faithful servant. Matthew 25, 23. You were faithful with a few things. I will put you in charge of many things. Enter into the joy of your master. That's what we want. Be faithful to God. Be faithful to the community of God as well. Don't be treacherous. Alright, we enter today now into our second treachery. Looking at all of this from a negative side, this is the treachery toward our wives versus 13 through 16, the treachery toward our wives. Look at verse 13. This is another thing you do That sounds like a a parent scolding a child, doesn't it? And here's another thing you do. Let me tell you about that. You did this, but you also do this. So clearly we have a second thing. Here's another here's another bad thing. We need correction And the nation of Israel needed this correction. We're learning from this, and so here is. And he tells us next what it is, yet he does so first not by talking about the thin. He talks first about the effects of the sin and then works back to the sin. Notice. You cover the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping, and with groaning, because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. That's not the sin. That's the effect of their sin. They were coming to the altar of God, probably it means via their priests' prayers and intercessions, because it's the priests that were around the altar. And they were appealing to God in prayer, and they were crying out to him and even moaning, and they wanted God to answer them, but God would not listen. God would not answer. God would not give them what He what they wanted. The way they knew God was not listening was their prayers were not being answered. Now sometimes we have to wait on some of the answers to prayers, but it appears none of their prayers are being answered. They came with their needs, financial needs. Remember we talked about how these Israelites had a tough financial situation. They're back in Jerusalem, but Jerusalem is Not really all that well off. They're still under the uh the rule of Persia. Their their living situation is poor. They have health needs Life in Jerusalem was far from the ideal. There are plenty of things for people to say, Well, we need to pray for this and we need to cry out to God for this. And they probably had their little prayer list. And they would cry out and they weep and they'd have tears. But their tears were not tears of repentance. They weren't tears of, I'm sorry, I disobeyed you, and now I'm turning away from my disobedience, and I'm coming back to obey the law. No, they were not that. They were tears of sorrow, they were tears of anguish, but it was tears of, I didn't get what I wanted, tears of pain. Some people think that God will hear them for all their wailing and complaining. Remember the Lord Jesus, he taught in the Sermon on the Mount that you cannot be heard by God for your many words. That's what the Gentiles do. They just go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and think because they have so many words they're going to be heard. He said, Talk to me, I am the Heavenly Father. Talk to me intelligently And with my will from your word, and with a believing heart, and then God will hear. But they're moaning and wailing, trying to coerce and manipulate God to do it their way. Again, it's kind of like kids and parents, isn't it? Oh can't we? Huh, can't we please, please, please, mommy and daddy, oh please, please, please And we just they just go on and on until sometimes you know the parent just says, okay, okay. But God doesn't do it that way. They should have been bemoaning their sins. By the way, with this image, my mind goes to the wailing wall of Jerusalem, right? Tens of thousands, millions of Jews come to the wailing wall and they wail, and God does not hear. They pray for the peace of Jerusalem, and there's no peace. It's just war. They're not obeying the law of God. They're not obeying the will of God. They're not believing in the Son of God Now, look at their question. They want to know. Why not? Why not? Look at verse 14. You say, For what reason? These are their words again. They don't know. They're wailing and crying out, and their prayers aren't being answered. They don't know why not. They haven't figured it out yet. See, there are lots of people in religion that think they know God, they're talking to God. They come up and say, I'd like to show you how to have a personal relationship with God. They say, I already have a personal relationship with God. They think they know already. They're praying. They're talking to God. Just ask them, are your prayers being answered? Ah, that's stepping a little bit too close to home. Nope. And so what happens to people like that who are religious? Some of them turn and walk away from God altogether, and they say they tried religion, they tried God, they tried Christ. No, they never really did. They become agnostic or atheistic and they think that's a more rational approach. No, they didn't talk to God rightly. Other people just stick with their religion, but they get more and more sour and dour, and they just you don't like hanging around them. Their religion doesn't bring them any joy. Why no answer from God? Well, he's about to give them the answer, but the instructive thing for us at this point is just to note that people can be not thriving in their relationship with God because they're not obeying his commandments. They're trying to get something out of their religion, but they refuse to obey. They've run into a wall, and that wall is called God. He won't budge. Why are things not working outright? Answer: look in your own life and see how you're setting aside the commandments of God, and you have your answer. Maybe you're lusting constantly. Maybe you're greedy for more. Maybe you don't really trust God. You're really trusting your own education and your own work to get everything set up right before you'll ever take a risk for God. Maybe you're putting your mind on things on the earth when the Bible says put your mind on heavenly realities and things that are eternal. And you're not thriving in your spirit with God. It's choking the life out of your spiritual experience. Notice next the state of disobedience. Because the Lord has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth, against whom you have dealt treacherously. Though she is your companion and your wife by covenant, the last person in the world you should ever be treacherous with is the one you went to the altar before God and said, I do, and here's my promise. And God is a witness, you see. God is a witness, what does that mean? God sees, and he's functioning as if in a law court as a witness against you. Well that's tough. What do you do when God's a witness against you? He sees these men divorce their wives, the wives of their youth. Men who sin, you see, they foolishly forget that God knows what's going on. It may seem like God doesn't know. God doesn't care. God's not around. God hasn't done anything. I can get away with this. Those are the words of the fool. Hebrews 4. 13, there is no creature hidden from his sight. Little squirrel bouncing around in my yard right now, no creature. So if he sees a little dumb rabbit in my yard right now that's probably eating my cabbage right as we're speaking right now. He knows what's going on in your life. He knows exactly what's going on in your life. There's no creature hidden from his sight, but all things are open and laid bare to the eyes of him with whom we have to do. Warren Wearsby says, God is the unseen witness at every wedding And he also witnesses those who live together who are not married. Are you doing that? Are you living together and not married? God sees that. He's a judge against you. Genesis 31:50, Laban, he's chasing after Jacob. Jacob married the two daughters, you know. He worked seven years, another seven years, he's trying to get away from Laban, this trickster. Laban catches up with him and he says, If you mistreat my daughters. This is a tough uh this is a tough father-in-law. If you mistreat my daughters, or if you take wives besides my daughters Although no man is with us, see, God is witness between you and me. Wow, those are the words of Laban. Not too bad, huh? Notice here the wife is described as the wife of their youth. This refers to their Jewish wives because they married early in life. Women would be married off to their husbands young, usually very young, for the Israelites many would marry starting age 13, 14. On up, most of the ladies would be married before twenty. That's not true in our society now, but it was true in Israelite society. And so they were young, they were purdy, they were healthy. And the men liked them, men enjoyed them. Wife of the youth. And then a little time goes by, a little wear and tear. You know what I'm talking about. They got a little older. Guy's waking up one day, he's looking at his wife, and he wants, I don't like how she looks anymore. He gets into the land, he sees these Canaanite women, he says, Whoa! You put this together with the first sin that we talked about. It appears what they were doing was sending away their wives whom they had had from their early years, acting treacherously towards them. To marry new wives, foreign wives, who are probably younger and fresher looking, maybe even richer. Marrying into some nice family, having a little more, making life a little easier. Doing all of this to satisfy their sexual urges and their desires for status. This was treachery. Notice it says, you have dealt with these wives with treachery. Treachery is that same word used five times in the section of Bhaged, to break faith, to deal dishonestly. The treachery is brought out in the next clause. You dealt treacherily with her, though she is your companion and wife by covenant. Obviously, this refers to the covenant of marriage. Marriage is A covenant. Right? And marriage was a covenant back then too What was it a covenant of? It was a covenant of companionship, right there. The term companion refers to a person you spend lots of time with, a friend, someone who's close to you. You can look up some of these verses on your own. Psalm 119, verse 63 uses it that way. Proverbs 28, 24, Song of Solomon chapter 1, verse 7, just some examples. It does not say it here, but it seems to be implied that it is a covenant. Marriage is a covenant of exclusive companionship. At least at that level. In other words, marriage is a bond closer than any other human bond. And so marriage is a promise to be the closest kind of companion to the other, male to female. Female to male. Doesn't biology teach us that? The kind of relationship that you would have with no other person on the planet. That is marriage as God designed it. It is a legally binding contract as far as the state is concerned, that's true, but it's more than something you do with the state. It is a covenant Which is a covenant made to God and to one another, a covenant of companionship. It has to be made in the presence of God and human witnesses. The ancient civilizations had their legal requirements for marriage. The Hebrews, however, saw marriage as more than just a legal document. They saw it as connected to their covenant they made with God. This gave marriage a spiritual dimension. It made it all the more binding and all the more strong. It wasn't just a statement that you could make and then break. It wasn't just a law that has consequences on earth. It was a covenant in the sight of God. God in the home was to make it more stable. The marriages were to be stronger, the glue tighter Marriage was not simply a human structure to cast off with time when people bored with it. And anyone who declares that today is talking beyond their knowledge. They're just yakk. Marriage was designed and regulated by God. Companionship in marriage was supposed to grow over time. It's not supposed to lessen, it's supposed to increase. It's some of these sweet older couples, right? You know, one starts to say a sentence and the other finishes it. Like, wow. Reading minds, you know. One person gets up, the other person knows exactly where they're getting up and what they're doing. They've seen it a million times before, you know. He looks sees a look in the eye and knows exactly what to say. Seen that look in that eye before. There's a discouragement No introduction needs to be just go up and just they're the companion. They're covenant and companionship and it gets sweeter over time. Genesis 2 says, they shall become one flesh. But not controlling the sexual passion does not lead to faithfulness. It leads to what? Treachery. Now if you value faithfulness, you have to value safe con self-control and the control of your spiritual appetites. People say, what's wrong? with fornication. What's wrong with adultery? It feels so good. It's kind of fun. Let's just experiment with it. Try a little What's wrong with it is it's not faithful. It makes you a liar. It means there's nothing true about you That's what's wrong with it. Dr. Motyar writes, God loves marriage and gave us marriage as a good gift. Good marriages bring great blessing to husband and wife, to any children who are born of the marriage, to the extended family, to the local community, and to society as a whole Of course, we humans have infinite creativity and energy to corrupt all of God's good gifts, not least marriage. The closeness of marriage can become a prison Married people can engage in physical or psychological abuse. People can be bad parents. And married couples can either selfishly idolize their marriages or despise their marriages and their partner. However, God loves marriage. It is a good gift to be received with praise and thanksgiving, and it should be cherished and nurtured. End quote. Because God knows the good power of marriage, God defends it from destruction. And God makes laws to uphold it. Anyone who has been divorced by a husband or a wife for unbiblical and unrighteous reasons, while still wanting to be in the marriage. Knows intimately the destructive power of divorce. The destruction of it emotionally, relationally, physically, for the posterity in every way. Proverbs 2 Verses 16 and 17 speaks of that strange woman, the adulteress, who flatters with her words, that leaves the companion of her youth. And forgets the covenant of her God. Very similar language to what we have here. She, as the men are here, she is described in Proverbs 2. Either side of it, it's treachery, it's evil. Far from celebrating those who break their covenants, we ought to consider them liars, unreliable people, unrighteous, ignoble. There's so many lessons to learn from this. You can jot some of them down just quickly here. First, that God will defend females in marriage when the male dishonors them. We even learned that in 1 Peter 3:7. It teaches that the prayers of the husbands are hindered. when they do not live with their wives in an understandable manner. Secondly, that marriage is a good thing given by God and is worth defending. Something so basic as the family has to be defended, and the family is made in the marriage. Third, Don't let marriage become faded with the passage of time. Work on your romance, work on your commitments, your forgiveness, your communication, your problem solving, your understanding. It takes work. Fourth, churches should work hard to support marriages, basing them not on some psychological teaching, but on solid doctrine and the gospel of Christ Why remain together? Because it honors God, and it is the product of the gospel, and it pictures Christ in the church. Fifth. Integrity must start in the home. If you cannot keep your commitments when you make a vow before God in the closer relationship you have on the planet, how can your word be trusted anywhere at all? Sixth, in marriage, work on your companionship, be a true companion for the other, and quit feeling sorry for yourself. Be whom God told you to be. Be a good friend to your spouse. Seventh. Everyone benefits from strong marriages. Nobody benefits from weak marriages. And that might be what is meant in the next verse in verse 15. It says, But not one has done so who has a remnant of the Spirit. And what did that one do while he was seeking a godly offspring? Take heed then to your spirit, and let no one deal treacherously against the wife of your youth. Now, we are told that this is probably the hardest verse in all of Malachi to translate, especially the first half of verse 15. It's actually one of the harder ones in the entire Bible to understand. It's notorious for its difficulty on multiple levels. The wide variety of translations that you will have In different translations, shows that scholars have no consensus as to what this verse means. One even said that it's impossible to make sense of the Hebrew as it stands. That's a little reminder to us that most of the Bible is plain and most of the Bible is clear in its meaning and is not too hard to interpret. Once in a while we run into a verse like this, keep in mind that this is the exception, not the norm. Because it is unclear, I'm not going to be very confident in what I say it means today. I'm not going to even get technical and trying to unravel the many problems in it. I'm going to give you just what might be a better translation or paraphrase First starting with a literal translation. It could be literally translated this way. And did he not make one? I don't know who the he and the one is, that's part of the problem. And he had a remnant of the Spirit, and what purpose was the one? He was seeking a godly seed. You can just tell that's you could go in a number of directions with that. Maybe the best way to take it is to understand the one as the object and God as the subject, and going back to creation. In creation, God gave Adam only one wife Even though he had plenty of the spirit to make as many as he would want to make. But God's purpose in this one union was to raise a godly C. Dr. Walter Kaiser offers this paraphrase of this verse and an explanation. Why did God make Adam and Eve only one flesh when he might have given Adam many wives? For God certainly had more than enough of the spirit or creative power to furnish many partners. However, because God was seeking a godly offspring, he restricted man and woman to a single bonding, for he knew that a plurality of mates for either partner was not conducive to raising children to the glory of God. That ends his quote. In other words God in his omnipotence could have made millions of human pairs as he made myriads of angels and inspired them all as he did with Adam and Eve, but he did not do that. Instead, he made one couple. He told that one couple to be fruitful in the multiply, that God might seek through them a godly seed. That is Children belonging uniquely to one believing man and one believing woman, and then to have them raised up. Some say this even might have reference to the Messiah ultimately. So this original design of God is contra divorce, in other words. And we could add other things to that. It's contra-polygamy, contra homosexuality, contra a whole lot of human inventions. Also, contra marriage to foreign women, for that would be harmful to the godly seed and the heritage of bringing them up in believing families Only when parents are loyal to the covenant can the children grow up in the home as God intended. Indeed, the family is the training ground for life. As Deuteronomy chapter 6 teaches, and Exodus chapter 20 and verse 12 in the Ten Commandments makes clear for children to obey their parents and honor them. Anyway, this very difficult verse is to be understood. It is clear that it was written and designed to encourage faithfulness in marriage. Malachi is encouraging husbands to remain true to their one wife and not treat them with treachery, as the latter half of the verse indicates more clearly. And last, let's look at verse 16. For I hate divorce, says the Lord, the God of Israel, and him who covers his garment with wrong, says the Lord of hosts. So take heed to your spirit. that you do not deal treacherously. This verse too, at least at the beginning, is not as clear as it might seem. If you are using the ESV this morning or the Holman translation, what I just read to you sounds very different than what you have. You will look in vain in those translations to find the opening statement, I hate divorce Actually, you'll look in vain to find any speech out of the mouth of God in the first person in verse 16, and that's because the Hebrew, the verb hate, sanne, is not actually in the first person It is written in the third person, he hates, and it is not in the present tense, but it is in the perfect tense, so it's not he hates, but he has hated. So who is doing the hating and what the he refers to, he hates, is is greatly debated, and you can tell that just by the different translations. The Holman translation of verse sixteen is uh this way it says, If he referring to uh the man who's married to his wife, if he hates and divorces his wife says the Lord God of Israel, he covers his garment with injustice, says the Lord of hosts. Completely different understanding of the verse. The ESV translates it this way, for the man who does not love his wife, that is haten, but divorces her Says the Lord the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. But the only thing consistent there is, says the Lord of hosts. The King James doesn't have I hate divorce, but has a similar translation to I hate divorce. But what's interesting is in the English translations, prior to the 1611 King James Version Which um it goes this way, for the Lord God of Israel saith that he hateth putting away But prior to that, the Bishop's Bible, written in English, 1568, said, If thou hatest her, put her away. That's similar to the Holman and ESB, but not exactly the same. The Coverdale Bible of 1535 is the same. The Matthew's Bible of 1537, also in English, the same. Also the Geneva Bible. Looked it up in the Septuagint. Was fascinated with this. The Septuagint is the uh the Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament. It is the the Greek Old Testament that the apostles used and quoted when they wrote in the New Testament, and so it has great value for understanding what they would have read. And understood, and the early church would have had. It also does not translate it as I hate divorce, but as he has hated, and takes it literally. One thing we can note is that the verb hate is not the same as in Malachi 1, verse 3, where God says that I have hated Esau. This word, a different word, indicates some strong emotional disgust. Here it could refer to a man who has come to utterly dislike his wife and then discards her, throws her away, sends her away in divorce is what would be meant, so that he could marry another. Certainly, given the context, God is not endorsing that practice. Yet it is also unclear what is meant by the next statement: he who covers his garment with wrong. That word translated wrong often is translated violence, and in your translation you may have it that way, covers his garment with violence. In Israel, the man who claimed a woman for marriage would put a corner of his garment, so to say, out over the young lady and cover her to show that he was claiming her for his own. Ruth chapter 3 and verse 9 is an example of that. Boaz spread his garment over Ruth. You can also see Deuteronomy 22, verse 30, and Ezekiel chapter 16 and verse 8. Today we just use the engagement ring. We put that on and say, You're mine, I want to marry you. But there they would spread the garment over them and say, This is the one I am claiming. It was their custom. But why call it covering the garment with violence or covering the garment with wrong? Well, it may have been that the husband's Depending on how this is translated, word abusive and violent in their marriage, and that that was wrong. And God was speaking against that Or it may just refer to the the violence or the wrong or even the injustice of the men breaking their marriage covenant. Given the complexities of this verse and other biblical teachings, it's not biblical to make one's theology of divorce and remarriage start and stop with the words, I hate divorce. Since that is a questionable translation in the first place. Of course, there is much wrong with the divorce, that's what's being brought out in the passage, and there's much right with marriage, and that also is being brought out in the passage. But that does not mean that God hates divorce in every circumstance. He himself felt justified to divorce Israel because Israel had played the harlot many times. Jeremiah chapter three and verse eight says, And I saw that for all the adulteries of faithless Israel I had sent her away and given her a writ of divorce. We should also add, I think, that even if it is properly translated, I hate divorce, and it doesn't look to me like that is a proper translation, but even if it does mean that, it does not mean that God hates divorced people. And I know some of you have been through a divorce and you should not read that as if God hates divorced people. That never would say that Furthermore, we know that God has done great things in many homes after a divorce in a believer's union and has used that union for the raising up of a godly seed. And so you can be encouraged in that. So, if you've been through a divorce, don't be in despair. However, what we know is that these men were divorcing their wives for evil purposes. And that was treachery. And God wanted them to know that a covenant that was made in his presence was serious, and that the marriage covenant was serious. And it was not to be made lightly in the first place, nor violated after it was made, right? Isn't this what Christ picks up in the New Testament and says, what God has joined together what? Let no man separate. There are far too many frivolous, selfish, lustful reasons for divorce. Scripture regulates it carefully because marriage is that important. The goal in marriage is always union and preserving the union and enhancing the union so people can experience what God had planned. There are exceptions in the Word of God. Even the MacArthur Bible commentary, citing Ezra chapter 10, verses 9-19, where God through Ezra commanded divorces. And 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verses 10 through 16, where the unbeliever was allowed to leave the marriage and the believer was allowed to let them go, even actually encouraged in that passage, let them go. when they wanted to leave. And Matthew 5. 32, with the exception clause for sexual sin. Dr. MacArthur, in his Bible commentary, writes this: Though God hates divorce, there are times when it is the lesser of the evils and would prevent a future and even greater spiritual catastrophe. This message is not meant to probe those exceptions, but no good teacher of the Word of God would ever believe in ending marriages easily or quickly. Please notice that Malachi ends with an exhortation to the human spirit, and he says, Take heed to your spirit. That's the same exhortation at the end of verse 15. And if he says it twice, take heed to your spirit, obviously that's something we want to underscore in the Word of God. A lot of the sin begins in the heart. Take heed to what's going on inwardly in your mind and in your spirit Why do you do the things that you're doing in your marriage? Why are you making the choices that you're making? Why would you even be considering divorce? What motivates you internally? You must take heed to your spirit, you must watch your spirit and what is going on, and know that the heart is desperately Wicked, it's deceitful, and it's so easy to begin to lay out all of the excuses that one wants and then believe those excuses and operate outside of the Word of God Don't let lustful thoughts or proud thoughts or thoughts that come out of being offended because of what your wife did lead you astray and cause you to be embittered against your wife. That's where the battleground is. That's where the spiritual battle is in your mind and in your heart. In Matthew 15:19, it says, Out of the heart comes all kinds of evil thoughts, lustful thoughts Watch yourselves that you don't become embittered against your wives for this reason or for that reason, whatever it is. Colossians 3:19, husbands, love your wives, and do not be embittered against them. They were provided by God to bless you even with their weaknesses, even with their sins. At times you will think, but God must have cursed me with this woman. God means everything that He does for your good. for the refinement of your character, for proving himself through the good times and the bad times, for teaching you more about what it means to be a true loving leader. Husbands are so quick to talk about how loving they are until the wife doesn't do what they want them to do. And then their love dries up. What kind of a love is that? Imagine if Christ loved the church like that. Oh, I see y'all are faithless. I'm done with this church. Let's move on. Are we grateful to the Lord that He perseveres with us and His love is patient and kind and forgiving? No wives are there to bless us. God is using them to refine us. God is teaching us through that relationship. He's teaching us about unity. He's teaching us about faithfulness. Be faithful. Don't be treacherous. Make your promise and mean it And for all of you that are looking forward to the future and thinking about getting married, don't let that cause you to be scared from getting married. God is there to use marriage. If that's what's in your heart, if you don't believe the Lord has called you to be single, and in your heart you know that you really want to be married and you bring in that prayer request before God, don't keep delaying marriage because you're like, I don't know, there's so many problems in marriage. I don't wanna I don't wanna ask this girl because I just know that you know, be a man. Be a man. You know? Don't wait till you're 35 to grow up. Be a man, get busy, do what you need to do. You know what I'm saying? And be ready to let the words that come out of your mouth mean something. The men around you are struggling and they're trying, and God has strengthened them in grace. And you have many good examples of faithful marriages here in this congregation. And good teachings to help you with your marriage and strengthen you in your marriage. Don't be afraid of marriage. Trust God that He will work and He will strengthen you. And allow your marriage to be a testimony of the faithfulness of God. Amen. Father, teach us your faithfulness, for it is to the heavens. And ours is not. We need your faithfulness in our hearts. Strengthen us, O Lord God. Help us with our inner thoughts, with those meditations that go on inwardly. Help us not be proud and lifted up to live for ourselves and our agenda, to be faithful to our own flesh. What kind of faithfulness is that? Lord, the world touts that kind of faithfulness. They're faithful to themselves. That is a reversal of faithfulness. They don't even know what the word means. Help us to be encouraging to each other, to be noble, that our words matter, that when words come out of our mouth, we mean what we say. We say what we mean. And all strengthened and buttressed by your grace, for so we've asked it. In Christ's name. Amen.