I think we're going. Uh I was attending a class one time and the instructor stood up in front of the class and said, There are a lot of people who know a lot more about this subject than I do. But I don't see any of them here, so I'll get started. Now that's not the case this morning. There are probably out here uh pe uh in in this audience people who probably know as much or a lot more about this subject than I do And I'm going to give you your chance to help us along as we go along. This will be a discussion type of program more than just a straight-out lecture because I'm not capable of doing straight-out lecture too many times Uh one of the things that we have studied during this course this program by the way, we've studied about the pri the the the feasts of Israel that were that were taught in the Old Testament and uh Carrie started off by reminding us about the Sabbath, and then we talked about the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread by Jesus Day. The the feast of Passover and unleavened bread were more or less combined into one and they were always referred to as just as Passover. But in actuality, in its initial plan, Passover was a one-day feast And then unleavened bread was a week long feast that followed that and it was just they just got tied together so it was just all called Passover in Jesus' day. And originally and and As soon as Passover was over, there was this one-day feast of first fruit. Um, and this one is this one, by the way, is no longer celebrated, although Passover is The reason why it's no longer celebrated is there's no temple for them to bring their first fruits back to. The next fit feast was Pentecost, which was literally meant 50 days And it was one of the three feasts that required a pilgrimage to Jerusalem to celebrate in the temple. Passover was one. Pentecost was a second one. The Feast of Trumpets or New Year, Rosh Hoshanah is the is the is what it's called in Hebrew, is celebrated in September, October timeframe, still celebrated today In fact, I get uh n I get uh s celebratory greetings from a friend in Israel every year, uh, when ro when Rosh Hashanah comes around. I always get the Shana Tov greeting from him at at that time of the year. The Feast of Atonement in the September-Oc-October timeframe and Leviticus 16 in particular describes this ritual in detail. This was the one day of the year when the high priest was allowed to enter the Holy of Holies. A lot of steps leading up to it. Uh this was also the time if I'm not mistaken when the scapegoat was released in the is in the release in the uh wilderness. A very important A very important feast in the in the time in in the in the in the days of the nation of Israel, but it was also it was not one of the ones where retentance in the temple was required, only the only with the priesthood The last one is tabernacles and is also known as booths or ingathering. It's called Sukkot. And this is the third time that a pilgrimage to Jerusalem was required. So those those are all outlined in Leviticus. You can find you can find how the uh how they how the requirements are for s for observing them. And you can find you can read how these were observed. There are two festivals today that are not on the original list in Leviticus. And they are re uh they are required feast days and these are purim and hanukkah. The occasion for purim is this a Hebrew uh I'm sorry, not the Hebrew, um I believe it's the Persian word for lots. Anyway, it is it is uh it is a word that means lots. And the reason I think it's Hebrew is because it's got the Hebrew plural ending on it, so I thought it might be the Hebrew word as well. Um This is one it's told about in the book of Esther. There is no biblical requirement for this celebration outside the book of Esther. There is a one uh there is one possible reference to it in the New Testament we'll get to later, but it's even that is questionable. And Hanukkah, also known as the Feast of uh dedication. I couldn't think of the word there for a minute. There's also no biblical requirement for this celebration at all It's not mentioned anywhere in the Bible except in the the what we call the apocryphal books, which is um which describe the activities go on between in the intertestamental period And this is a feast that started during the intratestamental time. In John chapter 10, verses 22-23 is the only possible reference to this in the New Testament, where Jesus talks about the feast of dedication. And uh uh we'll go we'll read those when we uh when we get to get to Vanicov. First thing we'll do, we'll talk about thurium. Excuse me, metal. Yes. Which which one which are the beasts Actually said it cannot be celebrated because there is no temple. Uh the first fruits. Because it was bringing bringing the first fruits to the temple. Yeah. First fruits. And that was a one day festival. When I originally started looking at the Feasts of Israel, when we started w when when uh uh Kerry started preparing for this course, I was doing some research with him. And when I started originally started looking at this, it was my impression that that the first fruits was only celebrated one time. I found out I was wrong about that. But that was my that was my initial thre uh reference to it. And it was immediately following it was immediately following the unleavened bread Feast, which was done in conjunction with Passover, in fact, now it's all considered dis it's all treated as one feast So these are the the these last two, Piram and Hanukkah, there is no New Testament requirement for these whatsoever. And they are only mentioned in the one one time in the in the in the Bible. Now, I'm not going to read the whole book of Esther. I'm sure you're quite quite pleased with that But I am going to read Jester chapter nine, beginning verse twenty through verse thirty-five. Excuse me a minute, it's warm-up. It's warm-up here When Mordecai recorded these events and he sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of King Ahasawarus both near and far, obliging them to celebrate the fourteenth day of the month Adar and the fifteenth day of the same month annually, because on these days the Jews rid themselves of their enemies, and it was a month which was Turn for them from sorrow into gladness, and from mourning into a holiday, that they should make them days of feasting and rejoicing, and sending portions of food to one another and gifts to the poor Thus the Jews undertook what they had started to do, and what Mordecai had written to them. For Haman the son of Hamadatha the Agagite, the adversary of all the Jews, had schemed against the Jews to destroy them. Excuse me. And had cast poor, that is the lot, to destrive the to dis to disturb them and destroy them But when it came to the king's attention, he commanded by letter that his wicked scheme, which he had devised against the Jews, should return on his own head. and that he and his son should be hanged on the gallows. Therefore they call these days Purim after the name of Pur, and because of the instructions in this letter, both what they had seen in this regard and what had happened to them The Jews established and made a custom for themselves and for their descendants and for all those who allied themselves with them, so that they would not fail to celebrate these days according to their regulation and according to their appointed time annually. So these days were to be remembered and celebrated throughout every generation, every family, every province, and every city, and those days of Purdue were not to fail among the Jews, or their memory fade from their descendants. Then Queen Esther, daughter of Avahel, with Mordecai the Jew, wrote with full authority to confirm the second letter about Purim He sent letters to all the Jews to the 127 provinces of the kingdom of Ahasaurus, namely words of peace and truth, to establish these days of Purim. at their appointed times, just as Mordecai the Jew and Queen Lester had established for them, and just as they had established for themselves and for their descendants with instructions for the times for their times of fasting and their lamentations The command of Esther established these customs for Purim, and it was written in the book. The book they're talking about is the laws of in of Persia, not not the Bible. So, uh the book of Esther uh is one of the two books in the Bible where where God is not mentioned The other one by the way is Song of Solomon, just in case you've forgotten. I didn't know that. I had to ask had to ask for help to find that. But uh some someone re uh our brother our brother Ross came through on that one and told me which one it was. I had forgotten which one it was. Uh okay. Uh let's let's talk a little bit about that uh Esther. Uh Esther was A Jewish girl who was still remaining in Persia uh after the exile. You recall uh The books of Ezra and Nehemiah talk about Jews returning to Israel and re-establishing the the the Jewish life in in the land of Israel. But there were a lot of of Jews who chose to remain in in other places, in Persia in particular, because that's where they were exiled to. And among these uh were Mordecai and Esther. Now they they were blood relation, uh if I understand correctly that Mordecai was the first cousin to Esther And uh the king of Persia, Ahasawarus, uh we probably know him better as Arta Xerxes, possibly Xerxes, one or the other, that's not for sure which one of the two it is But any but anyway, uh he was holding a long a six a six-month conference. And you read about in read about that in the first in the first chapter of the book of Esther And all of the rulers from his different provinces had come together. And uh one person that I know of said that this was probably when he was planning his invasion of Greece, which didn't turn out very well But anyway, that's just the at the end of this six month long planning session, he held a week long feast Basically it was a good just a week long drunk, according to what I read in the scripture. It said that uh Heserus decided that anybody who wanted to could drink what they wanted to or not drink if they didn't want to. But apparently it was a pretty good, pretty strong pretty strong feast. And at the end of it, he wanted to show off his queen Vashti. So he said he commanded her to come and performed before these uh this this audience probably all uh but this time were pretty well oiled. But anyway they uh Vasily refused And that just wouldn't do. In fact the nobles that came came to Ha Hwasawiras and told them, Hey, you can't let this happen. If you let Vashi get away with this, then all of our wives are going to think they don't have to they don't have to be obedient to us. So he deposed the queen and started to search for a new queen. Well, meantime, uh Mordecai hears about this. Mordecai, we don't know exactly what his position was before uh this happened but it had to be some position of authority because he was in and around the palace all the time and he came across a plot that was to kill of two people who were disappointed who were going to kill a wa Ahasawaris. And he tipped the tipped the authorities off and they captured the two guys and they uh took the heads off But uh the king kind of forgot about it. So anyway, uh he's somewhere in the palace area and he tells Esther, hey, if you get called into this, you have to prepare yourself and hopefully that you're gonna that that you will become the queen. And she does. Yes, sir, for some reason or other all of the the all of the young women were of the kingdom, the w unmarried ones, the books said the Bible says virgins. were called in to make the to to be prepared for to go into the king. And uh eventually Esther is selected as queen Now, the king does not know that she's Jewish at this particular time. So Uh there's a guess an evil character in here. We've talked about Esther and Mordecai and King Ahasawarus He uh from all I've been able to read about him, he was a fairly weak king, not very decisive. So this would make make sense that these people, his his lords would be able to convince him then he needed needed to depose Vashi after she had disobeyed him. So this would be a kind of thing that would would make sense. So uh the other character in the book of Esther that we read about is Haman Uh I'm told that uh the the Jew today uh if they have to say the name Haman, they uh have some derogatory comments to make about him. In fact if I remember what What uh this guy told me, he says if they have to say the name Heyman they spit. Because it's a name it's very disgusting to him. But Haman was the guy who was planning to destroy He wanted to wipe out the Jewish population in Persia. Haman himself was an Agagite. And if you recall this who do you recall the story of King Agak in the Old Testament? What do what do we know? What where do you what do you recall him mentioned? Do you recall where Ham Haman Agak is mentioned in the Old Testament? King Soul. King Soul, correct. What what was the problem between King Soul and what did what did King Soul do in relation to A-Gay? He failed to kill him. I'm sorry? Failed to kill him? He failed to kill him. And what was wrong with that? God said wipe out the entire population. And he didn't do that. Do you recall what Saul's uh pen penalty was for that? That's right, the kingdom was taken away from him because he disobeyed in this instance and did not wipe out the the dis the descendants of uh the the Agagites And this by the way, if you want to read it, is uh Excuse me. This is where God took the kingdom away from Saul and passed it on and said this is going to go to the Davidic line. He didn't tell it he didn't tell Saul it was going to be the Davidic line But it's from this point on that God is preparing the that David to be the king to be the king of Israel. Anyway, this is found in First Samuel chapter fifteen if you're interested and go back to reading it Now there, as I said before, there is no mention of God in the book of Esther, yet the hand of God is all throughout the book. Wherever you turn, You see reference to the power and the hand of God were at work, although God is not mentioned one time in the book of Esther. Uh Esther is promoted to uh the position of queen and she's done this for a purpose. In fact, uh Mor Mordecai reminded her that it's probably for this purpose that you were elevated to the position of king. that you can preserve your people. Sid Siddloe Baxter in his book Explore the Bible labels Esther as the book of providential preservation. Now we like that word providence And he calls it the book of providential preservation. And as I said earlier, the only book in the Bible, other book in the Bible that does not mention God is the Song of Solomon. Okay. The the ritual observance of Purim. Have any have any of you s been involved in or seen a Purim uh act uh festival or reference I'm getting a nod here from Tegan. She knows exactly what I'm talking about. So what do you what do you do at Purim? Well you read double the rest of Purim. Okay. You get dressed up in hot change. Do you hear what she said? She got a very soft voice. First of all, uh they read the whole book of Esther and they dress up in costumes And they give baskets of food uh and presents to people. It's sort of a Halloween, Christmas, Easter all combined into one. But we were we were in Israel for one We were in Israel at one time for Purim and we saw the kids all dressed up in costumes. We didn't know what it was, somebody had to tell us. But uh this was uh during during the time of Purim. Purim, by the way, is in the springtime festival uh in the March and April era. Not not too far separated from Passover then, is it? Pretty close to the same timeframe. Excuse me a second Okay. Now, let's go back to Haman for a little while. Haman, being an Agagite, had an extreme hatred for the Jews. I mean, it was uh it was an extremely I'm I'm sure that if he had to say the word Jew, he probably was spit That's how how much his hatred was for them. And he had only one purpose in mind, and that was to wipe out the Jewish population in Persia. Now Keep in mind that we're only that this event takes place in the in the uh Persian kingdom and the Persian kingdom at this particular time was it was immense It spread probably from Greece all the way. Who knows? Who knows how far to the east? But it was a huge kingdom with 127 provinces Uh the book of Daniel also takes place, uh good a good part of that takes place during the Persian era after Babylon is is uh is thrown over from Israel. So this is a huge a huge kingdom. And Haman is made the number two man in the whole kingdom. He's second only to the king Ahasuerus. And he's given a signet ring which he can use to seal orders, so any order that he writes is written just as though it were coming from the king. Yes. Uh what's it? Haman's uh hatred for the Jews caused because Mordecai, who he found out was a Jew, would not bow to him. That was where it Yeah, yeah. Thanks thanks for pointing that out. I had I had I meant to do that. That's he's right. When when Haman was uh uh relevated to his position everybody was supposed to bow down and pay him homage And Haman refused to do so. Mordecai. Mordecai refused to do so. And this, of course, seethed within Mordecai. He and uh of course he I'm sure he was aware of of his ancestry and knew that there was friction between the Jews and the and the Agagites to begin with, but this just kind of set the seal on the deal. So what what is what is Mortika oh what does Haman do then? You you know the story as well as I do. He goes to the king and he persuades the king To write an order, and there was such was such was the law in Persia. If the order was signed and sealed with the king's seal, that it could not be changed That on a certain date they would uh that everybody would be allowed to kill and and take all the spoil from the Jews And the date the the date was caught was was chosen by casting lots. And that's the lot the word for lot was pur, the plural is purim. And that's how the the festival got its name because it's it's it's is the festival of the casting of lots. Well they settled upon a date, uh I believe the date was the fourteenth of Adar. Adar is one of those funny months in the Hebrew calendar. There can be two of them in leap years. Instead of having a he's setting have a a day every four years like we do for a leap year, they had leap months And it would always be Adar two, the second year. So if it appeared an elite year, then it was the second Adar instead of the first ADAR. But anyway, it's a springtime festival. It occurs during the springtime as this date was to this was to be the the date that that the Persians were allowed to plunder the Jews and kill them all and wipe them out Well, of course Mordecai knows about this and he's seen the edict and he goes to Esther. In fact Esther tries he's uh Mordecai's got himself in sackcloth outside the palace But he can't come in the palace because of the way he's dressed. So Esther sends somebody out with clothes to get him to uh to come in and uh eventually she manages to get to talk to him And he tells her what's going on, and he says, Don't think for one minute that you're going to be protected if you're in the palace. So he says, You need to go and talk to the king and tell him what's going on Well Esther had this little problem, see, and the king of Persia, if you entered his presence, he was very much afraid for his life. If you entered for his presence uninvited, it could you could cost you it could cost you your life But the custom was if you entered his presence and he held out a scepter to you that you were allowed to come in and talk to him. And she says, he's not called for me for thirty days now, so I don't know what's going to happen But uh Haman Hay Mordecai convinced her that she needs to go and talk to him. So she does. Uh somebody else can tell this story better than I can probably. So what next? What happens next? She goes into the palace and what does what does the king do? Sticks out his scepter, right. And and he uh he allows her to stalk to him. So what is what does Esther do Invites him to a feast. Okay. And I want you to come to a feast and I want Haman to come with you. Yes. Uh there's one important thing we need to remember that she did before she Yeah, good. Oh, okay. But that's important. That is very important. I'm sure it is it's just on it. Yeah, thank you for pointing that out because I had I had I meant to and it slipped my mind. But that's that's right. And she did the the the the fasting and then she goes into the king, he holds out a scepter, she invites him to a feast, along with Haman Well, of course you know what that does to Haman. That puffs his pride up and he thinks, hey, this is going to be great. So it's it's uh it's really strange what happens. They go to the feast And uh the king asked her why and says, Well I want you to come to another feast tomorrow night. So by this time Haman is uh really pleased, but he sees He sees Mordecai out here and Mordecai doesn't pay homage to him and all this bit. And uh He and he goes away and he goes to his wife and his wife kinda tells him, Hey, this is not a whole coaster. Something's gonna happen here and it's not gonna be good. So, um during the night The king has a terrible uh night sleeping. He couldn't he couldn't go to sleep. So finally he gets up and he goes down and he calls for the books of the chronicles and he starts reading through them and he gets a reminder that, hey Uh this guy, Mordecai, and he knew but knew he was w written by name, uh, he uh uh told of a plot that was good there were two guys who were trying to kill me, and I don't see anything's been done for him So he looks around and he's and he asks one of his aides, who's in the castle? And somebody says, Well Haman's in the castle. This is one of the this is this is sometimes I I use the statement that God has a sense of humor Uh Haman's in the castle, and uh the king calls for him and says, hey, uh What what should be done for a guy who earns my honor by saving my life? Well you know what Heyman says. Dress him in the best robe, put him on the king's horse, and let somebody go and go and uh Shout in front of him, hey this is what the king does for somebody who wants to honor. And so so the king says, hey, that's a good idea. Put Mordecai on a horse and you go in front of him and do this I I really think that I really think that's God showing us that he d that he does have a sense of humor sometimes. So we know the story. Uh they come back to the feast that night, and Esther tells the king about the plot And he says, well who would do such a thing? And she says, this wicked Haman. Well, you know what happens then. The king goes away. He's very upset because of what's happening. He goes away to think And uh at this time Haman says, Hey, don't do this to me, and he falls on on Esther and says, Hey, uh please for his life, and the king comes in, and he's afraid that Haman is assaulting the queen, which is not a very good thing to do So anyway, it winds up, as you well know, Haman gets hanged on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. Well, they got a problem because there's this law been passed that on this 14th of Adar Uh all the Jews are going to get killed. They can't change the law. So what do they do about it? Well, they come up with a s with a counter plan, allow the Jews to defend themselves So that they the word comes around that they're allowed to defend themselves and the number of people that are wiped out is a tremendous number in the Bible. It says 75,000 in the provinces And I forget the number seven or eight hundred in in uh Sousa itself and then a second day they have for for Susa and they're allowed to kill another bunch of another bunch of uh uh Persians. It was not as many, but anyway those that's why uh the feast of Purim came about because they were allowed to save themselves and it's celebrated in two days in walled cities. Uh Even today it's uh and it's a two-day festival in Wall Cities, but it's really only a one-day festival in the uh In Providences. Now, if Esther the book of Esther does not mention God, why is it in the Bible? Whatever happens is not just circumstantial coincidences. Okay, did you hear what he said? Yeah. He said it just shows that things that happen are not just natural coincidences. And that's true. And that's part of the reason, but that's not the main reason. At least I don't think it's the main reason When I when I was taking some courses at one of the local uh Bible colleges, the teacher said that it was b it was to to show the inst inst institution of the feast of Purim, and I think that's only part of it I believe this uh sorry, go ahead. Could it be another example of God's uh um uh selfish and attempted gentlemen Exactly. There was one with Moses in his time, and this is another one. Yes. And then the Holocaust is a very good thing. Yes. Yes, that's exactly right. Now true this was only the Persian Jews that were affected by this. But uh even though Satan knew that there was going to be a Messiah come from the Jewish race, he's still trying to wipe them out. And if he got all of the Persian Jews, then they can go over and get some more Jews. But it right, it's an it I think uh it's an ad it was the to tell the story of God thwarning an attempt to wipe out the Jewish population and preserving the line for the coming of Messiah. And I think you're right on track with that one, Margaret. Now how does the word Pyramid. Pardon? What does the word pyram mean? Lots. Lots. Yeah. They were casting lots to assign the date. It's interesting that it's uh uh It's the name means casting lots, but everything that happens here God's in control of us. It was providential, absolutely right. Yeah. I'm sorry. There is a proverb that says nine catch a rough above the game. Exactly. Exactly. That's right, yeah Okay. So you see what hap you see Purim, okay? And it's still it's a feast that's still celebrated today Uh in fact it's a big it's a big time. It's a it's a kids feast l bas basically. It's a it's a happy time for for children because they dress up in costumes and it's just a big a big party time. It really is Okay, now the other one we're going to talk about this morning, which is not also not a biblical thesis, is Hanukkah. Now we know probably we probably know uh quite a bit about Hanukkah, but do you know how Hanukkah started I'm I'm sure Tegan knows. No? Yes, Margot. Primary max feeds and they had to depurify they had to purify the simple get back up and running. Oil lasted long enough they couldn't tab enough oil. That's where we express the mouth. That's right. Very good. That's that's pretty much the crux of the story right there. During the ma during the intratestamental period Uh Antichus Epiphanes, by the way, was the Greek ruler who had taken over the the area of Palestine that had captured uh Uh they uh uh had had captured uh Israel was ruling over Israel and he hated anything Jewish So uh so uh he had gone into the temple, he had desecrated the temple, one of the things he had done, he had sacrificed a pig on the altar. uh and uh had wiped out all taken o taken out all of the Jewish stuff. He he uh forbade Sabbath worship, he forbade circumcision, a anything Jewish, uh he he was trying his best to stop. And there was a family called the Maccabees, the Hasmonean family, the Hasmonean family it's called the Maccabees, and they started a rebellion against against uh Antiochus Epiphanes. In fact he his other name was, if I can s if I got it right, is Antiochus Epimames, which is uh a mad uh madman Yeah, so because they because he was they thought it they thought he was crazy in what he was trying to do. Now there's only w uh a vague reference in the Bible to Hanukkah, and that's in John chapter ten. Verses 22 and 23. At that time the feast of dedication took place in Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple in the portico of Solomon. There is no other biblical reference to Hanukkah, period. So where does it come from? The biblical the the reference from from uh from what should even be closely considered biblical references comes from the uh the from what we call the apocrypha Uh the the uh our most most of our Bibles do not contain the Apocrypha. You can get one that does If I'm not mistaken, the Catholic Bible does contain the Apocrypha and the Bible used in the Orthodox Church contains it. But ours does not for some uh Probably for good reason it was left out because there was no indication that it was actually inspired by the Word of God, but it's historically accurate in some cases. And hi and it historici is accurate in this de b betrayal of uh b bet portrayal, excuse me, not betrayal, portrayal of the uh rev of the Maccabean Revol revolt, the ac action in the intertestary period intertestamentary period of uh uh Antichrist, Epiphanes, and so so there is some biblical reference to it. Now, what do you know about Hanukkah today? How does it so when when does it take place At Christmas time, right? It almost always corresponds with our Christmas. It's an eight day festival. Why eight days? Pardon? Oh exactly, exactly. Potatoes, Lotkis, potatoes. Yes, yes, yes, yes. That's one of the food. Lotkes is Lotkis is one of the foods that they involve involved. Um They this the story is that when they had cleansed and purified the temple, they had set up a menorah, which is an which is a seven, actually it's an eight-tiered Candelabra or lamp sand. In those days it was a lamp stand because they used oil lamps. And there was only enough oil for the sacred lamp to burn one day. So they they and there's a process it had to go through to purify the oil and it would take it took a period of eight days to get uh to get this oil purified. So they lit it and what happened One day's oil lasted for eight days. That's how the story goes. Is it true? I would imagine that it is, but I don't I don't have I can't verify it, but I would believe it is true Anyway, that's where the s that's what the story is. And then they started the again they got the oil that the eternal flame that they had in the temple And they set it up they decided to celebrate it by using this the eight tier candle arbora. Actually, if I'm not mistaken, there's there's nine because there's one candle that stays lit and they use it, then they use candles instead of lamps. There's one candle that saves lit and they use the light from that candle to light the others. There were there were two different schools in this. One group wanted the The the candle I were to start with eight days, have all day eight days left, and day by day put one out. And the other one wanted to go go the other way around Well that's the one that was the one that uh that that that stuck. So now they light one candle a day during the peace of Hanukkah, and at the end of the Hanukkah all eight candles are lighted So that's the that's the how Haneke came to be not a biblical festival, but still celebrated by Jews all over the world. In fact in uh I believe it was nineteen Seventy-nine, I believe it was seventy-nine. In Washington, D. C. across from the White House, they initiated the Hanukkah the the uh candle lighting it for Hanukkah and they we're still doing it today. Across from across from the White House there's a there's a big open area and there's a candle library hood up there and they and they light the candle every every day. And it's been they this this started in nineteen I like I say, nineteen seventy nine. Now, uh why is there such a celebration? Or why why would why would they want to celebrate why first of all What what would you what would you think about uh Antiochus Tipphanes? What you trying to do? Right. Eliminate, either wipe out or marginalize the Jews. That's that was his whole purpose. And this is one of those stories you were talking about. You mentioned Moses and uh uh Herod tried it too, remember? Yeah. Yeah. Something that keeps coming up over and over again is hatred of the Jews. Mm-hmm. What about the Jews There's something more to that than like I could run the fact, you know. There's uh there's there's a spiritual I think force driving how Yep. Why why do they hate the teacher so much? Well that's one very simple reason. It's not it's not it's it's uh what what's what happens What what were the Jews what was the purpose of the Jewish race? Messiah. Right, to provide the Messiah. Well Satan's not so smart He thinks that if he can wipe out the Jews now, Messiah won't come back. He knows Messiah's already come. So it's not unusual. In my lifetime, there's been one major uh attempt to wipe out the Jewish population. And not long before that there was another major attempt to wipe out the Jewish population. M a a lot of there are a lot of Jews in the Eastern European countries, so there were And uh during the Tsarist time, there was a tremendous attempt at wiping out the Jewish population. Okay, what happened in the nineteen forties, nineteen thirties and nineteen forties? The Holocaust, exactly. Yeah, but I want you to know that God is still watching over the The Germans were a very big nation and that nation state divided people because of the punishment that God gave them. It's exactly and it wasn't ri reunited till nineteen It was eight eighty nine is when the wall came down. Uh we lived there during that uh division. We were divided And uh that country has never revived like it was. Remember during the Spanish Inquisition Nobody is going to survive the persecution of the Jews. They are God's people and his promise is that they And if I read if I read the Bible correctly, he's coming back primarily to redeem Israel. Uh in fact all of the all of the all of the writings in Revelation really lead to uh events in Israel and the restoration of the Israel of the Jewish people So Satan in his warped mind, if I'm if I can if I can say that, his purpose is to prevent this And as my my wife so aptly pointed out, the God is not going to allow it to happen. And we know that. We we know that from what's happened already. Why yeah, why do they hate it so much? I think there's the kind of force behind it. Yes, but over back in Genesis when God chose the um He says, I will make of you a great nation. Let me do you. Now I now the Lord said to Abram, Go forth from your country, and from your relatives, and from your father's house to the land that I will show you. And I will make of you a great nation. And I will bless you and I will make your name great. And so you shall be a blessing. And I will bless those who bless you. And I will curse those who curse you. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. And then it is still, I will bless those who bless you and curse the bless Yeah, absolutely. You had something? Yeah, I was saying that there's still another event yet to come In which the two will be persecuted. That's in Sequel thirty-eight and thirty-nine. Um so that will come later in you know you know, who knows. point as you see Iran building up the nuclear arsenal to come sooner, but they still had that advanced white situation Yeah, if Satan wipes out the Jews, why wouldn't Messiah come back? I think I think probably in I can't read Satan's mind, but that's a thought that goes in my head that Satan is trying to prevent this happening Or maybe he's just trying to delay it happening because he knows when it happens his days are over. Yes, Kirk? Yeah, I I believe this is accurate according to what Pastor Lee thought. Is that the the irony is that during the tribulation period, uh God Himself is going to To bring judgment to to the entire world, but it's specifically focused on Jewish people Um because that's when the life of the Jews, that tribulation and that suffering and all these horrific events, is actually going to get the attention of the nation and they will uh turn to the Messiah they'll turn to Christ as a result of that chastisement So I I think that's accurate according to the book of Revelation. That's I I agree. I think it's accurate too. That's that would go along with what I've always been taught as well Yeah, I remember him preaching preaching some of this. Yes, go ahead. Yeah, there was a fellow. He used to be the chaplain of the sending. His name is Peter Marshall. Okay. In the forties he was the chaplain to the Senate. And he wrote a book about why America was established. And it's only his thoughts. He may or may not like it, it's not thus saith the Lord. He said America was established in his mind because of the only refuge for Yes. There is some um um Muslim groups who openly advocate the elimination of Israel. They want Israel wiped out as a state, yes. And the Quran says that the Messiah, their Messiah will not repeat return until all the Jews are killed. I think that's correct. No. So um what do you think that's well of course it's not going to succeed And God is not finished with the Jews and the continues to protect them, but could that be an example of the curse that uh moral referred to a little while ago. I was less so to bless you and cursed to curse you. Yeah. Yeah, Islam has no uh purpose was to wipe out Israel. So so uh it's a continuation of what we're reading. Exactly. And and I was in a market up in Pennsylvania. A market we came to look in the end of the day. Yeah. And this um battered man were selling vegetables. And uh I was remarkable to whoever was in was with me, these are really good vegetables or whatever. And the man says, if you look at those over there, I can't remember the name. And I said, Oh yeah, they sell these in Israel Not Israel, he said, is a Palestine. Actually just Israel. He threw down these vegetables and marched off. He was that angry and only within these vegetables. That's what you mean. That's your interval. I imagine he's living here, he's not living there. I kinda find you help you very close not on me. But the situ the the p the the whole thing hinges around I think the The all these persecutions, the ones that happened in our lifetime for Hitler, the programs that took place back in back in Tsarist, Russia Uh the ones we talked about this morning, uh Antichus, Epiphanes, and Haman and the and the Persia, all of these is an attempt at Satan to wipe out the return of the Messiah Satan knows that Jesus was is is the Messiah and he's doing his best uh or worst to try to stop it. And I think it's pretty I think that's a pretty simple thing that's bearing out borne out throughout history But Hanukkah, the Festival of Lights, is the last uh is the only festival, not the last festival that I know of, and I don't know of any new ones since then. But for the Jewish people that celebrate a victory over over the forces of evil. And it is a victory over the forces of evil. And it's the last one that I can think of. Any any further comments? If not, we can finish up a little bit early. Just had one question. Other than lighting the candles, how else do they celebrate? Well yeah. Yeah. Food. Food, yeah. I gotta feel I gotta feel uh feeling that Margaret likes lock keys. Yeah. So you just like play games with that? You play games, you um you would like gather together like you would eat food fried in oil because of the oil. So also uh So uh just f so they can go on the recording, uh the play games, they eat food that's uh made with made with oil, is that correct? Yeah. So th and they still celebrate it today. Do they use the Hanukkah Bush? No. No, okay. I thought that was a fable. But some people do. Yeah, but it's not it's not traditionally a part of part of the festival. Yeah. Do they exchange gifts? Yes. Yeah they do exchange gifts, yes. I'm echoing Tiguan's for the recording. Is it celebrated the same even for a conservative or more liberal So when uh God made that covenant with uh Abraham, was he viewed Right. So when you look at when you look at those scriptures you you find that later on when it talks about the New Testament that Abraham Uh because he had made a covenant with God, it was established upon faith. Yes, right? Yeah. And it was because of uh belief As you look through scripture you find that the Jews are persecuted in in different ways in so many different places, but it's God bringing judgment upon them because they're not trusting in him. You find that he uses nations to judge them, and then he judges that nation who judged them. So like God is you he uses uh he uses nations to judge the Jews even even at even so he judges those nations after. So with Uh when he made a covenant with Abraham, I do believe that it was talking about the faith of Abraham as it establishes as in Uh in uh Galatians you find it's also in Genesis it says that Abraham believed God and it was accounted to him for righteousness. So it wasn't his works that made Abraham favorable to God. It was his faith, his trust that he believed God. Was he perfect? No. Did he lie? Yes Uh but he but in in the end it was because of his faith that that it that he was made righteous before God. How do you know somebody by faith? How is faith proven Exactly. And he proved his safe by leaving his country and going to a country he did not know where he was going That's how you know he had safe. He left his old real life and took on his own. But you know, at that time he wasn't a Jew No, but he was a son of Aber, which is where the word Hebrew came from. Yeah, but he um he was a w uh had faith and developed wonderfully. Yeah. In fact in fact if I'm not mistaken, and I could be I could be wrong about this, but if I'm not mistaken, they initially uh After the the twelve tribes the twelve twelve tribes slipped and the ten tribes were off into in into who knows where, they've started being called Judes. because of the tribe of Judah and it basically got shortened to the word Jew. I think Jew is actually a derogatory term. Uh if we don't do it c correctly we would say they're they're They're they're Hebrews, not Jews. In fact their language is called Hebrew. Yes, take them shaking their head, no? Jews Jews is their answer, but Jews is not their own. I'm sorry? Jews is not derogatory. Yeah, but it was i it was I think it was initially. Yeah, I could be wrong. But anyway, that that's where it came from. It came from the fact that the tribe of Judah was the predominant tribe that survived. Yeah. But but Abraham was a son uh was a descendant of Eber, and that's where the Hebrew team term came from, yes. Um I I think maybe what I'm hearing is the difference between providence that God makes because some are conditional and some are unconditional. I mean, is that accurate And then he's talking about why that was an unconditional with Moses? The Ten Commandments was conditional. If you do this, I will do that. is the condition. But this is no condition. Yes. But you are but you are right. Some some covenants were conditional. In fact you probably can find in in the archives you probably can find all of the all of the lessons on covenants that that uh were talked at an earlier date. There is we did have an eleven a a a quarter program on covenants and that was one of the things that was pointed out. And there were conditional and unconditional covenants Any further comments before we call a halt to it? We can get out a little bit early. Yes, Kirk. Yeah, this is a little curious observation that I saw in my Ryrie study Bible. And there's a chronology of history and it it's not perfectly accurate. And but it has to do with um Plus or minus 500 years, four to six hundred years. And so at the time that the in Leviticus that the feast were instituted at the at the uh the exodus from that point to about five hundred years later Plus or minus. It was like the heyday of Israel and Like the best the best time. And then about five hundred years after that was when they were taken off the land because those had just become empty and it was just a ritual without any without faith. And then about five hundred years after that the the birth of the So that's not exactly the time frame, but it's it seems like those are like major periods. Uh it's real history. About every five hundred things. Yeah, that's about that sounds about that sounds about right. Historically about that sounds about right. Any other any other comments we have a little early Yes. Alright, I'm still just trying to take through what you were saying a little bit and um and going back to some minutes. So when talking about The faith that Abraham had. Um, how does that tie into the covenant itself not conditional? Was it just showing that Abraham had faith in God Uh or was there more to it? Well which condition which covenant are you referring to? Abrahamic The Abrahamic covenant was not conditional. Yeah. Right, so I was asking the clip says England believed on and it was not right to so was that just stating that or what what was it showing? Because it wasn't tied to the covenant. It wasn't showing that in I think it was uh that's a good question. I don't know the answer to it. It's a good question. Huh? And you got up and left. Yeah. He w but it wa uh the con the can who just a minute more see. I can do anything. Okay. Margot? Oh, I was just gonna say it anyway, economic covenant was more. It was unconditional, but that was kind of so And come by faith. Um not only and it it's the fact that it's it's God does work. He does God does the work. He can't do anything. Hosea covenant has a law. That's what people apart. It also showed everyone else for a saver, wasn't it post-saving buttons? So the big law is conditional. But a panic one cannot, and they weren't set apart as used yet They have been hand and board yet as well might say. One of the things you can trust is look at the body's faithfulness to the They are the only people in the world that get an identity outside of the land. What keeps you Americans is you're among Americans, you're with the American customs New Lee here, three generations and now nobody knows the word America. For instance, I have great bank jobs. They only knew the word Scotland is It'll have no effect on them whatsoever. But if I was a Jew, it would have a huge effect on my children. God soul as a Christian, was God faithful to his promise to Abraham? Yes. Therefore, will he be faithful to me, yes. That's a proof that God will be faithful to us. Yeah, the the c the the the Bible says that Abraham believed God and it was a counterto him for righteousness. It didn't say Abraham was perfect But he believed, he trusted. So his covenant was based on faith and not on his works. Abraham had to leave the country. Yes. That's the only requirement. Yep. Back up and go. Yes, Margaret. It is. It is. Because we're saying same out. That's exactly right. We believe the promises of God about the salvation through Jesus And God gives a person. So um and we know that our faith is a gift from God. Could we say the same thing is true of Abraham? That he believes God. Uh and so where does that belief come from? God gave it to him as a gift And a second point, when did mo when did Abraham become a Jew? Was it at that moment? At that moment? Uh at the moment that I become a Christian is the moment Well the word you ca the word you is a later word, it's not Yeah, but it doesn't take means belief in God. I never thought of it until he brought it up to it and circumcised until another twenty-four years later But he believed God. That was the beginning of his relationship to God. So isn't that what you're doing? Exactly. I think. But my friend is No. Is that right? I'm sorry, Margot, I didn't hear you. Say again. Sorry. Um it says in the Bible that two Abraham I'll be To me that means faith. Mm-hmm. Um but that doesn't say to Abraham also going to become Jews. The Jewish nation specifically came Yes. Okay, from Abraham. Right. Not every descendant of Abraham is a Jew. That's correct. So we can't call ourselves the not Jews. No, no. Jewish is how we've been drafted Yeah, yeah. Yes. And and uh th uh remember Abraham was a Hebrew. He was not a Jew, he was a Hebrew, because he was a he was a s descendant of Aber And they were called Hebrews. When they went in when they went into uh Egypt they were not called Jews, they were called Hebrews. That's a later term. Pardon? Pardon? Yes there was. But it wa but uh if I'm not mistaken, they were not called Jews until after the divided kingdom. I don't know that to be true, but I think that was the case. Be Jewish is special words. Pardon? Absolutely. It's both of a religion and an ethnicity. Yes. But if you have to say which one is more important Wouldn't the um issue of faith be more important than ethnicity? I would think so, yes. But then again but again not o not all not all people that are Jews today are believers. In fact the largest population in Israel are ethnic Jews, but they're not believing Jews. So but they all know that they're Jewish. Yes. Yeah, I I I was gonna say something exactly and I understand it like At this point, like ethnic Israel maintains the covenant promises of God that he made to Abraham. However, the vast majority are not the needed in Jesus and so are not like faith and so the Jewish like faith today, with the exception of those Jews who are followers of Jesus, the Jewish faith today is not is not true faith. In fact a good a good pop good part of the Jewish population in the world today are agnostics. They don't even believe in God. That's true. That's true. Praise the Lord. Well on that note, I think it's time to close. But thank you for being here. When you see uh Kerry, uh thank him for the work that he put into this program. He did an awful lot of work to provide these uh these course this course for the uh on the uh festivals of the Jews and I th I for one have enjoyed sitting through it. But thank you for being here this morning. Let's close with prayer.