So let's do a quick tour of what we did last week. Um uh Passover, uh we we opened it up with uh First thing the uh house would do, they uh prepare a week in advance. They're they're very meticulous, it's a ritual with them, they go through and clean the whole house. But then as uh uh Passover starts, there's uh uh uh ritual that they go through. And the father goes around the house and I they might even plant some crumbs and they take this like a wooden spoon, this little feather some of 'em and they sweep up the last bits of leaven, right? And it's it's again it's to bring uh the idea they're purifying. Uh everything's been pure purified. No leaven in the house And um it's a ritual that they do. They also take those spoons, I understand, and they put 'em in a bag. They they take 'em out and they burn them. Uh again, it's just uh It's probably a ritual that that uh we we need to think about. That's why what we'll look at next week I think uh would be uh uh unleavened bread. I I said that they take the lamb into the house. We read the uh passage uh in um Exodus, I'm back now. Exodus twelve, right? Uh when they took the lamb, tenth day they took the lamb unblemished out of the flock, brought it to the house. There's the identification Two things are going on. And to the Jew, it was probably the first thing was the inspection. They were inspecting it for uh it had to be unblemished. They wanted a perfect lamb But there's also the intimacy level that's there. And we talked about that last week with the two things. Jesus was tried and tested Uh and there's example, there's passages we looked at. Mm and people identified with it. Uh we read um even at the cross, uh people who left there that day uh uh were beating the chest. They recognized that somebody innocent died, whether they went Whether that brought them to salvation, whether they came to salvation, but God was definitely preparing their hearts uh during this passage. Even as the centurion in in the one passage was talking about this man was innocent So he was tested, he was it was intimate with them. Uh Numbers nine, we talked about that. This is such an important holiday to him that uh God even instituted that they could uh celebrated thirty days later if they were away uh or if there was an illness they were unclean and they weren't allowed to uh participate in it So it it it's uh again, try as you read through this and we're talking at at this pi pace, but you you try and put yourself in their place, uh uh to get a an importance. of of the meaning of this. And they were redeemed. We we don't identify with the Jewish uh think about the persecution that goes on constantly throughout all the ages. I I'm not gonna go through all that, but you know it and and even today. Um I think Bob Diller wrote the song and everybody hates the Jews and it was it was a line he had in a lyric, you know, and and it's true. There's always a persecution for them. They even today they you know they lob rockets over there and nobody seems to care. It's uh So let's see, we went through The four cups, we talked about that. Uh how they see the four cups. Uh they're unpacking Exodus uh six, six through seven, but um Yeah, I will bring you out, you know, rescue them from bondage, I will redeem you, and I will take you as my people. Oh think about those things are huge. Um uh intimacy they got us going to uh uh They are the chosen people, but they were chosen uh as we are. We're lights to the world, we're we're we're uh priests uh we're ministers, we're a conduit to the world. We bring the gospel. It's we're blessed to be a blessing like Abraham, not to be blessed for our blessing. Uh that's the battle, right? Let's see. We got to the washing of the hands. We're going to look at the John passage again. I won't spend much time on this because I am going to kind of review it when we get to it. We'll see it again in the Passover with Judas So uh I'll review that then. Uh but uh again some interesting things I want to bring out of what we talked before about you know the cleansing and And um what Jesus was doing it was uh we'll when we get there, it's the humbleness and the cleansing are are really kinda combined Okay, so green vegetables. Is this where we started last time? Stop? And again, excuse me for clearing my throat, but that's it's just that's Again, the green vegetable, w what does it represent? Uh Day when you and this is a difficulty, this is what we always talk about in hermeneutics, when you talk about uh interpreting scripture, do we take it literally, grammatically, historically. Or you know when you go into allegory, it can mean a lot of things. That's that's the problem with allegory. So what is the right Uh so the greener uh vegetable, some of 'em say I I have here it occurs in springtime. It reminds them of springtime. Some say it's light. Springtime light, same kind of idea. But no you can see how that's what happens when you start interpreting uh allegorically or you know everything's a metaphor Well what metaphor what's the right answer to the metaphor and how would you know? Uh God's scripture is is much more literal and sometimes he he talks and uh he's explaining things but it it's Typically if you read through a passage, it explains itself. And that's uh again that was my little hermeneutical So we have the middle mazz mazzle. Um after the green herbs they dip it in there of uh I guess I didn't say about the salt water Uh that's a reminder, the pain, the tears, the suffering. Uh I think that's uh a pretty good, pretty straightforward analogy Uh so this in the this is remember what was what was in the first meal. The first meal really had the bitter herbs, the matzah Mine, but land. And all these other foods, everything came in, it was added. And now because uh w we'll get to that, we they don't even really have a land, they might have a shank bone to uh remind them of the land. So we'll we'll look at that a bit. The middle Maza I I if you looked ahead in your notes, I you'll see where I've uh written a uh copied an article so that you we we can see what this is uh uh kind of what it represents to the uh uh Hebrews. Uh but it this is when uh the leader removes a middle mata from a uh linen bag and It uh isn't nothing really special uh about the name of the bag, the one thing it was just uh Motza Tash I think, is it's just bread bag. Um So but he t he breaks half of it, half of that middle mazza, and puts it back into the linen bag. The other half is wrapped in a linen napkin and and hidden uh and the children hide their eyes. Um again you'll see that the uh that's not uh there's two different uh uh procedures or uh practices they'll do even for that. Some hide it, some don't. So uh So then at this point, one of the young children's probably prompted and has been taught to ask these four questions And uh the idea is uh so what makes this night different from the other nights? Uh and again these these are questions that are kind of typical wrote um uh why do we eat bitter herbs and and they're trying to get them to prompt to uh uh talk about the story. Uh why is uh why do we eat reclining this night? So the second cup. And these are the procedures that were uh written out in a book. Uh again, some of these uh uh Procedures or practices may come in different orders. This practice evolved uh after uh like first century, maybe second century. They're not sure when they date this. Uh um but so uh they do vary a little bit Alright, so before the wine is taken, then the first uh half of the uh praise songs are recited. Uh Uh you some of you uh psalmist uh may n be familiar with these. The Hallel Uh Psalm 13 Psalms 113 to 118. And halal is what? Hallelujah. Praise So these would be recited and this was practiced even during Jesus' time. They would have done this uh and we'll look at this later. Uh it's it's really, really uh powerful I thought So here, the next one, the dipping of the mazza. So let's look at John, turn to John John chapter 13. Now while you turn in there, I'm just gonna kind of I want to review a little bit what I was talking about last time. If you remember John 13, 8, uh right, he's getting ready to wash Peter's feet. And Peter said to him, uh Peter said to him, Never shall you wash my feet, Jesus answered, If I do not wash your f wash you, you have no part with me Simon Peter says, right, wash my whole body. Uh very spiritual. Jesus said to him, He who is bathed needs only to wash his feet, but is completely clean. You are all clean, but not all of you. Now obviously with a statement like that you're moving beyond the physical to something deeper, right? He's saying Okay, we don't have time to totally unpack this, but he's moving from a physical to a spiritual dialogue, right? Some of you are clean, but not all of you. So we're talking about faith. For he knew the one who was betraying him, and he said to him, Not all of you are clean. And and then he tells them I I'm not going to go through the whole passage for for a time. Uh he tells them uh why he did this, right? And there's two things going on. If you look at the uh synoptics you'll probably see this is a time when the disciples could well have been arguing amongst themselves who was going to be better and who's going to be first. And of course Jesus is showing them the humbleness. And again, where I I put the two together, the spiritual and the humble. Look at verse twenty Truly, truly I say to you well let me maybe I ought to wrap it up. Um Verse 19, from now on I am telling you before it comes to pass uh that someone's gonna betray him. But he said, I've s uh uh Verse 14. If then the Lord, the teacher, washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. So the humbleness. But in verse 20, I think brings it together. Truly, truly, I say to you, he who receives whomever I send receives me. And he who receives me receives him who sent me. Now we know from looking back, right, that this is a the spiritual aspect. If you receive the father, you have got to be receiving that person on a spiritual level, right He how can you you it's faith. We're looking at at receiving the Father. And it you do it by believing in Christ They believed in Christ. He's not going to send somebody who's unfaithful he can use un unfaithful people to witness But he's not going to send out people who are not believers. We go out and we give them the gospel, but it's a the spiritual thing that transforms a life, right? And I think he's bringing the two together. You are not gonna go out, you are not gonna be effective. We I am not, none of us are, if we're if we're prideful God can't use that. What did Jesus uh demonstrate? He demonstrated his humility. And all through John, what's he say? I I don't do my own will, I do what the Father tells me Uh I hear what the Father, I look and see what the Father is doing, and I do what he's doing. It it's all throughout John He is demonstrate demonstrating the the God man, which is just incredible Yes, Jesus is the God man, but focus too on his humanity, because when you s when you see the perfect man, uh you think we get to identify with that It brings hope for us. We're we're sinners, but we have a possibility of operating on that level and all and ultimately we will, right? He is doing the Father's will. It's humility. And the spiritual aspect, being clean and being a servant for God And uh you it has to start with humility, with humbleness. That that that that's the toughest thing in the world, is it not? We we know what we are as sinners. We're it's me, myself, and I. It's it's it's uh we talk about you know dying to ourselves This is the process we're in. So the the spiritual and the humility, it it goes together, right? God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble. Right? Grace is the power, the spirit. It's a gift. Grace is a gift of something Uh so I just wanted to show to me this kind of came across uh how these two uh really these two aspects these what he was teaching his disciples was uh Uh yes humbleness, but on a spiritual level that that's the only way it's gonna work. So let's get into twenty-one Jesus said this, he became troubled in spirit and testified, said, Truly, truly, I say to you. that one of you will betray me. The disciples began looking at one another at a loss to know which one he was speaking. There was one reclining on Jesus' bosom one of the disciples whom Jesus loved. So Simon Peter gestured to him and said to him, Tell us who it who it is whom he is speaking. And he leaning back thus on Jesus' bosom said to him, Lord, who is it? Jesus then answered that that is the one whom I shall dip the morsel and give it to him So when he had dipped the morsel, he took and gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. Reason we're pointing this out is because uh in this part, this dipping of the matzah At the second cup, this is what would have been done in in uh a Seder, a Passover at Jesus' time. And maybe the reason that the disciples didn't get it, if you read through the passage, is because they all would have had some of this eventually. Would have dipped it and would have gone around to everybody. Everybody would take this. But I think this is interesting when you look at how he's unpacked that this is what was going on in the Seder And this is when he he dipped it and it w it would have been a natural thing. It would have been something that they had done before. And he gave it to Simon or to Judas. So there's questions. Did he give it to him? Did he reach across the table? Did he give it to him at a turn? Was Judas in the place of honor? We don't know Uh the but certainly as you read this the disciples didn't did not know uh who it was. Interesting though. A and and when you think about what what's going on and you're watching this it's uh And uh uh I you know, I try to imagine put myself back in that time and place. Uh well. experience to to be with the Christ. I love that passage where John laid his uh head on his bosom. I mean what intimacy. Um We get a another blessing having been filled with the spirit that they didn't get at that time and and and they weren't uh even But at the other they also got to touch the physical earthly Jesus before it's glorified. I wouldn't at all. I wouldn't do it all. Is it true that uh in fact each of the disciples betrayed him and abandoned You could, but he was talking about one that was going to He was talking about one it was unclean. And uh and you know, had we re uh uh So verse 13. 1. Before the feast of Passover, Jesus knowing his hour had come that he would depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own. who were in the world. He loved them to the end. During supple supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, betrayed him. So now we're we're talking on different level here. Couldn't you say we all betray Christ? Every time we sin, right? Uh you know, you can see how the time gets by. We get the I love getting these discussions. It's funny, I was talking to my son who's in uh Kentucky And um yeah I there's a lot I'd want to tell you about it, but uh it was just um We were kinda going back and forth with uh keeping the day or or anything and and I wanted to to to impress that like the Sabbath again, are we really resting in Christ And it was going round and round. I finally said, okay, when Adam sinned, uh he knew, right? But was he believing everything God said at that time when he took that fruit? Was he? Was he believing everything God said No way. Right? I mean, because if he really believed it and really knew it, was really conscious of it in time, he was going, man, this is a bad, this is no way, right? But we're close. We kinda yeah, yeah, he did say that. But you know, this hopper looks pretty good, right? You know, so we say I throw out faith all the time, but do I really well our faith is that's what it says, right? Be doers of the word. Be doers of the faith When I'm really doing it, um I'm really believing the acting audit. Now we can I can go through And that's or that's the issue, isn't it? We can go through and uh like the Jews did, we can bring the sacrifices, we can uh not do any work on the Sabbath. Et cetera, etc. , right? But is that really trusting in them? No, we're going through the motions. It could be both. That's the point. Uh I think that uh uh scripture marks out Judas specifically as a sort of visionist uh as one or to perform that task even as Jesus appointed to the cross himself. Uh he was the one that was individually Marfoids. Absolutely. AE said, one of you is unclean. The rest of 'em are clean And he had to wash their feet and we could we can unpack that. I think we'll unpack that some more as we get next week, because that's really the application. Unlever if there's any significance to the dipping of the of the moxa. To make our time even shorter. That I don't know. Um good question. Uh it was kind of the the ritual of of seeing this as as a redemption uh And again, th they were recognizing that they were being bought throughout all of this. Uh they had to recognize to put the blood, right? Alright, they they slaughtered the lamb, they ate the lamb, but they did have to put the blood physically around the post. Again, it's it's faith and actions So the dipping, uh yeah, maybe had the uh significance again of redemption So then we have the dinner. This becomes quite elaborate nowadays. Back then it would have been uh roasted lamb, better herbs and matzo. Now uh again they I don't believe they eat lamb. And we'll look at that a little bit in the second Now I wrote this article out for you uh and I'm just kind of putting this in. This is that middle matzah we're going to be talking about. They call it uh the Afika Mendon. Which is interesting in itself because it it's a Greek word, not a Hebrew word. Uh I put this in here a and uh this is one perspective I it's from Chosen People Ministry Uh again, when you have these types of uh they're not written in scripture, uh they're not explained in scripture So we can have little variances, what does this mean, right? Uh we can see the big picture we know from looking back. uh having Christ as our Passover lamb. But think about for the unbelieving uh Hebrews, the Jews today So uh again we want to look at it from both sides. So early in the Seder the leader lifts up three pieces of masa, removes the middle piece, breaks it in half, then he takes the larger half of the broken masa, Sets it aside until later in the ceremony. The broken piece of mazza is the afecamen. In some tradition, uh children in the home attempt to steal the afikamen during the meal. Okay? Well in other traditions the leader hides the ufikamen from the children, who then search for it In both tradition, the leader attempts to redeem the of men from the children, often in exchange for a small gift. And again, you can see The theme that runs throughout this, it's redemption, redemption. They get it. They were in the land. They're uh God is redeeming them, God is saving them. The Hebrews recognize this So before the destruction of the temple, Jewish communities uh Concluded the Passover meal with eating a small olive-sized piece of the lamb. This ritual emphasized the importance of uh Pesak, which is uh Hebrew name for or uh Passover. Today a fikemen represents this sacrifice. Jewish people conclude the Passover meal with the eating of a small piece of a fikeman. When Jesus celebrated the last Passover, his disciples, with his disciples, he gave them mata, the symbol of his body. Mata is unleavened, striped, pure Just as the prophet Isaiah described the Messiah, right? And he quotes it here. But he is he was wounded for our transgression, he was bruised for our iniquities The chastisement uh for our peace was upon him. By his stripes were healed. Fifty-three, Isaiah fifty-three, five. Prior to the meal, this matter was broken, wrapped in linen, hidden away. Calling the dinner, the matzo reappears For the for the messianic Jewish community, the epicemen uh symbolically represents the Messiah as Jesus' body was broken, wrapped in linen, buried, and raised on the third day. It's interesting that in eating the ephecomen, uh the eating of the ephikamen occurs during the satsfoon, I think that's how you pronounce it Which means hidden or concealed. Although the epicemen provides a remarkable symbol of Jesus, the Jewish Messiah, many Jewish people have not yet discovered it. The Messiah remains hidden from much of the Jewish community. And you know that. Uh we know it, right? We are We are taught that in if you know Romans eleven, you should know that chapter, right? Uh where the wild olive branch is grafted in He says in was it Romans uh 11, 25? For I do not want you, uh brethren, to be uh uninformed of this mystery So that you will not be wise in your own estimation. In other words, don't be bragging. The Jewish community in large part is not believing right now Uh but but don't puff yourself off, again, y it's humility, it's grace. We didn't do it. Uh that a partial hardening has happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in. And you continue on that passage and and you see it in Zechariah, all Israel will be saved. But not after a a uh bad times. It's gonna come during the tribulation. A lot are gonna perish before all these are saved, before Christ returns But there's a hardening of the hearts. This is God's plan. Hard to understand, but it's God's plan. That's that's the key. Um the third cup So in the same way he took the cup right after he had eaten, saying, This cup is poured out for you in the new covenant in my blood. So when this is a process they would have gone through and and we call it the Lord's Supper, but it would have been during this part of the Passover that they would have celebrated Uh put down there just a quote uh from Malachi, Behold, I'm going to send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and terrible day of the Lord Um I think we got time. I just want to l turn to uh these two witnesses. Revelation eleven. If you're not familiar with it, if even if you are. Because what and especially in light of what I I just read about in Romans chapter eleven, until the fullness of the Gentiles comes in. Um Israel's gonna get their witnesses, right? But it's going to be during uh uh uh uh we're reading this correctly, literally, dramatically It's gonna it's not gonna come till uh the tribulation. The church is gonna be taken out of the way. They're gonna have uh uh if you look at chapter uh But these two witnesses and um Some think that these this is Elijah, one of these witnesses is Elijah. We can't say for sure, uh but this is why they they say it. Um You see where I want to start with this. Well let's start with one. Uh then there was given to me a measuring rod like a staff, and someone said, Get up, measure the temple of God and the altar, those who worship in it. Um Ezekiel g uh elaborates on this uh immensely in uh chapters forty to I think it was forty-eight. Uh he talks about the new temple. Um Difficult passage to but he i the measuring is is done right there in Ezekiel. Gives a lot of measurement to the new temple Leave out the court which is outside the temple, and do not measure it, for it has been given to the nations, and they will tread underfoot the holy city for forty-two months. Okay, he's setting a scene. This is going to be the holy city. We're in Jerusalem, right? And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for twelve hundred sixty days. Clothes and sackcloth. Twelve hundred and sixty days. How long is that? Three and a half years. There you go So we're half of the t hal think about that, but after the tribulation, these two witnesses are going to be witnessing It's it's it's um these two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth And if anyone wants to harm them, fire flows out from their mouth and devours the enemy. So if anyone wants to harm them, he must kill and uh he must be killed in this way. These have the power to shut up the skies, so the rain will not fall during the days of their prophesying And they had power over the waters to turn them into blood and strike the earth with every plague as often he desire. So I mean you can tell from the two prophecies why they speculate, right? Uh sounds like Elijah and Moses, right? Moses had all the plagues, touched the water, right? Uh uh Elijah, there was a ple or or a uh drought, right? And he he ended the drought in Al Carmel But whether it's Elijah or w whether he comes in the spirit of Elijah, because remember what we said in John uh or in Matthew, did John, right? John the Baptist, Jesus said, John was Elijah if you are willing. And for those who are being saved, he's he's a messenger. He was the messenger for the Messiah. The Messiah was standing right in front of them. They didn't see it Or they they they couldn't uh get beyond uh or get to the the full revelation. Um But these two witnesses, whether they're Moses and Elijah, I don't know. But w when fire comes out of their mouth and they're prophesying for uh three and a half years That's the point. Pay attention. See the signs of the time. The other thing I just wanted to read was um Uh the dragon comes up and and s uh he has the power to slay these two witnesses. Their bodies lay in the streets. But um Let's see. Look at verse ten though of chapter eleven, and this shows you the heart of man And those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them. These are the dead witnesses laying in the street. And celebrate. And they will send gifts to one another because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth. The their witnessing was tormenting these people. People can't stand the truth, can they? We ain't I I think we're watching that now. People can't stand the truth. It's amazing. Uh as we look at some of the things we're doing now, I I'm amazed I know God uh has blinded the eyes of those, but when you watch it and see it, it's just to me, it's amazing. So that is the third cup. So the fourth cup is called the cup of acceptance. But I say to you, I will not drink this fruit of the bond from now on. until the day that I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. So Jesus realizes uh Right? He's given the gospel, he knows where he's going. He also knows that the vast majority of his people are not going to come to faith. Uh a remnant will. But he will drink it with uh Israel will be redeemed those it during that last those last times. But it's gonna come in a tribulation and uh it's gonna be in the Father's kingdom. So I find this too amazing. So at this point, Matthew 26, 30, after singing him, they went out to the Mount of Olive. They would have done this at this point the second half of the Hillel, right? Psalm uh one fifteen through eighteen And this is what they this is so, but think about this. This is what they were singing as they're getting ready to go out to the mouth. Psalm 118, 22 to 26. The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad of it. O Lord, do save, we beseech you. O Lord, we beseech you. Do send prosperity. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord. It would have sung this. The stone that the builders rejected on their way to the Mount of Olives, right? Where he's going to pray. Unless God opens our eyes, you can tell somebody, right? You can give somebody the gospel And you can see the blankness in their eyes, right? Plus the Lord opens the heart. It's amazing, isn't it? So, right, and what are they saying in when uh a few days before this, right? Then there's triumphal entry, which I always thought kind of funny. He's gonna triumph over sin and death. Uh the people aren't are not gonna be triumphing with The crowds going ahead of him and those who followed were shouting, Hosanna to the son of David Uh blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, who's Anna in the highest. So this is what the people were were singing. Um Again, but they just didn't quite get the whole message. It is uh When you when you look back over scriptures, and in all fairness to them, there weren't a lot. um even intellectually, uh for them to know about the death of the Messiah. every we all knew the m uh Isaiah passage fifty three. But when you think about it, th there there really wasn't what was emphasized was what they expected. A king that would conquer Uh they're gonna rule, there's gonna be a kingdom, and there is gonna be a kingdom. Uh but they didn't recognize that without salvation they weren't gonna be part of the kingdom Uh this had they had to their sins had to be paid for. Uh the promises are are abundant. Uh We we uh did some studies uh with with the uh covenants and the promises of God His death is not that emphasized in there. So ever looking for the good things and and the earthly things and the plusly things. Even John the Baptist had a misconception of what life with a Messiah would would be like. Right. And I'm sure again then that uh Matthew eleven when John sent the messengers, Are you the Messiah? And remember what he told 'em. He said, The blind see, all the signs are there Can you see the signs of the times? They were prophesied. Uh especially in the servant songs in Isaiah. Isaiah 42, he's going to release the captive. Right. The blind will see. But again John's in prison and he's going, Is this house gonna work? I it's it's difficult. Um yeah, you have to see beyond our our circumstances. It takes faith, it takes it takes God's grace to see that Um the fulfillment. So Let me I'm gonna read you kind of uh uh a summary of I read you the one about the Fikomen, uh that uh chosen people ministry. Um explain and again, uh these It's not scripture, so we can't just identify this. Uh uh we see the fulfillment in Christ, especially with the the the bread the bag, the three pieces of matza, uh it certainly looks um Well we can w let me read what he has and s and so we can kinda get a perspective maybe from a lost um uh Hebrew perspective. So the Passover is rich in symbolism. So why do three mosashs? The rabbis uh have two basic traditions that the matzers represent. One sees th uh the three as Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, so sees as a patriarch. Uh and this is uh he said a lot of times in the Passover they'll One year they'll give one interpretation. One year they give the second one, which is um the second tradition sees the three as representing the priests, the Levites, and the Patriarchs. Uh but the problem with these represent representations is the lack of the explanation as to why uh the Levites or Isaac had to be broken. And they do have some idea uh explanations. One explanation for the uh the Levites is they're the ones who offered the sacrifices Isaac, certainly we know Abraham took him up to be sacrificed. So they could explain it off that way. But from a messianic Jewish point, he goes, the best explanation would be that the three matas represent the Trinity, the Godhead. The linen bag of the three matas are placed into a symbol uh to symbolize oneness uh of the Godhead, right? God in three persons The second person of the Godhead, the Son, came to earth as Messiah. He was broken, he died. Wrapped in linen, he was hidden away and buried. He was brought back on the uh at the third cup, the resurrection of the third day. So this seems to be uh seems like a like a Christian attempt to explain Christ, but there was no Ephekamin at the time of Jesus. It was a later edition, the last solid food eaten at the Passover again would have been lamb The rabbis now say the ifikamen represents the lamb and everyone must eat it. There's some d uh debate about the meaning of a fecumen. Because it's Greek, it's rather than a Hebrew word. Uh how did it come to be uh in the vocabulary of the Passover feast? So this is um Kevin Howard and Martin Rosenthal uh The Feast of the Lord uh in their book. This is how they they see it. Um And they translate a fikeman as I came. Uh heirs tense it's uh uh But again, even if if you if you do a word search on it, i i it's questionable even as to m the meaning uh that. Uh he may have read it in Right to fit his scenario, an explanation. But nonetheless it it's uh we from our perspective i there i we see uh uh truth to it. Christ did come Howard Mosenthal speculate that there were as many as perhaps a million Jews during the uh the first century. Um I didn't realize it was that high an estimate. That's the first time I heard that. I haven't verified it. I don't know what but even so, regardless of who estimates what, right? How you gonna know which one's right? Um So those that uh believed in Christ uh after the destruction of the temple in seventy AD, the the sacrifices would have uh ceased, right? There's no Passover lamb Which is why the Jews today, right? Uh the priests would have been sacrificing the lambs. They also uh uh many believe the Jews uh would have stopped much of the temple practice and began to embrace the Lord as a Passover sacrifice and thus have taken the Lord's Supper of bread and wine in the place of the lamb Non-believing Jews may have picked up on this practice and elaborated it with their own customs looking to their Messiah. And that is one of the aspects that um It it's really sad. You see uh even now at a Passover a lot of 'em will have an empty chair And they're empty chairs for what? Elijah. They're looking for Elijah to come back, and Elijah's gonna tell them the Messiah is coming. And you know, especially with I can't imagine uh uh how some of the believing Jews, you have unsaved family members, how difficult that is. Uh So close, right? Yet so far. Uh uh but you know, Laura and I grew up in a church that was close but far. Unsaved church, unsaved pastors. I don't know if anybody in there was saved. If they were, I don't know why they would have stayed all those years. Uh especially with the things that were coming out of the pulpit. But You know, we would go over decrees and the hymns, a lot of the hymns, the doctrines right there. You can be that close and set yet that far, can't you? Um I hope that's really all I have on this section. If there's any comments. Um I I listed in um in the blood of the lamb and as I was thinking of this I thought well let's look at some of these passages and I I did a search and and it's powerful. If you have time you ever get on a topic like that. It takes time But to read just like go through all the passages you find on the blood and Christ's blood and just kind of when you read through them just consecutively it it kind of i it it enlightens me. It it uh it gives me a picture, a little bigger picture of of Christ's blood uh to rig them all uh back to back. That's kinda why I listed some of these. And and I thought, you know Familiarity can harden uh can harden my heart. Uh uh y you you bring to you this sometimes and and I might be looking for doctrine, I might be looking for the wrong thing, you know, to see the person of Christ. Be on guard for yourselves, for all the flock amongst which the Holy Spirit has made you overseer. to shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. Paul's talking to the Ephesians, he's getting ready to tell them, uh, be good shepherds. He goes, as soon as I leave, the wolves are going to come And they're even amongst you. And as we're going through all these seats, just remember that. Um It's our human nature, right? Jesus told the parable, the wheat and the tares. Uh I believe he's talking about what was going to be coming. You're going to have unbelievers mixed in. Be careful. That was one of the things that was on my uh I was talking with my son about Wesley. He's down there in in Louisville, he's going to a Baptist church. His pastor is over at Southern Baptist Theological Seminaries There's all this hubbub bub going on with what's going on in the seminary. Uh uh this church is full of seminary people. Um There you can see division even in the church. And they just had a conference apparently at the Baptist Convention. They elected a new president. Um, you know when you have something that big, you're gonna have woo you're gonna have tears in there. It's it's hard to have a huge denomination. When you're that big, all those people are saved And the numbers come in. I and I guess I'm preaching now, but i each of us has to really become We have to be theologians, don't we? What happens if the church what happens if if we end up in a persecuted church or splinter where we see the things in China? Big brothers looking down Uh wasn't that incredible? The uh did y'all look at that, I hope? Uh Larry Teege's things he sends out in the persecuted church? Look at it. You have it Because this data collection everybody knows uh if you see what China's doing and they're they're uh spreading this around but We have to you have to we have to be our own little theologians. What happens if we we can assemble together? We have to know good doctrine because They said the new president said I think what he was telling me then I don't really keep up with the film bad. I have no idea what they have. He said that the new president said women can't be lead pastors. But he kind of opened the door for women to be associate pastors. It's just it's always just a little turn and uh next thing you know they're gonna think the Bible was That's what happened to the United Methodist Church. Wesley's theology wasn't great, but at least at one time he you believed in the inerrancy of scripture. Every every major movement has to bel and that's always what they attack first He just get the scripture off a little bit. Sure. He twisted his truth. So it's no different. It's always it always starts with this, do you believe the word of God? Um let me read one more and then this is the one I really like in Revelation. Revelations uh I had Hebrews. Talk about the blood of the Lamb. I said to him, Lord, you know, he's talking about martyred saints, and he asked him, Who are these? Uh you know his little case glory talking to an angel He said to me, These are the ones who came out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. And is that powerful or what? That's the key for all situations. For this reason, they are before the throne of God, and they serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them. They will hunger no longer, nor thirst any more, nor will the sun be down on them, nor any heat. For the Lamb is a For the lamb in the center of the throne will be their shepherd and will guide them in the springs of water light. God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. That's our hope. Our hope is in the future. Right? We are blessed abundantly here. It's easy to take our eye off of that. Little persecution uh what it if you if you saw I'll finish with this. If you saw the uh uh persecuted church that Larry had uh T G had sent out on China At the end he says, maybe we should give praise to uh whoever with the president of China. Yeah. He said maybe we should give 'em praise. He goes, the church was only about a million people and i and now it's up to like a hundred and thirty Persecution. Yeah. He says maybe we should uh thank him. God says they'll build his church, right? The gate of Hades will not overcome it. Um any final thoughts? Hopefully next week uh I'll get the notes out. I I I've I've kind of revisited, I've found some uh more sources on and some more direction on the uh unleavened bread. But and I'll try and get them out to you timely fashion so you can look at 'em, but this is The lamb, right, that's Christ's side. Uh the unleavened bread, that's kind of the human side. Now it's our obedience. It's our applying the lamb. And uh so that's what we'll do