Let's go ahead and open our Bibles to Ephesians chapter 6 and verses 10 through 18. We return to part four in our study on spiritual warfare. More than an interesting topic, a reality in which to face. We need to learn not only the realities of spiritual warfare in our own battles, but how to fight them. Today we'll be more on the side of how to fight them. I'll read the entire text again, verses ten through eighteen, and I hope we'll get concluded today. We'll see. Paul wrote, finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the full armor of God. So that you will be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, or blood and flesh. But against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore, take up the full armor of God so that you will be able to resist in the evil day, and having done everything to stand firm, stand firm, therefore, having girded your loins with truth And having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace. In addition to all Taking up the shield of faith with which you will be able to extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. With all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the Spirit, and with this in view Be on the alert with all perseverance and petition for all the saints. The main point of these verses clearly is to stand firm in God's strength against the devil's attacks. That's pretty clear. Paul gave a rallying cry to the troops back in verse 10 we talked about before, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. You're in a battle, that's the rallying c cry that you need. If you didn't realize that you're in a spiritual battle, now you do. The trumpet has been blown. And then he gave reasons for it. What is our enemy? Verses eleven through thirteen. It names the present spiritual opposition to the church. This is what the church faces. This is what you as a member of the church face. These are evil forces that are present and are working in our church age. Then he started to provide how you can be ready for spiritual warfare, the readiness for spiritual warfare. And that's what we're in now in verses 14 through 18. How does the readiness to fight spiritual battles come? Well, it doesn't come through some of the strange things that you hear people talking about. It comes by putting on the what? The spiritual armor, right? In mirroring the Roman soldiers' armor, Paul, being well acquainted with that, is taking each of those pieces that they would wear and relating that to what we would wear. in a spiritual sense, in spiritual armor. The first piece, obviously, that you have to put on is to gird the loins with the belt of truth Truth is necessary. Without truth, you cannot fight the spiritual warfare at all. It comes first because if you don't have truth, nothing else that you attempt to do will matter. We talked about how truth comes in two senses here, probably an objective sense, meaning the truth of the Word of God. You need to believe the Word of God. You need to know the Word of God in the Bible and you need to believe it. If you don't know it and believe it, you can't fight the devil's lies. As the truth of God is received into your life and you are born again and you are saved, then that truth works in your life. As it works in your life, then you think with integrity and you speak truth to one another. That's the subjective side of truth. If you're not living in an honorable and in a way of integrity, you're not speaking truth to others, you're already losing the battle to the devil, and so there's really nothing you can do to fight him He is the liar and the father of lies as Jesus called him in John 8, and so to battle him you have to have truth. We noted last time that one of the devil's schemes is to exploit the half-hearted, insincere Christian who comes to church wants to be a Christian in name but isn't really wanting to live for Christ. Well Satan knows that. He knows who you are and he knows how he can manipulate you. He knows how he can discourage you. He knows how he can beat you down And so you don't want to be one of those. You don't want to be insincere. You want to have truth. You want to be a person of truth, speak truth, love truth. And so truth has to permeate all that we do as believers. How Can anyone really resist Satan when he's already joined Satan in lying against the truth or living a life of lies? You have to shed falsehood, put on the new self which speaks the truth. Today we arrive at the second piece of the armor to put on, and that is still in verse 14, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness. The breastplate of righteousness, the second piece of the armor. What does a breastplate do for a soldier? Well, it covered the vital organs there when he fought. It covered them really from neck all the way down to thigh. It was made of bronze, though some officers had chain mail breastplates. These breastplates commonly covered the backside as well. Why? Because rear attacks were possible as well. The breastplate of righteousness means the breastplate which is righteousness. In other words, righteousness is the armor. Like the word truth, there are two senses to the word righteousness in New Testament scripture. There's first Christ's righteousness, his righteousness that is given to us, or we say is imputed to us That's our guarantee that we'll be accepted before God. We can never come to God and say, I was a g I was a good person. I went to church, I did these good things That would be our righteousness, and God doesn't consider our righteousness to be good. In fact, He considers it to be filthy rags. If we want to be accepted by God, we have to have perfect perfect righteousness, and that's the righteousness of Jesus Christ, the life that he lived. And he imputes that to that. He reckons it to our account, even though we don't deserve it. That's his grace. So we're protected by the life of God, the life of Christ And that is our righteousness. Speaking of this righteousness, Paul asks in the letter of Romans, who will bring a charge against God's elect ones. Who can make an accusation against those that God has elected and given his righteousness? And the answer of course is nobody The answer is God is the one who justifies. If God declares you righteous based upon the righteousness of Christ, you're now protected. That's the point. So no one can be right with God on their own merit, their own righteousness. They all have sinned and fallen short of what? The glory of God, right? That's God's standard, and we all fail that standard. Even though people talk about themselves as good, God doesn't consider them good. But after you receive imputed righteousness from Christ You have a new life provided by God. Now that you have that new life, you're supposed to practice the righteousness that Christ practiced. You're supposed to walk in his footsteps. You're supposed to be a disciple of his and learn from him. How to love the law of God, how to love His law of love and love other people and love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. We're supposed to practice that daily righteous living. And that's what putting on the breastplate of righteousness refers to, putting on the practices of living a righteous life in the midst of a world where people do not live righteously. This is the sense of righteousness, for example, found in the prophet Isaiah 59, verse 17, which Paul is making reference to in verse 14. And Christ put on righteousness like a breastplate. Also, 1 Thessalonians 5. 8 refers to the breastplate of faith and love. So there's a kind of applied righteousness, a righteousness that comes from faith and love. It's in our lives. We live it. So, for me and my conscience and you and your conscience to live before God, in the presence of God, in his sight, and to do what is right, that is putting on the breastplate of righteousness. It is to practice what Paul taught earlier in this very epistle. Be quick to forgive others. If you don't do that, you're not putting on the breastplate of righteousness. Seek unity with other believers in a spirit of humility. If you're harboring bitterness and you're causing divisions with others, you're not living in a righteous way the way God wants you to. Have nothing to do with sexual immorality. If you're making compromises with that, you're not living rightly before God. Live in the light of God's holiness. That's it. Now of course Satan has many tricks that he can use to lure believers into unrighteous living. None of us are perfect, we know this, right? In times of prosperity, what does Satan do? Well He wants to convince us, and his realm is not he doesn't need to really work in our flesh. Our flesh has enough temptation in itself. He works in the realm of ideas and false doctrines And what he does when there's a materialistic world around us, he basically says something like, you need to find comfort in the things of the world rather than in God. And what does that lead to? That leads to materialism, that leads to greed That leads to I have to have more material things than I really have to have. That focuses me on all of those things. It may focus me on laziness in my spiritual living. We get entangled, as Jesus said, in the things of this world, and it can tend to choke out spiritual life. Also, he draws believers into self-indulgence or hedonism. If it feels good, do it. If you like it, God must be okay with it. Sometimes we make little little statements in our mind and we forget that the source of these things are demonic where we say, well, I can get away with it just once. I want to experience it. I want to know how it is I want to do it just this one time. I know that God will forgive me, so it's going to be okay. I'll resist another day. And you know none of that comes from God's Holy Spirit Or we might say, hey, everybody is doing it. I've even seen other Christians do it. I think I can do it. And we want to argue, and we're letting those arguments in our mind and we're not winning the spiritual battle. Do you see? And on and on the devil's tricks goes. He has his bag, he just pulls one out for one person, another for another person. He's very good at what he does, and when he's lured you into the sin and you commit the sin Then, no, he's not your friend. He stands there and accuses you before God and says, See, look what they did. They're not righteous. And that's what he does. He's the accuser of the brethren. He accuses you of doing the very sin he lured you into doing. Now some of you are still struggling with making the right decision. Let me just tell you, to neglect to do what is right, the right action, is to leave a big gaping hole in your armor that Satan can take advantage of. You might say, but it'll be easier to do this. But but I I'm just more comfortable with this. I'm more familiar with this. That's not spiritual armor. You want spiritual armor? Put it on. Do what is right But doing what is right will be hard. Won't be as hard as being attacked by the devil and feeling the pain that he ha happens to bring your way, I'll guarantee that. Yes, the way of the Lord is hard. The way of the devil is harder. And don't let him fool you. There's a lot of pain in sin, a lot. James 4. 17 says, the one who knows the right thing to do and does not do it, to him it is what? Sin. There it is. The immature Christian does not recognize these lures as spiritual attacks. He thinks of them just as his own weaknesses or his bad habits, and so he he doesn't really want to deal with it. He just thinks, ah, maybe over time it'll go away or something like that. But he's not going to get over it naturally. He has to root out the root of the problem. And that is the spiritual attack and these false thoughts in his own head Until he does that, he will not stand firm in the battle. Folks who understand true spiritual warfare are not out there rebuking the devil. They're working on practicing their own righteousness. Do you see that? You know, the ironic thing about this is just take a step back from this, and those people that really talk about spiritual warfare, and you need to learn to do this and rebuke this and and and pray over this thing and that thing and put a hedge around you know this person or whatever the statements are, you heard them. They're making all those bold pronouncements against the devil, like they have some superpower in their churches They're actually easier pray for the demons than other people who are putting on the breastplate of righteousness. Do you realize that? That's kind of ironic. There they are going around rebuking the devil and the devil is having a laugh at them Because they're so proud in that. What are you going to do? Speak truth, put on righteousness, and stand firm against the devil. That's what you need to do. Then the devil can't do anything with that. But when you're rebuking the devil and singing great hymns on Sunday and then going out and getting drunk or being sensual or selfish or proud or pouring into hours of entertainment and playing these games on and on and on. Come on, people, life is not trivial. Surfing the net on and on and getting in trouble. That was for me Trivializing all kinds of things. Everything has to be humorous and this and that. And that's our that's our age. All of that just feeds the flesh and makes you happy. And just it's all about you. You're not You're not living righteously, of course you're going to be an easy target for the devil. All that makes weak Christian warriors, and we're not in a day and a time where we can use weak Christian warriors. We need strong people in God's strength. So put it on. Third piece of armor, feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. It says, and having shod your feet, notice in verse fifteen with the preparation of the gospel of peace. That's interesting. Well we know that the military success of any army, particularly in those days, depended not only on bravery and skill or who their captain was But how well their feet were shod. For the soldier proper footwear provided mobility toward the battle and firmness in grip in the midst of combat What a disadvantage an army would have with poor footwear. They could not move swiftly to position themselves against their enemy To prevent this, a Roman soldier's sandals often had fixed into the soles bits of metal and jagged pieces to give them that needed traction as they moved over different kinds of terrain. So the Christian soldier also should shod his feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace. This does not mean, as some people quickly interpret, and I hear people talk about this, that the feet of the soldiers should bring the gospel of Peace to other people. That's a nice sentiment, and there are other passages that speak of that. That's not what Paul is writing here. Paul is not writing about evangelism in this spot. Always follow the context when you're interpreting Scripture, right? It means the gospel of peace is your foot's preparation. The gospel of peace brings us into peace with God, brings us into peace with other believers, and thus, because of that peace, it's great preparation for mobility in spiritual battle. How exactly does the gospel of priest peace prepare Christians for battle? First, it makes sure that we are in a favorable relationship with God. You remember Romans 5. 1, you can jot it down. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have what? Peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We have peace with God. When Satan brings uncertainty and confusion and chaos into your life, you're not going to be able to stand firm unless you're sure, wait, I have a correct standing with God. I'm at peace with God. I'm okay with God because of the Lord Jesus Christ. You have to be sure that you believe the gospel and that you're saved. You have to be sure of that. You never should just assume because you go to church and sing some hymns or read your Bible or say some prayers or you grew up in a Christian family that you're saved. You need to make sure of that. Otherwise, you're not going to have that peace. You have to get low before God, humble before God, beg for his mercy. Make sure you're a saved person. Make sure you're one of his. Make sure you're in right relationship to him Second, we're prepared by the peace that exists in our relationships as Christians. How wonderful it is to have peaceful relationships with other believers. This could be a whole sermon in and of itself, right? Ephesians 2, Christ reconciled them, the Jew and Gentile, both in one body, that's the church, to God through the cross. Oh, there's a lot said in that You know, through the cross we all come together from our different backgrounds, and the things that we would war about in the world we don't, because we're all believers in Christ, and now his kingdom is the most important thing, right? And so we come together on the cross and that's our reconciliation. And then on a personal level, when I get upset with somebody else, we reconcile. We don't always agree, but we reconcile, right? And we make sure that the relationships are good. Satan can take such advantage of a church and can turn up all kinds of trouble within a local church just because believers refuse to get reconciled and see That some of those things are not worth fighting about, right? Peace protects us from Satan's attempts to divide us. Peace keeps disagreements that we all have from turning into damaging and hurtful arguments. And third, peace also prepares us by giving us the inner peace of mind. We not only have peace with God, peace with one another, we have peace with ourselves How do we have peace with ourselves? Our conscience is put to rest because we're doing the right things. And we have a settled, deep kind of peace. Jesus said In John sixteen thirty three, these things I have spoken unto you, that in me you might have peace in the world you will have tribulation, but take courage, I have overcome the world. And you all know Philippians four, six and seven. Be anxious for nothing But make the request that you have known with thanksgiving, and then what will the peace of God do? It will what? Guard your heart and your mind in Christ Jesus. Beloved, I hope you can see why the devil hates this particular piece of armor. The devil loves confusion, he loves disharmony, he loves divisions and bitterness and uncertainty, and you and I can fight a spiritual war with truth With righteousness and yes also this third peace with peace between us and God, us and others, and even our own conscience. If you don't have peace in those areas, you're not going to be a very good soldier of Christ. That armor is needed to stand firm against the devil's schemes. When you are at peace in your mind, you're at peace with others, you're at peace with God, you're ready to fight. You're ready to really fight. And it's wonderful. Now there are some Bible teachers at this point that say that these first three pieces of spiritual armor were meant to be put on and kept on at all times, but the next three pieces We're only picked up at the time of the battle. When I go back and I read verse eleven, I see that's not what it says. It says that all of these pieces are to be put on and kept on all the time, right? Put on half the armor of God, is that what it said? Or put on the full armor of God so that you will be able to stand firm against the scheme of the devil I know that in real life some of the soldiers would lay the helmet around and stuff like that. But you have to be ready for warfare all the time. We're always behind enemy territory, and those arrows are always coming in So we need to be aware of them. We don't want to be blind-sided. So we go on. Fourth piece. Look at it. Verse 16. In addition to all Taking up the shield of faith with which you will be able to extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. This is an important piece too. The Thurion, the shield, was an oblong Roman shield, about four feet long, two and a half feet wide, constructed of wood. It had two layers of leather glued on it together and bound with iron above and below. It was designed to cover the entire soldier in a slightly bent position as they went down like that. When the soldiers would fight side by side, these shields would form an impenetrable wall from oncoming arrows or jabs from enemy foot soldiers. In warfare, arrows were occasionally actually dipped in tar or pitch, then they were ignited and then shot by the thousands to rain down on their enemy. Dart-like arrows A direct hit on a soldier could be damaging, even when he had the other pieces of armor on him. But with the timely use of his shield, dozens of these little arrows could actually be rendered harmless Because when the flaming arrow hit the shield, the arrow would be embedded in the leather and the wood and would become severely blunted and then harmlessly extinguished. That's a beautiful picture, isn't it? In fact, at times the Roman soldiers would even take their entire shields, the leather and all, and soak them in the water right before the battle if they anticipated such arrows being shot against them. Obviously, this piece of armor is very important too. Notice Paul says, in addition to all taking up the shield of faith, what does he mean by that? Don't forget this one. Don't go out there without this one. Don't go, look at all the stuff I have on. This is sufficient. Your previous armor is not complete without the shield And what is the shield for the Christian? It's the shield of what? Faith. Say it again. Faith. Now faith is so important to the Christian life. I think sometimes we think. All we need is some little bit of faith and then we get saved. Dear Jesus, saved me. That's faith. I believe in God. There it is. What else do I need faith for? How about living the entire Christian life? We walk by what? Faith and not by sight. There's going to be lots of things that are thrown at you, and then the power and strength of your belief is going to be tested. And you're going to need to lift it up and say, I don't believe that lie. I don't believe that outcome for me. I don't believe what the devil is saying will happen to me. I just don't accept it. I take God at His Word and I lift up my shield of faith, right? Oh, if we could just learn that, how that would help so many counseling sessions. Do you believe God or not? Well if you do, let's go to some of his promises, make sure we understand them, make sure we incorporate them into our lives, into our thinking, and then go forward in the might of God, right? Problem is a lot of times we're like, well, I know he says that, but That might have worked for Abraham. That might have worked for David. That might have worked for Elijah, John the Baptist, et al. Not me. I've never seen that happen to me. Woo! There goes the shield of faith down We need to lift it back up. Satan and his subordinates shoot their arrows. What do they say? And it hits you. You don't know when it's going to hit you. God has abandoned You. He doesn't care about you. Look at what's happened in your life. If God loved you, this never would have happened. Now those thoughts will go through your mind at some point in time. Do you think they're just your thoughts? Do you think that there's no spiritual source behind that? Do you think we're in a universe where there is no spiritual battle going on? Again, I have to remind you the reasons for the warfare are that we our struggle is not against flesh and blood, right? Put that again together with this. Wow. Wow, I've got to recognize the source of that. And you start to contemplate, like, yeah, maybe that's true. Yeah, I feel terrible. You know. And then you you want to find someone else that agrees with your pity party. No No, they're not going to agree. They're going to put their arms around you, love you, and care for you and be compassionate, but they're going to speak truth to you, right? Because the truth is what's going to help you. The shield of faith recalls the promises of God. What does God say? I will never leave you nor forsake you. Romans 8:31. If God is for us, who could possibly be against us? The demonic suggestions convey something like, you know, your your life isn't amounting to anything. Look at you. Yeah. You're fifty-five now Tom. You got pancreatic cancer. You're a nobody And then the shield of faith has to get lifted. Your toil in the Lord is not in vain. 1 Corinthians 15:58, right? Nothing done in the name of the Lord is ever wasted. Ever No Christian can be successful apart from the daily exercise of faith, and there are going to come some days, he calls the evil day in this text. There are going to come those days where it's particularly bad and oh you're going to need the shield of faith. So what's wrong with me? Why am I feeling so down? Why am I so distracted? Why am I so discouraged? You don't have the shield of faith up But I don't know if I have enough faith. Well, now you're learning to exercise faith like a muscle, and you've got to lift it up more. Listen, Satan's not going to leave us alone He's not going to say, Well, they have the other pieces of armor on, I'm scared of that. He's still going to come after you. He's going to try to get to your thinking. If one scheme doesn't work, he'll try, try again. He's going to search for some weakness in you, some weakness in the church, circling the wagons until he finds the spot and then he attacks. He's very smart And then he orders a barrage of arrows right there. Let's bring that guy down. Let's bring that lady down. Let's get him distracted. Let's get him doing the wrong thing. Let's get him thinking the wrong Flaming arrows, boom, boom, boom, no shield. That hurts, doesn't it? But the shield of faith extinguishes them all. Did you see that? All of them. Anything he takes out, aims at you, whoosh. You already have the weaponry. You have the full sufficient power right there to shield a faith. I do not believe that I believe the Word of God. The Word of God is sufficient for my every temptation, right? No temptation has overtaken you, but such is common to man, right? It's going to work. The scripture is going to work in your life. It's worked with everyone else's life. It's going to work in your life. Quit doubting God. Please. It puts out darts of confusion. Life doesn't make sense. It puts out the darts of doubt. It puts out the darts of fear. It puts out any other dart for any other spiritual battle. Man, this is a good piece of armor. I wish we had a whole sermon on that. Alright, we're rolling our. Fifth, the helmet of salvation. And take the helmet of salvation. Really, what that verb means is receive the helmet of salvation. The picture is that of someone standing by to hand the helmet To the soldier. Because the shield's now in one hand and maybe the left hand is is open. And so you take the helmet and you put the helmet on and you leave it on. I have to admit this piece of armor is a little bit perplexing. It says, take the helmet of salvation, but he's already talking to believers, so they're all already what? Saved. So why do you have to take salvation when you already have salvation? 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 8, I think, will help us to understand this. Since we are of the day, it says, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and as a helmet. The hope of salvation. The hope of salvation. This supplies a reasonable meaning to our Ephesians passage. future salvation, as in 1 Peter 1. 5, a salvation ready to be revealed to us in the last time. Our salvation is fully guaranteed now, but our salvation is not fully realized now. Do you get that? I'm not in my glorified body, right? I mean y'all can tell that You all are not in your glorified body, right? And I could tell that. We are not we are not the way we're going to be, as first John 3 talks about. We have not yet seen ourselves in glory with the full completion of salvation. So there's still an anticipation or a hope of salvation yet to come. That hope now is a strength to a vital organ, the head. It protects us. It protects our thinking. It really is, as Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 19 says, hope is the anchor of our souls. What does an anchor do? It keeps it from straying, right? That hope anchors us. When you go against the lies and the activities of demons in the world, you need to know you're secure. You're eternally secure. The outcome of this war, even if you lose a battle, the outcome of this war is secured already. Jesus Christ is the victor in the end. We sang about it. That was really a Psalm II hymn that we sang there. It was all about you know he who sits in the heavens lasts when the nations of the world take their stand against God and his Messiah, right? And he says, But as for me, I've installed my king upon Zion, my holy mountain. And he says to the Son of God, Ask of me, and I'll give the nations as your inheritance, and the ends of the earth as your possession. You'll rule them with a rod of iron. You'll shatter them like earthenware. And then he turns to all the kings and he says, You better take warning, O kings of the earth, because the Son of God may soon become angry with you. You better honor him and rejoice with trembling before him. He wins. And we have that hope. We know he's coming in the clouds. We know he's coming with power. And guess what? We know that no matter how bad a soldier we are, we get the final victory with him. And that's wonderful. But that doesn't mean you should be a bad soldier. We join the heavenly chorus in Revelation 19. Hallelujah! The Lord our God, the Almighty, reigneth. King James And so that's exciting. We have the hope of our salvation. The last piece of armor requires the most skill to use, and that is the sword of the spirit. of the Spirit. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, interestingly, which is you don't have to doubt what the sword of the Spirit is. Here it's defined for you. What is it? The Word of God. The scriptures. The scriptures are the sword of the Holy Spirit of God. The sword referred to here is a Makaira, a short sword, no longer than eighteen inches. In close combat, it was the main weapon of the Roman soldier. The sword was kept in its sheath and pulled out quickly for any purpose. This is the only weapon mentioned by Paul that has the ability to meet the lunge of the enemy and beat him back. The rest of them have us standing our ground. The sword of the Spirit means it is the Spirit's sword. In other words, it's what the Holy Spirit uses to jab. I like that. The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. So the Word of God is what the Holy Spirit uses to jab out at the lies and schemes of the devil and force him backwards. Remember Zechariah 4:6, not by might nor by power, but by what? My Spirit, says the Lord of hosts, how do I accomplish the things that need to be accomplished in the world? I do it by my Holy Spirit, and what does the Holy Spirit use? The Holy Spirit uses the Word of God. Pretty simple, isn't it? The Holy Spirit will not use human words in spiritual battle. The Holy Spirit will not use human education in spiritual battle. The Holy Spirit will not use human wit and cute stories in spiritual battle The Holy Spirit will not use human reasoning or crafted philosophy in spiritual warfare And churches that promote those things and bring those things into their pulpit and into their classrooms and into their counseling sessions are forfeiting the right to stand firm against the devil. The Holy Spirit will not use them. The Spirit only accomplishes his work through his sword. Just look at the life of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Oh my, the devil came to him in the wilderness on the fortieth day, that evil day in which he attacked the devil with the full throttle of the three hardest temptations that he could think of when he was weakened after forty days of not eating. And he came to Adam and what did Jesus say? Do you know who you're talking to the devil? Did he start reasoning with him and and and doing logic with them and quoting some Jewish rabbi with him Just each and every single time Christ was tempted directly by the devil with these thoughts that should not have been in his head, he said, It is written, it is written, it is written. Written where? In the Bible In Deuteronomy, actually, is where he was meditating from. And what did the devil do? He moved on to the next temptation, then to the next, and then he was out of there. In fact, the devil said, get out of here. Be gone. Well what do we do when we're tempted? Gee, oh my, what should I do with that? Where's the use of the sword of the Spirit in our own mind when temptation comes? What sloppy thinking we have. You know, we can sit and we can go to theology class and we can kind of get it all right. But when we're sitting at home alone and the temptation comes, we're like our minds are like all over the place. Woo, woo, woo Well, I know I shouldn't do that. What's that? What kind of a defense is that? Well, uh that would be a no-no. I think that would be wrong. Gee, I'd be embarrassed if I did that. You're not fighting with spiritual warfare like that. Christ didn't give his own ideas. He said it's written. Jesus understood the power, accuracy, sufficiency of Scripture for all temptation. Do you think if the devil came up with a fourth one he would have said something different besides it is written? Look, Christ was a swordsman. Was he not? Wheep, weep. Wheep. He knew what he was doing. We walk around like what a nice story. King James Version. What a what a what do we how do we use it? Look, I got study Bible notes How do you use it in your life when you're in the office and the temptation for integrity comes? Do you even have a verse memorized? Are you preparing for battle? When you're going through entertainment and you know you're going to be tempted in the flesh, do you even have a verse that would ward that off when it comes to your mind? Are you using the sword or just kind of waving it around like, okay, let's battle? You don't know what to say here, there. Listen. The devil is precise and tricky in his temptations. You need to hone that sword. You need to practice fencing. You need to know what to do with it. You know, we offer classes. We offer accountability. We offer studies. Women, men, singles, any other class of people out there. Are you preparing? Are you taking notes? Are you reviewing? Are you preparing for battle It's not it's not just you that's going to get hurt. When you can't fight well, then the rest of the church has to come around and and help fight with you because you're the weak link That's okay if you're a new believer. You've been around a church for a while, you're not doing anything with it. You're listening to sermons. Great. Are you appropriating the practice of the things you're learning? We, for though we walk in the flesh, We do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh. But divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses. We are destroying speculations And every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God, every lousy false teaching. And we are taking every thought captive to what? To the obedience of Christ. I want to be obedient to Christ. These are ideological fortresses that others have, but in our own minds sometimes those thoughts come as well. They're false teachings, they're twisted arguments. They're justifications for fleshly actions. They're human philosophies on wrong foundations. They're false religion. And that is where the real spiritual warfare is going on, people. The battle for people's minds and for absolute truth. Grounded in the infallible Word of God given to us as a treasure so we can learn it and fight. It exposes every false thinking that is out there The folly of atheism, the folly of agnosticism, the folly of hedonism, the folly of all the false religions. It's all there. The thinking is correct. It fortifies us for every temptation The only way to set deceived people free is to tear down those fortresses. That's an act of love. The only way to win a spiritual battle for ourselves is to know exactly what you're fighting. Quote the scripture, understand the truth. And then yah! Jabb it right in the right spot. And man, does that feel good? It's the power of God, not your power, see? Destroy those lies. Fast. Quick. Don't entertain them. That was one last weapon. Mentioned in verse 18, actually, and that is uh prayer. Look at verse 18. With all prayer and petition, pray at all times in the spirit, and with this in view, be on the alert with all perseverance and petition for all the saints. There are four alls in this all-inclusive prayer exhortation. Did you see them? All kinds of prayers and petitions, praying at all times, praying with all perseverance, and praying for all the saints. This is a total summons to prayer. It's not actually a piece of spiritual armor. But what it is, is the the atmosphere. In which the Christian soldier fights. The atmosphere of prayer. Don't forget to pray. Don't forget to pray a lot in spiritual warfare. Actually, verse 18 comes at the end of this section on spiritual warfare and on the importance of the believer wearing all of the spiritual armor. Verse 18 is grammatically tied and connected all the way back to the command in verse fourteen. Verse fourteen, look at it. It says, stand firm. That's actually a command. When you get to verse 18, he's not giving a new commandment. He's continuing to explain how to stand firm. Verse 14 says, stand firm. And literally verse 18 says, praying. at all times. Stand firm praying at all times with all prayers and all petition. So though Paul's not, I mean prayer is not listed as a piece of armor, it is the atmosphere in which we must fight. As we stand there, the helmet on our head, the sword drawn, faith uplifted, we still must fight with prayer. Prayer of talking to God. We're supposed to use all kinds of prayers. Why? Because there are many kinds of attacks that the devil will use against us, and we need different kinds of prayers going against them in different situations. Pray at all times. Why? Because as a cunning foe, the devil looks for gaps in the armor and he's always searching to attack us in a surprise attack. And so we have to always be ready. Pray with all perseverance. Why? Because it's not going to be a short battle, it's going to be a battle on and on throughout your life. You have to gain staying power. Your legs have to get tougher You have to get stronger. Just because you go through one battle, you think now the Lord will give you a respite, maybe, probably not. Probably not all that long if it is. You're right back in the battle. Why? Because he needs you in there. He's got you working in there. That's why you're down here on earth. Otherwise you might as well do the rapture now, right? And pray for all the saints. Why? Because do you think there's one saint out there that Satan's not going to attack? You know, there's some saint out there you've never prayed for in this church Pray for them this week, okay? Find someone you have to pray for and pray for them. All the saints. Pray for the other churches, pray for the missionaries, pray for other places around the world that are proclaiming the gospel. Pray for the saints as much as you can We are to be struggling on the battlefield in the atmosphere of spirit-led effective prayer. This kind of prayer, Paul says, is essential for success in spiritual warfare. Bring all of your requests to God. I have met people who work too much I have met people who play too much. I have met people who shop too much. I have met people who read too much and talk too much and complain too much, but I have yet to meet someone who prays too much Charles Spurgeon wrote, Brethren, we shall never see much change for the better in our churches in general till the prayer meeting occupies a higher place in the esteem of Christians. We have a prayer meeting coming up. And yes, that was a setup. What a snare is laid by the devil for churches who grow large. and get a lot of machinery and programs and facility, but you don't see him showing up to pray. And pray at all times without ceasing. Never let there be a time in your life when you're not talking to the Heavenly Father Pray in all seasons of life. If you're older, pray more now than you did when you're younger. If you're younger, don't wait until you're older to learn good prayer habits. If you're married, pray for your family. If you're not married, pray for yourself and other families and your future family if God so wills Evening and morning and at noon I will pray and cry out loud, and he will hear my voice, Psalm 55. And notice we are to be praying in the Holy Spirit. A lot of people go wild with what this means Oh, oh, I gotta speak in tongues. And there you are off on something again that's not spiritual warfare. Oh my goodness. Praying and the Holy Spirit is praying, inspired by, guided by, and made effective through our relationship to God's Holy Spirit. Follow the pattern of what the Holy Spirit wrote in the Bible, and you'll be praying in the Spirit, such as the Lord's Prayer. You pray that from a genuine heart, truly yielded to the will of God, and guess what? You'll be praying in the Holy Spirit. Dr. MacArthur, in his little book, Alone with God, writes this about the Lord's Prayer. This prayer defines the attitude and spirit we ought to have. Hour reflects the unselfishness. Father reflects family devotion. Hallowed be thy name Reverence. Thy kingdom come, loyalty, thy will be done, submission. Give us this day our daily bread, dependence. Forgive us our debts, penitence. Do not lead us into temptation, humility. Thine is the kingdom, triumph, and the glory, exaltation. Forever and ever, amen. hope. It's all there. That's spirit inspired and driven prayer. We pray that way. We pray in the spirit And pray with all perseverance. Pray with prevailing prayer. The Lord loves to be prevailed upon to grant the requests that He delayed giving to you so that you could exercise your faith more and be more dependent. And be more desperate in your cry to him. That's why he holds back. And when you keep prevailing upon him, he loves to be prevailed upon. Someone once said, nothing lies beyond the reach of prayer except that which lies outside the will of God. And pray for all the saints. That means keep your head up in church. And don't just be thinking about your own needs, think about the needs of others. Well, we're at an end here. Spiritual warfare. Effective spiritual warfare is not about Ghostbusters. It's not about voodoo dolls, seances Exorcism school. It's not about binding Satan. It's not about praying a hedge around somebody. It is about living in the truth and by the truth. It is living righteously according to the commands of God. It is being at peace, believing God in faith, keeping strong in hope, using the Word of God accurately And beseeching God's power as you fight. You do that. There is no scheme of the devil that will cause you to take a step backwards. Instead, this is what makes Satan flee. This is how you're strong in the Lord. This is how you use his resources. This is the equipment of God. Use it and watch the devil run, because he will run Father, we need constant reminders of your word as we're in your presence to take what we already know and be more serious about it. How long many of us have carried this equipment around but not worn it well. Teach us, Father, to wear it well, to be aware of what's going on in our minds and our homes. Help us to know what's going on when we're alone, when we're at the job, when we're out in the world. Help us to be aware of those attacks that come through crass humor or come through movies or come through radio or come through whatever source it is. We would be alert, we would be aware, and we'd be fighting the good fight. For Christ Jesus' sake, we pray. Amen