Okay, ladies, we can go ahead and get started. Looks like everyone's kind of drifting in finding the seat, so I'll go ahead and introduce myself. My name is Elise Shirley. My husband is Paul Shirley, he's the pastor of Grace Community Church in Delaware, um Newcastle area just south of Wilmington, Delaware. We have been there for almost ten years now. Um I have three girls. The oldest is here with me today and the two youngest are home um with my husband and uh we enjoy ministry life together and that was very appropriate with um Pam talking about balancing family and ministry life last night I really gained a lot from that, so I appreciated that. Um so today I wanted to um talk to you guys a little bit about what I've been studying about. Uh I was uh uh asked to speak and I was given a list of topics and one of them was God's love and I started thinking that that's what I wanted to talk to you guys about but it's such a broad topic. Um like w so where do you start explaining God's love. Where do I land on with this? Um I started doing a lot of studying a lot of listening to sermons and I ran across well I didn't run across, I started studying Romans eight thirty one through thirty nine. nine and was just convicted and given comfort and assurance of God's love from this passage. I wanted to talk to you guys today about the assurance that we can have of God's love in our life. So a lot of times we're looking for that assurance and we're looking to ourselves for that assurance. We look to our experiences and what we're going through or our emotions, our feelings to kind of gauge where we at in our standing with God and uh I just want to tell you that is n not the place to look. It's not reliable uh but we can look to God's word for the truth that is there that gives us the assurance of God's love. So Romans 8, 31 through 39 will be our passage, but I want to pray for us first so that we can focus our minds and be ready to study together. So let's pray. Lord, I thank you for this time that you've given us together, Lord. What a sweet gift you've given us for this fellowship and this time around your word. Lord, I pray that as uh we study Together, your word, your spirit will guide our thoughts and our minds and give us deeper understanding of your word, a deeper faith as we walk away from this study. Lord, I pray that we will uh find this. assurance that's in your word of your love, Lord, what a gift you've given us uh in salvation uh that you've bestowed upon us, Lord. Lord, I pray that everything that I say will be glorifying to you, Lord, and that it will edify those that I'm speaking to, and that these ladies will be drawn to your word and and have a deeper understanding of the truth therein. Lord I pray all these Alright, so let me read the passage for you, and then we're going to dig into it verse by verse and take it section section by section. So, Romans eight thirty-one through thirty nine says What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously? Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died. More than that, who was raised? Who is at the right hands of God? of God who indeed is interceding for us, who shall separate us from the love of Christ, shall tribu tribulation or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us. us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Alright, that's a wonderful passage. There's a lot there. We're gonna try and dig into it and I'm just gonna try to share with you or I am going to share, I'm not going to try, I am going to share with you what I've learned and what God has shown me through these weeks of studying. Okay. So we start off in verse thirty one. Paul, the apostle apostle Paul wrote these verses and he says, What then shall we say to these things? What things? I kinda dropped you in the middle of the passage. So what things are are he is he speaking about? And that is found mainly in verse thirty. So we can go right above verse thirty one and read. that he's talking about our salvation and it says and those whom he predestined he also called and those whom he called he also justified and those whom he justified he also glorified So in a nutshell, Paul is talking about our salvation, that God has called us, He has justified us, and He will also glorify us, He will keep us. So what shall we say to these things? And um so he just wants us to think about these things. God's love has been poured out on us in the fact that he called us, he's justified us And he has he's going to glorify us one day. That is an amazing love. So Paul is just sitting there I imagine him sitting there writing this and he's thinking through, obviously inspired by the Holy Spirit, but he's thinking through, these readers are reading about this amazing love and they will probably have some questions. They believe this that God will save them, that God is able to save them, that God will bestow his love on them in a saving way. But these questions might come to them, the type of questions like, wait a minute, is this love forever Will it ever end? Is there anything I can do to lose God's love? Is there anyone or any circumstance that can separate me from God's love and the benefits of his love? So Paul takes a look at some of these questions and answers them so that we as believers in Christ can have the same assurance that he has. So Let's look at the next statement that Paul makes at the end of verse 31. It says, if God is for us, who can be against us? And this um statement is a wonderful statement, um, but it's better translated instead of if God is for us, because it sounds like maybe there's a question there. But it's better translated since God is for us. So there is no question. If God has chosen you to save you, then he is for you. So we see here that the mighty Sovereign God is for us. And since He is for us, that and He has chosen to set His love on us in a saving way and save us by His grace, then nothing can change his mind about us. He is for us. This includes his love for us, and his love will always be with us. So the end of this great statement, since God is for us, is the question, is there anyone that can be against us? Is there anyone who can take away God's love from us? So he starts answering this in verse 32. And it says In verse thirty two, he who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things So this is speaking of God and what God has done for us. So Paul's argument is, is that God in his love gave us his son to die for us and he rose the Son and completed our salvation and if he gave us his son While we were enemies, how will he not, now that he's made us his child, continue to bestow his love on us and give us all things that we need What a great promise. While we were enemies, Romans 5. 8 says that God chose to send his own son to die for us in his love. He's already chosen to send his love for us, and now that he's made us his children, he will continue. To bestow his love on us and give us everything that we need for this life and the one to come There's nothing that can take us away from that love. We have a union with Christ and in that union we cannot be separated from God. So there's a question, right? Is there anyone against us? No, there is not. Not even God Himself, who gave us His Son, will change His mind about us. He doesn't save us and then leave us on our own. to make it until we get to heaven. No, he saves us and he keeps us, he's with us and continues to share sh to show us his love in this life. So, moving on is there so we see that that God is for us and we see that in his salvation and that we see that through uh through life past that moment of salvation and sanctification and glorification He is with us and giving us his love. So God won't turn away from us. Is there anyone else? It goes on in verse thirty-three. It says, Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. So, again the question is, is there anyone who is against us? Is there anyone who can bring a charge against us that is so strong that we can lose God's love? That we can lose our salvation? Uh, in Scripture Satan is called the great accuser and does accuse us before God. Is there a way that Satan can come to God and say that this child of yours is no longer um worthy of your salvation? No. Why? Romans three twenty four says that we are justified by his grace through the redemption of Christ. And it says right in our verse thirty three that it is God who chooses to justify. God makes that decision and it's through the redemption of Christ that we are saved and justified. It is not anyone else's decision. No one else can bring a charge against us. Once God chooses us and justifies us through Christ, then the work is done and complete. Nothing that can change this. What a sweet, sweet comfort that is in our lives. Is there anyone that can condemn us? It says in verse thirty-four. And it says no. Know that Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. So look at our salvation. Christ Jesus died. for us and he was raised and now is interceding for us at the right hand of God. He is pleading his own righteousness as ours. So we have that in Christ and there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ. So we see that no one, no person, no being can separate us from God's love. So we move on from looking at is there a person or a sin situation that can condemn us or take us away from God's love to in verses thirty five through thirty seven we turn our attention to circumstances, things that are going on outside of us. Um it says who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or Or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long, we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through. him who loved us. So Paul gives us a list here. He gives us the question, who shall separate us from the love of God? The answer is no one, and then moves on to circumstances. He lists things tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, danger, or sword. So as we look at each one of these, we see that it covers everything. Tribulation or the trials that we go through, the troubles that we go through. Distress is uh I heard it explained as the inner turmoil that we go through when we are in trials, those thoughts thoughts, those anxious um thoughts that that we have and then there's persecution that we come under because of our love for Christ. There are things that you know, we can't control. It's like things like famine. nakedness, danger of ourselves, and then there is the sword, which refers to death, facing death. So let's think about some of these things and the promises that we have in Scripture. I was thinking through each one of these things and just thinking of all the other promises that we have in Scripture. Um What about tribulation? Shall tribulation separate us from God? No. Jesus has said He will never leave us or forsake us. So He is always with us, which means not just He's there, but we always have what we need in him to m make it through, to be faithful to him. We have his grace. What about distress? That inner tur turmoil I I love it that Pam just talked about Philippians four, six and seven, where it says that we need to not be anxious but to be in prayer about these things and that we'll have the peace of God. And that is so true. In distress we can go to God because we have access to him. In persecution we still have the love of God. He even promised that we would come under persecution because of our love for him, but he would never leave us. He's promised to always be with us. And then famine and nakedness, it draws me back to the passage in Matthew six. where Jesus talks about not being anxious for the things that are in that we need every day in this world. Um where he talks about the ravens and how they don't need food food because God provides it for them and the beauty of the fields that are gone tomorrow and that we are of more value than these things and God will take care of providing these basic needs. like food and clothing and shelter so we can trust him that he will always be a a loving heavenly father. Danger and even facing death. These things Things can be scary and they we can feel like we are far away from the love of God, but again, God has promised to always be with us. And even as we face death, we can remember that in Christ when we die we are going home to be with him. That it's not a separation from him, it's an actual going home to be with him. So these are promises that we can hold on to that we are not separated from God in His love, in His care, but actually that we are given the grace to move through these trials. Which is why in verse thirty seven it says No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us. These situations will not overcome us. We think a lot of times we feel overwhelmed by situations like this. this, um, the trials that we are going through, the troubles, um, I think through the pandemic when we didn't know, you know, there's a shortage of toilet paper and we didn't know where we're going to have toilet paper. Um But God always provided, even in those smaller maybe uh it's a necessity but we think it's probably not that important, God still provided for us and those situations don't have to overcome us and they don't separate us from God. God's love, but we can persevere and be faithful to God through Christ. And so we have that sweet promise. A quick note on verse thirty six, it seems like this is kind of thrown in there. says as it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. So you're like, wait a minute, what's going on? What's Paul talking about? Well he's reminding the readers and us, not just the the church there but us today that he was not writing this as someone who had never been through trouble. He was writing this as someone who was underneath the sword in the thread of death every day. He's been through persecution, tribulation, distress, famine, nakedness. And then he was able to write, No, we are more than conquerors. God has been faithful to him And he wanted them to know and us to know that God will continue to be faithful in his love to us through each of these situations. And then we read in verse thirty eight and thirty thirty nine the grand conclusion that he wrote. It says, For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers nor nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. So I was reading through this and I was like, okay, he gave us another list and it kinda just it's different than the list in verse thirty five and it kind of just covers everything. There's no space, there's no time, there's no powers, there's no height there's nothing in all creation that can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. And I thought, Great, but w what's the point? Why did he give us another List, what's he trying to convey here? And I was praying through it and this phrase at the beginning of verse thirty eight really stuck out to me. He says, For I am sure. And I really latched on to that and just understanding that the Lord had proved himself true to Paul. And Paul wanted us under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit to understand that we can be sure of God's love just like he was so that we can say, for I am sure that no matter what, death, life, angels, rulers, height, depth, anything in all creation, nothing can Separate me from the love of God. Paul wanted his readers to know, he wanted us to know that we have God's love when we are in Christ forever. These questions that the readers might have had that we might have some days are to be answered with scripture and it's right here for us. So as we kind of wrap up our time here, I had some things some thoughts that I was thinking through that I wanted you guys to think through today based on what we studied here. So the first, I have a couple questions and kind of wanted to walk through each of these with The first one is, do you have this assurance of God's love? And my question to you would be, do you belong to Him? If you feel like you don't have this assurance of God's love, it's a good opportunity for you to examine In your heart, and to know that there is the gospel for you. You have forgiveness in Christ because of his death and resurrection. Once we put our faith in Christ, we have seen from ourselves So I want you to know that today you can have this assurance and live in this assurance. The next question is. Is are you resting in this love? How does this make your everyday life look? Since He has saved us, He will keep us and provide all that we need in this life. Are you worrying about this? your life and what your needs are, you need to remember that your Heavenly Father loves you and will care for you. Remember in verse thirty two of our passage it says that he gave the greatest gift to us in his son to save us. And that was just the beginning of our life with him. He will continue to give us just what we need in the right moment. We need to trust in his loving care. of us. And then my third question that I was thinking through is are you letting your circumstances overtake you? Do you feel distraught in what you're going through? Do you Feel far from God's love. Remember that through Christ we are conquerors. His love has saved us, so remember your position and your salvation. And remember that his love will keep You in Him. There is no circumstance that will drive us away from His love. But we must rely on His loving grace, which is His loving help, to bring us through each trying circumstance. circumstance circumstance um and not to rely on ourselves to get through these things. So don't let your circumstances overtake you. So this is what I have for you today. It was a brief run through. I'm sure we could dig much deeper if we had a lot of time to go through this. But I just really wanted to thank you for listening and for letting me share this with you. Why don't I close us as we I'll pray as we close. Lord, I thank you for showing us your love today and how grand it is. I thank you that you sent your son to die for us and gave us the greatest gift of love in that Lord I thank you uh that in faith we can come to you and believing on your son have redemption. Lord I pray that we would recognize Rest in this love and that anything that we face we will remember that you are there to take care of us and we can rely on you to help us be more than conquerors, Lord. Everything. Lord, I thank you for these ladies. I pray that the these truths will plant themselves deep in their hearts, the truths from your word, Lord. And Lord, I just pray that you would continue to bless us as we go throughout this day. Say in the other teaching that we will hear. I pray all this in your name, Amen