Thank you, Doug, and our music people. That was a wonderful time. Of just reflecting on God's holiness, our need to be holy, and trying to get our thinking and priority straight It's hard to do that. There's a lot of worldliness around us and it controls our thinking at times, even though we know it shouldn't. Sometimes I hear of church people, for example, wanting to move out of this area. Tough, tough area to live in, too expensive. You know, you can get online and see what uh your money can buy in some other state, Midwest, South, wherever it is, and uh it can look pretty good. House in front of a lake, you know, twenty-five floors compared to around here. It's hard to fight that off. Want to get more bang for your buck. I find that though, in wanting to make a move like that, many Christians unfortunately still value earthly prosperity more than spiritual ministry and fruit. On the other hand, fewer times I hear of some church people who want to do missions work, to give up even the standard of living they have here, so they can have less. So they can have more fruit in God's kingdom. I find that to be more honorable. I find that to be more exemplary. I find that to be something that I would want to model. I find Christians who want to give up what they already have to gain something of more value, to be more respectful, more understanding of what it means. To follow in the footsteps of this man called Jesus of Nazareth. The Apostle Paul wrote in Philippians 4, Some interesting words. I give them to you today. Think about them. And we'll just kind of build off of this as we go back to James. He wrote, I have learned And I like you started that way. I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am. So that means there was a time where he was not content in the circumstances, right? He had to learn it. Then he wrote: I know how to get along with humble means, poverty. I also know how to live in prosperity. Say, well, that's easy. No, it's not. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of being filled and going hungry. He goes on to say, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. People quote that verse so they're going to win the next basketball game they play. But that's about I know how to live in every circumstance of life and be content because of what Christ does to strengthen me. So there's a secret there, he says. A secret that he learned. So have you learned a secret? Being content. Every circumstance. I'm gonna guess that if you're watching a lot of commercials these days, you haven't learned that secret yet They seem to know the secret how to make us feel discontent. And it's like you would never think of buying that thing until you see it advertised. Then you're like, I gotta have it. I gotta have that. Honey, I gotta have that. Do we have any money for that? No Why not? And then there's the argument. Well, our text today is meant to help us with contentment. James 1. Please turn there. If you don't have a Bible, cheat and look over the shoulder of somebody else. Or pull one out of the the pew there if you have it. If if you don't just listen carefully as you can. James 1, 9 through eleven. But, notice this is a continuation, but the brother of humble circumstances is to glory in his high position. And the rich man is to glory in his humiliation, because like flowering grass, he will pass away. With the sun rises with a scorching wind and withers the grass, and Its flower falls off, and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed, so too the rich man in the midst of his pursuits will fade away. Very interesting passage. We have a couple songs already dealing with that this morning. So in the present world and the present life circumstances, there's really two you could be in. You could be rich, you could be poor. Now We have a lot of middle class these days. Back then they didn't. In many parts of the world they still don't. There's the very few that are rich, and then there's everybody else who's poor. A lot of countries still like that. America's interesting with the Protestant work ethic to have developed this huge middle class But uh and that's probably where most of us would put ourselves. But that isn't typically what has happened in world history or even in the world today. There is this uh There is this small number who are rich and this huge number who are poor, even slaves, as in the Romans, Roman times and Greek times. But there's really a whole continuation there, isn't there? You could be all the way down in abject poverty, or you could be Bill Gates But we put ourselves somewhere in there, right? So you'll have to think through these principles as we learn. We're going to learn what God says to the poor, what he says to the rich, and probably there's going to be some principles in both of them you'll bring to bear on your situation depending on where you are. So hopefully this will hit all of us to some degree. I think verses 9 through 11 help us to learn a life of contentment in whatever circumstance we are. If it works for the poor, it works for the rich, it's going to work for the middle class. So we can't be let off the hook here. Okay? So we're going to consider it. It's a very easy outline. What does God say to the poor? What does God say to the rich? How do we learn contentment in those two situations? Look at the poor first. Look at verse 9 again. But let the brother of humble circumstances, you're not talking about a humble mindset here, okay? The brother of humble circumstances glory in his high position. Now the word but shows the contrast that James is drawing with a double-minded person mentioned back in verse 8. The one who doubts God and does not ask God with faith is an unstable man in all of his ways, but James writes Now I'm going to show you how you ought to think, how to face your problems in the present life. And then he chooses a person's economic situation as the best way to express this attitude. And so he tells us how to deal with that. Now keep in mind that all of this is still in this general section on trials in verses 2 through 12. Trials are mentioned again in verse 12, and so we can see that's still on his mind. So poverty in particular is one of the trials people would have to face, and so here's some extended teaching on what to do with that. James knows this. He knows that how a person responds to money and to his lifestyle because of that money is a good indication of his response to what God is doing in his life. I know a lot of people hate it when the church starts talking about money, but the truth is that money controls a lot of our thinking and a lot of the way we think about life, and so it also affects our spirit. And if you don't get that right, you're going to get a large portion of your Entire Christian life wrong. And so we have to talk about it. A brother of humble circumstances was a true Christian brother, a believer, a saved person, someone in the church He's not well off economically. You know, he's not the first home you're going to want to go to his home when you're invited to a party, if you could even afford a party. Literally, this would be translated, the brother, the lowly one. The phrase humble circumstances often has this kind of meaning in Scripture: the lowly one, the humble one. Referring not necessarily to his mindset, although he could also be humble, but just to humble circumstances. We just read that in Philippians 4. That's what Paul was referring to there It's interesting in Mary's Magnificat in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 1, verse 52, that she says there that God brings down rulers and exalts the humble. Humble is being used there as someone in humble station of life Also in the Septuagint, that is the Greek Old Testament, this term was regularly used for poor living conditions. And here, notice it's being contrasted with those not who are proud, but who are rich. So there's the poor and there's the rich. Humble circumstances, lofty circumstances. And he addresses the poor first. Why do you think he did that? Because most of James's readers, as he writes, probably from Jerusalem, or somewhere near there, and he's writing this out to the various Jewish believers that are scattered. Most of them are probably poor. Most of those in the church were probably poor at this time. In fact, some of them, maybe a good number of them, had fled And you may remember when we talked about the beginning of James here and some of the introductory material. They may have fled the church in Jerusalem because of the persecution that broke out with a certain man named Saul, later changed his name to Paul And they had to go away from their homes and therefore they lost their security, their belongings, and all their lifestyle that they had in going from one place to another. Sure some of them may have landed in a good spot and so everything was fine for them, but I doubt that was many of them. Many of them were poor. And when you're when you're fleeing from persecution, when you're a refugee, just think about how hard that would be Maybe at times they were out and they were exposed to the elements. Maybe times they went hungry. Certainly discomfort. Maybe more prone to disease. Just think about everything that goes with poverty The New Testament tells us that there were many poor believers in the early church. In Acts chapter 2, verse 45, it shows that many in the church sold their belongings, laid them at the apostles' feet, and they took them and distributed them to the poor in the Jerusalem church. Acts four thirty-five mentions this as well. Second Corinthians chapter eight, verses one and two tells us that the churches in the province of Macedonia gave liberally to other poor Christians in other parts of the world. By the way, often it is the poor who are more generous than the rich because they understand what it's like to be poor. They sympathize with the poor, right? Sometimes the homeless give to the homeless before the rich people will even give to the homeless. Because they understand how hard it is. They've lived it Poverty, humble circumstances. That's a tough condition of life to be. It's one thing to talk about and what a great Christian we are when we have money. Take the money away and see how your Christianity is In our own day, we hear of refugees of war, we hear of the unemployed. It's amazing the number of people that don't have a job in America today. The homeless, widows, and orphans. Those hit with a natural disaster and everything that comes after that, or just just the tens of millions living in poor countries, our hearts go out to people in such conditions, right? Loss of loved ones, loss of home, loss of shelter, subject to the elements, without clean drinking water, nowhere soft to lay your head at night No simple pleasures to enjoy, humble circumstances. You get the picture. You see some of the news and know what's going on Here we are in America, a slowed economy. That's a tough trial, isn't it? Higher taxes. What a pain. Slow government service. Is it really right to compare those trials with poverty? We need to count our blessings. Is there any advice that one can give to those who are in humble circumstances? Well, many of the non-Christian preachers, so to say, out there in the world would say, live the American dream! Go for it. It's not what God says here. Or if they're tuning into the TV preacher or the radio, they'll say, you know, just send money into our ministry and God will make you rich. No, it'll make them rich, make you poorer than you already are, if you give it that motive How can the truly poor even remain motivated in life when they feel that sometimes they have to work five times harder than the fat rich kid who got all that money just by inheritance? And they get a fraction of the benefits by working harder. Often, as the poor are a majority in a nation, their solution will be to get together and say, enough is enough, pick up the the pitchforks or whatever nowadays the guns and knives and riot and storm the castle and do what they have to do to to get a share of the rich. Nowadays, to vote someone in who will give them free handouts. Beloved, those are not God's solutions. This is not what God says here for believers. Instead, God commands the poor believer, glory in your high position. Do you hear how contradictory that is to the advice given in the world? You know, you're in poverty and there are terrible circumstances for you. Here's what the Holy Spirit says to you: glory in your high position. Oh, how different the Word of God can be. In fact, the verb glory is prominent in the front of the sentence in Greek, and it's in the present tense as an exhortation. And so that means continuously have this attitude, not just once in a while, continuously glory in your high position. Though you have lowly circumstances, don't focus on that. That's not all that's true about you You also have been given a high position. And that high position gives you amazing benefits. Some probably were looking around and saying, what benefits? What do I have? Did I miss something? No, you're to glory in that. What does it mean to glory in something? This is going to shock you. Glory in something means literally to brag about it. It's the word to brag. It's the word to boast. See, some of you think it's always wrong to boast. You're wrong. They're sometimes right to boast. It says so right here. Boast in it. Regard it very highly and then speak greatly about it. Trumpet it, lift it up, put it on display. Boasting encompasses both your inward feeling about something and your outward expression about it. Well, it's very, very hard to boast about rags and dirt and need and poverty. He doesn't say to boast about that. Look how poor I am. You don't need a glory in those things. It says glory in your high position. What high position? What's he talking about? Well, he's not talking about some powerful Roman citizens' club that they all sat around. You know, it's not that. He's not talking about the prestige of the Christian church among the nations at that time. They didn't have any The Christian poor man's high position is clearly his sonship with the living God who owns all things. His status with God, poor man, has. To glory in a high position, therefore, means to rejoice in a privileged, rich relationship one has with God. Among all the peoples on the entire planet, those who are in Christ are the most privileged of everybody that is down here. I'm not exaggerating. I am not exaggerating. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3 proves me right. Blessed God has blessed us. This is believers who are in Christ. God has blessed us with every Material blessing on earth. Is that how it reads? No, you know the Word of God too well. I can't pull that one over your eyes, right? It's not what it says. Some people would read the Word of God like that. He has blessed us with every what? Spiritual blessing in the heavenly places where? In Christ. Ephesians 2. 6 backs it up. God has raised those that are in Christ up with Christ. You say, I didn't get raised anywhere, I'm still down here on the planet. You know, I'm feeling kind of heavy today, like lead feet. I'm down here. No, no, no, no. You were raised up with Christ and seated with Christ in the heavenly places. Says so, right there in the Bible Now, friends, that is a very high and privileged position. Not even the angels get that. And it's yours if you're in Christ. Dr. John MacArthur writes, the poor Christian man may be hungry, but he has the bread of life. He may be poor, but he has eternal riches. He may be cast aside by men, but he has been eternally received by God. He may have no home on earth, but he has a glorious abode in heaven That's what I'm talking about. That's what the Word of God has us glorying in. At least those that feel they're poor. This you are to glory in. You are to bask in it, and you are to brag about it. You say, wow, really? Yes. Now don't misunderstand, there are things that are wrong to boast about. To boast about what one can do for himself is sin. And I put it any other way, it's a sin. That's pride. That's the sinful pride. Later in James chapter 4, verse 16, we'll be warned. But as it is, you boast in your arrogance, all such boasting is evil. Period. I can do this and I can do that and I achieve this and I achieve that. And sometimes we we we brag other ways. And my kid did this and my kid did that. It's just a backwards way of bragging, right? When we boast of self-accomplishment, that's evil. Self-aggrandizement is not at all what James is talking about here. What you boast in makes all the difference in the world as to whether it's right or it's wrong Glorying in a high position brings to mind the prophet Jeremiah. Many of you know this passage, this verse, it's powerful. Jeremiah 9, 23 and 24. Let not the wise man boast of his wisdom. That's all that wise men do. They just brag about their wisdom all the time. No, let not the wise man boast of his wisdom, or the strong man boast of his strength. And he boasts just when he stands in front of the mirror, right? Look what I got. Look what I got. That's boasting. Or the rich man boasts of his riches. He just sits in his car and just boasts. Just gives that look, right? No, don't do that. Then it goes on. But let him who boasts boast about this. That he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises kindness and justice and righteousness on the earth. For in these things I delight, declares the Lord. Boast about knowing God. Wow. Wow. Boasting is required of us. We are supposed to boast in our great God and all that he has done for us. In Jesus Christ, who is God in human flesh, brag about him. See? First Corinthians one thirty-one says, let him who boasts, doesn't say stop boasting, it says boast in the Lord. Boast about him. Glory in him. When's the last time you bragged about Jesus? He's better than Muhammad. He's better than Buddha. Don't put them all in the same plane. They're not. One's God and perfect, the others are humans and sinful. Period. There's a gulf between them. Brag about Jesus Christ. Tell the world how great he is. Tell the world what he did for you and give him the glory, you see. Remember the man that was delivered of the demon legion? He was told by Jesus in Mark 5, Go home to your people and report to them what great things The Lord has done for you. Humility in himself, for he was a fool. Bragging in the great things that God did for him. Do you see that? How he had mercy on you, Jesus told him in Mark 5. Philippians 3. We are those who, here it is again, glory in Christ Jesus And put no confidence in the flesh. We never brag about the flesh. We never brag about what we did. We never brag about how good we are. We brag and boast and glory in Christ. Are you boasting in the Lord this morning? Far from being wrong, I'll tell you what's wrong. Here's what's wrong. To go about life as a believer Grumbling all over the place. Because of what? Because I don't have a travel budget for this year. I'm kind of sulky. That gadget in the Apple store it's gonna be two years before I can afford that. And I have to go shopping at Walmart for furniture. Can't put the kid in a nicer school. We grumble about that instead of thinking on what God's done for us. What has He done for you? Let me just start with a few things, remind you. few things. He chose you. Somewhere in eternity past. He picked you and said That one's mine. And then after you've made a fool of yourself in this world, because you did and don't deny it. Because I did too. He still went through with his plan. Forgave all your sins, washed you up. That would have been amazing grace. Then he made you your own his own own child and said to you, I'm going to share the inheritance of my only begotten Son Jesus with you. You're going to get that inheritance too. Yeah, but Lord, I don't have a travel budget for this year. You know, I can't get that piece of furniture I've seen over there in that store. And my neighbor has it. See, we're not boasting in the Lord. We're grumbling about that. What a contrast, huh? Moping around, moaning, alternating between lust, oh I really want it, and then fretting and regret, ah, I never got it. And acting like those in the world, not in Christ, those in the world are better off. How dare you do that? And then some even justify their sinful actions because they didn't get it. Well, I didn't get it, so this is what I did. God does not allow self-pity for a Christian. He does not want you to have resentment and depression. That's the result of not believing God's promises that He made to you. What kind of a reaction is moaning and groaning to the blessings God has promised to a believer? We might ask the question Jesus often asked his disciples: where's your faith? Glory in a God who has made us so rich in things which will never fade away, we're told. Everything that I own is already fading away. It's back there at my house, it's fading away right now. Gotta rush home, polish it up, clean it up. It's fading away, all of it. I've been promised something that will never fade away. It's eternal. It's eternal. I can't even get that. It's eternal. Gold passes away. Gold gets lost. Gold gets stolen. Whatever I'm going to get, it's better than gold. Now I just want to ask, don't you think that believers can accept the temporary discomforts of this world in view of a vastly superior and more satisfying? Possession in heaven. Can't we do that? Remember the Apostle Paul, Romans 8, 18? I consider the sufferings of this present time. By the way, he's talking personally there, and he had a lot of sufferings. This is a guy who was shipwrecked and stoned and beaten and Put in prison and fill in the blank. I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. So, what do I get from that? My inheritance in Christ is something unspeakably glorified I can't even I can't even get there. I can't even in my mind envision what it is Paul got little glimpses of it. I mean, he was a prophet, he got to see that. And he would communicate that to us, and we're like, okay, so what is it We hear the word glory, we're like, yeah, it doesn't sound too excited. Glory is all the honor and all the joy and all the circumstances and all the health and all the everything that you want. It's all going to be given to you beyond your imagination. Just take a minute to look around in here, would you? Look at the faces in here. See these faces? Smile each other, you know? There you are. These are the VIPs of the world right here. This is the crowd you want to get to know. This is the group you want to hobnob with right here. These are the ones God has destined for glory. Don't look like too much right now. I understand. These are the ones God I hope every last one. I don't know about every last one of you. I hope every last one. These are the ones That God has chosen to give glory to. And it's coming. It's coming fast. Sister Ann Kane just shared this morning of a 99-year-old lady just passed away to be with Jesus. Uh, Mrs. Thalo from Force Memorial Church. She was uh, I guess in her seventies when we first went to that church, and she was the first friend that Sue and I had there. And uh she, according to Anne, was praying that uh she just would would go. She's 99, she's ready to be promoted into glory. And uh now she's there. And uh she's in glory now. And um she's not looking back. I I don't know, I haven't been on that side. See the thing is I gotta talk about glory to you and I haven't been on that side. So I gotta talk, you know, what Jesus says about it, because he was on that side, right? And he came down here and he said this is what it is. I don't care too much about books that have been written by some boy that says he died and went to heaven. He retracted that story, by the way. He doesn't know what he's talking about. I want to listen to the one who was in glory, who made glory and came down here to tell us all about it, Jesus Christ. And what he says, glory is like, I'm going with that because Muhammad didn't know that. Buddha didn't know that. Buddha said he's enlightened. Who says Buddha's enlightened? Buddha said Buddha was How does that work? He don't know. Bad grammar, I know. He don't know. He doesn't. Jesus knows. He knows. So make friends with this group. Yeah, if you're not as rich as you want to be right now, so what? Come on. So what? If you had all those things you wanted, you have to go and polish them. You have to insure them. You have to watch out some you get a brand new car. You know you waited waited forty-seven years to buy this Camaro. You know, you drive it up there and you're polishing it, you know, you get out, some lady with three moms trying to get out of her minivan or out of a SUV swings her door open, DINK! You look at it like you want to kill her. Now you should be helping her. You have to take care of everything you get. That's one of the reasons why we can't get some people to do more service in church because they've got to take care of Uh-huh. Right? What are you doing? Well I had to this and drive this and this is this broke and this needs repairs. I gotta call about this thing and I gotta do this. It's like do you own the stuff or does the stuff Yeah. Jesus said that material things can choke out spiritual life. I wonder how much of your prayer time and study time goes away because you have to take care of stuff. Really, you can do all the budgeting in the world that you want to do. You can get five jobs to make ends meet, but until your heart attitude is glorying in Christ, you will always be going about feeling like you are a loser. disgruntled, envious of others. And envy and discontentment are cousins. And they will follow you everywhere. And they will rain on your prey. Rather than living that way, the Holy Spirit says the poor should be the ones up front in church. They should be the ones glorying in their high position. The poor ought to be the worship leaders. They should be up front, shouting the loudest. Glory to God for our high position. They ought to be the ones, you know, with the rich and the back on. Why are they shouting so loudly? Because they understand the beauty that's going to come and they're not looking at the stuff down here. If they don't have as much stuff down here, they're looking forward to it. That is the attitude the poor ought to have. Later, James will say that God has chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith. Wow! And to inherit the kingdom he promised to those who love him. It's all about reversing the way this is Remember what Jesus said, everyone who exalts himself will what? Be humble. Everyone who humbles himself will what? Be exalted. It's all going to be reversed. In the end times. We call that an eschatological reversal. The way things are now is not the way God is going to have it. That explains a lot of the injustice in the world right there. God won't let it stand, He's going to change it Told us about the rich man and Lazarus. Rich man had everything. Lazarus had nothing. Now Lazarus has everything, and the rich man is like just someone cool my tongue. And Abraham says, No, you had good things in your life. No. One of the dangers for Christians when political fervor gets high is to put too much stock in human government and human politics to solve man's problems. Man trying to solve man's problem. All the media talk shows, the left or the right, doesn't matter. They leave God out. Wherever their solution is, it's not scripture, it's not Christ. Christians have to look at all the issues differently. We know our help cometh from the Lord, not the voter booth. We understand at root society's problems are spiritual. The best political work we can do today is to make disciples of Jesus Christ and change one heart at a time. We should be fighting for righteousness, but our fight is for the spiritual kingdom of Jesus Christ as we await the right political leader. Not the one who will arise among men. He's called the Antichrist, by the way. But the one who will descend from heaven. That's the true Christ. And he will take up his throne in Jerusalem. And he will rule over all the kingdoms of the world. And the thing that's startling about it is he said he'll share it with us. Colossians 3 says, For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is our life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed in glory. That's your high position. Poor people, glory in it. Brag about what Jesus Christ has done for you. Now let's talk to the rich. Verse 10. And let the rich man glory in his humiliation. Oh, that's all backwards. Huh? The rich man glory in his humiliation One has to think of how high God will make him, the other brother has to think how low he already is. What does that mean? Well, I mean if you're saying I'm not rich, just remember the middle class in America is much richer than tens of millions of people throughout this world, right? If not hundreds of millions. In part, what it means is the believer who is materially blessed should rejoice when tough times come and his peaceful, easy way of life is interrupted. You're kidding me. No, not at all. Very similar to what verses 2 through 4 said. Consider it all joy when you encounter various trials. Right? It's akin to that. You see, generally speaking, generally speaking, the rich are lacking spiritually. For through their riches they avoid many of the trials of life and the lessons that come with those trials. They have the ability to get others to do the work for them, to fix the things that are broken, or replace it with something bright, shiny, and new. They don't usually have to adjust their lifestyle when the economy goes south. They can afford the best health care, the finest foods, the safest and most convenient travel, the best lawyers, and most bothersome of all, the best seats at the football game. Ah, now the sin comes out. Living like this, they learn little about the truth that they are insufficient for them and that they're Character has many deficiencies and needs to change. That they have weak faith, that they can talk the talk, but they haven't even walked the walk yet. They've never been in a situation where they had to trust God for anything And so it's deceitful this self-sufficiency. Remember a man I was in a Bible study with, I've told the story to some And he was like, man, he was big on the verses, memorizing verses, talked a lot about the Lord. He lost his job. He had a job for 25 years with the same company. and the company dumped him. It was not fair the way he was dumped. He was a good worker. They picked on one thing, they dumped him. He lost his faith right away Maybe maybe sometimes God lets that happen to show people what they're really trusting in. I trust in God. Well let's find out. Let's find out First Timothy six, very similar to this. Verse 17. Write this one down. First Timothy six seventeen. This is Paul telling Timothy. Instruct those who are rich in this present world. So there are rich people in church. Instruct those who are rich in this present world not to be conceited. First thing he says to them. Or to fix their hope on the uncertainty of riches, but fix their hope on God, who richly supplies us with all things to enjoy Unfortunately, the rich tend to do just that. They tend to trust in the rich. Oh, they deny it. I'm not trusting in my riches. I'm trusting in God. They're trusting in their riches. It gives them a false sense of security though. It's actually a disadvantage to be rich. What an un-American thing to say. It's a disadvantage to be rich if you want to be great in the kingdom of God. How few rich people are on their knees as prayer warriors. How few. The wealthy and the healthy, what need do they have of God? Many of them are not even sure there is a God. How many of them are humble servants, get their fingers dirty for Christ? Those are the Proverbs 1811. A rich man's wealth is his strong city, and like a high wall in his own imagination. Can't touch this. So the response of the rich has to be very different from the poor. Self-denial. Humility. Give things away. When faith fills the minds of rich believers, they're afraid to spend too much money on themselves. They know a day of reckoning is coming. They want to make sure they use the assets that God has given them to be a blessing to others. I love it when you see a rich man driving an ordinary car and giving a lot of money. The missionaries and churches and the work of Christ. What a testimony, right? How would you do if you got $10 million tomorrow? Oh, that'd be no problem. Uh that'd be no problem, Pastor. I'd handle it really well. I don't know. Remember Tevya and the filler on the roof, you know? When the communist guy said, you know, money is the world's curse, and he stepped out and said, May the Lord smite me with it. You remember that? Do you remember that There's a poor guy wanting to be rich. This is the wisdom from God. Listen, Proverbs 11:4. Riches do not profit in the day of wrath. Lord, but uh can I buy you, can I can I pay you off? I know I didn't live the best, but what can I give you? He already owns everything. Righteousness delivers from death, it says in Proverbs 11. Proverbs 11. 28, he who trusts in his riches will fall. That's bad, isn't it? See, because you want to get it all set up for retirement. There it is. I'm not saying you shouldn't be responsible. I'm talking about the attitude of trust. There it is. I'm good. I'm safe now. Look what I have Really? Luke 6, Jesus' words: Woe to you who are rich, for you are receiving your comfort in full. Woe to you who are well fed now, for you shall be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now. For you shall mourn and weep. Yes, there are some righteous rich in the Bible. Zacchaeus got saved while rich, but he gave a lot away. Abraham was very rich and very generous. Matthew 27, 57 tells of a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who became a disciple of Jesus and honored the body of Jesus And his burial. But often riches are just a snare. Mark 4. 19, the worries of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desire for other things enter in and choke the word, and it becomes unfruitful. Clearly, then, one of the best things that could ever happen to the rich who trust in their own strength and their own riches is to lose it all. That was the lesson that Jesus was trying to get across to the rich young ruler, right? How do I inherit eternal life? Well, you know the commandments You know, what are they? Well, I've kept all those commandments. Well, there's one thing you lack. Go sell everything you own and come and give it to the poor and come follow me. Oops. Can't do that. I I own too much. That's unreasonable. Well see the tenth commandment is thou shalt not covet. There's a lot of riches that you're kind of just hanging on to. It may not be your neighbors Well, but you're still coveting it. But humiliation teaches people to depend on God. Now, as I read my Bible, it says that if you depend on God, you're safer than if you depend on riches. But I'm not sure we think that way. We're like, oh of course I of course I depend on God. Now let me get this all set up. Let me get this all set up. It's gotta be there. It's not there. I'm all upset. I think even if there's no humiliating external trial that would hit the rich in the pocketbook, James is still trying to tell the rich to consider the reality of their own spiritual. condition before God. Don't be lifted up in self. Have an inward humility. Recognize the poverty of your own soul. Recognize how much you needed grace How well do you recognize that you need grace? You know grace is, right? It's something God gives to us that we We don't deserve. We shouldn't get it. If you get grace, you shouldn't have got it. You should be happy about it, because you shouldn't have got it. You get grace, it's wonderful. I got grace. Shouldn't have gotten it, but I got it. It's wonderful. It's a blessing. TV, radio preachers, some of them, they kind of flood society with a message that will bring in the money for them. A message you should feel very positive about yourself. I know if you all keep coming back here, you must want to hear the word of God because you always leave feeling terrible about yourself, don't you? No, not really, not if you're in Christ. They say you're valuable to God. God don't make junk. Well that's true, but the good stuff God made we perverted and turned it into junk. It's called sin. What God says is, you know what, you're simple. And I love you anyway. I don't approve of how you live. I love you. And I'm trying to teach you to stop living that way. In other words, the same God is the one who says in Isaiah 64, 6: For all of us have become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a filthy garment. Not all of our bad deeds are like a filthy garment, right? All of our righteous deeds are like a filthy garment. Oh my, that's the best I got. My best I got is a righteous deeds, and it's a filthy garment. I don't even want to smell What my bad deeds are like to God. And then Revelation 1, 5, and 6 says, same God says this: to Christ who loves us. And released us from our sins by his blood, and he has made us to be a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, and we will reign upon the earth. Rain, kings reigning. So what's the message? Without Christ we're bankrupt. We're beggars, laying in the gutter, waiting for the divine sweeping machine to come along and Scoop us up and throw us into the judgment of God. That's all we are. If you have a higher view of your own soul, then you are deceived. No, but I was a good little boy. I was I didn't get into all that trouble that other people did. I didn't smoke pot I never stole a car and raced it around town. I'm good. No, you're not. God says you're still a sinner God says that the attitudes in your heart can easily be proven from Scripture that there's sin there. Have a too high a view of self, you're deceived. I don't care what any preacher said to you, you have to first have a low view of self before you can gain the riches of heaven. If you've thrown yourself before God, here I am, Lord, the sinner, save me. Then He'll save you. He'll lift you up. If you come and say, you know what, here's my qualifications, Lord. You know I was baptized young And uh I come from a pretty good uh Methodist family, you know. I grew up Methodist, so I'll pick on them. You know, my grandpappy, he was a preacher. And uh and you start listening to whatever it is. Forget that. It doesn't work with God. Christ doesn't receive proud people. That explains why the harlots and the tax collectors and the sinners were flocking to Christ. And the good outstanding citizens of Jewish society, Pharisees, couldn't stand Christ. Because he was telling them your righteousness is not good enough. In fact, in Matthew 5, as we're going backwards in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5 says, unless your righteousness is greater than that of the scribes and Pharisees, you'll never even enter into the kingdom of heaven. Well, who could read the Bible more than them? Who could be more dedicated to God than them? Christ says, no, you'll need a righteousness that goes beyond it. I could never produce a righteousness like that. So wealthy Christians need to think properly. Wealthy Christians who are deeply conscious of the transitoriness of wealth, Dan McCartney wrote. who do not get attached to it, who do not place confidence in it, who do not find their identity in it, and who do not use wealth above others, may indeed glory or boast in knowing that ultimately their position is a lowly one I think also James has in mind here a command to lower one's view of his own riches. Because what follows is clearly the description about how all those riches Can't help the rich man. Verse 10, look at it again. Because like the flowering grass he will pass away. You know, wildflowers are beautiful. They can be great to look at. You drive by them in the spring, you look out in the fields, and there they are. But you know, when we lived in California, we learned how quickly that could change. A little hot wind blows off of the desert and in in a twenty-four hour period, forty-eight hour period, all the beauty, the green grass and everything is like it hit a furnace and it's all brown, just like that I think James had seen that picture many times there in Israel. The rich are like that. They're like beautiful flowers. They look better than everyone else. They have better this, better that, but their lives are just as precarious. That's James's point The rich man may think that instability is only for the poor man, but money, no matter how much money, can't cheat death. Death comes one day knocking on the door. Rich man can't buy them off. The cold truth is the rich man also is going to pass away. And that verb pass away refers not to eternal judgment, but to his physical death, as the analogy to the flower that follows, and verse 11 indicates. So James is just reminding the rich man. Of the temporary nature of life. Psalm 49 is a great cross-reference to this, verses 16 and 17. Do not be overawed when a man grows rich When the splendor of his house increases, for he will take nothing with him when he dies, his splendor will not descend with him. Who are you overawed at? Ever been by one of them great mansions and just stop there and just gawk? Look at that. That's what I wish we could do at our house. And you just gawking. Beverly Hills, you know, gotta see those mansions. Queen of England still hanging in there, but she's not gonna be living in Buckingham Palace shortly. Bill Gates is going to die one day. He can't take a penny with him, though there'll be people scrambling for his money. Jesus said, heaven and earth will pass away, my words will not pass away. He gave you a promise. That's more certain. That's more certain. His promise will never pass away. What he promised you is riches beyond that. That's more certain for you. I'm not trying to say that it's wrong to try to make your home look nice or to build a business or something like that. It's wrong to glory in those things. Wealth is not the problem per se, but the rich man's love of it. And a poor man's lust for it. Some of you may be doing more glorying and trusting in your riches than you realize. Here's a checklist. Check your heart. See if your heart is too wrapped up in wealth. Indication number one that it is. You're not giving abundantly and consistently to the work of the Lord. 10% seems way too high for you even to attempt to achieve. Indication number two: you buy more items and more expensive items than you actually need Indication number three. Your anxiety level goes way up when you don't get that proper coverage. Indication number four. You're so consumed with your job and work you neglect regular attendance and work, Bible study, and other spiritual disciplines. Indication number five, your thoughts throughout the day continue to drift back to, well, how am I going to make more money and keep it? Rather than how will I bear more fruit for the kingdom of God. Indication number six, you choose your place to live based more on expediency and comfort than on spiritual priorities. Indication number seven, you have an unwillingness to give to the poor. When you see the poor in front of you, your fist gets a little tighter. around your money. Indication number eight, you and your spouse often argue in the home over money stemming from your self-interest Listen, I said it before, I'll say it again. We live in a culture in the grip of materialism. Regularly, it excuses glorying in wealth James would have us glory in humiliation. Why? Well he goes on. Verse eleven. He continues the description of the rich man, for the sun rises with a scorching wind and with is the grass and its flower falls off and the beauty of its appearance is destroyed. It's kind of hard to think about a hot wind in summer. It's January right now. You know, the cold kind of kills everything around here But you know what it looks like. It starts growing and there it is, it's beautiful. But if it's not watered and the sun, it the the uh scholars debate whether it's talking about just the heat from the sun or the the heat that drums up a wind off of the desert, the Shiraco that would blow in off of the desert and come and blow into the area around Jerusalem and just dry everything up. It could be either, but the result is the same. Green to brown, just like that And James is picturing something very similar to that. The parallel to human life is supposed to be obvious. Particularly focusing on the rich. They arise in their youth, they look beautiful, they have all the money, they can do whatever they want, but then aging starts, the wind starts blowing. And they start to wither with age, shrimp a little, you know, get a little bit like that. And then they quickly fall and die. And earthly speaking, that's it. We perish. Some rich people now are flourishing. They look like beautiful flowers, beautiful clothes, gorgeous automobiles. They can afford the best, nicest cosmetics, you know, $300 a bottle. They make their bodies look great, and they love that. They spend all that time in the best gym, the best spa, getting their hair done, their nails done, teeth done, whatever done. All that stuff ends quickly. It's gone. I know when young people hear a sermon like this, they hate to hear this. Because they're like, that's not where I am. That's where you're going to be. That's the point. You think somehow you're gonna they're gonna invent something in your lifetime where you're just like the fountain of youth, you know, Ponce de Leon, you know, and now you're gonna be just fine? Not gonna happen. Not gonna happen. See, when I was growing up, I was like, you know, I'm not the best looking guy, I'm not all that tall. You know what I'm saying? I'm kinda short. Girls get taller than you, that's embarrassing. I don't talk to him anymore and they get taller than he's like they don't even don't even exist. But now I feel sorry for people who are too pretty, too handsome. Because they they have a hard time learning spiritual lessons. It's boring to them. They'll get it. They're not humble of heart. They've been trained by the way everyone interacts with them to have this haughty view of themselves. And if you're good looking and humble, praise God. It kind of goes along with wealth, doesn't it? Wealthy, good looking, healthy, accomplished. Then you throw smart in there, and a poor person doesn't have a chance to learn a spiritual lesson. Where are they going to start with humility? They can do everything. That kind of sounds, Pastor, like you're saying that it's an advantage to be poor. That's it! That's it! That's it! It's an advantage to be poor. You're getting it! And to be short and bald. It is, it's an advantage. You don't know what it is like Nazarene, have a bad head. You don't know I don't believe that the rich here are unbelieving rich. Some scholars take it that way because James speaks very harshly about the rich in this letter, but not completely. In chapter four, he'll talk about believers as well. And here The way the grammar is structured in this passage shows that this is a believing brother who just needs to learn to think properly about his riches. His point obviously is we are not to be identified by our standards in society. We must not think of ourselves or each other that way. Rich people have some poor folks from this church into your home And sit down and eat with them and play games with them. Better yet, get out of your home and go to their home. And sit down in their home and enjoy their home. You hear me? This is how we are supposed to be We are not to think of ourselves or our brethren in these categories. That poor person may be more rich than you because of their faith. Think that way. And please, young people, don't try to set up your life, you know, I'm gonna go to school, gonna get a good job, gonna get a good house. Mm. And all the rest of that stuff. You will find when you get it all, it's not all that great. It's not all that great. We got another dog. We got another dog this past month Man on man, I'll tell you what, it's work. It's work. So let's rejoice in our high position. And let us uh keep a humble heart. That's the message. And that that is the secret to contentment in each and every circumstance. Father, help us learn that lesson. Help us to not listen to the commercials. Help us, Lord, to listen to your word. Help us to be an encouragement to each other in this regard. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.