Heavenly Father, we come to you seeking rest, to just rest in your word, rest in the peace of the Holy Spirit As your children. We are excited to learn um how the church began. And in reality it's that story hasn't closed yet. We're we're still in the church age and we are a part of that. And I pray that You would just put in the desire in all of us to understand our role in your church today, how we can be your witnesses, your advocates. for your glory. And so we we pray for wisdom and discernment today. We pray that you would be glorified, not only here in our Sunday school, but through the west rest of our worship service and especially with our our luncheon this afternoon with uh our missionary family. So we love you, we thank you, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name Amen. All right, so we are on um lesson two, if you go to your workbook, and and I have the the teacher's guide, so the page numbers might not be exactly the same, so I'm not going to give you those, but So we might have some new folks in the class. For those who were in the class last week, um can you remind everybody what were the three pillars that we talked about? Foundationally, who? Jesus Christ, right? That that has to be our focus, that has to be our foundation and what's written, the instruction that is handed down from the apostles. That's what we have in the New Testament. So that's our foundation. But what were the three pillars? Without looking at your notes You get all the cheaters. You should have seen all the heads snap up when I said that. Give me one. The word, right? It has to be founded on the word. Even as we study The close of the canon and beyond that we have to go back to the pillar of the word. The word we always have to be grounded in God's word. So the supremacy of the word of God. Good. Alright, another one The sufficiency of the work of God. And when we talk about the work of God, what what do we what do we mean by that? Right, say it again, Julie. Jesus' death on the cross? Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection. Right? Absolutely a critical work for our salvation. What else is included though when we talk about the work of Jesus Christ? Say it again. His life. His life. He had to live a perfect life to be that perfect substitute. So I always love to include the life aspect because it's just as important. And Guess what? His life is a model for us, right? As we are here on this earth being sanctified into what? More Christ-likeness, the pursuit of godliness. Who is our example? Jesus Christ, his life, which we have in the New Testament. All right? So very exciting stuff. Alright, the last pillar. What was the last pillar? The sanctity of our worship, right? And that's in song, that's in teaching, that's in preaching, the sanctity of our worship, in purity of devotion, and purity of doctrine. Okay? All right, so that's kind of the the that is the the three pillars that we're going to talk about that will carry us throughout our study for the next thirteen weeks. Okay? And for those who weren't here last week, you can go back through your workbook and catch up on some of that. And if you need um answers to the fill-ins, I can I'll leave my book up here after class and you can you can do that if you want Okay. So we are on chapter two. What what page is that in your workbook? Twenty one. Okay, I'm on twenty seven, so there's there it goes to show ya. So here we are in the agenda. This is just a super, super exciting lesson. Right? This is the first century of the church. And by the first century I mean what? The first 100 years. We have the history of that in Acts. Acts really is the first book of church history. It all starts at Pentecost, right? And it's going to end with John on the island of Patmos. So that's what we're going to study today, and then we'll go into what happens after that. All right, if you have your Bible, we're going to be in Acts. So go ahead and turn to Acts I had the privilege of teaching a New Testament survey this summer and I just fell in love with the book of Acts when when I really stood it in the context of of what's happening, and that's what we're going to discuss today. I just absolutely love Acts So we're going to start in Acts one. Acts one, verse eight. Let me read that. Let me start in verse seven. And this is Jesus speaking. He said to them It is not for you to know times or epochs which the Father has fixed by his own authority, but you shall receive power When the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and even to the remotest part of the earth. So you're going to see that there's this evolution that happens. It starts in the the city of Jerusalem, then it expands. If you remember the three regions, Judea, Samaria, and then Galilee, right? It's going to start in Jerusalem, spread within that southern area of Judea, up to Samaria, and then across what was the known world at the time. That's what we see here in Acts. Alright, so that's kind of the foundational passage that we're going to cover. Alright. Alright, here's a a neat timeline that I grabbed from the New Testament survey. And I like it because it lays out the the order of the books. Now what I what I want to show you though is these are two separate timelines that I grabbed. And let me just show you, for example, the way they have this ordered um which I really liked was the books that were written by Paul during his different missionary journeys. So that's the the process that I like. And I will make these slides available I'll post them online So you can grab them if you want 'em. There's some there's some good resources here. Um but it walks through because you kinda get an idea of what's happening with Paul all on the journey. There are a couple books, though, that there's not agreement on when those were written. So let me give you an example. Two specifically are Galatians and James. But look at Galatians here This chart shows that it was written 49-ish, so before the Jerusalem Council, where this graph shows Galatians in 55, which would have been after the Jerusalem Council Council So sometimes there's there's not total agreement on when a book was written. There's only a few of those. It's not critical to our discussion, okay? What I want you to get a glimpse of is this time span of the the majority of the books being written in this this time frame. So late forties to mid-sixties Right so a a kind of a very brief time span. Now what you notice, right, John, the gospel of John wasn't written until eighty-five AD. And then actually the the his last epistles in Revelation were much later in life, probably uh mid nineties, early nineties to mid nineties. So you have this this pretty big span between, you know, the death of Paul and the and the death of John. But at the end of that, that's the end of the first century. That really covers the New Testament, right? That's the end of the canon at about 100 A. D. So I wanted to show this as a reference so you can understand what we're talking about. Okay, and we may come back to this periodically. But again, you know, you have the Gospels that primarily talk about um the ministry, the early life of Jesus, and then his ministry And then John is kind of an anomaly out there, but again it wasn't written until eighty five AD that really talks about the deity of Jesus Christ. And then after his death In 30 A. D. you get acts, very much a historical document talking about that time frame from 30 to 60 A. D. Okay? Does that make sense? All right So for those who were here last year, the format is, again, I've transcribed where it should be. You have this underline in your book, and then I'm going to pop up what it is, and so you can keep track of that and write it down, because I know you guys like to write in your books So it's all good. Right, the book of Acts was written by Luke. What other book did he write? The Gospel of Luke, right? It's often that this was uh maybe a combined or a two-part series, and the Gospel of Luke is really about the first 30 years, isn't it? Right? It talks about, like I just said, Jesus, his birth, and his ministry. And then Acts is very much a history document. It is the sequel to the gospel. The word Acts refers to the Acts or Deeds of the Apostle. The books of Acts focuses on the work of God accomplished through the apostles during the first few decades of the early church, like we talked about. And as we just talked about the time frame, Acts covers about thirty years of history. All right? So we have this understanding of the first sixty years, if you will And that's the time print, thirty to about sixty-two AD. As mentioned earlier, it is the first book of church history ever written. And Acts was inspired by whom? Holy Spirit. That's right. All the books are. They were written by apostles, they were written by other men, authors, right? But all of it is inspired by God. Where do we get that? How do we know that? Yeah, Second Timothy three sixteen seventeen. And there are other verses, right, in um in Peter. Good Right? So this is this is the Holy Spirit, and I I really want to make sure we focus on the Holy Spirit here because there's two aspects to Acts. There's the history of the Church, the beginning of the Church, but there's also the Holy Spirit that's um being presented in a different way, if you will. Alright? And we'll talk about that. I just read that in Acts, right? A helper will come the Holy Spirit. Jesus needs to to to ascend, to remove himself from the earth so that he can provide a helper. And I want to make sure you guys keep me honest. Make sure we touch on how the Holy Spirit is moving, but we see a different um administration, if you will, of the Holy Spirit here in Acts. And it's super exciting And again, this is all the unfolding of God's redemptive plan. Don't get caught up in the history aspect of this. This is all about Wow God, how are you unfolding your plan, your redemptive plan over time? Let that be your focus. And obviously the application is what does that mean for us today? We're still part of that plan. What role do we play? Okay? Um in Acts 1 through 8 that I just read, just before he ascended in heaven, Jesus instructed his disciples to be his witnesses from Jerusalem and Judea to Samaria and to the ends of the world. These geographic locations serve as an outline of the book of Acts. In Acts 1 through 7, the Gospel of Jesus Christ is preached in Jerusalem and Judea. In Acts 8, the good news comes to Samaria. Then starting with the conversion of Paul in Acts 9 and 10, the gospel is taken throughout the Gentile world. All right, so so something happens here, right? Jesus is with with his disciples for for you know three years of his ministry, maybe a little bit longer than that. And they're just they're infused with Jesus Christ. They're watching them, they're hearing his teaching. But it's not until two things happen that things really t take off, right? That's the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So resurrection from his burial, his death. And he comes on the scene. I started last week with what? The road to Emmaus, right? The the two disciples are walking along. And Jesus come. This is after his resurrection. And it's not until then that their eyes are finally opened. Right? Until then they're still somewhat blinded. They still call him rabbi. They still call him teacher. But now they get it. And you see someone like Peter That is just totally transformed and he becomes this bold witness for Christ. But it's not until the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And the other aspect is the empowering, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. And again, keep me honest, I want to touch on that at the end, some of these terms. What does it mean to be baptized in the Holy Spirit? What does it mean to be indwelt with the Holy Spirit? What does it mean to be filled with the Holy Spirit? Those terms are important. All right? So two major things happening here. Their eyes being opened, right, by Jesus on the scene for roughly 40 days. And then the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Okay? Alright, this idea of apostles. Because the disciples had been sent by Jesus as his witnesses, they are known as apostles Meaning sent ones or ambassadors. That's what an apostle was. Now, there was criteria to be an apostle. Three criteria. You had to be an eyewitness of the resurrected Jesus Christ. They had to see the resurrected Christ. They had to be appointed by Jesus. So not all those who saw Jesus Christ. Remember in the upper room there were 120 people. Not all of them were disciples. So they had to be appointed by Jesus. And then they their authority was confirmed by having the gifts of miracles. They were able to perform miracles. Now, who was the last apostle, I want to make sure I say this right, of the apostles, who was the last one to see the resurrected Christ? Paul on the road to Damascus, right? He was of all the apostles, he was the last one, apostle to see Jesus Christ. Who was the last apostle to live? John John. And that's why when he dies, that's the end. The apostles are gone. Those witnesses purposefully selected by Jesus Christ are now gone. That's why the canon is closed. We don't need apostles anymore. We have their instruction. in the New Testament. Alright? And and think about, again, we talk we will talk a little bit about the spiritual gifts. Why were they given the gift of miracles to heal people? Yes, but Lewis, yeah, to affirm their authority, right? I I know sometimes there are questions about why wait maybe we have those gifts today. Why do we need them? What's the purpose? That's what you have to ask yourself. There was a purpose why they were given those authorities, those abilities. It was to confirm who they were as apostles. Okay? So that's not needed anymore because we don't have apostles. Can God heal people? Absolutely. That's not the question. The question is what was the purpose of why the apostles were given that ability? Okay Oh, so much material, so much fun. Oh, I just want to make sure I want to cover all the good stuff. Let's see here. So Jesus gave the apostles unique authority in the church. Through the Holy Spirit, He revealed divine truth to them for the Church. And that's what they were witnesses of. Each New Testament book is either written directly by an apostle, like Matthew, John, or Paul, or by someone writing under the apostle's authority. like Mark, Luke, and Jude. Okay? Alright. So to authenticate their message, God gave the apostles the ability to perform miracles. We just talked about that. The apostolic period comprises a foundational age in church history. When John, the last surviving apostle, died, and we talked about this around the year 100 A. D. , the apostolic age ended. Right? It was not needed any longer. Okay, lots there. I know it's hard to see. And let me say this, it was um that app this apostolic age that we're talking about, it was unique for that time period It's not repeated ever again, and it was the foundation of the church. Alright? So again, we do not have apostles today. So wh why does it have operated possible citizens in the National BSI in whatever capacity? There are two possible operates. Are they I mean how do we have this um the you know the work system Honorable site and so have that say in how do I say that. Yeah, great question. So so um how would you answer that class? Ask them a lot of questions. Okay. Okay. Who said miracles? One of our three pillars is the Word of God. So take 'em back to the Word, right? Alright, so you're in the Word, what what do you do now? Like Brian said, you can you can start to ask them questions. Yeah. And then once they take you to their once their expl explanation is wrong, you know it's only wrong. Why they're calling themselves possible in that purpose. Yeah. So you can take them back to the word to say explain to me why you think you are a prophet A prophet is someone who is um um speaking revelation from God. That's blasphemy now if the canon is closed, right? And that's what you need to confront them with is the word of God. So these titles are important, Ayala. That's a great question. Um and it's really pride, it's it's um idling themselves, worship to put those titles on themselves, right? So take them back to the word. Is that fair? Does that make sense? Okay. Um I know that the apostles think of the named disciple have to have seen the resurrected Christ. Right. But there are some who use small A. Small A good Julie. Right. So you have to be careful Yep, that's the other point I want to come up with. And and you really need to do a word search to understand that correctly, but think of big A apostles as what we're talking about now. Maybe there were little A's that were just ambassadors, right, that were sent to give the mess. Okay, so the the church is finally born and we see that throughout Acts and it starts in Acts 2 and it starts at Pentecost, right? The promise began to be f fulfilled on the day of Pentecost around the year A. D. 30. And I talked about this earlier. Um again, Jesus is resurrected from the grave, but here he is on the earth visiting many, many people. I think there were thirteen encounters I read Um and in this particular case in the upper room, right, we had about 120 of his followers gathered in the upper room. When the Holy Spirit came to indwell and empower them, the coming of the Spirit was marked by the appearance of fire and the loud sound of a rushing wind. There was another sign though, right? Um well before that. So Pentecost was one of the major feast days celebrated by the Jewish people And so that's what was happening right now. Pentecost was happening, which means what? Jews from all over the world were coming and descending on Jerusalem to celebrate Pentecost And they each had different dialects and different languages from where they came from. Right? That's what's happening here and that's what we're seeing. So in In Jerusalem it was Aramaic or Greek, but again you have people from all over that are now descending with all of these different languages. And so we talk about the the mi the gift of tongues. All right, and that can be very confusing. I think I told you um after I was recently saved Both Karina and I, the first church we went to as a married couple was a charismatic church. And gifts of tongues, speaking in tongues, was a was a thing Um that's not what's happening here. It's not a secret language. They were simply speaking the language of these foreigners. And they shouldn't have been able to do that. Right? They didn't speak those languages. That's what's happening here. And the people are like were recognizing it And they're like, How how are they doing that? And it was Peter that stood up and said, Here's what's going on. The Holy Spirit used it on the day of Pentecost not only to draw a cow crowd, but also to demonstrate that the gospel of Jesus Christ extends to all nations. Up until this point the focus was on the Jews. Isn't this exciting, right, for uh for most of us in this room as Gentiles To know that the message, the gospel, is now going out to all the nations. Sixteen different regions I have in my notes that were represented or that I think are listed in Scripture during this episode. Alright, addressing the crowd that gathered to witness the miracle of the Apostle Peter. Again, now he's he's bold now, right? He has seen the resurrected Lord and he is bold. Preached a powerful gospel in response 3,000 people believed. They professed faith in Christ and were baptized as a symbolic demonstration. Alright? Just this this crazy explosion of believers. I think later on it talks about 5,000, then it keeps going. Um just a crazy now again though, that was the early church, right? And that's the work that God was doing to to start his church Alright, chapters 2 through 7 of the book of Acts describes the growth of the early church, like we just talked about. Remarkable to consider Peter's transformation, like I just talked about, right? Um after a few months. The disciple who denied the Lord three times, you remember that story at the Passover, now faces the Jewish leaders after Pentecost with unwavering boldness. And it goes on to talk about um Peter and I forget his companion healing the lame man, right? So they're given these gifts, these these gifts of uh healing to authenticate or to affirm their authority. You remember the story in Acts 5, Ananias and Sapphira, right? So you have all these people that are here for Pentecost And now the Christians start sharing. Right? They're selling off some of their property so they can that bring that into the collection and they can take care of those who are in need. And you have the story of Anna Uh Ananias and Sapphira that are devious, right? They're trying to deceive. They sold their property and didn't give all of it to the collection plate. And they're called out for it. What happens? Dead Dead. Now how do you think the rest of the Christians felt when they saw that? This is serious stuff. Right? This is serious stuff Again, shows how serious God is about purity in worship. We talk about that that third pillar, purity in our worship. We must obey God rather than men. So in Act six we see the needs of the growing church. Um do you remember what happened there in that episode? What was happening? Some were being neglected, right? Um uh the church was was exploding, right? And and some were being neglected. And they said, Hey, we we need to fix this. So they said select seven helpers to assist the congregation. These seven men include Stephen and Philip. And this is often uh referred to as the first deacons. Or the proto-deacons we'll call it. And I will tell you, it it's this framework that caused us as elders to go back and look at kind of restructuring how we um have deacons in our church, right? And so that's why we have what we have now. It was there was a blending that was happening between very service oriented and um more word ministry oriented. And we wanted to make that clear distinction. Now, just like Stephen, he was a deacon, he was also a very bold evangelist. So our deacons like Greg doesn't mean he can't be involved in word type ministry It's just we wanted to make the deacon role very, very clear. And so that's why we did that. Any questions on that? Okay. And so you you know the story of um Stephen. He was the first martyr That martyr comes from the Greek word meaning witness. Martyrs are witnesses to Jesus Christ even to the point of death. Now this is very interesting. You know, persecution started to happen. And you c you can imagine this this cult-like thing just sprung up out of nowhere, and persecution started to happen. And this this episode of Stephen is really critical. As a result of Stephen's martyrdom, Christians begin to scatter from Jerusalem. So now they're getting scattered throughout the world because of So God used the death of Stephen and the resulting persecution to scatter believers throughout the Roman world, beginning to fulfill the Great Commission. Sometimes we can look at the events of the world and say, God, I I don't get it. I don't understand it. And yet God is always in control. His sovereign plan is always being played out. And you have this critical event, right? Stephen One of the chosen men being stoned to death, and yet that created this explosion throughout the whole world. Alright, good We go on to another really, really big event when we look at the conversion of this dude called Saul And Cornelius. Alright? So one of the uh primary persecutors at the time of the church was a man named Saul. Saul was the Or Saul was his Hebrew name. Later he would be known by his Greek name Paul. I've always thought that um Saul was his non-conversion name and Paul was his conversion name, and that's not really true, right? He was always Saul and Paul. It was just one was Hebrew and one was Greek. And you actually see in Acts, Luke doesn't start to call Saul Paul until later in the books. Alright. So there is a point where he starts to call him Paul and there's um uh commentators think maybe because of the focus on on the Gentiles at some point and that's why he's now referred to as Paul. because of his ministry to the Gentiles. Saul was instrumental in scattering the church by persecuting Christians. So think about that. Put that image in your head. Right. He you know he was he was uh trained um um very well by the Pharisees, if you will, and just was uh an exuberant, passionate persecutor of the church. And because of that the church was being scattered. And some of the believers who fled Jerusalem as a result of Sedan's went to where? Went to Antioch, which was to the north. And that's going to become important in a second. A church that Saul would eventually co-pastor with Barnabas. I want you to think about this. You are being persecuted by Saul, so you flee to Antioch. Your persecutor is now your pastor. Wow. Put that image in your head. And Paul, as you know, um would go on to be the maybe the most prolific, you know, character in the New Testament It wrote 13 epistles of the 27, so a huge, huge influence. And a big part obviously of you know, the evangelism that happens throughout the world. Alright, so we see with um Cornelius and I like to make sure I don't get ahead of myself. The Lord related you saw to minister to the scattered church. In fact some of the believers who fled Jerusalem as a result of the Of Stephen's martyrdom would be as part of a church of the Syrian of Syrian Antioch, because there's a couple different Antiochs um in the Bible. So this one is the one just north, a church that Saul would eventually co-pastor with Barnabas. And you see now this conversion of Cornelius. Who was Cornelius? Sure. Centurion, right? He was part of the uh uh soldiers of Rome, the Italian Corps, uh it's called. The Lord prepared Peter by showing him a vision of unclean animals. So you remember this this vision he had of the the sheet unfolding and and all these animals and and God said the vision was you could eat any of it. And Peter's like, No no no no no I can't do that. And God's like, yeah yeah yeah yes you can And it wasn't until, you know, he was sent to Cornelius that he understood, and this is pivotal, that the gospel is now for everybody. Jew and Gentile. Gentile meaning anyone who's not a Jew, right? Which includes most of us I suspect in this room. Okay. All right. So we talked about a couple character the two of the biggest characters are Peter and Paul. So I'll give you a couple of character sketches here. Peter, right, a fisherman Uh brother of Andrew, partner with James and John. That trio you see often. What did they have witness to? Transfiguration, right? They were they were a very tight-knit group that Jesus would often call um or pull apart from the twelve disciples, so Peter, James, and John. Again, one of the original apostles present at the Transfiguration. I gave you the clue right there. Walked on water. We talked about it. Denied Jesus three times, right? As prophesied. But he ended up being a pillar in the early church. God's spokesmans to the Jews, although here we see conversion of the Gentiles I think it's also interesting, you see, there is this confrontation between Paul and Peter in Galatians 2, where Paul calls them out. For acting more like like the Jews, like he was, versus ministering to the Gentiles. And why? Because of fear of man, it says. And I don't this is some artist rendition of what Paul might have looked like. I don't know that we know for sure, but he wasn't like King Saul. handsome, tall man, right? He was just an ordinary man. Interesting, from the tribe of Benjamin, just like King Saul from the Old Testament. He was a Roman citizen born in Tarsus And this was the rabbi he was under, Gamel. So he was very knowledgeable about the law and was a strict adherent to it. Um as we mentioned, persecuted the early church and converted on the road to Damascus about thirty-four AD. So it turns out Paul was probably born around the time that Jesus was born. So he's growing in his uh Pharisaic ways as Jesus is beginning his ministry. So that's very interesting. Um and for the first three years, you know, he wasn't with anybody. Direct revelation from the Lord. All right. So We're going to be talking about his three missionary journeys of Paul, and I want to just give I'll put this up there while we're talking about it. But as we talked about Paul ended up being one of the the prominent pastors, if you will, of Antioch. And you can see there the church of of Antioch. And it's from here that he is sent out on his first missionary journey. And it again is the the um most likely these persecuted Um Christians were sent throughout the world into these different areas. So these churches were already starting to be established. Paul goes to reinforce set up elders, start the teaching. And you're going to see through his missionary journeys, he often returns back to these places that he started. So the first missionary journey has them going primarily in Galatians. Now I want to point out while we're on the map here, Perga. This is where um it is believed that John Mark, who was um Um going along with Paul in his journey that he left him in Barnabas at this point. And he was a cousin of Barnabas. This is where you hear later in Acts about this this um deep confrontation between Paul and Barnabas about John Mark The Bible is not clear on what happened. We don't know. Some think he uh he abandoned the journey and went back home. We just don't know. But we know there was a huge rift that happens. Now, we also know later in scripture, 2 Timothy, that they reconcile. And so it's just this beautiful image of we're human beings and stuff like that happens, but the the beautiful power of reconciliation. So again, Paul confronts Peter, um, Paul confronts John, Mark, and Barnabas, so you know, we're human beings. But we're holding each other accountable. So I just find that interesting. Alright. So get that image in your mind as we we now talk about that first missionary journey and the first council So again, the church sent Barnabas and Paul on this first missionary journey to meet the needs of uh this Chapters thirteen through fourteen overview the trip of Saul and Barnabas and took the churches um to the churches of southern Galatia. And I talk about the the confrontation with John Mark. Turn to No, I'm not going to do that yet. It does talk about in Acts 13, 38 through 39, after a lengthy gospel presentation, and I'll I'll just read it to you. Paul told an audience in a synagogue. Therefore, let it be known to you, brethren, that through this man, Jesus Christ, is preached to you the forgiveness of sins, and by him everyone who believes is justified from all things from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses. This is basically the first recorded gospel message by Paul in Scripture. Okay? Now these verses summarize the heart of Paul's gospel invitation, namely that through faith in Christ, sinners can be Forgiven from their debt of sin and justified, declared righteous by God. Faith in Christ accomplishes what adherence to the law of Moses cannot provide. Salvation is by faith alone, apart from the law. This is absolutely foundational. It's one of our pillars, right? The work of Jesus Christ. And this is Paul giving that gospel message. One of the most beautiful words in all of Scripture, justified. Justified. It's a legal term, like it says there, to be declared righteous by God. When you become a believer, when your heart is transformed, God now. declares you righteous. That is critical to have a right relationship with God. There's no other way than for God to declare you as righteous. That's what justify means. There's also another component This component of imputation, right? Where our sin is imputed to Christ and his righteousness is imputed to us as believers. This is critical as we go through our sanctification process. I'm always trying to remind people, yes, we need to be cultivating a high view of God, but we need to have a correct view of ourselves. both in our fallen nature and both as Christians. Because as we're going to talk about at the end, we are indwelt by this Holy Spirit, by the Holy Spirit. That's the power that we have in us. as Christians. Alright. Oh, so much to cover. Alright, so Paul and Barnabas returned to Antioch after completing their missionary journey. Some false teachers arrive though, insisting that sinners must be circumcised and obey the law of Moses to be saved This resulted in a conflict about the essence of the gospel. Are sinners saved by faith in Christ alone, as Paul had been preaching, or do they also need to follow the law of Moses? Critical, critical debate, right? Now you can imagine these churches, especially in Antioch, where you are now getting this blend of Jew and Gentile. The Jew born and raised with all of these traditions, human traditions that were handed down. Alright? They spent a lifetime learning those traditions. It would be very natural to progress back to that. But what was the danger? What were they doing? They were adding to the gospel message. What does every false religion do today? They add to it. Dangerous. Right? That's what Paul will defend. That's what we need to defend as the pure gospel message By faith alone, through grace alone. So that's what was confronting the church, and which is why in Acts 15 you have the first council. We're going to talk about more councils through church history and it was often these leaders coming together to address or affirm a particular doctrine, right? And and we we do that all the time. That's us defending the faith as as elders and pastors. And you see that in Acts fifteen. Let me read Acts fifteen, seven through eleven. And this was probably, as I showed you on the timeline, about forty-nine fifty A. D. So that's the time frame. that we have here. Brethren, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God who knows the heart testified to them, giving them the Holy Spirit. Just as he also did to us. And he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. Now therefore, why do you put God to the test by placing them upon the neck of the disciples a yoke which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear. But we believe that we are saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus. in the same way as they also are. This is Peter talking, right? And later I talked about this confrontation in Galatians 2. That's the confrontation. Peter was sliding back on that affirmation And that and Paul's calling them out on it. And Peter, again, because of his fear of man. I don't have time to go into it, and that's why the timing of Galatians is important. Did that happen um before this Jerusalem Council or did it happen after the Jerusalem Council? There's different views on that. I find it hard to imagine that you would have the Jerusalem Council and then you would see Peter slide after that. So I'm of the opinion that that Paul confronted him beforehand And here you see Paul or Peter adamantly stand up and defend, no, here's what the gospel is, right? It's Jesus Christ alone. But That's for a further debate. All right. Um, under the leadership, so there was a critical leader here, and that was James. Who was James? Brother of Jesus. Now if you go back, we don't have time to cover it, but James, um, it's it's likely that all of Jesus' siblings were not believers. while he was alive. It wasn't until after Jesus was on the scene during those 40 days that you see the siblings now become believers. And James ends up being the head pastor, the senior pastor, if you will, at the Jerusalem church. He was the primary leader. And of course he wrote the book of James. Another brother that wrote a book? Jude. Jude, right? Jude is another one. Okay. So we continue and we'll talk more about his uh Paul's journey. So uh again, I love to follow wouldn't that be a great trip Um to follow some of uh Paul's journeys. That'd be fun. Paul's second missionary journey started as a return trip to the church as he and Barnabas had planted on the earlier trip. This time Paul traveled with Silas. So remember you have this confrontation and now Barnabas goes with John Mark and they go off and Paul and Silas go off. And some commentators say By dividing they were able to cover more ground. So so again you see a conflict that the Lord used to benefit his redemptive plan. And later we will see Um not in this lesson, but we know that they were reconciled, which is a beautiful picture of picture of God's grace. And this is where Timothy comes on the scene during Paul's second missionary journey. It is possible that um Paul ran into Timothy and his family during the first missionary journey, and that's where he was saved, but then as he as he goes on the second one, Timothy is actually with him. and becomes a very, very close companion. And we see at the end of Paul's life he hands that baton, you know, to Titus and Timothy, these faithful followers. All right, in each city, Paul preached the gospel faithfully. He began in the synagogues, reasoning with the Jewish hearers from the Old Testament. So again, Paul's eyes are open and he's referring back to the Old Testament. He's not highlighting, hey, here's what Jesus did during his three years of ministry, right? He's going back to the Old Testament to say, this is what the prophets, this is what they were proclaiming. This is what they were talking about, Jesus Christ, when he was no longer welcome there he would preach to the Gentiles of that city. We go on to Paul's third missionary journey and I do have some maps I think coming up here. During this time in Ephesus Paul trained the disciples for more than two years. So it was often during these journeys he was staying at these churches for an extended period of time, again to grow, to equip, to get them established. So as a result, churches throughout Asia Minor were planted in places like Colossae. Eventually making it to Rome, Paul was placed under house arrest for approximately two years. This first Roman imprisonment occurred about A. D. 66 So, like we said, um the the history doesn't go through the full life of Paul. It goes to um this point where he's under his first house arrest or this first imprisonment and I'll show you that in a second. Alright, so let's uh here's okay here's where I have the maps of the second and third. So you can uh see again what does he do? He revisits the churches in Galatia But then it gets extended into these farther regions, okay? And he makes his way back to Jerusalem. And then the third missionary journey Again, from Antioch visiting those places again and then extending even further, and then his way back to Jerusalem And it's at Jerusalem now where he is arrested, if you will. Right? You remember that. And now he makes this journey to Rome because he appeals to Caesar. And because he is a Roman, he is allowed or required now to go back and um stand court, if you will, before Caesar. Now when it talks about his imprisonment, I think this is important. This is again grab this from the internet. This is possibly what that would have looked like to be under house arrest He had a lot of freedom. He was allowed to receive um guests and visitors. It it was pretty free-flowing. All right. Don't think of like a jail cell imprisonment. That's coming. So he had a lot of freedom and and wrote several books while he was here. We talk about the uh prison epistles. You guys know what those are? Which ones? Second Timothy was the last one in his other imprisonment. Ephesians, Colossians, Philippians, and Philemon. Those are the four prison epistles, and they were written while he was under house arrest. Yeah, yep. Ephesians, Colossians, Philemon, and Philippians. Do you love that kind of freedom because you were the right Um most likely. You know, I I think the key is he was waiting to stand trial. And it wasn't this You know, I'm condemning you to death. That's going to come and I'll show you the difference. Here it's just you're waiting for trial. And when people were just waiting for you know that time in court, they were given a lot of freedom Yeah, great question. Alright, let's make sure I covered everything there. Alright, so I want you to turn to Second Corinthians. It's Romans 1 2 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 11. In case you think these um Missionary journeys were a piece of cake, or like a short term mission trip that we're going to take this summer. I hope it doesn't turn out like this. Uh Second Corinthians eleven starting in verse twenty-three. Are they servants of Christ? I speak as if in saying, I more so in far more labors, and far more imprisonments, beaten times without number, often in danger of death. Five times I received from the Jews thirty nine lashes Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, a night and a day I have spent in the deep. I have been on frequent journeys and dangers from rivers Dangers from robbers, dangers from my countrymen, dangers from the Gentiles, and it goes on and on and on. Not an easy missionary journey, eh? Just incredible. Um the amount of persecution that he experienced. And again, we think of that incredible trans uh transformation Um ironic, right, that he was the great persecutor and now he's being severely persecuted himself. Okay. Good. We're right on time. Alright, so after the books of Acts, so that's kind of how the the book of Acts closes is with that first imprisonment, this house arrest And Paul often, and that's why I like to follow his journeys as you go through the New Testament versus chronological order, because it helps you understand some of the issues that were happening at the time. So um next time the New Testament comes around you'll have to take that. Now often uh people talk about a fourth missionary journey and that's not um some commentaries agree or disagree. There is clear evidence though that between that first arrest and his second, Paul was traveling. Alright, we see that um I think in Timothy and and well it's written here, right? He apparently traveled to Troas and Miletus in 2 Timothy. We see in Titus Crete and even Spain, we see in Romans. Okay, so he was able to travel, you could call that his um fourth missionary journey if you want. So during this time, during this, I'll call it fourth or this interval between first and second imprisonment, you see uh Paul write the epistles of 1 Timothy and Titus. And then something happens drastically in AD 64. So Paul's out, right? He he has freedom, he's writing his epistles. What What happens in AD sixty four? Anyone remember? Burn fire. Right, the city of Rome has this great fire that destroys most of the city. And the emperor at the time was Nero. And unfortunately people started to blame Nero. And he didn't like that, so what did he do? He blamed the Christians. And you see this very intense time of persecution, and that's where Paul is is no kidding now going to be imprisoned for the last time. During this time, Peter, during this persecution, the Apostle Peter, who had come to Rome to also minister, was arrested and executed by being crucified upside down. Prior to his death, Peter wrote his two epistles, first and second Peter, from Rome to churches in Asia Minor, warning them about coming persecution and the threat of false teachers. Paul was also arrested and imprisoned in a Roman dungeon. The second imprisonment provides the context for his second letter to Timothy And that's his last letter. That's his passing the baton on to Timothy. Shortly after planting that epistle, Paul was beheaded as a martyr for Christ. Now that's not in Scripture That is some artifacts that were written after that, but you won't see that in scripture how he how he died. But that's uh tradition has it, that's what happened. Um Nero's persecution ended with uh Paul's death in A. D. sixty-eight, and then we know that the temple was destroyed in A. D. seventy, right? So that's a critical point of prophecy. All right, so we know the 80s and 90s feature the ministry of the Apostle John. At some point he moved from Jerusalem to uh Ephesus, ministering in the region of Asia Minor. Alright, let me show you the second imprisonment. It's called Mammertime. Um anyone been there? It's in Rome? I know Ann Cain has been there, has seen it, taken pictures of it, but this is kind of a representative of what it looked like. And it's a dungeon. You know, you can remember he he called out to um I think it was Timothy or Titus, you know, bring the parchments, bring my cloak Um so he was able to have visitors, but I think they had to, you know, talk down through the hole. When you got into this prison, it meant death. You were just waiting to die. So he knew that the end was upon him when this happened. Right? And this was because of the persecution that was evidenced with Nero. Okay? So I I think it's important. Often it can be confusing about the imprisonments, but that's the distinction. The first one was a house arrest and then the second one was no kidding a dungeon And then John, we talk about John on the island of Patmos. This was a a picture. This is actually the island of Patmos. Today it's a tourist attraction. Yeah, you can go there and there's facilities on there and and what have you. Not sure I want to go there, but um again written about ninety-five AD, so um he was considered I think the only apostle that died by natural causes. Th there's no indication that he was beheaded or or died in some other vicious way, um, just natural causes. And he was the last one. He was the last surviving apostle. But he was on the island Um there were other prisoners. Oh the oh yeah there were other prisoners. That was uh it was uh prison island for for Rome. That's where they would often Yeah. Yeah. And that's where um he received the revelation of Jesus Christ and where we get revelations today. Okay? I think that's my last slide, so I will leave that there. Alright, so let's uh we've got a few minutes left, and I'm going to talk about the Holy Spirit, but we we want to talk in my notebook here it talks about maybe three major lessons to take from this Number one, the good news of salvation is intended for all people. Amen? Boy, because if that wasn't true, none of us would be sitting here today. Right? Available for all people. Um Sinners can be forgiven. This is still number one, forgiven and justified through faith in Christ, apart from the works of the law. Again, amen. Second, followers of the Lord Jesus are called to be His witnesses, to speak with conviction and standing with courage. The apostles modeled that kind of boldness. That's applicable for us today, right? It's critical for us today. And that's why I want us to think through the application. Yes, it's important to study this history, but how does it apply to us? And the history If I can footstop this is still being written. You are part of the church age. And I'm here to tell you, I don't know how much time is left. There's nothing left to be done. We need to be vigilant. Third The Lord has been faithful to fulfill his promises to build the church, to observe the gospel, prevail against all odds. From the book of Acts to the present to see the promise unfold. Isn't that a comfort? And that should give us great hope. I mean think about this intense persecution that they were going through. For whatever reason, God allowed that for His perfect plan. When we look at ourselves, we we And yet God's plan is unfolding. We're a part of that. What are we doing? Right? That's my challenge to you all All right, let's talk about this idea of the Holy Spirit. Not this idea. The Holy Spirit, right? The third person of the Trinity. How is the Holy Spirit being manifested now in this beginning? So we see Acts as the beginning of the church, but it's also this manifestation of the Holy Spirit that we really haven't seen before. How is the Holy Spirit manifested in the Old Testament? Think of King Saul. Shout it out. Yeah. So I have the baptism of the Holy Spirit. We're going to talk about the indwelling and then being filled. So you're right, Naila. So King Saul he had the presence of the Holy Spirit, but it was for a time. He disobeyed, and what happened? He lost the Holy Spirit David, when you see in the Psalms after the sin of Bathsheba, he was fearful of losing the Holy Spirit. Right? I I don't think there's any indication that that happened But you didn't see this permanent presence of the Holy Spirit in people. He he came and went, right, depending on the situation. Now Jesus says, I need to go so I can send you a helper. That helper being the Holy Spirit. And for believers, it's a permanent indwelling. So this term, the baptism of the Holy Spirit, you will not see a command to be baptized in the Holy Spirit. You are baptized in the Holy Spirit when you are regenerated. What that simply means is you are now being adopted into the church, into God's family. That's what it's a positional thing. That's what baptism of the Holy Spirit means. The indwelling is what you receive, the power of the Holy Spirit at regeneration. And it's permanent Okay? What does filled by the Holy Spirit mean then? Can you lose the power of the Holy Spirit? No. To be filled, I don't want you to think of it like a glass of water. Where you fill up the cup, I I prayed this morning, I did my devotional, I am filled up to the brim, baby, and then throughout the day you sin and the level goes down in your glass. That's not what's happening You are permanently indwelt with the Holy Spirit. This is the only command that you have with the Holy Spirit. Be filled with the Holy Spirit. It means to be controlled. To yield to the Holy Spirit, to his guiding, to his direction. Is the Holy Spirit an emotional being? Yes, we can grieve the Holy Spirit. Talks about that in Ephesians, both of these. To grieve the Holy Spirit. is to cause him sorrow because you're not yielding to his control, his direction. Sharon. To quench. Quench grieve is the same thing, right? It means you're not yielding. You're giving into the lust of the flesh at that point. But you never lose the Holy Spirit. This is the only command, is to be filled by the Holy Spirit. And that's daily to yield to the Holy Spirit. How do we do that? We're in the Word. We're praying. We're putting off the old self. We're renewing our mind. We're putting on the new self. It's a sanctifying process. Okay? So again, I love Acts because of this is the beginning of the church that we're a part of. Our lineage goes back to Pentecost. That's exciting in what Those fathers, those apostles did, and then what we're going to hear from here on out is what the rest of the fathers did, if you will, and and mothers, right? Men and women to defend the faith and we're part of that today. And we'll talk about near one of our end lessons what are the issues we're confronting today that we need to deal with and defend. But the second part that I think is so exciting about acts is this this different manifestation of the Holy Spirit. This is incredibly encouraging and hopeful and gives us assurance of our salvation. What does it say in Romans 8. 16? The Spirit, the Holy Spirit, testifies with our Spirit that we are children of God. And we know this because we cry out what? Ah the Father, right? Those are the assurances we need. Does that all make sense? Any questions on that? All right, lots of material. Acts is so good. If you get time, go back and just read through acts. I loved how um just the context of around Paul's missionary journeys, right? His conversion, his missionary journeys that are extending the gospel to all people of the world. You see the first Jerusalem Council, where they are now defending a major doctrine of the church, right? The gospel message, Christ alone. With that, let me pray. Father, we love you. We're excited about your word. We know it's a pillar. And I just pray for everyone here that you would just give a us a desire to be hungry to understand your unfolding plan for the church and our role in it today. So we love you, we thank you, and we just pray for your blessing. for the rest of our time of worship this morning, the singing, the preaching, and the fellowship, Lord. We love you and we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.