Oh Father, we do not take for granted a new day. Um we're grateful that your mercies are new and fresh every day. Um this has been such a joy to just be encouraged by the history of the church and these church leaders, both men and women that were just staunch defenders of the faith and maybe more importantly defenders of the pure gospel. And it's interesting that we are continuing to write that history. So I pray that we are encouraged, that we are steadfast. Enlighten us today. Illumine our minds through your Holy Spirit. And may you be glorified. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, so before we jump in, um to commemorate February 14th, Valentine's Day, I thought it'd be fun to do a little reform Valentine's. I got way more than ninety-five reasons why you're my Valentine. I would say you're my destiny, but we both know you're my predestiny. And of course the candy heart, you are the prey. So I I got a joke in our family we kind of boycott the uh the the hallmark uh holiday um and it was funny when I was listening to the notes for the teacher they give you uh um some additional notes and it was actually he was doing this lesson two years ago during Valentine's Day And so he he gave some of the history. Obviously it didn't start with the Hallmark holidays and Cupid and all that good stuff. Um there was actually a Saint Valentine who was a very prominent preacher uh near Rome, pastor near Rome in the second century. So that would have been the two hundreds. So you remember when we when we talked about those early church leaders, it was really about defending you know, what was preached by the apostles, um, the deity of Christ. But he was a extremely passionate evangelist, and that passion actually got him martyred by the emperor at the time, Claudius II And it was really 14th February, as as far as the notes go, that was Feast Day. They called it Feast Day, and that's where they celebrated the martyrs. So it was really intended to be a a celebration um of the martyrs. So a little bit of history there before we jump in. So actually I I'll tell you for for Kareem and I, actually our first date was on the tenth of February, so that's the date that we celebrate commemorating our First date. I I wanted to re-emphasize too this word um evangelist or evangelical. We talked about that a little bit. Martin Luther started to use that term. Ewangeleon is the Greek term, Ewangeleon. And it simply means um gospel purity, right? It's to to believe in, stand for, and fight for the gospel. And like I said, that's our mission today, is it not? So let that be an encouragement. Alright, if you turn to, we are in chapter 12, as you can see, we got one more, one more week to go, and we'll be done with church history. This quarter we packed a lot into what we talked about throughout the ages, and I'll cover that a little bit more as we go to the next page. So let's do that So again, the map you have on uh page nineteen, I really, really enjoy it, but we we are getting near near the end here And again, just a little bit of a brief history, if you remember, all the way back to the beginning of Acts. What did we see with Stephen, right? The persecution that started to happen. And what did that do in God's plan? It pushed people out, right? And and we see that throughout history, this taking God's people and and this incredible trial and tribulation and So many of those early church leaders as we discussed were martyred for their faith, for their defense of the faith, and yet God used that, continually used that to to push his people and his word throughout the world. We got into um the Middle Ages where a lot was happening, right? We we saw the rise of the Roman Catholic empire if you will, uh the corruption of the papacy, really the corruption of the gospel. I mean that's what happened. We see the rise of the Muslim Islam religion um in in some of the geopolitics that were happening in that region. And then you had this reset, if you will. That's when we talked about the Reformation Um and even those people were persecuted. And you you have this group, the Puritans, because of that persecution, did what? You know, migrated to America. And that's where you see the influence of the the um you know the Reformation, if you will, in the Americas and throughout the world. And today we're going to see kind of the continuation of that when we we have a focus on missionaries, missionaries Right, so that's going to be the focus today, to see how the word continues to get spread throughout the world. And remember what's happening, you know, against that is you're entering into this age of reason or enlightenment that we still struggle through. with today. So if you are in your workbook, we are on lesson twelve. I want to read the key passage there from Matthew 28. I know you're all familiar with it. Jesus came up and spoke to them, saying, All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I command you, and lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. When when did Jesus give that uh command, if you will, to his disciples? Do you remember? So it was after the resurrection, but before the ascension. Right? Remember he spent about forty days on the earth before he ascended. And at least in Matthew That's the last recorded words to his disciples. And then you see the beginning of church history, right? Then we jump right into Acts and you see that start to promulgate again because of what was happening with persecution, all a part of God's plan, right? His plan of redemption. And so I want you to think about this, kind of this theme. What does it mean to be a disciple maker? Right, when we talk about missions, obviously our our head goes directly to international missions, but we are all missionaries in our workplace and our communities. What does it mean to be a disciple maker? So we're going to come back to that at the end if we have time. All right. Some of the um um Big people that are brought out in this lesson today, William Carey, uh Adoneerum Judson and C. T. Stud. And I don't know if you can see in the picture, he actually was a stud. Um he was a a very pronounced cricket player back in the day and could have been a professional cricket player um but but chose instead to go into the ministry. So we'll talk more about the these uh three publications. And then from a timeline perspective, uh again we are in the you know what I don't know if I changed I didn't change the dates on here. Guys sorry. So we're actually these are eighteen hundreds. I guess I have some of them Um No, I did. So we're talking primarily about the nineteenth um century. So the close of the eighteenth so Reformation think Reformation big bloc, sixteenth century, um the the migration of the Puritans in the seventeenth century and here we are now um in the actually the nineteenth century, right? Going into the I didn't change the last part of those. That's what I did. Sorry about that. So I got the the first couple, but not the last. I must have got too excited with the Reformation Valentine cards. I lost track. All right, I did want to uh make a correction on something I said last week. I'm grateful um someone came to me afterwards and said, Hey I think you got that part wrong. Um give me a second. Here we go. We were talking about the different Bible translations So what I what I wanted to highlight was um what was used in the Anglican Church, again that was the um the English Church, if you will, was this Bishop's Bible, and it was terrible Right? It was a terrible translation. Um what happened prior to that, again, during the Reformation, we talked about William Tyndale. He created a translation and the critical aspect of that was he He um translated it into the English language, but it was from the original Hebrew and Greek. And it was a pretty good translation. That was the basis for the Geneva Bible that the Protestants used and that the Puritans used All right. And we talked about when uh King James came on the scene, he um commissioned several folks to write a um uh translation as well. And it was really again predicated on the work that that William Tyndale had done. And a lot of our translations today are driven by the King's James Version So we can trace a lot of our translations back to the original work of William Tyndale. Right, which I think is pretty interesting. Just uh to highlight some some differences there on the Geneva Bible The first complete Bible in English, translated from the Greek and Hebrew, the first English Bible to include numbered verses included extensive notes including cross references and explanations uh used by William Shakespeare, John Milton, John Bunyan, and used by the pilgrim settlers of New England, like I just talked about It was banned by the King James Version in sixteen eleven because its notes were considered seditious. So that was the big difference between the Geneva and King James, uh the Geneva had all these notes, study notes like we have in our Bible today, and a lot of that had some um differences, if you will, and King James said, let's let's get rid of all that Uh the Bishop's Bible, a revision of the Great Bible based on the it was based on the Geneva Bible, but again um it em it did things like emphasize the authority of the monarchy and the bishops, um it minimized commentary to avoid theological disputes. Um it had a very liturgical style, so they could use it during the Mass. And again, that became the official Bible of the Anglican Church in fifteen sixty eight. Okay? So uh again I want to make sure I have that clarification and I I thank you for again being Boreans and making sure we get it accurate. And and again, boy, what a providence of God. We take for granted, I don't have my hard copy Bible here, we take for granted a lot of us probably have three or four translations in our home Um to have the word of God translated into your own language is absolutely huge. Right? Absolutely huge. And then what did we talk about? What was the key invention during this time? The press, the Gutenberg printing press, right? We're gonna see kind of a similar pattern, if you will, when we talk about missions to places like India and China. Right, so I did want to include a map of the areas we're going to be talking about today and and again you guys know we're China and India's vast spaces of course. And also want to mention we'll talk about Burma, which is today Myanmar. Alright, so they're they're very closely located, but I wanted to kind of orient you on where we're at from a map perspective. Alright, any questions on that? Good? Okay Alright, so we're going to go through a lot of fill-ins on this lesson. So we'll keep you busy with some of the fill-ins here. But I I think it's really good to kind of see this trend as we go through it. So a little bit of background on You know, when we talk about missionaries, the Great Commission and Modern Missions. We talk about after his resurrection, Jesus, of course, the Lord Jesus, commissioned his follower his followers to be his witnesses throughout the world. That was the passage we just read in in Matthew twenty eight. In the 16th century, again that's the big uh uh Protestant Reformation, they courageously committed themselves to translating the Bible and preaching its truth. That same priority characterized the missionary movement of the 19th century. and twentieth centuries. So that's our f our focus today. Consider the following examples of faithful believers who took Christ's mandate seriously to go and make disciples of the nations. So let me just go ahead and I'm going to fill out some of these and then we'll read 'em. What I want you to get uh the impression of the way they laid this out, you know, the chain of um mission impact from generation to generation. And then we're going to come back to to maybe how it has influenced some of you in this room even today. John Elliott uh was a Puritan settler in New England who began evangelizing the Native Americans. Known as the Apostle to the Indians, he translated the Bible into their native language. So again we see the importance of translation Helped establish churches and sparked a missionary zeal among Christian settlers in the New World. Number two, we talked about this person a little bit last time, but the missionary spirit inspired men like David Brainerd to similarly devote his life to teaching Native Americans with the good news of the gospel. So already you see an evangelistic missionary um effort here. So here's the chain. Through Brainerd, he died at a very early age, 29 years, 29 years old. His friend that we talked about last week, Jonathan Edwards was so impressed by the young missionary's passion that he edited Brainerd's diary and published it. Edwards himself would later work as a missionary to the Native Americans of Stockbridge. Massachusetts. We talked last week that was very close to our house in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. So that was very interesting to be um a part of that history. So Jonathan Edwards, impressed by Brainerd, um edits and and publishes his diary. In seventeen eighty-five an English shoe cobbler named William Carey, and we'll talk a lot more about William Carey, very influential, read a copy of The account of the life of the late Reverend Dev uh David Brainerd, that was the biography written by Jonathan Edwards. So here that work is influencing another missionary The book had profound impact on Carey's thinking, igniting a passion in his heart to take the gospel to India. And that's where we're going to see a big influence in India. William Carey left for India in 1793 And the modern missions movement was born. All right? Start to fill in these other ones. Right. And again, what I want you to get out of this is generation to generation you're seeing the influence. So William we left off with William Carey. Carey's example then influenced um an American missionary At a nearum, Judson. It inspired others also. In 1802, a British preacher named Charles Simeon was speaking about the good that William Carey was doing in India Upon hearing that message, a young man in the congregation named Henry Martin determined that he too would go to India rather than going to law school. So you c you can see the impact that these men had on on young men in the ministry or in the area. Then we see Martin died young, yet his memoirs influenced many in England. In particular, his biography had a significant impact on Anthony Norris Groves who is considered by some to be the father of faith missions. And and his big thing was, I'm just gonna go and trust God for the resources. That's the faith pizza piece of um that statement there. Groves was a missionary to modern day Iraq and later to India in his own memoirs. Groves writes And here's the quote. I have today finished reading for the second time Henry Martin's memoir, How My Soul Admires and Loves His Zeal, Self Denial and Devotion how brilliant, how transient his career what spiritual and mental power admits bodily weakness and disease. Oh, may I be encouraged by his example to press on to a higher mark. In eighteen twenty five Groves published a short booklet entitled Christian Devotedness, in which he encouraged Christians to live frugally, trust God for their needs And devote the bulk of their income to evangelism efforts around the world. That book had a major impact on the thinking of men like George Mueller and James Hudson Taylor significantly shaping the way they thought about missions. You might remember George Mueller is the one that stood up a lot of the orphanages. There was a great need for orphanages And I've read some of that um story and just his faith time and again of not having resources and just praying You know, Lord, I need a hundred dollars, Lord I need twenty dollars, and it appearing. Someone donating a check or or money just time and time again. And then of course uh uh Hudson Taylor to China. Hudson Taylor then was the first modern missionary to reach Hudson Taylor was the first modern missionary To reach the interior of China, he established the China Inland Mission and recruited hundreds of missionaries to join in evangelistic efforts there. At White Point Taylor returned to England where he urged Christian young people to join him in China. A famous Cambridge cricket player named C. T. Studd was among those profoundly affected by Taylor's preaching. Stud left behind a life of leisure to serve Christ overseas. Six other students joined Studd and together they became known as the Cambridge Seven. And we'll talk a little bit more about C. T. Studd. I will mention there is a couple in our new members class, uh Will and Tina Mayborn that actually spent nine I think it's nine years in China. And it's interesting how the Lord just opens up doors. They were there during a window of time that that that was enabled, that was allowed. I don't think that's the case anymore. But you'll have to to get their feedback on on what that was like I think the same happened in in Russia and some of the Eastern Bloc countries when the wall fell down. It's just it's neat to see how the Lord provides those opportunities. uh through time. The publicity garnered by C. T. Studd in the Cambridge 7 in England, especially in British universities, influenced the beginnings of the student volunteer movement for foreign missions. Started in 1886 in North America. Under the leadership of men like D. L. Moody and Arthur T. Pearson, the author of George Miller's biography, hundreds of American students Would join the volunteer movement and commit themselves to foreign missionary work. And then the testimony of Hudson Taylor was also particularly influential in the lives of later missionaries like Amy Carmichael Eric Liddell and Jim Elliott. Speaking of that impact, Elizabeth Elliott explained, and here's the quote from Elizabeth Elliott. When I was a college student, my father lent me the two-volume life of Hudson Taylor. Another college student, Jim Elliott, read it too, and this was one of the great things he and I had in common. A huge hunger for that sort of godliness, for a true missionary heart. I have to confess I I wish the workbook did a little bit more to elaborate on some of um the efforts and work of of women during this time. So you guys can jump in here, but Amy Carmichael, if you might remember, was really ministering to the working class Um, a lot of the factory workers during that time in England, very harsh conditions, you know, women that were isolated, orphans, so she also set up um some orphanages, wrote many books. I I think she I've never read 'em, but my wife tells me she um is an excellent poem writer, some excellent, excellent poems from from Army uh Amy Carmichael. Um, extremely poor health for for a long time. Um it was actually Elizabeth Elliott that wrote her biography. And uh Crean was telling me a story about I think Amy Carmichael struggled for a long time. She wanted blue eyes. And um she had brown eyes and it turned out I think she actually was a missionary to India and for her to have blue eyes in India they would uh is it China? Yeah. They would have thought that she was demon-possessed. And so she began to thank the Lord for her brown eyes. So a little tidbit. Um let me yeah, let's talk about um let's pause and talk about Elizabeth Elliott um and Jim Elliott. I think you guys know that um Well I had it on my phone. You guys know the story. He I was actually in Ecuador and he was ministering right to the Ecuadorians and and the story is they he and I think it was three or four other compatriots landed on a beach in their small plane, um and started to interact with um apparently folks they had come in contact with before, but they ended up spearing them, um, cutting them up. I mean they were martyr, they were died. Yes. India. It was India, all right, good. This was um Amy Carmichael she's talking about. So so here he is at a very young age, he dies and and here's Elizabeth Elliot, right? She apparently was married three times. So the first one was Jim Elliott and he died at a very young age. The second, I think, died of cancer. And the third one, they had a very long marriage. I think she had some pretty serious health problems towards the end and and he was there to care for her. But uh you guys probably know Elizabeth Elliott, a lot of public speaking, a lot of books uh memoirs, um lots of good stuff came out of uh Elizabeth Elliot. But let me pause there. Anybody have any other tidbits or things they want to share I I want to continue this discussion a little bit, maybe a little bit broader, so give me a second here. Um so we just read through a lot of different missionaries and again you see these chain of events where one generation is influencing the next and And just how the the Lord has has risen these people up, both men and women, huge, huge impact. As this brief history demonstrates, missions is contagious From John Elliott, which was where we started, to Jim Elliott, a perceptible chain of influence and gospel faithfulness can be traced from one fervent missionary to the next. Interestingly, this particular chain brings us full circle from the from the Americas around the globe and back again. John Elliott took the gospel to remember the Native Americans in England And then three centuries later, Jim Elliott took the gospel to the Native Americans in Ecuador, South America. Some of the missionaries listed above only lived a short time. David Brainerd was twenty-nine years old and yet look at the impact he had. Henry Martin was thirty-one. Jim Elliott was twenty-eight Yet the impact of their lives far extended beyond their short tenures on this earth. Their self sacrifice inspired thousands of others to give their lives for the sake of the gospel So this is just one small thread and a great tapestry. I like that visual, if you will, a great tapestry that God has woven together throughout the centuries. Yet it illustrates profound lesson in a vivid way. Never underestimate the powerful influence of a life fully invested in serving the Lord Jesus. Fully invested in serving the Lord Jesus. Sacrificial faithfulness to Christ in one generation reverberates for many generations to follow. Let that be an encouragement to us all. So I want to stop. I don't know if you have this discussion block in your in your um uh workbook there says um discuss the implications of the great commission for christi, whether you relocate to another country or not, what can you do to be faithful witnesses for the Lord Jesus Christ. So again this idea of being sold out, the Lord, um creating this tapestry, and we're part of it. Right? I hope that's the encouragement. We're still part of that history today Don't ever underestimate the power of influence that you have on the next generation. So I want to pause. Some of you have been on missionary trips, some of you have been missionaries. Would love to hear a little bit of that story, if you will And um I don't know how many regions are left that haven't been reached. I suspect there are some, but it's probably pretty small. Um and yet to see the Lord open closed doors, you know, the wall falls, it's kind of back up China, there's a window, it's kind of back up, and so you just never know what the Lord's doing. I am excited. Um, you guys probably know we have a short-term mission trip that we're going to be planning to uh support one of our missionaries in uh Columbia. What a privilege, you know, to come alongside them and support them. But we also have opportunities here. You know, there's uh folks going to the mall this afternoon to evangelize. But let me let me leave you with this because I I'm very passionate about it Yes, I think some of us are called to to do that international missions. You know, you see some of the passion that uh some of these men and women have, but don't underestimate the mission field right in front of you. And I'll start with your family, and I'll start with you women Um, you know, just having watched my wife minister to our family didn't plan that. Um, it's precious Right? And and think about the impact she has had on the next generation of seven kids. So I applaud you moms and dads. Don't get distracted. That is your number one missionary field. Alright? So I want to encourage you with that. Alright, William Carey, let's move on. Or I get all teared up. Alright, he actually is one that lived for quite a long time, so you can see the dates there are approximately 73 years And as we talked about, he is known as the Father of Modern Missions, and he helped find found the Baptist Missionary Society. He actually started out as a shoemaker by trade though, um and he studied while working. So he was actually quite brilliant. He studied Greek, Hebrew, taught himself Greek, Hebrew and he knew another uh a bunch of other languages, so very fluent in in the language department. Uh he married Dorothy, with whom he had six children However, only three of his children survived to adulthood. So back then, you know, diseases and and a lot of um just harsh environments, uh very difficult. However, in that same year, his friend Andrew Fuller wrote a pamphlet called The gospel worthy of all ex acceptation, meaning it it should be preached to everyone everywhere. That that was the point of that. This pamphlet encouraged Christians in England to think about missionary work overseas. In his twenties, Carey was deeply impacted by Edward's account of the life of the late Reverend David Brainerd. We talked about that earlier. and you can see the impact that that continues to have. As a result, he became passionately concerned about taking the gospel to parts of the world where Christ was not preached. In his late twenties, Carrie began to pastor a small congregation in England. And then a couple of years after that, he published an important work entitled An Inquiry into the Obligations of Christians to Use Means for the Conversion of the Heathen. In this book, Kerry contended that the Great Commission was for all believers. He briefly traced the history of missions, surveyed the global need for the gospel. and called for a missionary s society to be formed. So here was the original name of the society. The Particular Baptist Society for the Propagation of the Gospel amongst the heathen How do how would you like that on your business card? And obviously it was shortened to what I talked about earlier, the Baptist Baptist Missionary Society, the BMS So realize that a lot of these parachurch organizations were built up at this time because the churches at the time were very insular. They weren't thinking about um expanding the gospel to other missionaries. So these groups had to stand up. to be able to, you know, put together the logistics and the admin, if you will. Um fortunately today you see a lot of churches like ours that are able to support missionaries even though they're connected to some of these parachurch organizations, but to actually send people out so not only um support but participate in. And the idea is where can we partner, right? Where can we find that partnership to be most effective Kerry left for India in 1793, so he was just in his mid-30s when that happened. Initially he managed an indigo factory while working on a Bengali translation of the New Testament. Now what was going on in India at the time in the late seventeen hundreds? You had a huge influence from who? Britain. Right, the East Indian Company. Right. They were after the trade, the money, so they had a a huge influence where India was starting to be colonized by Britain. So that's where, you know, you see the influx of these missionaries going to India because there was a a touch point through the East India Company. In eighteen oh one he became a professor of Bengali at the College of Fort William in Calcutta. The college was established to provide language training to British officers. This position enabled Kerry to revise the Bengali New Testament and also start S a translation in their common language. So again, kind of like Sean said, taking advantage of the opportunity where he was to start to influence, start uh again that translation. We see that over and over again, the importance of the translation into the common language. of where they were at. Um I I want to go back to colonization. So again you started to see that influence in the mid-1700s. It was 1858 that Britain actually took rule of India and that would last until just after World War Two, nineteen forty seven. Kerry um and his fellow missionaries established a printing press Just like Gutenberg did, right? And the influence that had during the Reformation, same thing here. Why? To make copies and to get that translation out. You guys know India is a vast, vast country. Um and we need it and God provided the means, didn't he? Again and again. Um looks like a fire broke out in A 1812 destroyed a number of valuable documents, but they were still able to save the printing press by Lord's provision and again allow that translation By the end of Kerry's life, the press had printed biblical materials in dozens of languages and dialects. In eighteen eighteen, the mission established a training school for pastors. So it wasn't only the translation in printing and spreading, but also equipping, equipping pastors of the the indigenous people, if you will. And I think that's why we're excited about many of the missionaries that we support. That is our focus. Are they equipping indigenous people to become pastors and preach to their own people, right? Versus us going and trying to do that So this short-term mission trip that we're going to be going on heavily focused on teaching. It's not projects oriented. Nothing wrong with that. But we're going to do a lot of teaching, so I'm super, super excited about that. It's going to be fun. Guadalupe, you excited? Very excited. Of course. The translation part in our You're gonna be fine. You're gonna be s hemmed in. Yes. Yes. We're gonna be extremely blessed by that. Alright, so Kerry died in eighteen thirty four, having devoted his life to the advancement of the gospel in India, of course. and had a huge influence on the cause of the missions in the 19th century. All right, we're now going to talk about uh Adoneiram. Adaneiram Judson was born in Massachusetts. Just twelve years after the United States gained independence from Britain, right? So right around that that time frame. He grew up in a pastor's home. However, he walked away from his Christian upbringing as a college student, which is we we often see that, right? While away at university he had uh here's a neat story. He had been influenced by a friend named Jacob Eames So he meets this guy in college, Jacob Eames, who convinced him to abandon Christianity and become a deist. A deist is someone who believes that There's a a supreme leader or God who created everything, but then, you know, he's done. Right? You're on your own. That that's what a deist believes. So he was he was a deist or practically an atheist On his twentieth birthday, Judson broke the news to his his parents to their great dismay. He added that he was leaving home to go to New York, where he Planned to work as a playwright. But but God, right? Those those two famous words. God had other plans for him. So sometime later, while traveling through a small town, Judson stopped for the night and here's the story at an inn. As he tried to fall asleep, there was somebody next to him in the room that was just groaning in pain. I mean it sounded like he was dying. The thought of death made him toss and turn. He could not stop thinking about Eternity. So here's the catalyst that God is using in his life. So in the morning he gets up and he goes to the innkeeper and he's like, Hey man, what uh something's going on next door? What what happened? He says, Yeah, the guy died. He died and he says, Well do you know who he is? He says, Yeah. And it was his friend, Jacob Eames, had died. The guy that convinced him to be a deist. The Lord providentially used that event to bring Adenirum Judson back to himself. Four years later, in 1812, after finishing ceremony, a seminary Judson would become one of the first foreign missionaries to set out from North America. So here you have an American that is being sent out into the mission field. That will come into play here in a bit Um he was very passionate. I don't know if you have this quote in your your book, but I want to read it. So this is a a letter he had written to um his fa his soon to be father in law basically asking for his wife Anne's hand in marriage and kinda letting Dad know, hey, here's here's what the environment might look like. Here's I quote, I have now to ask whether you can consent to be to part with your daughter early next spring, to see her no more in this world. Whether you can consent to her departure for a heathen land and her subjection to the hardships and sufferings of a missionary life, whether you can consent to her exposure to the dangers of the ocean to the fatal influence of the southern climate of India, to every kind of wanton distress, to degradation, insult, persecution, and perhaps a violent death Can you consent to all this for the sake of him who left his heavenly home and died for her and for you, for the sake of perishing and mortal souls, for the sake of Zion and the glory of God Can you consent to all this in hope of soon meeting your daughter in the world of glory, with a crown of righteousness brightened by the acclamations of praise? Which shall we bound to her Saviour from heathen saved through her means from eternal woe and despair? I am a father of six daughters. How would I feel if I got that letter? I would actually be rejoicing, really I mean that's a hard letter to get, but wow. Young men don't write that word. No they don't. No, they don't. Armed with that kind of heavenly perspective, the Judson set sail for India They soon encountered economic challenges, losing the financial backing of their supporters after only having left the United States for a couple months And then their plans unexpectedly changed when problems with their visas in India forced them to settle in Burma. Right? So that's where I showed you Myanmar today. Why Burma? Why were their visas rejected The time was 1812. What was going on in 1812? There was a war between Britain and America, right? So their visas meant, again, this was an American going on a a missionary trip to India, which was really ruled by Britain. So by God's provision, that's how they ended up in Burma. Obviously there they face a severe language barrier barrier requiring years of intense language to overcome. After twelve years of work and and I want you to to pay attention to this, after twelve years of work Judson and his fellow missionaries saw only 18 conversions. That's less than two per year. Do you think they might have felt a little bit discouraged? Maybe Twelve years, and yet they persevered. In all he spent seventeen months behind bars in harsh conditions while his wife Anne did everything she could. to secure his release. More painful than that, the Judsons enter the pain of loss of some two dozen times. Twenty-four His wife Anne died just a few months after he was released from prison. She would not be the only family member who died during this tenure. So from eighteen twelve to eighteen fifty, almost forty years Two dozen of Judson's relatives or close associates went home to heaven, including several of his children. That would be extremely difficult. However, the conclusion, when all is said and done, when he died, the translation work had been completed. One hundred churches had been planted, and eight thousand Burmese professed faith in the Lord Jesus Right, let that be an encouragement to persevere. If the Lord is in it, it will succeed. Edinum Judson and his family made enormous sacrifices for the sake of the gospel From a worldly perspective, some might wonder why they moved far away from the comforts of their North American roots, endured the pain of rejection, hunger, torture, and loss, and did all this to bring good news to a largely antagonistic uh audience. very extreme conditions. But Judson was motivated by a radically different outlook on life, one in which he sought to live each day for eternity. Right, sold out to Jesus Christ. And as I just mentioned, we can look back and see that his efforts were not in vain. Nearly a hundred and fifty years after Judson's death, so this is uh nineteen ninety-three The head of the Myanmar Evangelical Fellowship stated today there are six million Christians in Myanmar, and every one of us trace our spiritual heritage to one man, the Reverend Adonirum Judson. All right, what a profound, profound impact that he had. Alright. Our last bubble. Did I miss a Yeah, okay. Charles Thomas Studd, born december second, eighteen six uh sixty, into a wealthy family in England. Sixteen years later though, the influence of D. L. Moody He embraced the Lord Jesus Christ in saving faith. As I mentioned before, he was a well-known cricket player. I mean just exceptional. He could have gone on to be a professional cricket player And for those who don't know what cricket is, I mean it has the popularity of like baseball in our country. When I was um it was funny when I was deployed in Afghanistan, um some of those Afghan soldiers we worked on. We were on their base, so it was very safe, but they started playing cricket just hitting around like, hey Christopher, come on and join us. So I played a little cricket, it was fun. When his time in Cambridge ended Charles realized that he did not want to pursue a career in athletics, as he said it What is all the fame and flattery worth when a man comes to face eternity? I know that cricket would not last and honor would not last, and nothing in this world would last, but It is worthwhile living for the world to come. How could I spend the best years of my life in working for myself and the honors and pleasures of this world when thousands and thousands of souls are perishing every day. Humble words by a young man, armed with an eternal perspective and motivated by a desire to serve Christ No matter the cost, C. T. Studd left England to serve as a missionary in China under the oversight of Hudson Taylor. So this is where we see the influence Again of Hudson Taylor. He spent a decade in China, much of that time working in a rehabilitation center for opium addicts, sharing the gospel and seeking lives transformed by God's grace. He married his wife Priscilla. Together they had four daughters. Um spending a few years back in England, they they actually moved to India. where Charles pastored a local church for seven years. He had uh he struggled with severe asthma. A lot of these folks had had a lot of health issues. We talked about Elizabeth Elliott, Amy Carmichael, and many, many others. Often staying awake most of the night just trying to breathe, he faithfully preached the gospel. Shortly thereafter though he would be convinced that God wanted him elsewhere, and that's where you see a movement into Africa and missions into Africa. He eventually reached the Belgian Congo in nineteen thirteen, enduring various challenges and difficulties. As you would imagine, at one point he contacted a severe case of malaria On another he woke up one morning to discover a venomous snake had been sleeping by his side all night long. Of course, he established a number of missionary stations in the heart of Africa, bringing the gospel to indigenous tribal groups that had previously never heard the name of Jesus Christ. He wrote over 200 hymns and translated again, we see translation of the New Testament into the native African languages. C. T. Studd uh died in Africa at the age of seventy, having spent almost his entire adult life in missionary service, ten years in China seven in India and roughly twenty in Africa. Pretty amazing. Um he was a prolific poem writer as well and just uh uh I'll read the top portion of this poem they have Two little lines I heard one day traveling along life's busy way, bringing conviction to my heart and from my mind would not depart Only one life 'twill soon be passed. Only what's done for Christ will last. Precious, hmm? Only one life 'twill soon be passed, but only what's done for Christ. Alright, so we talked about the the three primary missionaries. We'll wrap this up considering the call. Kind of a brief summary. Even a brief survey of the modern mission movement is compelling. Our hearts ought to be stirred by the example of faithful men and women who sacrificed earthly comfort for the sake of heavenly gain Through their efforts, the gospel went forth to the ends of the earth. The power behind this global movement was the same power behind the Reformation is the same power influencing today, right? That's the influence of God and the Holy Spirit. The Spirit of God used his word, translated and preached to open eyes and transform hearts. As a result, millions of people around the globe would come to believe in the Lord Jesus. Jesus. That's why I'm just amazed. You know, we mentioned it last week just with the Advent. Actually Joni was showing me, she has an old timeline too in her book. You know, there's this picture of this um old computer. You guys I mean the huge first computers that came out and now we got, you know, more compute power on our phone than those ever did I I mean who's left? Who can't have access to the Word? It's just amazing the prolif you know, proliferation of God's Word in society today. So what's left for the Lord to do? You know, I don't know. It just feels like the time is near. The fruit of salvation, as we have here, is entirely a work of God, yet he uses human instruments to accomplish his saving purposes. So obviously, right, salvation is from the Lord, but he uses all of us to bring the good news, right? To defend the gospel, the purity of the gospel. Just prior to the birth of the church, right, we talked about in Acts two, Christ commanded his followers to be his witnesses to the ends of the earth. In every generation believers are called to be faithful to This lesson provides just a glimpse into all that God is doing. Recognizing the need for more missionaries to be sent, the renowned British preacher Charles Spurgeon Again, he was in the late nineteenth century, urged students at his pastors college to consider ministering overseas. I don't think I'm gonna read that quote. I I wanna leave a little bit of time. I wanna have this discussion, guys. Have you ever struggled with Um you know you hear about um just the impact that these missionaries have had. And and I remember going through some of like Hudson Taylor's biographies and George Mueller And you're just like, Lord, is is that the calling on my life? Should should I be doing more? And yet I hearken back to the missionary field we all have in front of us and the importance of that. Anyone ever go through that struggle of boy should I be doing something more? I I love we'll end it here. I love the connection of those two comments where I think there was a period where There was a lot of guilt that was that was poured on and in the idea of, you know, we need to um just blossom where we're planted. And Erica to your point, you know, struggling through that even Bill. You know, what is my purpose, Lord? And yet don't ever underestimate what's right in front of you. And if that's a family boy, that's huge. You know, the impact, um, the evangelistic impact you can have. on your family is absolutely huge. Um however, as a church, again, what a privilege to support um those who are are doing missions abroad Right, and we get an opportunity that so I'll make another plug, right, for International Day. Really ton, ton of fun. So I I hope you guys have been signing up for that. Um Friday night we'll have a guest speaker, but then On Saturday night the dinner is is a ton of fun. Um just to see the different tables. But this is you know Angela and her team really trying to just create awareness, right, of the privilege we have to support missionaries. And then to participate. Again, we have a short-term mission trip, but a lot of the evangelistic opportunities just here, going to the mall this afternoon, we have hope for the sojourner, going to the hotels, just so many different opportunities and then in our own own homes. Right, evangelizing to our children. Huge. Alright, let's pray. Lord, we are encouraged by your word. We're encouraged by your history. Just your plan of redemption, of this great commission to go and make disciples. Lord, let that be our fervent prayer. Let us be disciple makers, whether that's abroad or right here in our church, in our families, our community, in our workspaces. Wherever you have planted, let us be just courageous and bold about sharing the good news. May you be glorified in the rest of our worship time this morning. And we love you and we thank you and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen.