Father, uh we are excited for this lesson. This is uh a really critical lesson that we're gonna see repeated the themes um throughout church history and even for us today. So we're excited uh for your wisdom, your discernment. Give us um clear understanding that we might apply it to our lives today, the church today, that we might be defenders of the faith, just like um some of these great leaders we will discuss today. Lord We love you. We want to worship you with our entire being, and so it is a privilege to be here today in your house I pray over our time of worship this morning. I pray for Pastor Mike as he exposites your word, and may you be glorified in all that we do. We love you, we thank you, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, we are on lesson five. This is, I am so excited for this lesson. This is a great one. Lesson five, I believe it's page 41 in your book If you um have a Bible or your app, if you can probably start in John, you can turn to John because we're going to spend some time in John And I'll also refer you to, I think they call it their mall map, or the map I showed you last week is on page 19, I believe, in your book. So we'll reference that. I'll have it on the slide as well though Um this is all about defending the deity of Christ. And and what we see as a common theme throughout history and even today is what? What does the enemy try to do with this particular topic? Say it, Joni. Doubt, right? Deny. Anything he can do to tear down the deity of Christ, he has won. Right? Because if you tear down the deity of Christ, that everything else falls apart So this is really, really foundational. And if you're talking about the deed of Christ, what goes hand in hand with that? The doctrine of the Trinity. We're going to talk about that quite a bit today. So the key passage there, you see in um on your your opening page there, John 1. 13, we've covered that before, such an important passage. And let me start with this. We've talked about this before. When you look at the four gospels The three Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, do what? They talk a lot about the history of Jesus Christ, his life, his ministry. John written several, several uh decades or a couple decades later, if you recall, is really the crux of the the Gospel of John is about the deity of Christ. Right? So it's a great, great book um when you're looking at proof text about why do you say Jesus is God. But we're going to go over some of those passages, so that's why I'm super excited about this lesson. But let's uh let's I'll read John 1, 1 through 3 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being And of course you always have to go to John 1 14, where it talks about the word becoming flesh. And of course that's a reference to Jesus Christ. So we're going to see, you know, in early church history all the way to today, this idea of the doctrine of the deity of Christ is attacked. Right? Uh the enemy is constantly trying to refute that, deny that, um, and we have religions that are steeped in that today. So a little bit of uh of background. This is really a turning point early in church history. Um you've heard of the Nicene Creed. Well let me I'm getting ahead of myself. I'm too excited. All right, here we are uh agenda wise, lesson five. We're still in this idea of the patristic period, right? That was the apostolic fathers. And when I say that, that meant the f the church leaders that came after the apostles. So that's that's where we're at in history. Okay? And then you go to um your map, I believe this is on page 19 in your book, and it's they did a really good job of laying out um where we're going to go through history, and it's really based on these pillars. We talked about You know, the the supremacy of the word of God, so critical, and we're going to see that today, so critical to defending the faith. Right, the sufficiency of the work of God, specifically Jesus Christ And then something we don't often talk about, but the sanctity of worship. The sanctity of worshiping a holy, holy, holy God And then here's where we've been, right, in the patristic period, these early church fathers, and specifically we're going to be in the fourth century today You're all familiar with the Nicene Creed, I'm sure, have heard of it. So we're going to dig a little bit deeper into what was happening there. Okay? Any questions on where we're at? Okay, um I need to show you and and I apologize this is a little bit fuzzy but this is a really good math to do show you the environment if you will in this time period that we're talking about. So the Nicene, the Council of Nicaea happened in 325. We'll talk about that in a second. This was the state of affairs. So the Roman uh Empire was really broken into two sections, Western and Eastern, and we'll talk about that in a little second. But I wanted to show you some of the Let me turn my point around. Alright, I wanted to show you. We're going to talk about Alexandria, the city, and that's down here in Egypt, and then Constantinople. Right? That ended up being the the capital, if you will, of this Roman Empire under the Emperor Constantine. What is what capital or city is that today Instanbul. Alright, so that's modern day Istanbul. So this is Turkey. Right? But you can see the dividing line between West and East, and you're gonna see within the church there is a division between thought between West and East. And so we we've talked in the past about um pressures from external and when we talk about defending the fate from from external pressures, what what term did we give the leaders who were defending that faith? Do you remember? It starts with an A. Apologist. Apologist, right? That was external influences that we were trying to defend. How about internal? Polemes. Okay? Don't have to remember those turns. Just know that there was um external and internal pressure. What you're going to see today is this is all about internal church pressure that's going to be def uh defended again Actually, you're going to see externally it's never been better for the church. We'll talk about that. But that's the that's the condition or the environment in the fourth century. Okay, from a timeline perspective, um again, still in this patristic period, we're in the fourth century, which means the three hundreds, and we're going to talk a lot about um the Council of Nicaea, um which was was followed by the Council of Constantinople, so it was just a continuation of what they did at Nicaea. And a pretty prominent uh person is Athanasius Right, that we're going to talk about. Alright, so a little bit of uh background. So under this is um just to provide some more context, again, major, major turning point that we're gonna discuss today So under the Emperor Diocletian, Christians in the Roman Empire were intensely persecuted for 250 years, going back to the time of Nero. You remember we talked about Nero and the persecution around 64 AD, right? It was after that that Paul was imprisoned for the final time and actually perished after that. Peter about the same time So since that time on, just intense persecution. And not necessarily against, you know, um across the entire Roman Empire. There were pockets. It kind of depended on what province you were in um as far as what kind of persecution you would see. So it was these waves of governmental persecution. And what did we see? What were some of the external criticisms that we saw against the church early on? Do you remember? That they were that they were atheists, right? Because they didn't believe in these pantheon of gods. They believed in the true God They were criticized of being cannibals, right, which is hard to imagine, but the Lord's Supper, right? Taking the body and and the the blood, if you will So, you know, there was lots of criticisms, pressures from the government itself, and and we see that throughout the New Testament as well. But all that's gonna change. So Diocletian's reign ended in 305, so early early in this period that we're talking about. And there was a power struggle that ensued, which, absolutely, right, there's a void. So now you have this power struggle. Several years later, Constantine, all right, that's uh a prominent emperor we're going to talk about, gain control of the Western. So the Western side Um yeah, Constantine gained control of the Western Roman Empire by defeating uh Maximian and then his son Maxentius. And that again was early in the fourth century. So now you have Constantine on the west hand side. Prior to the battle, Constantine claimed to see a vision in which he was told to conquer in the sign of the cross. So he had this vision of a cross and in that power he was going to defeat the army. Right? So so many believed it was that moment that many believed he became a Christian. Or he claimed to be a Christian. I don't think we actually know Alright? But that was the vision he had to win the battle, and he professed to become a Christian at that point. Was he actually a Christian? Don't know. Don't know. So in 1313, Constantine and Licinius, Roman Emperor in the East, right, so those are the two folks that we have. issued here's the fill-in the Edict of Milan, which brought peace and legal protection for the Christian church. Followers of Jesus who lived in the Roman Empire went from being a persecuted people to a protected class. Think about the significance of that. Decades of persecution, and now you are protected as a class Your religion, Christianity is now protected by the government. There was probably rejoicing in the streets, right? You can only imagine. Now we know at this time in history state sponsorship is not necessarily a good thing Right, or a state religion. But at the time you can only imagine how big this was. Okay? So in 324, Constantine organized the first general oh I'm sorry, in three twenty-four Constantine defeated Licinius, so he was the the emperor in the east. And became the sole ruler of the entire Roman Empire. Right? So now Constantine is the the sole um ruler. I did want to mention just a little bit of trivia, sorry What's um Al Qaeda. You remember all that struggle with the terrorist group? When when they ended up taking bin Laden, they found a map, um, and they often refer to wanting to resurrect the caliphy. I don't know if you remember hearing that term. The map looks a lot like this. Right. It was the region around the Mediterranean. So I just thought that was interesting. Little turkey. Alright. Alright, so now we have Constantine as is the main dude Later, under Theodosus, the great Nicene Christianity was exclusively made the official religion of the Roman Empire. So we're going to see this battle of what they were trying to defend under the the Council of Nicene, that ended up being kind of the state religion. And like I said, that's not always a good thing, but that's a period we see here where they do have protections from the government. Okay, so we are going to get into now this Council of Nicaea. Let me read a little prologue here. We're going to talk about this dude called Arius We'll get to him in a second, but the Aryan controversia was the greatest theological controversy in the history of Christianity. It was centered on the most fundamental of all questions And that question is f absolutely fundamental to all of us today, the whole world. Who is Jesus Christ? Right? Who do you say that Jesus is? When you're sharing the gospel or you're interacting with people that claim Jesus Christ, as you're talking to them, you're going to get a sense, is it Jesus Christ of the Bible or is it some other God? And that's why you need to take them back to the Bible. That's why you always need to draw back to Who is their Jesus? Is he God in the flesh or is he just a created being like us? The church had inherited from Israel its passionate belief in one God. It now had to work out how that belief in one God related to the adoring worship it offered to Jesus of Nazareth in its faith, prayers, hymns, and sacraments. So that's the foundation that we have, this debate that's going to happen. All right. This individual, Athanasius, lived in the fourth century. He pastored the church in Alexandria. So I showed you the city Alexandria in Egypt. You saw on the map there. So Alexander of Alexandria was the the main pastor, the senior pastor at that church. He pastored the church there in um in Alexandria And Athanasius was was actually underneath Alexander at the time. So he was a deacon, and Alexander considered him the main um the senior pastor, if you will Athanasius would become a a bishop or the head of that church um in three thirty-six. So he would eventually take over. So the th the central theological issue In Athanasius' day was the deity of Jesus Christ. And obviously, like we talked about, the closely related doctrine of the Trinity. You can't introduce the deity of Christ without also understanding this doctrine of the Trinity. Do you guys remember from our previous lessons, who was the individual that started to introduce this Latin term Trinity? I'll give you a hint started with a T. Yep, Tortillion. Who said that? Justin? You got that? Good job. Alright, Tortillion. Good. All right Athanasius doggedly defended, so dogmatically, the deity of Christ. As a result, he was instrumental in keeping the church from falling into serious error. Some have called Athanasius the saint of stubbornness. How would you like that name? In this case it was very appropriate, and he probably enjoyed that. because he refused to compromise his defense of the truth. So a little bit of background again as we talk about as we're we're heading into this Council of Nicaea Before becoming the bishop or leader of the church in Alexandria, I talked about this, but Athanasius served as a deacon underneath the leadership of Alexander. So again Alexander from Alexandria One of the elders in the church, a man named Arius, also from the east side, began to teach that Christ was a created being, who was not eternal and therefore not equal to God. the father. Now you gotta remember, not in Arius' defense, but to give you a little bit of background what he was dealing with, he believed, dogmatically I would say, in one God. Arius did, all right? One God What he was struggling with was this doctrine of the Trinity. If if people are calling now Jesus Christ God also, that means there's two gods in his mind. That's what he was struggling with. He didn't understand the rest of the Bible. I can only surmise, right? And and let's be honest, the doctrine of the Trinity is tough. It's tough to wrap your head around one God Three persons, all of the same essence. But that's what was being debated here. Okay? So that's the context. Um Jehovah's Witness is probably the closest You know, religious group we have today that agrees with that same thing, that Jesus was created, a created being. Alexander condemned Arius for his heretical views, but Arius kept promoting his position. So Arius had quite quite a network and quite a uh I'll call it a communication campaign to try and get people to believe in in his side or his views So the controversy resulted in a regional synod. It was held in Egypt and I believe it was Alexandria that that um brought that together and eventually led to the Council of Nicaea, involving church leaders from throughout the Roman Empire. And this happened in 325, so that's a key date. 325, the Council of Nicaea. Now here's here's the interesting point. This council was actually called by the Roman Emperor Constantine. Alright? It wasn't it wasn't the church that did that. It was it was the Roman Emperor. Its primary purpose was to resolve the controversy. So What was happening was this internal debate was starting to cause division within within the Roman Empire. And Constantine wanted to try and solve that. So maybe he had selfish motives, right, to try and solve this conflict that was happening that was starting to tear the Roman Empire apart and certainly the church. So I find that interesting that was actually the Roman Emperor Constantine that called the all these bishops together. Three hundred and twenty bishops. And it lasted for approximately two months. So they had this debate back and forth hearing the views and we're going to get into some of the significance of what was debated, but um that's a pretty pretty lengthy council Though Athanasius was only a deacon at the time at the council, his views were clearly represented by Alexander. So remember Alexander was his senior pastor Um these were somewhat of a minority view defending the deity of Christ. Remember, they were in the East. They were in Alexandria, and a large portion of the Eastern Church was was flowing more towards Arius So that's the the struggle or debate that we have here. Alright, so at the council, three primary positions on the deity of Christ were put forth. And this is really the crux of So we have this term heteroousius. Heteroousius. This term ousius in the Greek is our English word essence, right? And it's like the total being of a person. The Latin term is our English word substance, so that's where you get a different substance. This was Arius's view. As noted above, he taught that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was a created being. And let me say this also. What he believed is that there was God, ex nihole, out of nothing, right? Just God existed from eternity past. He was not created. What Arius is saying though, to defend his view, is that Jesus was first created. He was a created being. Then God created the universe. So he placed Jesus in a very high esteem, but not God. He was a created being. So that's where he's at right now So he would affirm this this term heterousius. Thus he argued Jesus was of a different substance or essence from God the Father. On this basis, Arius contended that Christ was not equal in authority. or deity with the Father. Put simply, Arius denied that Jesus is God, teaching instead that he is a creature. Huge implications for that, obviously All right. The the counterview is this word homoousius. And we get those words today homogeneous, heterogeneous, right? A different mixture or all the same. So the claim here, Homo ousius of the same substance. In contrast to Arius, Alexander and Athanasius insisted that Jesus Christ was not a created being. Rather, he is the eternal Son of God who is co-equal to the Father. Because God the Son is eternal, just like the Father. He is of the same substance or essence as the Father. In other words, Alexander and Athanasius affirm that Jesus is God. teaching that he is not a creature, but the uncreated creator. Right? So you get these ideas of co eternal, meaning with the Father from eternity past. Um co-equal, equal in essence or substance. In co essence, like I just said. That's often referred to as the They use this big term ontological equity, right? This this co-eternal, co-equal, co-essence. Um a little note back on uh Hateroousius. So there is Arius giving his views before this council. And this is just a little side note. I don't know if you have it in your your book there. Says one interesting tradition suggests that a bishop named Nicholas of Myra attended the council Incessed by Arius' denial of Jesus' deity, Nicholas got up during the proceedings, faced Arius, and slapped him in the face for blasphemy. Over time, Nicholas became known as Saint Nicholas, and eventually Santa Claus, though the modern distortions of Santa Claus distract and detract from the worship of Jesus, it is remarkable to note that the original Saint Nicholas was a fervent defender of Christ's deity. So now for your kids, your grandkids, you can introduce the real Saint Nicholas. Alright, the defender of the faith, not the Jolly guy that magically sends Christmas presents around. Alright. Alright. So the the last one now is this term homoi. And you I I tried to highlight, it's probably hard to see, the difference between the two. It's this I that is introduced. That letter is called ioda. One single change changes the entire meaning. You can see there of a similar substance. Not different, but similar. Crafty, eh? When the original position of Arius Heterousius was immediately rejected by the bishops attending the council, a modified version was put forward. It suggested that the Son of God was of a similar substance to the father. He was trying to to modify the debate, right? Not make it so contrasting. Arius and his supporters shifted to this position using the language of similar substance to minimize the differences they said existed between the father and the sun. Alexander and Athanasius refused to accept this position because they rightly understood that similar still means different. Right? Critical, critical that they defend the faith all the way through. Similar is not the same as the same. Right, it is still different. Again, shows the craftiness of our enemy. After weeks of discussion, the council overwhelmingly affirmed the homousius position meaning same, declaring their belief that the Son of God is of the same substance as God the Father. The Son is co-eternal, coessential, and co-equal. Again, that's that ontological equity term that we just talked about. Now I'll preface this to say in in some of the literature and um along with this course they they have uh you can go online and and actually watch Watch him give a sermon on this if you will, or walk through so he has some extra notes. But of the three hundred and twenty bishops, I think three hundred and eighteen signed you know, the Nicene Creed, if you will. And you might think that this is a a you know critical mandate that all right, issue is solved. That's not what happened though All right. This this idea, Arius' view, would continue on this debate for for another five centuries, for fif or five decades. for 50 years. So some of it I surmise might be maybe politically motivated just to create peace or what have you. So it was signed, but again, Arius was pretty crafty and had quite a network. So this this um division continued to rage for many, many decades. Okay. Question? Yes, Scott. Uh so You you can correct me if I'm wrong, but one of the supporting verses for Arius's view is John fifteen, God's only Yes, we're going to get to that. Oh, okay. Can you hold that? Great question. Yep, great question. Okay. Great question. Good. Alright, so why did Christian leaders who gathered in ISEA overwhelmingly affirm the doctrine of Christity? Their primary starting point was the scriptures. I I need to be careful. I don't want to say all of them signing it was politically motivated. I think there was actually a genuine heart attitude that this was the right stance based on scripture. What do we always talk about? Going back to those three pillars. We've got to go back to the Word of God. What does the Word say? And we're going to cover that in in great detail here. Where's the proof? Where is the proof in the text? Again, the primary starting point was the scriptures. There was a thought though, and this is what the Jehovah's Witnesses claim today. I think they even have a tract. that it was Constantine that invented this idea of the deity of Christ to create peace. But what we're going to see is it is clearly evident in Scripture and it was clearly taught by the the early church leaders in the first and second century. And third century, right? So there's a there's a history of the deity being proclaimed. It was not invented by Constantine. Um yeah, let me read this Along those lines the fourth century church leader Gregory of Nysa, a younger contemporary of Athanasius, explained in his conflict with the Arians that scripture alone must be the determiner of such things. No counsel or church tradition would suffice. I'm not going to read, but basically he's saying they can believe their tradition and we believe our tradition. Who's right? We've got to go back to the word Let the word be our plumb line or our laser pointer, however, whatever tool you use today to get true center, the word of God. We must look to God's Word as the authoritative basis for what we believe. Christian leaders of the first few centuries of church history similarly examined the scriptures to see if these things were so. Reference to Acts 17 Verse 11, who is that? The Bereans, right? The Bereans, it says they were eager to get the scripture so they could verify what was being said. Right, we all need to be like the Bereans, searching scripture. Alright, the truth of Jesus' deity permeates the scriptures. We're going to go through ten lines of evidence, if you will, of that doctrine. And we'll we'll um look at some of these verses as we we go along. Make sure on time. I think we're good Okay, so if you got your Bibles, uh you might open to John. We're gonna be in John for quite a bit. So the first one talks about divine prophecy. So we see throughout the Old Testament, right, the the prophecy of the Messiah, Jesus Christ. Mentioned here is Isaiah 9 and 6, right? Um Isaiah 48, 16 actually has a reference to all three people of the Trinity. Genesis One gives reference to the Trinity, of course, let us make man in our image. So again, lots of prophecy. And again You've got to realize this progressive revelation is what was happening throughout Scripture. So in the Old Testament you have reference to the Trinity. You won't see the word Trinity But you don't fully understand the true doctrine of the Trinity until you get further into the New Testament, right? By God's design, that's how he chose to do that. But obviously we know that Christ, the Messiah, was prophesied in the Old Testament. All right The second line, if you will, is his divine existence. Jesus explained that he was with the Father in eternity past before the world began. Can someone read John 17, 5? And now Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with where the world exists. All right. Before the world existed. How about um 1628? Can someone read 1628 for me? I came forth from the Father and have come into the world. I am leaving the world again and going to the Father. Good. Okay. His divine existence. Right. Third, his divine name By calling himself I am in John 858. Remember before Abraham was I am as Yahweh, that that uh covenant name from the Old Testament Other New Testament writers also take Old Testament texts about Yahweh and apply them directly to Jesus. So his divine name Number four, his divine authority. Jesus claimed authority over the Sabbath. We see that in Matthew, and over the ultimate destinies of people He also claimed the authority to forgive sins. Do you remember what happened in Mark 2 there? That was uh the story of the paralytic, right? And he said, take up your mat But what also happened there, right? The forgiveness of sins. And he said, What's easier to say? Obviously take up your mat. But he was uh displaying his divine power, his divine authority, I should say, um by saying he could forgive sins. Right. Number five, his divine power. In keeping with his divine prerogative, Jesus claimed possession of that which belongs to God alone. He asserted that God's angels are his angels, that God's chosen people are his chosen people. And that God's kingdom is his kingdom. Divine overship. Ownership. All right, moving on to number six. Or did I just do that? Did I skip one? Sorry, I didn't s uh move the slide on you. All right, divine ownership. Just talked about that. Number seven. Divine exaltation. The Old Testament forbids the worship of anyone but God alone, yet the New Testament declares Jesus to be worthy of worship. The clear implication is that Jesus is God Only God could be worshipped, so Jesus must be God. He was given divine titles. Jesus applied divine titles to himself. For example, he called himself the Son of Man a title reflecting the divine implications of Daniel 7. He also called himself the Son of God. Even his enemies recognized that by using that title Jesus was claiming equality with God. That's what got them so upset, right? Is that he was displaying himself or calling himself God Alright, number nine, divine unity. In the upper room on the night before his death, Jesus explained that he was in perfect unity with the Father. He told his disciples If you've seen me, you've seen the Father. Um someone read John 1030 for me. Anybody, shout it out. I am the Father. I and the Father are one. If Jesus were not co-equal with the Father, he could never make such a claim and be telling the truth, right? I and the Father And then lastly, number 10, divine affirmation. The rest of the New Testament writings beyond the four gospels repeatedly affirm that Jesus is God. The collective evidence from the New Testament provides an insurmountable case for affirming the deity Christ. Go to Hebrews real quick. I love this Hebrews 1. And I encourage you in your notebook to to dog tag this section you're in because these this list of ten I think is so helpful and encourage you to go back We didn't have time to go through all the verses, but go back and really meditate on some of those verses. I mean there's so much here that points to the deity of Christ. And those are important passages you want to have at your disposal when you are sharing the gospel with others. Go to Hebrews 1 verse 3. It says and he is the radiance of his glory in the exact representation of his nature. Talking about God the Father here So it's talking about Jesus being the exact representation of God the Father. So I always tell people, you want to know God the Father? Study Jesus Christ. Study the gospels. Um and Pastor Allen puts on he's doing that class right now on um the gospels, the life of Christ, right? The exact representation of the Father. Good. Alright, so any questions on those ten? Again, a really, really important list with a lot of really important passages that I encourage you to take some time and study those in a bit more detail. Okay. Um it should be noted that in passages like Colossians 115 where we we see this word firstborn, um, and to Scott's point we'll we'll get to this idea of begotten, but this was another term that was a little bit confusing. to be the firstborn is used of Jesus, it does not mean that Jesus was the first created being. Right? That was the confusion Instead, it refers to the fact that he stands in a position of prominence. Remember, everything was given to him as the firstborn. You remember in the Old Testament, what was given to the firstborn, the firstborn male, right? He he would have certain rights. What did Esau do? He he gave up his firstborn rights, but there was privileges that came with being the firstborn. The the the estate, if you will, was given to the firstborn. That's what we mean by when we see that term firstborn in um scripture. Um a position of prominence and preeminence over creation. In the ancient world, this understanding of firstborn was in keeping with the rights and privileges generally associated with being the oldest son So when Paul says that Jesus is the firstborn of all creation, he means that Jesus as the creator occupies the first place of highest o honor over all creation. Does that make sense? Right? So it's the position that he has, not that he was created. Okay. We also, like I said, have a number of witnesses that um have confirmed this throughout the ages. And I don't know if in your notebook I think you have a series of snippets from some of these early church leaders, if you will. And so I'm just going to couple uh cover a couple of these, not all of them We talk about Ignatius of Antioch. It says, For our God, Jesus the Christ was conceived by Mary according to God's plan, both from the seed of David. David and of the Holy Spirit. Um Justin, you remember Justin Martyr. Therefore, these words testify explicitly that he, Jesus, is witness to by him the Father who established these things. It's deserving to be worshipped as God and as Christ. So again affirming the deity of Christ. How about a little bit farther down, Irenaeus? Irenaeus Jesus Christ is Himself in His own right beyond all men who ever lived, God and Lord and King eternal and the incarnate Word proclaimed by all the prophets, the apostles. and the spirit himself. These were artifacts that Arius would have had, right? So so how he ended up with the view he did, I don't know. Tritulion, for God alone is without sin, and the only man without sin is Christ, since Christ is also God. Right, and I'll let you read the rest of those on your own. As these examples demonstrate, believers from the beginning of the church Recognize the truth about Jesus. Christ, he is truly God and truly man, the one mediator between God and men. Right? And this was well before the Council of Nicaea. Right, first, second and third century. Right. So we now get to the the actual council. The actual council, like I said, happened in three twenty five. The church arose to defend the deity of Christ from what? From Arian attack. Arianism. That's where you get the word Arianism. And I I like how the author um states this Um the authority is initially taught in Scripture. It's affirmed in church history. Some of these leaders that I just talked about and articulate it in the form of a creed. So a creed that we're going to go through is not scripture. What they're trying to do is articulate or to affirm what they are seeing in Scripture. Alright? So that's what's happening at this council. What um very similar thing to what we covered in what? The first council, the council of Jerusalem Right? What were they trying to do? Articulate the true gospel message. Judaizers were trying to add circumcision to the gospel. So the the counsel there was simply to affirm or to articulate what they knew to be truth in Scripture. So in that light, the Council of Nicaea did not determine or establish the doctrine of Christ deity. Remember that was some of the criticism is that um Constantine actually invented this idea of deity, or the the Council of Nicaea invented this idea of the deity of Christ. And that's not what happened. The Council, however, affirms and defended the doctrine that had always been taught by the church, going back to the time of the apostles and being established in the scriptures. The affirmation of his deity was overwhelmingly recognized by those who participated in the Council of Nicaea. As I mentioned earlier, of the 320 bishops three hundred and eighteen you know affirmed or signed the council. So uh again pretty overwhelming for sure. All right, so let's uh let me give you an example of the the Nicky Creed. And this was in 325, and this gets to Scott's question. I'm not going to read that, it is in your book. But a couple words that have had some issues over time is this idea of begotten, not made. Now we often think of beget, and and that's a parent begetting children, creating children, if you will. Right? That's not what this is being described here. I will tell you, honestly, as I've looked at different commentaries, this is a difficult term to describe. Some have described it as unique, one of a kind. So God's only son, right? He only had one son. I've heard it talked about as coming forth from. It certainly describes this eternal relationship between God the Father and God the Son. What's probably more important is what it doesn't say. It does not say that Jesus Christ was created. We know that by the rest of Scripture. So Scott, that's probably not directly answering your question, but I'm being transparent with you guys that it's a tough word to understand. My NASB still uses that in John 3. 16. I don't think the ESV, some translations have taken begotten out. And just talk about the only Son of God. Alright? So, yeah, that created, but what they're trying to see there, begotten, not made. Right. They were they were um obviously trying to contradict Arius' view of cre of Jesus being created. Right. So they were very particular about that word that um they used it. Begotten, not made. Um the other one is I wanted to highlight, it says of one essence. That's that word ousius that we talked about earlier. They were specifically wanted to insert that language of um Hetero or no homo ousius, right? The same of the same substance. So that's what they're talking about there. That was highly debated, that single word in this creed, right? 'Cause that areas didn't want that and they they again they migrated to Homoy to say, Well he's similar. I'll I'm okay with similar and they're like, No, no, no, no, no, no. That's not how this is gonna go down. So I love the fact that they they stayed firm. And at the end of the day, this is the creed that they they all agree to. Half a century later, the First Council of Constantinople in 381 would expand this tree to include language about the Holy Spirit. So it really gets at the Trinity here in this expanded version. And as I mentioned earlier, the victory at Nicaea had been overwhelming. The controversy with Arianism still raged in the Roman Empire for the next fifty years. So the debate, the division was not done. And again, understand the context here. From a government standpoint, they had Absolute protection, right? The the creed was to protect the the Christian faith. This was all happening internal to the church, which is ironic. You finally have protection from from external and now you're going at it internally. That that's the church though. That's the enemy. Right, to continue to try and drive a wedge um within the church. Okay, standing against the world, though he was only a deacon at the time of the Council of Nicaea, Athanasius spent most of the fourth century Fighting the false teaching of Arius. As I mentioned earlier, he ended up becoming the Bishop of Alexandria just a few years later And would continue to lead that charge. So over the next 45 years of his ministry, he would be exiled five times, totaling 17 years of that ministry time. And that had a lot to do with who was emperor, who became emperor, um, what was happening with some of the uh debates. Um let me just go over a couple of these. Despite Despite being denounced at the Council of Nicaea, Arianism continued to be a popular view in the Roman Empire. As a result, Athanasius repeatedly found himself in the political crosshairs of his enemies Here's an example. In 336, so 325 was the council, just about ten years later, Athanasius was falsely accused of kidnapping another bishop named Arsinius. and cutting off his hand for use in magical incantonations. Right. So this was the rumor. In fact they they took this other bishop and apparently they put him into hiding and they came out with his hand, right? And they started they started this rumor Um because of that, although he was able to prove his innocence, he was still sent into exile by Constantine. Right? Constantine very much trying to keep the peace in his Roman Empire when his opponents accused him of interfering with wheat shipments from Alexandria to Rome. So it wasn't because of the the hand thing, it was um this other rumor about him stealing the wheat shipments He was able to return to Alexandria two years later when Constantine died. Let me go down a little bit. In three hundred sixty two, Athanasius was again faced into exile by Emperor Julian. Unlike Constantine, Julian did not claim to be a Christian. He attempted to take the Roman Empire back into paganism. So it was short-lived this governmental protection, if you will. of the church. The fifth and final exile occurred under Emperor Valens, who simply evicted Athanasius because he had been earlier exiled by Julian. When Valens realized that the people of Alexandria love Athanasius, he had him restored to his office, again very political, in order to garner popularity with the citizens of Alexandria. During these times of exile, it sometimes seemed like Athanasius was alone in his fight for the doctrine of Christ's deity. It seemed like it was Athanasius against the world, yet he refused to waver in his commitment to the truth. Which is pretty astounding when you think about it. Again, when we talk about the West and East, the East for many, many years after the Nicene Creed continued to have this debate and Athanasius was was basically on an island by himself, if you will, trying to defend the faith. On a human level, their faithfulness was rewarded in 380 when Emperor Theodosius Outlaw the heretical views of Arius and declare the Nicene Christianity to be the official religion of the Roman Empire And then in 381 you have the Council of Constantinople, which again took the this Nicene Creed and expanded it to include verbiage about the Holy Spirit. Again, we know uh from history this idea of a state religion is not all it's meant to be, right? And we uh absolutely defend that here in America But just interesting to see that interest. So again, uh a huge turning point when we think about what happened here at the Council of Nicene. As we build out this chart, you know, again, we're going to build this out as we go through time. This this was a critical point of defending the deity of Jesus Christ. And again, I encourage you to tab those pages to make sure you go back and And really understand and be able to proof text if someone asks you who is Jesus. Alright, a couple lessons learned from the saint of stubbornness, Athanasia. We should be willing to contend earnestly for core Christian doctrines. A right understanding of the person of Christ is not peripheral. but central to the faith. Athanasius recognized the importance of the truth and he was willing to sacrifice much to defend it. Two, at times being faithful means you will also be unpopular. Athanasius became the object of political attack and public scorn because he refused to compromise His tenacity provides a compelling example for us to consider. We really do have a privilege today here in America, don't we? to have the religious freedoms that we do, to proclaim Christ as God. The key to honoring God is to hold firmly and faithfully to what the Bible teaches. The pastors who signed the Nicene Creed did so because they saw the deity of Christ clearly taught in Scripture. That same Bible-based conviction feeled the dogged determination of Athanasius. even in the face of great opposition. The examples of faithful men in generations past should motivate us to stand faithfully against the world in our own generation. So let me ask with these these lessons that we have here, what does that mean for us today? What what application or what dangers might we have in our environment today? Yeah, yeah. So Brian, that's a great example of of again on on the surface, well come and worship Jesus in our temple. And you you know in your mind you have an idea of who Jesus is But theirs is totally different. And that's why I say always go back to this question of who is this Jesus that you serve? Right? Is it is it the Jesus of the Bible? Um why why do we not often have that confrontation with people? Fear of man. It's comfortable guys to have the protection that we have, isn't it? It's easy not to get into that confrontation. Because we fear man. We we don't want to get into that argument. And yet we're not sharing the true gospel by not doing that. What are the thoughts on as you go through this? Yes, Randall. That's a boy, that is an excellent point, Randall. Um you know you got one aspect, right? There's only one God. True. But then he took some liberties and he he was trying to explain in his own mind how can this be one God and yet what do I do with Jesus? Right. So he took he his um freedoms, if you will, to try to explain that and it wasn't scriptural and it wasn't what the fathers were passing on. But I love this. It's not the Niceton Creed that we go back to to say, see, Jesus is God. Right? We we don't. We go back to scripture. But are creeds like this helpful? Let me ask you that. Thoughts on that? How are they helpful? Yeah. It forces a debate, doesn't it? I mean three hundred and twenty bishops had to come together for two months And debate scripture. That's a good thing. You having a conversation with someone, forcing them back to the word, getting them into the word, right? That confrontation, that debate is good. Good. Okay, what are the thoughts I think it's I I think you the thread that you're kind of pulling in in some of the commentaries, uh if you look at some of the the original words being used, it does have this idea of of presenting or or coming forth from God, right? And this idea of him being incarnate, coming on, taking human flesh, that that's this idea, right, of coming forth from God. Him presenting his son to the world in a body, in a fleshly body. Right. Does that make sense? That was at the incarnation. Absolutely. Yeah. And there are some believe that that was the point that he was created. Um there's some views out there that he was um adopted at that point. Right, there's a lot of views around that trying to explain what happened. And again, I mentioned this up front. This is a hard doctrine to understand, right? The Trinity and then Jesus God existing from eternity past, taking on human flesh, being fully human and fully God at the same time. on that doctrine. What else? Thoughts? Again, yes, please. Yeah, I love passages that that talk about um each of the persons. So we talk about being baptized right in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit I really like Ephesians 1. If you go through Ephesians 1, you'll see the Trinity represented there too. God Predestines, choosing, right? Jesus saves and the Holy Spirit seals, right? All three represented there. All three persons. Good. All right, what else? Exciting, isn't it? Right? Defending the deity of Christ. Major turning point here at the Nicene Creed. And again, we don't put our trust in a creed But it was an important moment where the church was brought together to defend, to to basically stand up and say, This is my view. Right? We we have that, we're going to see that throughout the rest of church history Right, that's all I got for today. I'll let you guys out a little bit early. Let me close in prayer. Father, exciting, exciting, exciting stuff. to see how these early church leaders had to defend the faith. They had to defend your deity. May we have that same courage, even though we live in an environment where we are protected for the most part. Even though we see, you know, that that tried to be um Defrauded or diminished, we are protected right now here in America. And I pray that we would use that freedom to be courageous, to be bold not to become complacent, but that we would be true defenders of the faith, both externally and internal to the church. We're grateful for Hope Bible Church and and like-minded churches around the country, around the world that are defending your faith, that are defending uh scripture. We give you all the glory, and again, we pray for our time of worship this morning. May you be glorified. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.