Father, we love you. We love to come and worship you because you are holy, holy, holy God, and it's uh especially special to do that with the saints, to to do that with our fellow brothers and sisters We do pray for safety for all those who are venturing out this morning as we travel back. Certainly for those who might be watching livestream today, that again it would be just a wonderful time of worship. of focusing on you and responding to you. We love you, we thank you, we pray for a just discernment as we go through our lesson today, the Middle Ages. There's a lot happening here. So I I pray, Lord, you would help us to just gather the big rocks that we need to understand in your redemption, in your history. So we love you, we thank you, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright. So you remember we finished class last time with a little bit of homework, so that's where we'll start. Um Today when we talk about the the medieval ages there's just a incredible amount that is happening. um both in the church and in history. And so um I I can only cover just the wave tops, but I think it's important to just make sure we understand what some of the major muscle movements are. But it's a pretty exciting chapter Um and we'll go through that in a little bit. But let's talk about our scenario first. So here's here's what I kind of relate to. Here's what I want to discuss. So here's the scenario. You are a small group, so you're attending a small group And one of the attendees pulls you to the side and starts talking about the person and natures of Jesus Christ, just as we did last week. Um as you continue the discussion, and again this is just you you kind of one-on-one with this person, you get the perception this person strongly believes in the blending of Christ's human and divine nature into one single nature. So one person, one nature, how do you respond? And if you are a small group leader, you cannot respond initially. You have to wait. I think that's just you, Brian. Right. There you are. What do you do? And and I want you guys to feed off of each other. You don't have to give the whole dialogue, but how how would you start? What What would you start with? This the and the reason again I bring up this scenario is this this whole church history is about defending the faith, right? And and who's responsible for that? We've talked about that. Everybody So that's why we're doing this application. How would you respond if this really happened? So Joni, great, great point, right? We always take them back to Scripture and you can say this very graciously. Well What do you see in Scripture that makes you, you know, hold that view? Right? That's exactly where you want to take him. Now if you say, I I can show you in Scripture where, you know, it it's clear he's two natures, f like Julie said, fully man and fully um God. And you might not have the you know the scriptures at the top of your head, but you've gone through this lesson, you know they're there. And you can say, hey, I I'll get back to you, right? I I want to show you So that's a good way, right? Take them. And what are you doing by by doing that? You're getting clarification into why do they think the way they think, right? So good. Alright, what else? Let me ask you this To believe in two natures for Jesus Christ, do you need to believe that to be a member at Hope Bible Church? Is that one of the basic doctrines, or is that part of the broader what we teach? Certainly uh what we teach. But is it part of the basic doctrines that everyone must affirm to be member? And and realize that they're in a small group Right, there are exceptions. We let um people going through new members class come and um sit in on that, but for the most part, these are members that are part of the small group Yeah. So I I have it here, right? I want to come prepared. Jesus Christ is fully God, the second person of the Trinity. Jesus Christ is fully man. The unique God man. So absolutely. It's part of the basic doctrine. So what do you do now? Let's let's change the scenario a little bit. Um there They're almost dogmatic now in no no no this is what I believe right um and I can defend it in scripture let's say this So it's escalated a little bit. What do you do for sure? You know you definitely always want if they say I have scripture to defend it, right? Okay, show me, right? Let's have that discussion. This is a good discussion, let's have that. But do you leave it there? Okay. All right. It it's what I just defined kind of escalated the scenario a little bit, right? If we're defending the faith, there is the potential for heresy here in our church Okay, so it it needs to be elevated. Maybe you bring a brother along. Um Brian, I'll let you jump in as a small group leader. Your thoughts. Right. Yeah. So there's a There's you know some principles there quick to listen, slow to speak, um there's a humility, right? If you don't have those references to say hey, I'll get back to you. But what what I just described was an escalation right in in this person's um thought and potentially how they may spread it to others. So Greg to your point, bringing someone else alongside. notifying your small group leader. So hey I just had this conversation and here was kind of the tone and here's what's happening. That small group leader then can engage and then after that discussion might be hey I need to you know It'd be wise for you to go talk to the elders. This is one of our core doctrinal principles as a member that you signed up for. If things have changed, you really need to go talk to the elders. And then you probably need to let the elders know, just so we have awareness Okay? That's that's the kind of the mindset I want. That's how we defend the faith. That's how we make sure that that folks who maybe um sneak in and are deceptive, that's how we guard against that. Now let me caution everyone. This is not to be saying anytime somebody says something counter to what we teach That you run to the elders, that's not what this is about. You know, we've talked about, I know that eschatologies can be really difficult And if someone comes to you and they're like, boy, I just I'm really struggling with pre-trip, but their heart attitude is, I I'm just struggling with it. Can you help me understand it? What passages do you use? That's a different heart attitude than than something that that is having a strong stance on and a counter view. Now again, eschatology is not part of the basic doctrine. You can have different views Right? As long as you have a teachable spirit, as long as you're not trying to cause division. So I want to make it very clear, this is not a you know, rat out your brother or sister as soon as they say something counter. That's not the point here It's being discerning to know when something is is turning dangerous. Does that make sense? Is there any questions about that? Because I want to make sure that's really clear. But you see The escalation, if you will, of you may not know all the answers. Take them back to scripture though. And that might mean you've got to come back to them. Right? Let me go do a little research and let's and then bring a brother or sister with you. Okay? But if you see a a change in heart or tone or a stance, it may mean you need to make sure the small group leader is aware and then that small group leader can engage and have discernment to say, I need to let the elders No. That's how we protect God's church. Not HBC, but God's church. Does that make sense? Okay. Again, I you know, we're really big on trying to apply what we're learning here in church history. As I said, the very first lesson is not about the history. places and dates, although sometimes that can be very interesting. It's to how did our early church fathers all the way up to today defend the church, right? And that's our job today. So good. Okay. So here we are already on week eight. The title, Schisms, Scholars and Soldiers. And again we are in the kind of the middle of the or high mid to high middle ages. And remember that spanned uh a period of time a thousand years. So we're going to cover like five hundred years in an hour, right? Um so so strap in. And again really looking at some of those major muscle movements. Again, those first 500 years, the Pratistic period, those apostolic fathers, if you recall, a lot of it was just defending or affirming what was taught by the apostles. All right, grace and truth, salvation by Christ alone. Um and then we talked last week about what the big defense was against the deity of Christ. That's uh a lot of the councils were around the deity of Christ and his natures Right, fully human, fully God. And again, those are that's hard. That's hard to understand sometimes, but we know from God's truth that it's in there, and it's important to affirm that So we're gonna we're gonna see now in these next five hundred years this idea of schisms, um, scholars and soldiers. And the schisms is really when we're gonna start to see this Split between uh Western and Eastern Roman Empire, if you will, and you get Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodox, right? So that's what we're gonna see The soldiers, very much the Crusades. You've heard of the Crusades. What's that all about? So we'll be talking about that. Um and then the scholars you see the the movement, if you will, of the universities and in that type of educational learning. So all that's happening during this time period. Right Back to the, I'll call it the map that you have on page 19. And again, I think this is a really good way of laying out at a high level what's happening over church history. And so I blew up Where we're going to be today, these high middle ages, and again you see the schisms. Um, it talks about the crusades and some of the pre-reformers we'll touch on on the very end But notice what happens over here. You remember the pillars, right? The word of God, the work of God, and the sanctity of worship, and how that's getting distorted even more and more as we go through time. And you're going to see a lot of that. This this um focus on the papacy, you know, a person, the saints, um traditions, all this is going to be elevated It really set the stage for a reset with the Reformation. So this is a really good chart to kind of explain what is happening at a very high level And then from a timeline perspective, I thought this would be good just to highlight um a couple things that are are happening here. So we're going to talk about this Remember you have the western eastern side of the Roman Empire and the Western side is going to fall. Rome falls in 476 And then on the other end, around fourteen seventy-five, I'll call it fifteen hundred here, the eastern side falls. That really bookends what is considered the Middle Ages Alright, the fall of the the West and the East, that's what they call the Middle Age. And you can see the protistic period we said went up to about five hundred, so it it close, right? So those are good Good rough numbers to have. But you can see the questions I have down there. Where when did you know the papacy in the Roman church, when did that get elevated as a thing That happens now during this time period. Um what about Islam? We have not talked at all about Islam and Muhammad. Wasn't he from the very beginning? Uh-uh. You're gonna see him come on the scene. You see that about uh the middle to end of the seventh century. And that creates th this whole foundation for what happens in the crusades, right? Um that influence, and we'll talk about that And then ultimately what happened to the Roman Empire. You know, how did that get phased out? Okay, so pretty exciting. And again, I want you to try and capture the you know the big muscle movements of what's happening So again for orientation uh the map I showed you of the Western and the Eastern Empire and the the two big cities were Um Constantinople and and how did that begin? Do you remember? Was it always called Constantinople? Byzantine was the capital. And who changed the name? Emperor Constantine, right? So when he took over as emperor, united kind of the two halves, he moved the capital to what was then Byzantine, and it's now Constantinople. And it wasn't until I think um Theodosius that um the Roman Empire was actually divided. He was trying to keep the peace and thought by dividing it um he'd be able to do that better. Okay. I want to make sure I'm not getting ahead of myself. All right. So in the fifth century, that would be the four hundred, so uh you know, going back a little bit. Um things changed dramatically in the western half of the Roman Empire, which was overrun by um Germanic tribal groups. I'll get to that in a second. So you remember what happened during the four hundreds? We had the Council of Chalcedon Right in four fifty one and again that's where they were reaffirming the deity of Christ and then the natures of Christ. Um so so this is happening while you're still having a lot of skirmishes happening around them. So let me jump to this chart which looks very confusing But what it does highlight is the fact that you have, you know, all of these groups, these Germanic barbarian groups that are are having an influence down in the western part of the Roman Empire, right? And that's that who is ultimately going to take over the western side of the Roman Empire. And again, Rome falls in four seventy six. That's when you have the fall of the Roman Empire. It's important to note, if you remember the Council of Chalcedon, the Bishop of Rome which was a pretty high position, was Leo. And if you recall, Leo couldn't make it to the Council of Chalcedone, but he sent a paper there that was extremely influential again reaffirming the the two natures of Christ which they affirmed in the Creed um after Chalcedon. And do you remember um the term that that he came up with? These two um natures in one person? Hypostatic union. Alright, so that that was Leo, hypostatic union. Um however, a and uh interesting note, especially on this part, I I don't know if you can actually see it, but you you guys are all familiar with Attila the Hun, right? And he um I think the armies were coming from Asia, but as he worked his way through and made his way to Rome, apparently he was right outside of the the gates of Rome. and they needed to send an emissary to go talk to him. And who did they send? You know, the emperor? He didn't go. They sent Leah because The the Bishop of Rome was starting to gain a lot of uh power, a lot of popularity. And this just goes to show so they sent Leo out Leo has a discussion with Attila the Hun, talks to him, I don't know what he said, but Attila the Hun turns around and goes back to the north. So whatever he did, whatever he said, was extremely influential. So even in this early time You're starting to see the influence of of um these bishops, and they're becoming more political in their power. Alright, so that you're starting to see the first fruits of what will later be the papacy, right, and the power that they hold. Um turn to your Bibles in Matthew 16. And I think I think this is a really neat period because there's so much happening from a just I'll call it a pure world history standpoint and you you see actually here quite a bit of influence from um a religious standpoint That is driving a lot of what is happening. So making those two connections, and then Julie, to your point, realizing the redemptive plan of Christ, it's just unbelievable, right? It's just unbelievable. Alright, Matthew sixteen, I'll start in seventeen, verse seventeen. No, sorry, verse sixteen. Verse fifteen, sorry. I just keep reading, I'm like, yeah, that's context, that's good. Alright, verse fifteen. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Talking to his disciples. And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjona Because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church in the gates of Hades So that last portion there, um, and upon this rock I will build my church has caused a lot of confusion. Right? Is this talking about Peter's the rock? We know today that's not true. Grammatically, theologically, Jesus Christ is the rock And it's believed that Jesus is just attesting to the statement that Peter made. Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. That's the rock that Jesus is talking about. that um clarification or that announcement right is what the church will be built will be built on Jesus Christ. However, Leo and and many others took that verse to mean that Peter was the rock and Peter was a bishop or an elder in Rome so that whoever is the Bishop of Rome, that succession belongs to them. You see you see the the the thread they're starting to pull there? A very dangerous thread. But that was Two pieces they had to to kind of validate their position as often um representing themselves as the vicar or the representative. That's where you start to hear that term the vicar of Peter or the representative of Peter. And so that was one element. They took scripture and um you know their hermeneutic was bad and and they used that as justification as to why they were now the powerful one. Okay? So that was one of them, or one piece of evidence that they used. Another one was This idea of the donation of Constantine. Apparently a document that showed up in the late 700s, but it was believed that when Constantine, when he died, he actually penned this document Um let's see. It was later known as the donation of Constantine. It was later proven to be a forgery. The document claimed that prior to his death in 337, Emperor Constantine bequeathed the city of Rome to the Bishop of Rome. Alright, so again it was this validation that whoever is the Bishop of Rome will hold this power. So when you take those two pieces of evidence, you know, Matthew 16, 18, and this declaration of Constantine, they were using that as justification for their power. And they were gaining much power, both political and religiously. And that's really how you start to see the beginning of the papacy, the pope. Okay? Uh militarily the popes maintained a good relationship with tribal groups um like the Franks, so this Germanic, these tribes that were coming down. um held Christian religion in high regard and it would um become the religion of these European nations for many, many years. Unfortunately it would be the Roman Catholic, right? The Holy Roman Catholic Empire if is what they called it. But that's the influence that these popes had. This led to the creation of the Holy Roman Empire when Charlemagne, who was King of the Franks, was crowned Emperor of the Romans. by Pope Leo III. Alright, so this is the succession of Leo. And then later on in the ninth and tenth centuries there was significant corruption of the popes of Rome. Alright, so um clearly they they took this power and it and it corrupted them, right, as you would expect. The papacy was fought over by rival groups in Rome who recognize it as a position of great political power. It kind of became like the mafia groups that you think of um you know through history. I mean that's how corrupt it was. Alright any questions on that? Does that make sense? So this question of how did the the Roman Catholic Church and the and the focus on the papacy start to happen, it happened here and it really started with Leo. Leo started the kind of this even though he had this you know, beautiful influence at the Council of Chalcedon, right, affirming the two natures of Jesus Christ, as we've talked about church history writ large We see that in these individuals there's kind of pros and cons that are happening. And you just need to be discerning about what they brought to the fight, if you will. Okay? So that's kind of the history of of how the whole Roman Catholic Church started to happen. It really started in Rome with the Bishop of Rome and these powers that were starting to be given to that position. Alright, so we talk about this influence of um again the Germanic um troops coming from the north and that's really how we get the European countries of today You know, the Francs are France, the Huns, Hungaria, the Angles, England. You know, that's how you get a lot of the names that we we have today. And you're going to see um some of that influence as we get to the scholars portion of this lesson. Alright, so you're starting to see a you know a pretty significant um shift in what's happening in the West Let's see, over the subsequent centuries these tribal groups eventually formed the nations of Europe. Like I just talked about, this process of social transformation took a long time You know, it's hard for us, you know, we're talking about the Middle Ages a thousand years. We think of the history of America. What what birthday did we just have? Two hundred and fifty something? You know, it we're relatively young compared to these long decades and centuries of history. As a result, there was less theological development and scholarship in the West during the Middle Ages. From the sixth through the tenth centuries, theological scholarship was largely preserved in the monasteries. So now you're starting to see, you know, this scholarly, the theological work which was more widespread um during the early centuries really being confined to the monasteries. And that's where they had a lot of the influence. Alright We talked earlier about the Byzantine Empire. Um and the Byzantine Empire really was started with Constant uh um with Constantine. When he moved the capital Um he moved from Rome to um Byzantine, that's when it actually started the Byzantine um Empire. And you can see here primarily on the eastern side. So in this map the the West has been um overtaken, it has fallen. Um and now you still have um the the eastern side which is pretty much intact known as the Byzantine Empire. In the sixth century, so that would be the five hundreds the Eastern Roman Empire, also called the Byzantine Empire, attempted to regain the territories to the west that they had lost earlier. And then in the seventh century, the six hundreds, an unexpected religious movement arose in Arabia under the leadership of Muhammad. So this is where you start to see, this is where Islam comes in, right? Mohammed And you can see the date there. It's the 7th century. It's the mid to late 600s is when Islam actually comes on the scene. Islamic armies quickly conquered the lands in North Africa and the Middle East. So you can see it started in this area here, which is Saudi Arabia today, but as it progressed it it moved again in North Africa, these countries. And and up here into um Iraq and Iran, obviously conquered Jerusalem. So so you now see this influence that's happening, you know, coming from the south and this um emergence of the Islam religion. Let me make sure I didn't miss any of my notes here. Oh, I wanted to mention um during we'll see during the Crusades, but even during these these Germanic invasions Do you remember, you know, what was the setting under Constantine? There was protection. There was unity it um in a theological sense across the kingdom, the the Roman Empire And and they had safety though, they had protection. And now all of a sudden you're seeing, you know, these crusades, which we'll talk about, were just they were barbaric in themselves. You know, the atrocities that were committed during the crusades, um, you just cannot fathom. But even even these invasions from the north and we're going to see from the Muslims, you know, a lot of people started to question, God, what are you doing? How can you let this Christian nation fall to these these pagans And it was Augustine, you remember um Scott covered Augustine for you guys. He wrote a document called The City of God, and it was a reminder that this world is not their own And that's a great reminder for us today. Right? We can get so caught up in the the political environment, um, you know, just what's happening around the world in a fallen world, um the travesty, the crime, uh abortion. You name it, and and often, and we see this happen in history, we can turn to our own crusades, can't we? I think of you know um pro-life. I think of uh bombing abortion clinics Right, on a crusade. Very similar to what happened in these crusades, but I think a constant reminder and a reminder for us, this is not our home. This is not our home. Alright? Our our home is in heaven. And that's where we have to keep our thoughts. So, Muhammad, it was actually when he was about 40 years old, he felt he was getting some revelations from the angel Gabriel. That's where this all started. And he wrote those revelations in the Quran. That's how we get the Quran. Now it was it was his uh proclamation that the Quran was in alignment with Old Testament prophecy, you know, New Testament direction, but it wasn't. And and he said the Quran just complements the Bible. Can you think of another religion that kind of talks very similarly today? The Mormons. Right. Joseph Smith uh believed he got special revelation from God, and and that's all now in the Book of Mormons, and it's meant to complement the Bible But when you really talk to Mormon missionaries, they they don't know the Bible at all. And I don't say that critically. We've talked to them. We've lived in Utah and we've talked with them They don't know the Bible. And what is said in the Book of Mormon obviously does not align with what's in the Bible. The other interesting thing about the Mormons is They appear to get new revelation even today, which conveniently helps them skirt around some of their issues that they have Right. So they can kind of change what is happening um in their policy, their their doctrine, if you will, to meet um current times. And it's just it's very convenient how they get new revelation to be able to allow them to do that. But the the whole point is you can see how dangerous it is to be saying you're getting new revelation. Right? We have Islam, a major influence that started with that idea of new revelation. Okay. So ultimately Islam becomes the biggest threat to Christian kingdoms. And and it sets the stage for the The um tensions that we have today, the the geopolitical complexities and tensions that exist today started with this movement, right? And we experienced that today The um caliphs, so I I've mentioned this term, the caliphate. A caliph is a successor of Muhammad. That's what that term means. And the caliphate is simply the kingdoms that they would reign. And let me go back. This might be a good one. Um I I told you when they captured Osama bin Laden, he had a map that um he wanted to reinstitute the caliphate. And of course he would be the caliph, the successor to Muhammad. But it it basically had the region like you see here that went around the Mediterranean. Alright, so that's what the term where that came from. Caliph is the person, the successor to Muhammad and the caliphate is the region that they would uh um oversea if you will. And you can see heavy influence to the to the north and they were pushing themselves up to um I'm sorry, the south pushing themselves up to the north. That's where we're gonna have the crusades. Yes Julie was a Oh absolutely philosophy. Absolutely. Yeah, that that was probably his main thrust. But but what the what the caliph Caliph had was both the political and the religious. That's what they both desired. That's what they had, right? So both, yes, but um maybe driven by religious extremity And maybe he used that for his advantage. At the end of the day he wanted the power. Right? For sure. Okay. I I think I don't know necessarily to rebuild the caliphate, but I think absolutely like you see the the Ayatollah of um Iran, right? Political and religious power. You know, that's what was set up. So absolutely um same kind of struggles we see throughout that whole region um today even In fact, um when when the US military, you know, the the wars that we had over there in Iraq and Afghanistan You know, we were looked at as the crusaders, and that's not a good thing, right? They saw us as invading their their Muslim territories. And it goes back to this. This is the foundation of all of that So that's the struggles that we have dealing with that that region. All right. Um see here. Yeah, and the uh go ahead. So the when you uh you showed there that uh Saudi Arabian area was kind of where this all started, the root. Yeah. So were the were the Arabs the first Islam followed? This region for sure. Yeah. Yeah. Because you can see this is where um Muhammad And that's where it all started. It was really after his death, about a hundred years after his death that it really grew. Um but it all started there and then expanded. Yeah Good. All right. Islamic armies quickly concerted the land conquered the l let me see here. In the seventh century, six hundreds, an unexpected religious movement arose in Arabia under the leadership of Muhammad, like we just talked about Islamic armies quickly conquered lands in North Africa and the Middle East, which were under Byzantine control. Jerusalem fell in six thirty-seven. So within a hundred years of Muhammad's death Large portions of the former Roman Empire were now under Muslim control, which we just talked about. Um let me, while we're here Let me go up to this timeline. So I bookend um again the Roman Eastern Empire falls around, I think it's four 1475-ish. Um and it's to the Turks. And this is where you get the influx of the Ottoman Empire, right? That's when the Ottoman Empire comes in. And again, that kind of books it bookends the Middle Ages The Ottoman Empire would last until World War One, all the way to World War One. And it was after that because they aligned themselves with the Germans, right? The Axis of Evil, if you will And it was after World War I that that area was divided up, and that's how you get modern day Turkey today, the Republic of Turkey. But you still have the influence of of that Ottoman Empire and certainly um the Muslim or Islam religion Alright, so this is all kind of these um these major muscle movements that are happening that help explain even the environment that we see today. It all originated back here. All right, during let's see, um during despite significant losses to Muslim armies, the the Byzantine the Byzantine Empire would survive until Constantinople was finally defeated by the Turks in the fifteenth century, j like I just said, right? That's when we have the influx of the Ottoman Empire During the early Middle Ages, the Western Church sent missionaries to the Germanic tribal group. So again, like I said, the religion had a lot of influence on these European nations. They embraced it All right, so they were they were now sending missionaries up into these these German groups, and many of them were converted to Christianity. For example, in the 600s, a missionary named Augustine of Canterbury was sent to Britain to evangelize the Angles and Saxons. Some years before this, a powerful tribe known as the Franks had converted to Christianity. These tribal groups gave their allegiance to the Bishop of Rome So again you see the influence of the Bishop of Rome. They're giving their allegiance to it, and what would end up being the Holy Roman Empire really had that influence all the way up into Europe because of that. Right? So that's the influence that was happening here. The city of Rome was the most important Christian center in the West. Other important centers, Constantinople, Antioch, Alexandria, and Jerusalem were located in the east You remember a lot of the the dissension that was happening at some of these councils we talked about originated in the East, right? Arias and and some of the others. Yes, Julie. Um I think it's more on here, right? So we talked about Alexandria, Antioch, uh Constantinople um were the the major cities in the east and like I talked about, Arias came from from Alexandria. You know, a lot of the some of those that had heretical views were were in the East. But what was happening in the West was this move towards um you know Roman Catholicism, right? in and the emergence of a single leader as the Pope, the papacy. Okay. Yeah, the prestige and power of the papacy. the the Bishop of Rome was continually being elevated. And again, this was over a a very long time period. I don't think we covered um the the key passage at the very beginning of your lesson. Let me read that. Second Timothy three Says evil men and impostors will proceed from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. You, however, continue in the things you have learned and become convinced of knowing from whom you have learned them, and that from childhood you have known the sacred writings which are able to give the wisdom that leads to salvation. through faith which is in Christ. How does this passage relate to what we're seeing in the Bishop of Rome? What are your thoughts? The very beginning of that, right? Impostors will proceed from bad to worse. As they took on these these powers, um, these political powers, they they went from bad to worse Okay, that's what was happening in the leadership in Rome. Okay? Um there's not there's a lot of background material here and not a lot of fill in the blank. So um again, as we go through a lot of this material try and understand what are some of the big big muscle movements. Maybe I'll leave this one up. So here we're going to move to this idea of the schism. All right. What what is actually going to happen between um the West and the East Okay? As we enter the high middle ages, so this would be the the eleventh to the thirteenth centuries, which will include the the Crusades, which we're going to talk about in a second here. And again, the Crusades was simply You see this absolute tension um being being um developed as we look at the development of um Islam and and the Muslim nations are now going to have this this um um interaction, if you will, with the Christian nations to the north. And it's just setting up this this conflict that's going to happen Uh tensions continue to escalate between the eastern and western halves of Christendom, a number of factors. So right now what we're focusing on is just what's happening between East and West All right, yes we have this conflict between Muslim and Christianity, but we also have conflict internal to the Roman Empire. And we're going to see what happens when they they finally break off. So there are a number of factors that actually forced them or got them to the point where they actually broke off, right? And one half Western side is going to be Roman Catholic, the other side is going to be Eastern Orthodox. They split ways. That's what is happening in the schism. Three major um items though that cause that split. First one is cultural and political differences. Some of that it just has to do with the language. So the Eastern side spoke Greek, the Western side spoke Latin. So you already have differences in the languages and their ability to communicate and what they felt was right or wrong. The second issue, and it was really secondary, was this idea of the follochial clause. Anyone ever hear of that? The folloquial clause. The Western Church inserted the phrase and the sun. That's the colloquial clause of the Latin term and it means and the sun into the Latin version of the expanded Nicene Creed. Remember it was expanded at the Council of Constantinople The edited Latin Creed taught that the Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father and the Son. In Latin, this phrase is The Eastern Church balked at the idea that the Western Church could unilaterally change one of the historic creeds. Let me read you just a little bit more background. This is uh Grudham's Systematic Theology. Alright, so again, talking about the Holy Spirit proceeding from the Father and the Son. But this was a statement about the nature of the Trinity. And the phrase was understood to speak of the eternal relationship between the Holy Spirit and the Son something scripture's scripture never explicitly discusses. The form of the Nicene Creed that had this additional phrase gradually gained in general use and received an official endorsement in A. D. 1017. The entire controversy was complicated by ecclesiastical politics. What is ecclesiology? Study of the church, all right. So the the policy, the governance of the church. That's what was really the debate that was happening here, and struggles for power And this apparently very insignificant doctrinal point was the main doctrinal issue in the split between Eastern and Western Christianity. The underlying political issue, however, was the relation of the Eastern Church with the authority of the Pope. The doctrinal controversy and the split between the two churches of Christianity have not been resolved to this day. So what is um kind of a second dairy issue became a really big point, this addition of and the sun The real issue though was a political one. Was the power that the Western side was asserting, the East said, you can't do that. You can't do that unilaterally. That's what the real tension was, was again the the growth of um the power of the bishop at Rome in Rome and that's what was being debated here. So really a secondary issue. So you had the cultural differences You had this clause that was added, but the real issue was papal primacy, right? This idea of a pope. In the East, the church viewed the Bishop of Rome and Constantinople, so remember that was their capital, Constantinople, on the western side was Rome. They thought they were they were peers, if you will. So they viewed them as equals. However, Pope Leo IX saw the Bishop of Rome as having primacy over the bishops of Constantinople, Antioch, Alexandria, all the cities on the eastern side there. He sent so what he did, he sent a delegation um to Constantinople in ten fifty-four. So when the Patriarch of Constantinople revealed refused to grant an audience to the delegation. The bishop there issued a papal bullmuting excommunicating the patriarch. In response, the patriarch excommunicated the papal delegation, and that's when you get the formal slip. Right? This tit for tat. So he sent an emissary, he's like, no, I reject you. Well I reject you, and boom That's when the split. 1054, that's when you get Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodox, right? That's when that happens. And again, during this time frame, you're gonna see that the crusades were happening at the time. So all the time that this this tension was And these communications were happening, you had the crusades, which we're going to go into now. All right. So let me get you do have some fill in the blanks, I believe. Um All right, so the Crusades. Um basically the eleventh through the thirteenth centuries, you know, the the holy wars, Christians against the Muslims and we're going to highlight four of the seven crusades um in your notebook. Five decades after the East West Schism When Muslim armies again threaten the Byzantine Empire, the Eastern Emperor asked the West for military help. So remember, there's tension between East and West, but they have a bigger enemy coming from the South the Muslims. And so the East reaches out to the West to say, Help, we need help. Can you help a brother out? So that's what's so they they unified forces there, if you will In response, the Pope from Rome called for a crusade. In all, there would be seven major crusades fought over the next two centuries. However, for the next two hundred years, Christian armies, Christian, in quotes from Europe engaged in what they claimed was a holy war. And and like I mentioned earlier, you know, the atrocities that they actually um committed under this label of a holy war were horrific. And what they did is they used some Old Testament passages, some New Testament passages to reinforce, you know, their thinking or their justification for this holy war. So turn in your Bibles and this will be a familiar one to you, but Ephesians 6. Ephesians 6, starting in verse 10. And let me just read that. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the full armor of God. that you may be able to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness. against spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. Therefore take up the full armor of God that you may be able to resist in the evil day in having done everything to stand firm. And then it describes putting on that full armor. So they use this as justification, right? To to put on the full armor of God and to start this crusade, this holy war. What is the intent of this passage from the Apostle Paul? Spiritual, right? It's for individuals to put on the holy armor as Christians to fight the daily battle, the daily spiritual battle against evil forces It's not to create a crusade, all right? But again, um scriptures taken out of context to justify ungodly behavior. the the crusades again were completely inconsistent with with biblical instruction if you will. So again, using Old Testament, New Testament passages, you know, to twist the meaning for their political purposes. The theory of a just war, however, actually dates back to Augustine. It argued that military conflict was justifiable when it was authorized by a legitimate authority and when it had a just cause, such as self-defense or defending others against evil. For those who promoted them, the crusades were justified because they were sanctioned by the Pope Again you see the influence of the power of the Pope here. And were fought to defend both the Christian pilgrims who traveled to the Holy Land and the people of the Byzantine Empire. So that was their justification. The Pope said it's okay and it's for a good cause. Okay. Sadly, the Crusades included, like I said, barbaric atrocities that were decidedly unchristian. These atrocities tarnished the reputation of uh medieval Christendom and created longstanding tensions between Western nations and people groups in the Middle East today. So when I hearken back to you know US and Allied forces um fighting over there we were seeing negatively as crusaders. And it all stemmed back to this time period. Right? That's the heritage and and the atrocities that were happened in in the sense of you know, this label of the crusade. Alright, so here we go. The First Crusade. This was actually a success. The First Crusade resulted in the conquest of Jerusalem So remember the Muslims had had conquered Jerusalem. They were in that territory. This first crusade um took that back. So that was important. and establish uh several crusader kingdoms. From a military perspective, the first crusade was successful. Um and they had these crusader kingdoms. I I won't Uh sure I didn't put a map in there, it's not really important, but uh the second one there, when one of the crusader kingdoms of Edessa fell to the Muslim armies a second crusade. And let me just build this out, no hist no mystery here. First, second, third, fourth. Okay? Second Crusade was commissioned. Bernard of Clairboy was one of its supporters. However, the Second Crusade failed to achieve its military objectives. The third crusade again was actually considered unsuccessful or a stalemate. It was unable to reconquer Jerusalem. And um the Fourth Crusade was actually a disaster. The situation worsened dramatically in the year 1204. After a series of political twists and turns, the Western Crusaders Sacked the city of Constantinople. Now again, who who owns Constantinople at this time? The eastern side. The brothers. These are brothers. And what are they doing? They're going in and they're sacking the city. Okay? That's what's happening here. Instead of defending their their Byzantine uh brothers, the initial purpose of the crusade, um the soldiers are actually attacking and looting. So it's mayhem. It's craziness. Right, that's what's going on here. The Crusades have done more to weaken the Byzantine Empire than to preserve it. Um and then in the sub subsequent decades you had uh three more Crusades, but they they weren't really um defining moments. And then by twelve ninety one the crusades have been pushed out of the Middle East All right, so that is the period of the holy wars of the Crusade. Again, set up by this this um tension between Christian to the north and Muslims to the South Um but it it was not an efficient military battle as we would think it today. And I'm not here to say that all wars are bath, right, and not ordained by God, and we're not going to get into that debate, but Um the point here was they they misuse Scripture to try and justify it and the elevation of the the bishop of Rome to authorize these holy wars. And and again you go back to Ephesians 6, 10 through 18. Right? That that is not um a call for a holy war. That's to arm ourselves as individuals for a spiritual warfare So we have to be very careful about looking to our government, looking to other means to bring about God's redemptive plan. God's going to allow that to happen. Now, that doesn't mean we don't get involved in politics That doesn't mean we don't become politicians and help influence that, but we look to our Lord. This world is not our own. All right. Um brief, and again I don't think you have any fill in the link um fill in the blanks, but this brief uh period where we have um the the influx of universities So during this period again all this is happening kind of at the same time as the Crusades, as the Schisms. So during this period things began to change in Europe. So again, farther north in Europe. In Europe, European education. And you start to see the first universities. So Oxford, you've all heard of Oxford was actually stood up in ten ninety-six, right? And that was actually the beginning of the crusade. So like I said, all of this was happening about the same time period And the the influx of the universities was really the this idea of um a new method of learning scholasticism. And it's really just think about it as a a systematic approach to education. You know, that's where we start to see a lot of the education approaches that we have today started back during this time frame with um with the development of the universities in the scholastic system. It was accompanied by the rediscovery in the West of Greek philosophy. So a a very large influence of Greek philosophy. That doesn't mean there there were bad people necessarily associated that with that. We had some very influential. They talk about Anselm of Canterbury and Thomas Aquinius. I'm sure you've all heard of Thomas. And let me just read you some of the notes there. One notable contribution made by Anselm was the articulation of the satisfaction theory of the atonement. Rather than seeing Jesus' death as a ransom paid to Satan, a view held by some in the early Middle Ages, which is not true Anselm taught that Christ has satisfied the debt that sinners owe to God. The debt is to God. It's not a ransom paid to Satan. He doesn't have that kind of authority. The we'll we'll study this um in a couple chapters, but the sixteenth century Protestant reformers would build on this understanding of the the atonement. So again you see um these church leaders that have a lot of influence on those in the Reformation period. Let's see, two centuries after Anselm Thomas Aquinius wrote two important works, Summa Contra Gentiles and Summa Theologica. In these works Thomas brought Aristotle philosophy to bear on Christian theology. Um let's see here. Thomas articulated several classic arguments for the existence of God. These include the cosmological argument and the teleological argument. Um and you don't have to to remember those, but just think as cosmological as the idea that Every uh um effect has a cause, right? You have cause and effect. Well, what about God? God was the original cause. There was no cause to create God. That's what the argument is Okay. And then teleological is you look at creation and you simply recognize there had to be a great designer. When you look at the complexities of everything, just look at our bodies and the creation of our bodies there had to be a great designer. So he's the one that brought those um two primary arguments to bear. Thomas would become one of the most influential thinkers in the history of the Western Church. Um I think it's important to note here uh again that what Augustine wrote in the City of God, you know, I I think Christians at the time were just looking at all that was happening and saying Lord, how why? How how is all this happening? And remembering God's sovereignty is perfect, his timing is perfect, and and this is not our So kind of a a review of what was happening during this time frame, and I'll just quote some of the um some of the folks here, but In the Middle Ages, we see a lot happening, right? We see ecclesiastical corruption. Again, ecclesiology, the study of the church. We see this corruption happening with the papacy and in the rise of the Pope. We see um biblical misinterpretations. We see people using scripture wrongly. These are lessons for us today. We see theological confusion We see political turmoil. We see the mixture of those two. Right? A lot of complexities during the Middle Ages. But I think it's important to note that that in the midst of all of this, God always has a remnant. He always has a remnant that is standing firm in the faith, defending the truth. I go back to the scenario we started the class with That's all of you today, right? You're that remnant that is required to defend the faith. That's a responsibility that we've been given The sixteenth century reformers did not agree with everything that Anselm and Bernard taught, however, they saw them as allies with regard to salvation by grace through faith alone. So you always kind of saw that remnant of grace truth, Christ alone, his deity throughout um this church history period. Alright, we got a couple minutes. Let me highlight some of the uh statements that were made. So on this topic of Sinners are saved not on the basis of their deeds, right, but because of God's mercy given through Christ. And this is Anselm. What indeed can be conceived of more merciful than that God the Father should say to a sinner condemned to eternal torments in lacking any means of redeeming himself, Take my only begotten Son And give him on your behalf. And that the Son Himself should say, Take me and redeem yourself. For it is something of this sort that they say when they call us and draw us toward the Christian faith. Right? That's very, very encouraging. Another point that Anselm would make is the immeasurable imperfections of the believer are covered By the imper infinite perfections of Christ, we are clothed in his righteousness. Again a quote from Anselm. Now then, O great creator of the light, now forgive my faults for the immeasurable toils Sake of your beloved son. Lord I beseech you, let my impiety be forgiven because of his piety. My obstinacy because of Now let his humility win back my pride, his patience my impatience, his kindness my hardness, his obedience my disobedience, his calmness, my disquiet, his pleasantness, my bitterness, his sweetness, my anger, his love, my cruelty. You get this sense of this this covering of Jesus Christ as we all I I'm sure as I read that list resonated um with many of you different aspects, right? He replaces those um sinful characteristics in us That is our sanctifying process. Alright, let me with this, we actually do have one more fill-in, and this is where we start to introduce what we would call the pre-reformers, and we'll get to these folks um next week, but Folks like in the fill-in is pre-reformers. Peter Waldo, I'm sure you've heard of John Wycliffe and uh Jan Huss. These men paved the way for what would later be the 16th century reformers So next week is really going to be study on on more of these forerunners or these these pre-runners of the Reformation and then we'll dive into the Reformation. All right. A lot thrown at you today. Oh, let me end with this. uh building out our bubble chart if you will. We talk uh we've been talking about these councils and the idea again of defending the deity of Christ, the dual natures of Christ. We talk about a scenario how we might work through that. But you see in this time period of a lot that was happening, right, with the schisms and and the empire being divided, the rise of Roman Catholicism and this authority in the Pope and um uh Eastern Orthodox and them trying to denounce this authority. And you're gonna see the Reformation, that's the main point too right, is is criticizing what happened with the papacy. But you see the Holy Wars, the Crusaders and and that was really you can't forget that God always has a remnant. Right? That's God's redemptive plan continuing to be fulfilled. So he is the God of history. Um his promises are true, and he's going to complete every one of his purposes. We have to have faith and courage in it. All right, a lot in this lesson I find it very interesting because um I was not always a good student of world history back in the day, but to to better understand how all these pieces are starting to fit together was pretty exciting for me. But any big takeaways, comments, questions? I mean I think a lot of this all goes back to Genesis. With Abraham, Isaac, and Ishmael. And um there's the angel of the Lord appears to Hagar and says, Ishmael, he shall be a well zombie of a man, his hands against everyone, and everyone swells over again. All the way back. Right. And I think that's a a great point, Greg, because again it highlights God's redemptive plan. Right. This didn't take him by surprise. This goes all the way back to Genesis. Great point. All right, let me pray and we'll wrap up. Father, a lot of material here, but but it just it just screams at us your hand in all of it, your redemptive plan unfolding through history. And uh we continue to write that history. You are using us as your instruments to protect the church, defend the faith for your glorious purposes. So Let our gaze be on you. Let us be fixed on our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. Let us know the scriptures well. Let us meditate on them so we can be your defenders. Lord, we love you. We thank you. Bless the rest of our worship service. And again, we pray for safety for all those who might be traveling. We give you glory in Jesus' name. Amen.