Father, we do not take it for granted that once again your mercies are fresh and new every morning. What a joy it is to be here this morning uh with the saints. We pray for wisdom and discernment as we begin to better understand church history, the history of your redemptive plan through your body, the church and what r wonderful uh truths you have given us so far, uh these men and women of the faith that are defending the faith uh which applies to us today. So We pray for just a sweet time of fellowship this morning as we dive into your word and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Right, so we are on lesson three. I believe that's page twenty-nine in your book, if you want to turn there. But we're going to go through um Some a little bit of background before we jump into the actual lesson. So here's where we're at. Already on lesson three. And last week we talked about this apostolic age, right? That was the beginning of the the the church. We have all of that history in Acts. Acts is such a wonderful book on the history of how the church started. What was the other big aspect we talked about in Acts? What what changed? Anybody remember I'll give you a hint. The third person of the Trinity? Right? The Holy Spirit. Right? We we see such a remarkable difference in I'll call it the manifestation of the Holy Spirit. in the beginning of this church age. Okay? So very, very important. The empowering, the illumination of God's word. We are now going to enter into what's called the the patristic period That word means father. And we'll talk later when you hear the term the apostolic fathers Or the church fathers, that's usually referring to the apostles. Right? When we talk about the apostolic fathers We're actually talking about those who preceded the apostles. So a little trivia there, but that's uh from a a name aspect. When you look at well I'll wait for till we get to the timeline chart for that. So that's um that's The period we're going to go into for the next several weeks. Okay? Any questions about that? Alright, so before we jump in, did you guys notice anything from last week? Did you notice what happened as you transitioned from here to Um the worship service. And particularly the sermon we heard. Naila, what happened? Um the question here. Um That's all I needed from you. Naila asked a question about this passage. Okay? And this is from uh I took it from the ESV. Actually I I might Uh I might have taken that from the NASD and I forgot to change the name on there. Alright, but Naila asked the question specifically about, hey, what's going on here Right? What is Paul talking about here? And then we go into the sermon and and guess what? Steve Sn uh Snyder's talking about the same thing. So that's that's God. We didn't plan that. I didn't call him to coordinate that So I think that's pretty neat. But let's pause here because this class is all about application, right? We are learning the history of God's redemptive plan through his church. And we need to apply that. That's the purpose for why we're here this morning. Alright, so let's apply that. So let's take that. We talked a little bit. What do you do with a question like that. Now Eila gets a question or someone says, I'm a well, I'm a prophet today. What do you start with? And and they go back to this verse. They go back to this verse. Alright, so now you're you're going to open the Bible with them And say okay, let's take a look at that verse or verse is. What do you start with? What do you mean by that? Start with a question. What do you mean by that? Okay. Oh no. I because I came in my charismatic background and what I found was that there's confusion about definition. Great like so like what do you mean by that? Like how how do you define that? And like So so Taylor keep pulling that thread. That's what I'm going after, right? You're asking the right questions. Who defines what the meaning is? Yeah. I'm asking. The word does, right? What you want to start with is context. Bring them back to the word, but then build the context. Alright? So what is a little bit of the context that we understand from this passage What do you start with? Who wrote it? Who wrote it? Paul did. Ultimately through the Holy Spirit, of course. But Paul did. Right, so you wanna you wanna understand the context, right? It was during his house arrest. Remember we talked about the two imprisonments. So this was during the first one, the house arrest where he had a lot of freedom. What were the four prison epistles? Do you remember from last last week? Ephesians is one of 'em. Philippians. Philippian. Philemon? In Colossians. Right, good. So you're understanding the time period that that Paul was writing this um this book to the Ephesians, right? And what is the purpose? A lot of your Bibles will have a um uh an introduction at the beginning of it. That's a good place to start to get an overview. There are commentaries you can go to. John MacArthur has a great commentary that has an introduction to all the books. So it's really important to go back to the basics and understand what were the major themes of each book of the Bible. Does that make sense? So let me just read a little excerpt. And this is on Ephesians. It's from MacArthur's commentary. A major truth emphasized is that of the Church as Christ's present spiritual earthly body, also a distinct and formally unrevealed truth about God's people. This metaphor depicts the church not as an organization, but as a living organism composed of mutually related and interdependent parts. Christ is a is head of the body and the Holy Spirit is its lifeblood. The body functions through the faithful use of its members' various spiritual gifts, sovereignty and uniquely bestowed by the Holy Spirit on each believer. Right? So that the main emphasis is Paul is trying to encourage them that you are part of Christ's body, church body And he is the head. And we all have gifts and talents that need to be brought to bear. That's the main emphasis here. So when you go into a passage like this The focus isn't necessarily on the roles and responsibilities that are identified, but the last part of that, right, for the equipping, the building up the encouraging of the body of Christ. So that's where you want to take him. So what else would you do with that? Now that you understand the context and someone says, Well I I'm an apostle, what would you do with that? So look at that metaphor of a building. That's right. Julie, I love you. You took it back to lesson one, right, where we talked about the pillars and the foundation. Always take them back to the foundation, Jesus Christ. Right, in in the apostolic writings which we have in the New Testament. That's truth. That's where you always want to take the discussion. Right? Take them back to the foundation You're going to see my bumper stick at the end. Take them back to those pillars. And we'll we'll talk about that in a little bit. You remember the three pillars we talked about? Shout them out No cheating. Okay? The supremacy of the Word. Sufficiency of the Work of God. The sufficiency of the work and the sanctity of worship. Right? The Word, the Windows. That's what you're always drawing them back to. So what about this idea of apostle? What did we learn about what it meant to be big A apostle? And Steve Schneider uh affirmed that during his message. That's right. You had to have seen the resurrected Christ. And who do we understand to be the last person to actually be appointed or to see Christ? Paul. It was Paul. John was the the last one to live. Right, but Paul was, um, from scripture we know to be the last one to have seen Christ and then be appointed. Alright, you see the other criteria and had to be appointed by Christ. So not only see the resurrected Christ, but be appointed by Christ. And then they were given those miracles. To do what? Why the miracles? Say again? To authenticate, to affirm their authority as apostles. Were there hundreds of apostles? No, there were very few actually. I mean recorded in scripture, I think we have thirteen or fourteen Right? Very few. So it was a big big deal to be designated as an apostle. So for someone today to say I'm an apostle, right, you can now appeal to that. Do you who were you affirmed by? By what authority are you an apostle Right? Did you do you understand the criteria of being apostle? Do you understand the responsibilities of being apostle? And oh by the way, all of 'em were killed except for John Right, so so again you draw them back to the word. Here's their criteria, here's what it means to be an apostle. And here's why we had apostles Right, that's the context that you want to bring the back to. How about a prophet? Again, appointed by God. They their prophecies were aligned with uh biblical scripture at the time. So we think of Old Testament, uh maybe they had just the first five books And then in some cases they were looking to confirm that their prophecies came true. Now some of those prophecies were longstanding, especially those about Jesus Christ, but they eventually came true So again, you can you can talk to someone about the seriousness of you claim to be a prophet by whose authority and you take them back to the pillar of of the word Right? Whoops. Oh, that didn't build. You take them back to the three pillars to say, you know, all scriptures inspired by God and profitable, right? 2 Timothy 3. 16. We take them back to the sufficiency of God's word. We hear the warnings in Revelation, do not add or subtract from my word. So you can talk to them about the danger of what you're suggesting you think you are by new by bringing in new revelation. That's how cults are generated. That's how new religion new religions are generated. You know, we lived in Utah for a little bit, and so became very acclimated, I'll call it, with the Mormon faith, and that was Joseph Smith had a new revelation from God. And that spawned the the Mormon faith, if you will, or the Mormon religion, I should call it We on a couple occasions had the opportunity to talk to some of the the young missionaries that would go door to door and we brought them in, went out on the back porch and had a good discussion and what we tried to do again draw them back to the Bible They claim they know the Bible, but their real book is the Book of Mormon. And when you start to bring them back to the Bible, they don't really understand it. So you start to get at who is Jesus? Who do you say that Jesus is? Go back to the foundation, like Julie said Right, that's how you bring that conversation back to the Word. Does that all make sense? Any questions, thoughts about that? I just thought it was neat that that question was asked, and then we we had a sermon on it a couple minutes after that So that's pretty neat. Again, the application. Does the prophet also mean one who's uh speak God's word? That's right. Yeah. So, you know, uh again, um I think at the time there might have been the little P, that term uh Tossed around. We want to be very careful with the terminology today though, right? Because it meant something back then to be an apostle or a prophet. So today we certain we need to be very careful about that. But yeah, that's the danger. If you say you're a prophet You you are proclaim you say you're proclaiming God's word. Very dangerous, right? Yeah. Okay, timeline. What I'm going to do is we're going to kind of Slide this ruler, if you will, as we go through time. So we talked about the Apostolic Age, the beginning of the church age last week. That was roughly the first hundred years. We're going to go into patristic period, which is basically the first five hundred years, will then go into the Middle Ages, which is a thousand years, and then from the Reformation to now the last five hundred. Okay, so that's kind of the the uh how we're gonna divide that up. Uh before I jump into that, I had this uh this resource which is really good, but I they had a neat analogy in here that I wanted to read to you about breaking this up and thinking of it as a human being. So you would have the categories from, you know, you'd be a baby, then a child, then a teenager, then an adult. Can you equate that to the church, the early church, Middle Ages, Reformation, and present day Historial historians usually divide up the life story of the church into three different stages. We begin with the early church period, which began with the birth of the church on the day of Pentecost and lasted for some 600 years Difference on opinion there, 500, 600 years, but but somewhere in that area. Next we have the Middle Ages period um covered roughly a thousand years. Then we have the Reformation, which saw the birth of Protestantism. And if we count from the Reformation to the present day, that is almost another 500 years. So if we think of the church as if it were a human being, we can see that it has a life story of its own, born as a baby of Pentecost. Its childhood was the early church period, its teenage years were the Middle Ages, and its adulthood was the time from the Reformation to the present day. In these books we are going to follow this life story of the Christian Church And here's the caution. Okay? Be careful that you don't take this analogy too far. Here's what he has in parentheses. Whether the church today is adult in a spiritual sense is a different question. Do you see the difference there? If we follow the analogy, then how old is the church in human terms? Are we eighty years old? Are we ninety? You know, are we near the end? We can't make that that um we can't pull that analogy through as far as what is God doing with the church. Are we near the end or not? We are certainly in the last days. How long is that going to be, I don't know. Okay, so I thought that was interesting. All right, so we're going to talk about um in in we are in the second century. So down at the bottom there, let me talk a little trivia about when we talk about timelines. You're all familiar with B C before Christ. As a young man, I always thought A D was after death, but it's not, right? It's uh ano domini, Latin term, in the year of our Lord And this system was derived from a Scythian monk. Scythe Scythia was a an area in Italy, but he came up with this system Um the issue is you can see on the chart there that that Christ died around 30 A. D. And there's depending on different commentaries, there's difference of opinion. Was it 30, was it 33? Um This author is in the author of our book is using 30 AD. Now how can that be? Because it was determined, it has been determined, that Jesus was approximately 33, 34 years when he died And yet that doesn't line up, does it? The math doesn't work. Alright. Many commentaries believe that the monk got it wrong. That Jesus was actually born four or five BC. Alright, but this system wasn't place. It's the system we use today. So that's the disconnect that we have. Okay? Again, a little trivia. And I know you're all smart people, but when we talk about centuries, a hundred years, it's Think of it as the century name minus one. So fifth century is the years four hundreds, right? And it actually starts from four oh one And it includes the zeros. So in this case 4012500. So today we live in the 21st century, right? Um I hope I'm not around for the 22nd century. Because I'll be 130 years old Don't want to make that happen. I was thinking though, um many of us, although not all of us, many of us were around for that transition from the twentieth to the twenty-first century. And not many, I guess not Everybody gets to do that, right, to see the transition. Who was around for that transition? What was the big deal happening, you remember? Y2K. The world was gonna end. It's still here. Yep, that's it. Okay. So any any questions on the timeline? That's where we'll be in the next um several weeks. And and again we're talk we're going to talk about some of the these few leaders, Clement Ignatius, Polycarp, I should note, all were martyred, right? It was risky business to to be a an elder pastor. Still is, eh? All right. I wanted to show this chart. I've shown you the maps before, but I did want to highlight on this one specifically. We'll talk about some of these cities here in Asia Minor, which is Current day Turkey, but these are the seven churches that are referenced in Revelation. And some of these will come up like Smyrna today. So just for reference. Okay? And the last chart I'm going to give you, and this is one that we're going to build um throughout throughout the week's here and again in the middle we have those pillars that we talked about. And you can just think of the foundation of all of that and I'll probably uh tweak the circle a little bit you know, Jesus Christ. And what I'm gonna do as we go through time is show where that had to be defended. Right? You're gonna see a pattern throughout history of of of what Satan and the enemy is trying to do is knock down that middle circle, right? To to deceive, to deny the deity of Christ, the authority of Christ. And so we're going to highlight some of those major events where the church is trying to defend those pillars All right, and we talked last week about the Jerusalem Council, and do you remember what was happening there, right? Some of the the Judaizers were trying to add back in to the the pure gospel message You had to be circumcised. And that was the council they had. And who was the leader of that church in Jerusalem at the time? James, right? James and Peter was there and Paul was there. All the key leaders were there Right, to defend the faith, to defend the gospel message. Right? And they wrote a statement and that went out to the churches. So again, we're just going to build on that as we go through time. All right, with all that, we can now get into our lesson Let me read you should have a a key passage at the top of your page there, 2nd Timothy 2 2. The things which you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, entrust these to faithful men who will be able to teach others also So let me stage uh set the stage for a second here. Make sure you understand what's going on. We are entering into the second century. Of the original apostles, who's who's still alive? None. All the church fathers are dead. And now you are are one of the elders, pastors that is now carrying the baton What's running through your mind? Thoughts say again? What am I going to be knocked off? All right, when am I going to get killed? Absolutely. Right? Persecution was still happening. Miss Green. Responsibility. Responsibility, absolutely. I mean the church is still fairly new, right? Still fairly new. Was there a hand up here? No? Okay. How do we um Think of it from a business perspective. Something new will come down the pike. I remember in the military, there was a quality movement, there was, you know, a vision movement, all kinds of different movements, if you will. And and what do we typically do to codify that Think of your business experience or or anything. Statement, right? You you codify it in in written material on a policy statement or a strategy document Right, that's how you try to institutionalize it. Did God have to do that? Did he have to come up with a marketing plan, right, to carry out his redemptive plan? Absolutely not. And yet we're going to see throughout church history we're going to have to defend the faith. And often that might mean a written document. That might mean a counsel that is reaffirming what? Reaffirming truth that Came from the apostles, came from the Holy Spirit, of course. Alright? That's what they're trying to defend. But God has this totally in control. Okay, but you can imagine These early fathers are now gone. Now it's the next generation that has to carry the baton. Right? I don't know. That'd be quite frightening. Could be. And yet what? They have the power of the Holy Spirit. We talked about that last week. That's the gift that was given that permanent indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Okay, so we hear we see here in 2 Timothy um kind of a reference to passing of that baton In contemporary churches, Second Timothy two is often viewed as a model for multi generational ministry. That is certainly a valid way to think about that verse, but when Paul first wrote about faithful men and others also, he undoubtedly had specific people in mind. When we look back at the early church history, we would discover the names of some of those faithful men They were part of the generation of believers who came immediately after the apostles, and we're going to talk about some of those today. As noted in lesson two, they did not view themselves as apostles, this is important, but rather as pastors and elders So that title of apostles did not carry through. They they didn't want to have that title, right? They were now pastors and elders who had been entrusted with the truth. Their charge was to guard the treasure they had received and faithfully preserve it for future generations. So here's the pattern that you see. We see this in the New Testament. Apostles appointed The elders, right? What did Paul do in in all his missionary journeys? He was going through and reinforcing the churches. He was standing up new churches. But in each place he was establishing elders, the leaders of the church How does that get passed on then when the apostles are gone? Then the elders would affirm other elders. That's the pattern that we see here. Apostles to elders, elders choose elders. That's the pattern that has been carried on. The Apostolic Fathers included the authors of a number of works that have survived to the present. In this lesson, we will consider five of those early authors. So I mentioned three of them, right? Clement, Ignatius, and Polycarp The next two, the authors are unknown, but we'll review um some of the statements that were that were written that have a big impact. Okay? Um the question is for discussion, how many generations of Christian leaders are represented in 2 Timothy 2. 2? Go back to that statement. Say it again. Three. Three, right? The things which we have heard, uh the things which you have heard. So he's talking about uh Paul, and now he's talking to um Timothy, in the presence of many women and trustees to faithful men. So he he's Paul passing on to Timothy. Timothy passes those on to others. Alright, so we see three generations. How about um if you're in your Bible, let's go to Second Timothy 2 Timothy 1, 5. If someone could read that for me. 2 Timothy 1, 5. Please. Yep. Good So um how many generations are discussed here? Three, but but Timothy is going to pass that on, so I I called it four. But right now you see grandma and the mom And Timothy, and then he's going to pass it on. So you all, men and women, play a critical role in passing on the faith. in defending the truth. I I think it's so precious to see, you know, grandma mentioned here in scripture, the incredible role You can play as a grandpa or a grandmother on your grandkids and on your children, even today, even in this season of life. So be encouraged by that. Alright, the first person we're going to talk about is Clement of Rome. And you can see he died around 100. So Clement pastored in the church in Rome from around 90 to 100. To put that in perspective, he was pastor in the Roman congregation when the Apostle John was exiled to the island of Patmos. So he was a contemporary of John. And I think it's helpful to get that visionary of of the timeline and who was around And so as we go through the lessons that we'll try and do is is put those together. So Clement wrote one letter that has survived. So we do have some of these these artifacts from the very early churches It was likely written in the mid nineties, addressed to the church in Corinth from the church in Rome. Consequently it is known as Clement's Epistle to the Corinthians. Sometimes it is called One Clement. Now obviously it's not part of the canon, right? That had been closed. But these are letters now that are reaffirming, and you're going to see a common theme of these early church leaders of defending the faith, of reaffirming what they heard from the apostles, specifically Paul. Right? So that's the the theme you're going to get. The primary issue addressed in Clement's letter is division within the Corinthian congregation. Forty years after the Apostle Paul addressed the same issue in 1 Corinthians 1. Clement articulates his concerns about the infighting and disunity that had once again crept into the Corinthian congregation. So this is not an issue of trying to defend the gospel per se, but the church body, right? The unity that is supposed to be represented in the church body. Let me go back to um the resource here. Yeah, this was written uh the letter of Clement was written in about AD ninety-six by Clement of Rome, a presbyter or an elder of the church in Rome. He wrote the letter to try to settle the dispute in the Corinthian church. In a conflict between the older and younger generations, the Corinthian Christians had dismissed all their presbyters or elders and replaced them by new youthful leaders Clement's response was to emphasize the need for good order in the church. He argued that God's purpose of salvation revealed a sort of chain of command. God the Father sent the Lord Jesus Christ, Christ sent the apostles and the apostles appointed bishops. That's what the pattern I talked about earlier. And they in turn appoint their successors. The church must not disturb this chain of command by dismissing its officers without just cause, which did not exist in the case of the Corinthian elders. Clement therefore entreated the Corinth uh Corinthians to restore the disposed leaders back into office. Right? So so here you see you know, a generation gap that that maybe is coming in with some new ideas and was disposing all of those appointed elders, right? Causing disunity. That's not the order that God had planned. And that's not the that's the order he wants today Right? Elders passing on to elders. Any questions about that? Make sense? Good. Okay. In one important passage, Clement explains that believers are justified by faith, by faith apart from works, just like Abraham was He writes this. And so we, having been called through his will in Christ Jesus, are not justified through ourselves or through our own wisdom or understanding or piety or works that we have done in holiness of heart, but through faith, by which the Almighty God has justified all who have existed from the beginning, to whom be the glory forever and ever Amen. What is Clement um when you look at when you look at the pillars, what's he defending here? Right? The sufficiency of the work Of Christ? The Word? Because where did he get this from? This is Paul's language. reaffirming what was written by the apostles. Clement rightly understood that justification is a gift of God's grace, received by faith apart from works. So turning your Bibles to Ephesians. Ephesians 2. Ephesians two, four through nine. This is Paul writing, right? We talked earlier about one of the major themes uh of Ephesians. This is a beautiful letter to the church, and he's trying to encourage and build them up Often Paul's format, I've talked about this, the first kind of half of a book is really reaffirming doctrine. And then the later half is with that truth, how are we to live in light of that doctrine So in Ephesians two we're we're in the truth section if you will. Ephesians two four through nine. Let me read that But God, being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved, and raised us up with him And seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. In order that in the ages to come he might show the surpassing riches of his grace in kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. And here it is, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not as a result of works that no one should boast For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. So Clement is simply reinforcing, reaffirming The gospel, the pure gospel, right? The fact that we are justified by God's grace through faith. So again, you're going to see this pattern of the early church leaders and throughout church history going back to the foundation Right, defending the faith. Alright, any questions on Clement? Again, he was a uh um uh oh what's the word I'm looking for a contemporary of John and died um around the same time as John John is believed to have died around 100 A. D. , the same as Clement. All right, so the second person we're going to talk about is Ignatius of Antioch The Church of Antioch was established in the forties under the pastoral leadership of Barnabas and Paul. Do you remember that? Where um you had uh the ch primary church rose up in Jerusalem, right? And then after the persecution of Stephen you had um Christians going throughout the world. And there was another major hub that was stood up in Antioch. And it ended up that Paul and Barnabas were were basically the the senior pastors of that church in Antioch. Though not mentioned in the book of Acts, Ignatius became the pastor there sometime in the late first century. The a fifth century tradition suggests that Peter was the one who gave instruction for Ignatius to be appointed. Tradition also indicates that Ignatius, along with Polycarp, and we'll talk about him in a second, was a disciple of the Apostle John. So again, a lot of these early church leaders were very familiar and associates with the Apostles All right, to help with that transition. Seven of Ignatius's letters have survived, so again, we have some of those artifacts. A shorter and longer version exists with the shorter version likely being the original. And Ignatius, this is where you really start to see this theme of governance in the church In many of his writings, that's what you're starting to see. The day of worship, the order of worship. So on the theme of Ignatius highlights is that Christians gather for worship on Sunday, which is the Lord's Day. The church's practice of meeting on Sunday, not Saturday, was already established in the New Testament. And there are several verses I can give you, Acts 27, 1 Corinthians 16, 2, there are others, but it is interesting to see it reiterated by an early Christian leader like Ignatius. Um Acts 27 says, on the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, boom, boom, boom. In his writings, Ignatius indicates his belief that each local congregation should have only one bishop or lead senior pastor, even though a church might also have multiple elders or deacons. Ignatius seems to stress this point out of concern That multiple bishops could lead to a potential division and disunity within the churches. Um let me let me uh read next and then we'll pause for a comment there. In the New Testament, the roles of bishop and elder are synonymous We've we've preached that before, you've heard us say that before. Um even Steve Schneider affirmed that last week as well. All those terms, uh bishop, elder, pastor, overseer all are synonymous with the same position. However, starting with Ignatius, these roles became distinct in church history. So um it's with Ignatius that you start to see him differentiate those those uh phrases or names, if you will, we would affirm they are all the same. However, what we would uh affirm is this idea of even though we have a plurality of elders like we do at HBC, we still have uh what we might call a first among equals, our senior pastor, gay. Okay Um however when we're in an elders meeting, you know, we all get the same vote. We're we're all of uh equality, if you will. That's to make sure we hold each other accountable. That's the pattern we see in Scripture, and so that's what we um we practice here at Whole Bible Church. Does that make sense? But you are seeing um kind of a differentiation with Ignatius. And that happens through church history, right? You're gonna start to see The order of service, you know, there's there's some freedom there in in how you order a service on a Sunday morning. Um let's not make it a dividing topic, okay? But just to affirm that's how we rule here is through a plurality of elders. Um and we do have a senior pastor, as you know. All right. So again, with Ignatius, you're starting to see some of the governance come out um as far as the church. Ignatius, however, was martyred in Rome around the year one seventeen. According to tradition, he was fed to wild beasts, possibly in the Circus Maximus, an arena similar to the Colosseum. So Bruce deaths a lot of these individuals. Alright, we talked about Clement. We talked about Ignatius. Any question on them We'll next turn to Polycarp. Um I'll be honest, I've heard a lot of these names, but but just didn't know where they fit in the timeline. So this has been very interesting. These were some of the early church leaders Right, that carried on that baton. Alright, Polycarp whose name means fruitful, was a disciple of the apostle? Any guesses? Yes. Um I grew up serving the Adventist. Yep. like very epic on so it was interesting you mentioned that like even in the early church we find evidences that like the change so the whole aggregatism teaches that the change was like much later, like after. So I wonder if you if you had more thoughts Yeah, it's a great question. If you if you didn't hear it, uh Seventh day Abd would would practice church on the Sabbath, a Saturday, right? Um I'll be very honest. I I have not done a lot of study there. Um you probably they probably have some verses that they would go back to to um justify that or affirm that. I gave you some verses that talk about why we do it on the Lord's Day. I'll just be honest with you, I don't have a good clear distinction. I haven't studied that in great detail But I can go off and do that and give you a better answer next week. Is that fair? Okay, good question. Because there are some differences, and that's why I said let that not be a dividing topic All right. However, it's good to study what does Scripture say. Take it back to Scripture. All right, Polycarp, the Apostle of John. So you remember John was died much later than the rest of the apostles, right? So he was the one that was really carrying on the baton there and passing that on to many of these early church leaders. He pastor this is Polycarp. He pastored the church in Smyrna near Ephesus. If you remember on the map, that's part of the the seven churches that I talked about in Asia Minor For much of the first half of the second century, Smyrna is one of the seven churches listed in the book of Revelation. His epistle to the Philippians, again, this is not part of of Scripture or canon is his only surviving letter. It was likely written around the time of the martyrdom of Ignatius. That these two pastors knew each other is evident from references in their letters So let me read an insert from uh Polycarp. You might have it in your notes there too. I also rejoice because your firmly rooted faith, renowned from the earliest times, still perseveres and bears fruit to our Lord Jesus Christ, who endeared for our sins, facing even death, whom God raised up, having loosed the birth pangs of Hades Though you have not seen him, you believe in him with an inexpressible and glorious joy, which many desire to experience, knowing that by grace you have been saved, not because of works, but by the will of God through Jesus Christ. the pure gospel message. Significantly the letter contains more than 100 citations or allusions to the New Testament from 17 different New Testament books. This demonstrates that Polycarp was familiar with apostolic writings and viewed those writings as authoritative. Polycarp was representative of the early church in this regard. So I think you have a list in your book convictions that Polycarp expresses in his letter. Let me highlight a couple of these because they're important. I'm going to go down to the second one We must submit to God and His Word. That goes back to one of the pillars we talked about, right? So then let us serve Him with fear and all reverence, just as He Himself has commanded. As did the apostles who preached the gospel to us, and the prophets who announced in advance the coming of our Lord. The believers' hope in Jesus Christ is greater than persecution, and all of them would understand that, wouldn't they? Let us therefore hold steadfastly and unceasingly to our hope and the guarantee of our righteousness, who is Christ Jesus, who bore our sins in his own body upon the tree, who committed no sin and no deceit was found in his mouth Instead for our sakes he endured all things in order that we might live in him. Let us therefore become imitators of his patient endurance. And if we should suffer for the sake of his name, let us glorify him. And then lastly, because our hope is sure, we are able to stand firm in the faith and focus on loving others. The application, if you will. Stand fast, therefore, in these things, and follow the example of the Lord, firm and immovable in faith, loving the family of believers, cherishing one another, united in truth, giving way to one another in the gentleness of the Lord, despising no one. The clarity of these convictions in Polycarp's letter should encourage our hearts. Polycarp's perspective was grounded in the teaching of God's Word. That explains why these truths resonate with our hearts today. So as you see these artifacts that are being written, he is affirming um what was written by the apostles, specifically Paul. However, what should we still do? I I'm looking at a writing of Polycarp. Verify with scripture. You still got to take it back to scripture. Always. Naila. Amen. That's it. They knew they knew the scriptures. They knew the writings of the apostles, and that's what they continue to affirm here. However Polycarp was also martyred. There's an account of his death recorded in the martyrdom of Polycarp. I want to read to you because I think it's Um important. By the time Polycarp was arrested for being a Christian, he had been a pastor in uh Smyrna for a long time. When the soldiers came to arrest him, he offered to serve them dinner. They accepted While they were eating, Polycarp devoted himself to prayer. When he was brought before the Roman governor for his trial, the governor urged him to deny Christ and thereby preserve his life. Polycarp famously replied eighty and six years have I served him, and he never did me any injury. How then could I blasphemy my King and my Saviour? When it became clear that Polycarp would not recant, he was sentenced to be burned at the stake. Even in the face of suffering and death, Polycarp's faith never wavered. Powerful, powerful All right, any questions about Polycarp? So we talked about Clement, Ignatius Polycarp. Scott. Not a question, but something that you mentioned earlier the that he his letter had excerpt from 17 New Testament books. Yeah. Which they're there are letters they're going out to different churches and just by one fifth before one fifty, you can see that the letters are being gathered and um recognized that these are candidates. That's a great point, Scott. I don't know if you all heard that, right? By by the end of of John's life, if you will, those last apost um uh epistles and and revelation, right? It was affirmed what the canon was very early by the early church leaders. We they were recognized as authoritative in those specific letters Right, that then got um closed into the canon that we know today. Great, great point. Right. So that's the foundation that they had moving forward where these were the authoritative lovers. Mark. Yeah, yeah. Good point. Good. All right, moving on to I it was a document now. Um the author is unknown, but we're going to talk about two documents in these early church period times. The first one is called the Diddyke. The Diddyke meaning the teaching was an early manual of Christian ethics. It is also known by a more complete title, The Teaching of the Lord to the Twelve Apostles to the Nations. Its purpose was to explain the way that believers are to live as followers of Jesus. So again, we talked about what was Paul's format, right? He started with here's doctrine, here's truth, here's indicatives, if you will, and then often in the last part of a book, the imperatives Right, here's the go-do's, here's the application. And you consider you can consider this book kind of a a reaffirming of those go-do's, those applications, right? Christian ethics It is not written by an apostle or under apostolic authorization and is therefore not part of the New Testament canon that we just talked about. Nonetheless, in church history, it was regarded as a summary of apostolic teachings. So again, a supplemental book that was affirming um the apostles' teaching. I haven't read it myself Julie, so I don't know what it looks like, but but again I think it it might be uh more of a a summary of here's how you are to act. Dave, did you have a comment? It's a book of Christian living like we would have Um they have a couple inserts here. I don't know if you have that um in your notebook, so so Julia, to your point, the Didique begins with a section on the two ways, the way of life, the Christian life And the way of death. Much of this section is drawn from the teachings of Jesus, for example. Um a snippet. There are two ways, one of life and one of death, and there is a great difference between these two ways. Now this is the way of life. First you shall love God. who made you, second you shall love your neighbor as yourself. But whatever you but whatever you do but whatever you do not wish to happen to you, do not do to another. So very similar language, right? Um so they did pull from from scripture. Um here's an interesting note. Um and this is another snapshot from from verbiage from the Didekee. The second commandment of the teaching is you shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery. you shall not corrupt children, you shall not be sexually immoral, you shall not steal, you shall not practice magic, you shall not engage in sorcery, you shall not abort a child. Back back early early for second century, right? Thought that was very interesting The dedication also gives instructions for church practice addressing topics such as baptism, the celebration of the Lord's Supper, fasting, and how to handle false teachers. So again, like Abe said, just Christian living, if you will, church living, organization, affirming again what was written in Scripture. So let's talk a little bit about supplemental materials. Right? This I would consider the the Didicy a supplemental material. Are supplemental materials bad? I'm not hearing this affirming Good. All right. Even commentaries. Right, supplemental. What must we do with every supplemental resource that we have? Compare it to scripture. What happens though? We can get really lazy, can't we? The supplemental book is fun to read. It might be more applicable to what's happening um in modern times. It's using modern language. It's really easy to get lazy and let that become your source. There are cults out there, I mentioned one, that they've supplanted the Word of God with a supplemental book that truly is their Bible now. That's the danger of it. So again, just an encouragement, um, even some of these early church writings, we have to always align it with scripture. Always bring it back to the sufficiency, the supremacy of God's word. Okay? Yes? Famously wrong. I'm sure there are. And we'll probably get to that as we go through church history. You know, I'll just mention um and Mark, I I think the point there again is is there theologically something wrong versus like Ignatius we talked about, he was considering you know bishop and and elder as two separate you know um positions if you will That's I'll call that a secondary issue. Were there theological discrepancies? You know, I I think we'll come to that as we go through the lessons, but not in this group that we covered this morning. Good question though. Because we will see as we get later on in history, you know, there there is a split. Right now there's unity, if you will, but we're gonna see that split happen um later on in time Okay, um the last letter that we're going to talk about, this epistle to Diognetus, and this was in the mid to late second century. This letter was written by an anonymous author who simply identifies himself as Mateus. The Greek word for disciple. The letter provides a beautiful presentation of the good news of salvation through Jesus Christ. Writing to a non-believer, the author explains that in Christ sinners can find both The forgiveness for sin and eternal life. So again, reaffirming the gospel message. Again, let me read a uh short snippet from that epistle. But when our wickedness had reached its height and it had been clearly shown that its reward, punishment and death was impending over us, and when the time had come which God had before appointed for manifesting his own kindness and power How the one love of God, through exceeding regard for men, did not regard us with hatred, nor thrust us away, nor remember our iniquity against us. But showed great long suffering and bore with us, he himself took on him the burden of our iniquities. He gave his own son as a ransom for us, the holy one for transgressors. The the yeah, the holy one for transgressors, the blameless one for the wicked, the righteous one for the unrighteous, the incorrup incorruptible one for the corruptible the immortal one for them that are mortal. For what other thing was capable of covering our sins than his righteousness By what other one was it possible that we, the wicked and ungodly, could be justified than by the only Son of God? O sweet exchange Remember we talked last week about this beautiful word justified, right? Declared righteous. What was the other component of justification that we talked about? Say it again? Imputation. That's the exchange that's referenced here. Our Son being imputed to Christ, His righteousness being imputed to us. O unsearchable operation, O benefit surpassing all expectation, that the wickedness of many should be hid in a single righteous one. and that the righteous of one should justify many transgressors. In this way the author contrasts the sinner's total inability with the all-sufficient sacrifice and perfect righteousness of Christ. Through faith in Him, believers are both forgiven and justified. They are pardoned for sin because Jesus paid their penalty on the cross, and they are declared righteous by God. That's justification That's the foundation Julie talked about at the very beginning of class That's what you're drawing people back to when you're having these discussions, right? When they say, I'm a prophet, I'm an apostle, you're bringing them back to the foundation. For what purpose, right? What Jesus do you serve? That's what you need to understand When they say Jesus Christ, is it the Jesus of the Bible or is it some made-up Jesus, some idol that they have in their mind? Always bring them back to Scripture. Alright, some final thoughts And you have this in your booklet, but it's worth mentioning or reading. After surveying a number of the apostolic fathers, we can and again when they talk about apostolic fathers, it's those who followed the apostles. we can be encouraged to see that they were faithful men who lived after the apostles. We started with that verse in 2 Timothy, 2 Timothy 2. 2. And again, where was 2 Timothy written, most likely? In prison, the second prison, right, the dungeon where Paul is now awaiting death. He knows that he's awaiting death, and this is kind of his his final baton to Timothy in demonstrating passing on from generation to generation. Though neither inerrant nor authoritative, their writings demonstrate an earnest commitment both to preserve and practice the teaching of the apostles. Did you get that? You know, the writings are not authoritative, not part of the canon, and yet they reaffirm those authoritative works that we have in Scripture today. They also sought to preserve the truth of the gospel. In the writings of Clement and Polycarp, and also in the epistle to Diagnetus, we find clear articulation of the truth that salvation is by great by grace through faith in Christ. It is not received on the basis of works. And then finally their faithfulness was demonstrated even to the point of death. Clement Ignatius and Polycarp all died as martyrs of Jesus Christ. Their courage and the conviction that field that stands as a compelling reminder for believers today to emulate the example of faithful fortitude. So I have a couple application questions for you, but but the discussion topic there as we talk about these three men and and the two additional writings, what stood out to you um of this initial time period, this second century, these early church fathers? Nothing? Anything uh you heard that you didn't know that maybe surprised you or good it could be I had to line enjoy it. Yeah, so you both kind of brought up this point of uh just the weighty responsibility as we Pass on from one generation to the next. What we've seen um a number of times in the Bible, what can happen in a generation? People forget, people fall. I mean just in a generation. So the responsibility is heavy. Um and and I want to affirm, you know, yes, Sharon, there are there are pastors, elders, right, over the local church But we all play a role in carrying on the baton. That's what I love in 2 Timothy the mention of of grandma, of mom Right, uh Deuteronomy six, the Shema, right? We are all uh responsible for passing on from generation to generation. We see the cycle in in judges, right? The cycle of A generation where they forget, then they repent, the Lord blesses them, there's prosperity, and then they fall into that trap again. We all carry that responsibility, right, to be defenders of the faith. So that's what I I want to encourage you. But I I think you guys hit it with the fact that, you know, these powerful um authoritative apostles are now gone And now I carry the baton. That's a heavy, heavy responsibility. And that's the responsibility we all have today. I I hope that's what you take away from these thirteen weeks is We are defending the faith today. You know, that's what the church is doing. And yet we have the the power of the Holy Spirit to help us with that. Alright, good. That was what I had from a question standpoint. Any other thoughts or comments? If not, we'll we'll wrap it up. All right, good discussion. Let me close and we'll wrap things up here. Father, we are we are grateful for um just leaders that have gone before us. We we get just a little glimpse I can't imagine the responsibility that they must have felt, and yet we see here evidence of them affirming those authoritative teachings. And so I I pray that that would encourage us to apply these lessons to our own lives, that we are all defenders of the faith We are the defenders of your church. We are to be equipping the church with uh the gifts and talents that you've given us specifically, empowered by the Holy Spirit. Let us do that with joy and with peace, and may you be glorified. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.