Father, we love you. We are so excited to be diving into this topic. We know that your canon is closed, and yet there's been close to two thousand years of history of your redemptive plan that's not in the Bible and we want to understand that and study that and see what you're doing with your church And to see how we fit into that, Lord, uh most importantly is the application of all of this. How are we growing? How are we being sanctified In obedience to you, Lord, so that uh you use us as as obedient vessels to carry out your plan We're excited for a new quarter. I pray for a blessing over all who are in attendance, for all the teachers, Lord. I I just pray for wisdom, discernment, uh clarity, and communication. And we obviously lift up our time of worship this morning in song and preaching your word. And we love you, we thank you, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, for those who have taken my class before, I I like to give an agenda because it helps kind of keep track of where we're at. So these other 13 lessons, again, we'll be using, uh I'll show you that in a second. a source um from uh John MacArthur's church and anyone who has taken fundamentals of the faith and worked through that workbook, it's a very similar format. So this isn't a follow-on to that curriculum But it is very similar to the format. So it's convenient, 13 weeks, uh same length as our our growing disciple classes. And you can see, right, we're going to start with a little intro and kind of build that foundation this morning, but then we're going to be jumping in next week. and starting to go through that time period. And it starts with, you know, when the church started, and we see that in Acts. Acts is such a beautiful, beautiful book of the history of how the church began. And so that's what we'll start And then we'll go through um through the timeline, right? Though those forerunners, those early church fathers, you get to um the the Middle Ages where you start to see some controversies and some clashes and councils and people struggling with what is the church supposed to be doing? Defending the faith Contending earnestly for the faith. And then we'll end up with the Reformation and on to um where we're at today. And I think the last session we'll have that discussion. What's left What's left for the Lord to do with his church? And that's pretty exciting, I think. So again, this is not about names, places, but we're going to be talking about that so we can put it all into context. Okay. Uh the resource we're going to be using again is this booklet. You don't need to to order it. I'm going to order that for you. You do have your packet that will help for today. And again, what I like about it, you can fill in the blanks, right? Everyone likes to do that and take notes. Hopefully there's room for notes as well. But that's what we'll be using I think this resource is quotes primarily from the NASB, but we'll be using that as well as the ESV and maybe even a little King James. We'll see. Okay? Alright, and then we talk about this timeline. So what what I'm really excited about this class, what I have taught in the past is the Old Testament survey, and a survey is just like an overview. And I and I love to get that, I call it strategic view, because it kind of puts everything in context. So as you jump into a book, it's like, oh, I understand how this fits into the broader picture. Okay? So I taught the Old Testament survey, then the New Testament survey, and I feel like this is kind of the final part of that survey series. All right, looking at church history. What has happened since the canon has been closed? And from a timeline perspective, don't get too hung up on on the years. A lot of people like to say it was from Adam to Abraham, roughly 2000. From Abraham to Christ, roughly 2000, and from Christ until now, roughly 2000. Alright? That's what we're keeping track of So obviously our focus is going to be on that church age that I have circled in the blue there. And um again, we've been at this roughly 2,000 years. There's a lot of history there relative to the rest of the Bible. Right, little trivia. How many books in the Bible? Sixty-six. How many in the Old Testament? Thirty-nine. Thirty-nine. That leaves how many in the New Testament? Public math, good job. Alright, so this is a chart that I stole from my Old Testament survey, but uh it gives you a little bit more depth into what we're talking about. Again, you know, you can see um let's call it the first 4,000 years Nine Old Testament books we covered. And then the last thousand of the Old Testament, right? Thirty Old Testament books And now here we are in the New Testament, and we have 27 books that basically covers what? A hundred years of history. Right, really condensed. And now we're beyond that. That's what we're looking at. We're looking on what came after that. Okay? I want you guys to turn your Bible and please make sure you're you're bringing your Bibles or your iPad or whatever. Let's go to Luke 24. Does it matter the version? Doesn't matter the version I'll be reading from the NASB. But it does not matter. Um the other thing I should mention as as elders we decided we're going to try and cut the or stop the the Growing Disciples classes at 1040 um to give people that need to serve or pick up kids or whatever. a little more time. So I'm going to try and be really um adamant about closing. So if we don't get through it all, we don't get through it all. But I want to be sensitive to your time. All right, um you guys are familiar with this passage, but it has been the theme that I have used through the New Testament survey, Old Testament survey, and I really want it to be the theme of our class today. Right? Because the the focus again is not on uh dates, places, times. It's really about this theme. It's all about Jesus Christ. Alright, so picking up in verse 13 2413. And behold, two of them were going that very day to a village named Emmaus, which was about seven miles from Jerusalem And they were conversing with each other about all these things which had taken place. And it came about that while they were conversing and discussing, Jesus himself approached and began traveling with them But their eyes were prevented from recognizing him. So this is after Jesus' um death, right? He he has um Resurrected, back on the earth, and walking on the earth for approximately forty days, and intercedes with a lot of different people during that time. Verse 16, but their eyes were prevented from recognizing him And he said to them, What are these words that you are exchanging with one another as you are walking? And they stood still, looking sad. And one of them, named Cleopas, answered and said to him, Are you the only one visiting Jerusalem and unaware of the things which have happened here in these days? And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, The things about Jesus, the Nazarene, who was a prophet, mighty indeed, and word in the sight of God and all the people. So they're still referring to him as a prophet. Right? Not as Lord and Savior. Their eyes are still closed. And how the chief priests and her rulers delivered him up to the sentence of death and crucified him But we were hoping that it was he who was going to be redeem who who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, it is the third day since these things happened. But also some women among us amazed us when they were at the tomb early in the morning, and did not find his body. They came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive And some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just exactly as the woman also had said, but him they did not see. And he said to them, O foolish men and slow of heart to believe, in all that the prophets have spoken, was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and with all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself in all the scriptures. So, what is that a reference to when he talks about Moses with all the prophets? The Old Testament, right? He's referring back to the Word of God to explain what it said about him Right? We see Paul do the same thing in all the epistles. He constantly is referring back to the Old Testament prophecies about who the Christ is. Verse 28. And they approached the village where they were going, and he acted as though he would go further. And they urged him, saying, Stay with us, for it is getting toward evening. And the day is now nearly over, and he went in to stay with them. And it came about that when he had reclined at the table with them, he took the bread and blessed it, and breaking it he began giving it to them And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished from their sight. And they said to one another, Were not our hearts burning within us while he was speaking to us on the road, while he was explaining the scriptures to us? And they arose that very hour and returned to Jerusalem and found gathered together the eleven and those who were with them. So I want to pause there and just say, this is our theme I hope as we go through this that our hearts burn too, as we understand how God is unfolding his redemptive plan. Right? We are in the last days, guys. I don't know how much longer, but that's super, super exciting. And God is absolutely in control. But here you see their eyes were finally opened. They finally recognized who Jesus was As Jesus explained himself in all of the Old Testament scriptures. So obviously, foundational pillar is going to be the Word of God. But I want that to be your theme as we're walking through this. Okay? It's not about um history per se. It's about the church. What is God doing with his church according to his redemptive plan? Okay? What um just share a little bit. What do you know about church history Anything? 95 thesis. Okay, ninety-five thesis. The Reformation. Right? Many of us know about the Reformation. How long ago was that Roughly. Five hundred years. We're talking about two thousand years of history. I'll admit my knowledge goes from the early church Pentecost, what's in Acts, what's in the Bible right to the Reformation. Now my kids and my wife probably know more because during homeschool they studied all this church history and they've thrown out names like Polycarp and Augustine and church councils and we're gonna cover all of that. I'm super excited because I honestly I don't know much about it. Right? I'm not a church history Theologian. I'm going to be learning with you. Alright? So if you ask a question and I don't know it, I'm going to tell you I don't know it. And let's go research it together. Okay? I'm going to read a little bit from they have a teacher's manual and there's some good good notes in here. So if you see me looking down reading, that's what I'm doing. But there's some some good quotes in here. This is from uh the author. The deeper I've investigated the history of the church, the more I have grown to appreciate the power and authority of God's Word. Because I've seen that power vividly illustrated in the testimonies of past generations of believers. So we're going to study some of these people that have been just foundational in our church history, right? Just defenders of the faith. And even today. And that's pretty exciting and I hope uh I hope we have that that same passion as we go through this So why church history? Why is it so important? All right. We're going to start with just kind of a summary. So if someone asks you, you know, why is church history so important You could give them a quick summary of this. Okay? So A is four. What do you guys think? Apologetics. Believers today should take an interest in church history because it will help them guard against false teaching The study of church history helps us understand how false movements arose and how believers in the past have refuted them. So there's really two aspects to the church, right? There's the church body that is being equipped, that is being built up. But there's also those that are trying to destroy the church. You see that constant tension throughout history. That's what we're going to see. Okay? So apologetics is what? Defending the faith. Right? That's that's it. How do you defend the faith? How do you defend what God has set up in His church? Alright, B. Any guesses? Bible? No, Bible. B is for biography. The halls of church history are filled with compelling accounts of faithful men and women. Who made great sacrifices to follow Christ. Their examples motivate us to walk in a manner worthy of the gospel. And we're going to study some of those people. Okay? And then C the last one is for curiosity. Let's be curious. Let's ask questions The study of church history answers many questions and shows us important connections. It explains how broader Christendom came to be what it is today. How did certain practices or movements develop? Why are things the way they are? Church history helps us find answers to those lines of inquiry. Okay? So I'll pause there for a second. The author, that's kind of the quick summary. That's your elevator speech, right? If you're in an elevator, you've got two minutes to tell somebody why church history is important, you can go through the ABCs. Okay? Apologetics, biography, and curiosity. But we can list several other reasons and the author does that in the manual here. It's not in your notes, so you can take notes or or just listen. So ten reasons why to study church history. One, studying church history is important because most contemporary Christians don't know much about it. Alright, we just talked about that. I admit it. I know about five hundred years back to the Reformation and then back to the early church. Everything in between is kind of fuzzy So we're going to walk through that. There were a lot of councils, there were a lot of tensions, there were wars, and we're going to study all that. So that's why it's important to really understand the fullness. And why? Because that's what God designed. That's what he planned. Right? And we want to understand that. Does God consider history to be important? Certainly he does. Though it is not church history, God used Israel's history to teach them spiritual truths throughout the Old Testament. And in the New Testament, the Holy Spirit saw fit to inspire a book of church history Starting from the day of Pentecost and running through Paul's first Roman imprisonment. What book is that? Acts. Acts When I did the New Testament survey, I mean just Acts came alive to me to truly understand the historical nature of that book. And also, and we'll talk about it next week, how God, how the Holy Spirit has a different presence as we see in Acts versus the Old Testament, right? And we'll talk about that next week. So God instituting his church bringing us the helper through the Holy Spirit. So yes, he is concerned about history. Number two, because God is at work in history, Equally, history is a testimony of God's sovereign providence. Boy, if you take anything away from this class, that's what I want you to take away Right, God's sovereignty in carrying out his redemptive plan. That's the theme through the entire Bible. And it continues in church history today. Let me quote or read from Isaiah 46. Remember the former things long past, for I am God and there is no other. I am God, and there is no one like me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things which have not been done, saying, My purpose will be established, and I will accomplish all my good pleasure. Right, that's the foundation that we stand on. He is perfect perfectly accomplishing his purposes and providentially preserving his people and his truth in every generation, even today. Right, that's true for us today. And again, the footstopper, one of the greatest theological lessons any believer can learn is to rest in the sovereignty of God Do you believe that to be true? What happens if we don't believe in that? Despair, discouragement, it crumbles Right? Whether we believe it or not, God's sovereignty is going to play out. Right? You heard Gabe uh preach on that a couple weeks ago, right? Through his providence, that's the means. But there is great hope and encouragement And knowing that God is so sovereign over all, right? And everything that is happening is for his purpose. All right. Um reason number three Because the Lord Jesus said he would build his church. To study church history is to watch his promise unfold. We're going to come back to this passage later, but I'll go ahead and read it, Matthew 16, 15-18. Jesus said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon Peter answered, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus said to him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. I also say to you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it. Who is the rock that Jesus is talking about? Build it upon this rock. Jesus, right? It's not Peter. Peter is not the rock. And we're going to talk about this in a second. The foundation of all of this is Jesus Christ, of course. All right, reason number four. Because church history is our history. As believers, we are members of the body of Christ and part of the bride of Christ. When we study the history of the church, we are not merely studying people, places, and events like I talked about earlier. We are studying the history of Christ's bride. Isn't that a nice picture? If we belong to Christ, then we too are part of that bride, as Paul explained in Ephesians. I won't read it, but Ephesians 5 is the the admonishment to husbands Husbands love your wives just as Christ also loved the church. All right. Reason number five Because sound doctrine has been guarded and passed on by faithful generations throughout history So can you guys think of a passage in the Old Testament that admonishes believers to pass on from generation to generation the the the laws of the Lord Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy six, right? The Shema. Wonderful passage. And and what's the danger of not passing that on? Right? Falling away, false teachers, distortion, everything you can think of. And again, we're going to see through church history the defenders of the faith defending God's Word. Defending the reason for the church. Alright, reason number six. Because just as we are encouraged by the history of truth We are also warned by the history of error. This enables us to be quipped as apologists. Remember that was the A, apologetics, to defend the faith. The New Testament calls for Christians to be able to defend the faith. In the words of 1 Peter, sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts. Always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence I'm hoping again you get this vision of we're going to study these defenders of faith. They have passed that baton to us. Okay, we now hold the baton to be those defenders Reason seven, because we have much to learn from those who walked with God. Faithfulness to the Lord, to his word, and to his people is what defines a hero of the faith. Right, we see the heroes of the faith where? In Hebrews what? Hebrews 11, right, has this long list. And wouldn't it wouldn't it be wonderful wonderful to have your name in that list All right? These were heroes of the faith, demonstrated by their faith, their trust in the Lord. Alright, reason number eight. Because just as we can learn from the good example of faithful Christians, we likewise have much to learn from those who failed at various points. One of the um I worked for a lot of people while I was in the military and maybe one of the most profound as far as my growth and development was a commander who was maybe the worst commander I had ever worked for. I was his exec, which meant I spent a lot of time with him. I got to see him behind the scenes But how he um carried out his leadership was just uh a a total failure. And I learned a ton from that. Okay, so there's much we can learn from failures. It's sad though It's sad when you see these giants of the faith fall. Um we had a recent event, right? A very prominent pastor that that is in our circles and did that recently. And it's sad. But it forces you to now think about it, to reassess what's going on. I know uh we as elders after that event, you know, we spent several elder meetings talking about that How do we hold each other accountable? How do we spur one another on? How do we not become complacent? So we can learn much from the failures. In church history, we see examples of all kinds of spiritual failures. There are those who strayed into heresy, those who gave way to corruption, those who denied the faith. and those who fell morally. The lives of such individuals serve as a warning for us All right, reason number nine, because studying the past helps us understand the resources, opportunities, and freedoms we enjoy in the present. It should increase our thankfulness for what we have and motivate us to be good stewards of what we have. What do we have today that some of these people we study I they won't even be able to fathom I just put it in my pocket, right? I mean it's crazy you think about what we can do with this phone and how far information has gone. That's what we have at our disposal, for good and bad And how does God want us to use that? What is he going to do with that? Hard to fathom. Think about the Bible that you either have on your phone or here. Think about what it took to to turn that into something we could read, into our language. There was an incredible amount of effort, and we're going to talk about that, right? The person that that helped bring that along through the Holy Spirit, of course, but I take this for granted every day. I really do. That I can just pick up my Bible and it's in my language I can understand the inspired Word of God. Phenomenal. What are we doing with that? Alright, and the last reason, number 10, because history gives 21st century Christians a right perspective about their own place in the church age. And again, I'm excited maybe by the last session we'll talk a little bit about where we're going, what's next. Studying church history helps us recognize that we are part of something much bigger than ourselves. Our local congregation or even the evangelical movement as it exists today, the history of Christianity spans two millennia, of which we are just a blip Just a blip in time, but it's important to have that bigger perspective. Okay? Finally, and most importantly, studying church history helps us remember that Christ is the Lord of the church in every age And to remind ourselves of what a great privilege it is to minister in his service. It also motivates us to look forward to the day when he returns, and church history officially comes to an end. Come, Lord Jesus, come. Eh? Okay. Alright, so that's kind of the uh the intro. Again, why study um church history? We went over several pieces of that and we'll jump into so lesson one is really about just building a foundation. Question? Yes, there was a point where you know the several examples in terms of PO5. And I'm cut in um where that's good. Yes. I did cut it off. Do you remember what uh Got it? Okay, good question. Keep me honest. Alright, so lesson one is really about um uh building a foundation. We want to talk about these these pillars if you will, doctrinal pillars. And we often hear, um, and we just talked about it, right, in Matthew 16, about the church being a building That's a metaphor that Paul often uses. We are a building, which means there's a foundation, there's walls, there's a roof. Um and we know that Jesus is that foundation, right? Jesus himself promised to build his church And guaranteed that it would not fall. That's what we just read in Matthew 16. Let me read from Ephesians 2, 19 through 22. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints, and are of God's household, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole building being fitted together is growing into a holy temple. in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit. Right, that's our foundation. That's our cement foundation. is Jesus Christ. He's the cornerstone, right? In in what we learn about him in the Bible, the apostolic teachings, the witness to him. Right? That absolutely has to be our foundation. The universal church consists of believers who have embraced the Lord Jesus in saving faith for eternity. What's the difference uh uh between the visible church and the invisible church today? What's the invisible church? Uh believers of all history. Close What's the visible church right here at Hope Bible Church? Who we see, right? Who we see come in every day Does that mean everyone who comes in is a believer? Right? That's the visible church. You just don't know. The invisible church is true believers. That's what God sees. And that's the church. Alright, so when we talk about the the doctrinal pillars Let me read the first one. The true church looks to Scripture as its final authority for doctrine, what to believe, and practice how to live. Followers of Jesus submit to him by submitting to his word. So that first one, that pillar, is the supremacy of the word of God. Right? That is absolutely where it has to start. So if Jesus Christ is at foundation, think of one of those pillars, and we're going to have three of them. One of them is the supremacy of the Word of God. We believe it to be the final authority. For what we believe and how to live. So you'll see Paul often in the epistles has this framework of the several chapters up front do what? They talk about Um indicatives or the the doctrinal truth, right? The inspired doctrinal truth written down in letters And then he'll transition to, with that in mind, this is how we are to live. Right? The practice of that, the application of that. It all starts, though, with the Word of God. The final authority. Alright, the second one. The true church understands that the redemptive work of Christ accomplish everything necessary for salvation. Sinners are justified by God's grace through faith in Christ apart from their own merits or works. So here we talk about the supremacy of the work of God. We have the word and now the work. Now when you think of the work of God, what comes to mind? What did he do? And I'm thinking specifically of Christ here, Jesus Christ. Salvation, yeah, by doing what though? Dying on the cross, I heard, right? Absolutely. What else? Opens our eyes. Resurrection. What did he do prior to that for thirty-three years? Perfect life. I often like to include when we talk about the work of Jesus Christ, it's his life and his death. Right? The life is just as important. He had to be that perfect substitute for us in order to be that substitute on the cross, right? But we believe that is the only work that's needed. Right? Grace alone, and that is a provision from God. Alright, the third pillar. The true church worships the Triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, in spirit, purity of devotion, and in truth, purity of doctrine. It rejects false forms of worship and repudiates anything that might distract, distort, or distract from its sincere devotion to God. So that third pillar Is sanctity of the worship of God. Right? It's putting an emphasis on how we worship God. And we're gonna go into each of these in a bit more detail. Alright, so everyone got those? Alright, so we're going to go back to that first one, the supremacy of the Word of God. And for here you guys can just take notes. There's no fill-ins. I'll let you know when the the fill-ins are coming. Be in a little bit. The true church embraces and submits to the Word of God. I I have the pleasure of sitting in or teaching all the new membership classes. We purposely have the elders go through that And um invariably when we meet them up front we'll have a luncheon. In fact we're having one today for a new class. Um we ask them how how did you find HBC and and why? Why are you here I want to say 98% of the time, maybe 99% of the time, it's we were hungry for the Word of God or some variation of that. Right? And you know, you know the Word when you hear it Your your soul is thirsting for that, and you leave a place and you come here. I'm not, please understand what I'm saying. I'm not saying this is the perfect church. It's not, but We are adamant about staying focused on the Word of God. We are a word-driven church, a Bible-preaching church. All right? That is so critical to our growth Very familiar passage, but I want you to turn there because it's really important. Second Timothy. Second Timothy three sixteen and seventeen And this is becomes foundational for us, right? This is often a a proof text of of why the importance of the Word of God. All scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training and righteousness. that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. So we often talk about the Word of God being inspired, right? It's God's words And if it's God's words, then it's inerrant without error. If it's God's words, it's authoritative for our life. And here we see it's sufficient for everything we need in order to understand who God is, who we are, in our fallen nature, in our risen nature, if you will As children of God, and how we are to act, how we are to obey a holy God and have joy in Him. Right? So that is absolutely foundational, and we see it here in 2 Timothy, that it is the inspired word of God. Yes, God used men as a means to bring that to writing, but it was inspired through the Holy Spirit. So we can take great comfort. So what does that mean? If that is the authority, what do we need to measure everything against? The Word of God. Right? We have to. And we're going to see that come back as we go through church history. So if that's true What do false teachers try and do? Undermine it. Undermine it, distort it. Right? They they they you see that throughout history, you saw that in the New Testament Constantly trying to bring down the word, discredit the word of God, discredit its authority, discredit the authority of Jesus Christ. That's the theme throughout the New Testament, and we see it today in our life. We see it, we'll see it through church history. That's what we're defending against. False teachers, false doctrine. Jesus made it clear the Word of God is authoritative over the traditions of men Right? And that's sometimes where we have fallen into trouble through history is following traditions of men over the Bible and what it says. The Word of God supersedes religious tradition. Scripture is the authority over tradition, not the other way around. Right? And so that has to be, that's why it's one of the pillars. What about apostolic tradition? Because we we see those words in the New Testament. Passages like 1 Corinthians 11 2. Now I praise you because you remember me in everything and hold firmly to the traditions just as I deliver them to you. 2 Thessalonians 2. 15. So then, brethren, stand firm and hold to the traditions which you were taught, whether by word of mouth or by letter from us. Again, 2 Thessalonians 3. 6. Keep away from every brother who leads an unruly life, not according to the tradition which you received from us. So this is Paul saying again and again, these are the traditions that we handed down. Okay, but what is he talking about? What are those traditions? All right, so a little background on traditions. The word tradition comes from a Greek word that means That which is given over. That which is given over. The Latin word traditio means that which is handed down. And it is from the Latin word that we get the English word tradition. It's Christmas time, holiday, what are some of the traditions that are passed down? How many have a real Christmas tree in their house? Ooh, not many. We do, we do, and here's why, because my wife is from Wisconsin. We will never have a fake tree in our house. It's just it's verboten. You can't do it. Right? But those are those are man-made traditions that are passed down. But this word tradition simply means handed down. So then we see the word tradition in the New Testament associated with apostles. It is not referring to an elaborate liturgical system. of non-biblical customs like those found in Roman Catholicism or Eastern Orthodoxy today. How many grew up Roman Catholic Okay, I I did as well. Lots of traditions, liturgical man-made traditions, and we're gonna cover that in a bit more detail. So bottom line, the definition here is referring to apostolic instruction. So when you see that word tradition, it's simply handing down apostolic instruction. And that was what? Inspired by God. None of it is from man. Okay. Apostolic tradition has been preserved for us in the writings of, I just said it. The New Testament, right? That's where we see those writings. That's why the canon is closed. We don't need apostles anymore. We have their instruction written down, available to us, 24 or 7 When we evaluate extra-biblical tradition in light of the New Testament, we are bringing the authoritative instruction of Christ and the apostles to bear on that tradition. That's what we're bringing forward. Alright, number three. Believers are instructed by the New Testament to evaluate all teachings and traditions in light of God's Word. That has to be our foundation. God's Word. The New Testament repeatedly warns the church about what? The threat of false teachers. that are trying to distort that authority. Can you think of a group that's talked about that were um That were oh what's the word I'm looking for? Commended for their ability to search the scriptures. The Bereans, right? We see that in Acts 17. Where they're even examining who? Paul. Paul the great apostle at that time. They're examining everything he says against Scripture. We need to be doing the same thing. When Pastor Gabe gets up there and preaches, you need to be examining. Not because you're questioning him, but you want to make sure it aligns, right? Anybody you hear, any teaching you get Line it with scripture When we evaluate extra-biblical traditions through the lens of Scripture, we are doing exactly what the apostles themselves tell us to do in the New Testament, to examine everything carefully and do so by searching the scriptures. What happens if you don't have a a daily habit of being in God's Word? How are you going to examine what's said against Scripture if you're not in Scripture? Right? That's why it's so important to be building Being sanctified through the Word of God. Alright, the early church viewed the writings of the apostles as inherently Authoritative. There really was no question. They recognized who they were as apostles in such when when they got those letters, they knew they were authoritative. There was no question there They understood that any non-biblical traditions must be evaluated against the standard of Scripture. I want to read and we'll cover one of these folks. This is one of the early church fathers, Arenius. We have learned from none others the plan of our salvation than from those whom the gospel has come down to us. He's referring to the apostles here, which they did at one time proclaim in public And at a later period, by the will of God, handed down, that's that word tradition, in the scriptures to be ground and pillar of our faith Right, so this was one of the early um right after that first century church fathers that was uh again reasserting the the authoritative nature of um scripture and that everything had to be measured against that. Um real quick, can you think of an example of non-biblical religious traditions? Alright, so when my father-in-law first came to church, this is before I met her, I was already all there. My grandfather was going to defense. And when I was there, and when her So my wife's father came to the church as the new pastor. Christmas came soon after, and this fella was in the church. always dressed up as Santa Claus. This was their tradition every year. He'd come in around Christmas and my father looked at them and said, Where's that in the Bible? All these phrases came out of it. I'm standing there paying attention to listening. Yes, big change. Sure enough that was the actually we never even got to celebrate the same cluster. Yes. It ended right there. So the gown went, the beard left, and including the person who dressed up as Santa Claus left. Gone. So that was the tradition that the church along with celebrating the birth of Jesus, celebrated. Yeah. And that was a very important change. Yep. Good. Great example. Um those who who grew up Roman Catholic, what are what are some of the traditions you remember? Uh eating meat on Friday, not eating me. Not eating meat, right? Lent. Lent. Alright, good, what else? Taking the knee. Taking the knee? Okay. Nothing wrong with taking the knee, but the front of the altar. Yeah. There were several you were actually up and down kneeling up and I mean there was a very liturgical script that they covered, but praying the rosary, you know, I can remember that. Going to confession. That's how you confess sin. You had to go to see a priest in that creepy Cabinet or whatever they called it. churches that we think are spiritual, but on the Baptist side of things you have the uh the going to the altar at the end of every service or how a service is actually structured that if it's uh departs from that people get a little right anxious about that situation. Yeah, great, great Sean. How about um our music? We can only sing hymns. I love hymns. I would have no issue with that. But I mean is that is that found in the Bible? I mean we have to be very careful. We actually have a lot of freedom on how we conduct our morning worship. Um I can tell you we try to be very intentional with everything we do That doesn't mean there's not different ways of doing things. Um but we we try to align ourselves with the Word of God and everything that we do. Yes? Yeah. Yeah. But then you also have the extreme where you have like small like fall, whatever, and like whatever. Yeah, entertainment and and hear me guys, I'm not trying to be critical of what anyone does. I'm simply encouraging us again go back to the foundation and that's the Word of God. And if it's not clearly stated in there, I think we have a lot of freedom. But what's at the heart, what's at the motive of what we're trying to do? Is it entertainment to bring in the lost? Yes, as a church we should be evangelizing, but the church is for believers. That's what we need to be focusing on. So right, so that's uh again one of those pillars, the word of God. So the second one we talk about the sufficiency of the work of God. We talked about that, right? I always try and emphasize the life and death of Jesus Christ. However, what do false teachers do? False teachers in errant movements are marked by a wrong understanding of the gospel. They attempt to add some form of human effort. You'll see that in every single false religion. They will add something to the gospel. Which is why we have to be such strong defenders of the gospel as we understand it in the Word of God. Amen? Okay. All right, the biblical gospel asserts that sinners are justified before God on the basis of His grace alone. Salvation is the gift of God received through faith, apart from our works, based solely on the finished work of Christ. Such a powerful, wonderful, encouraging, hopeful truth. In Acts 16, 30 through 31, When the Philippian jailer asked, what must I do to be saved? Paul's response was simple. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved. No other works, no other conditions, right? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And what allows us to believe? God's grace through faith. Alright, so that's the work of God. Now we talked about um The worship of God. The true church worships the Triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. In both purity of Devotion and purity of doctrine. So that's what I want you to think about when we think about worshiping the Lord. Purity of devotion. And that's hard to do, guys. even on a Sunday morning as we walk into church, to be purely devoted to our God in this time that we have of worship on a Sunday morning. We bring in a lot of baggage, don't we? As Jesus told the woman at the well in John 4, 23, An hour is coming and now is when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For such people the Father seeks to be his worshipers. In this verse, we see the worship God requires is pure both in spirit or devotion and truth or doctrine. So when we talk about the idea of purity of devotion, undefiled worship is reserved for God alone. It removes Distractions and rejects competitors. What are some of the distractions we have when we walk in on a Sunday morning? I thought you were going to say with Randall, but absolutely. Right? Trying to get kids out the door, I remember that age. Brian, you were gonna add something? Nothing? The work week uh yes please. opportunity on a Sunday. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it was mentioned earlier Julia is in charge of our cleaning ministry. I I imagine I don't want to put words in your mouth, but when she walks in on a Sunday morning on the floor, right? Um, our security guys, let me tell ya, right? They're they're on duty and I can tell you when you're on duty you're always alert. What happens when you're off duty? You're trained, man. Your your mind's going. So be praying for those guys when they're off duty and in the worship service that they can truly worship. They're not distracted by the duty. And it's a godly duty, right, to protect us. And yet They're thinking, they're watching, right? It can be a distraction. According to Isaiah 42. 8, the Lord God is a jealous God who does not share his glory with any other. I love that All glory to God. He will never give one ounce of it away to anything or anybody Second Kings 184. He removed the high places. Oh, and this is uh King Hezekiah. He was one of the few good kings on the southern nation of Judah. You remember the the uh land was split into Israel in the north and Judah in the south. Um Israel had all bad kings. I think there were 22 of them. All that. Judah had a few good kings, and Hezekiah was one of those. And here's what he did. He removed the high places and broke down the sacred pillars and cut down the Asherah. He also broke in pieces the bronze serpent that Moses had made. For until those days the sons of Israel burned incense to it, and it was called Neheshton Do you remember the the bronze serpent? Right, that was that was actually a gift from God, but what did the people do? They turned it into an idol. Right? That's what this is in reference to. And King Hezekiah to his credit was disbanding all those idols. Right? That's us, that's him being a defender of the faith. We need to do the same thing. True worship loves him with all her heart, mind, soul, and strength. Thus it is not distracted or dismissed by any hint of idolatry. Alright, so that's purity of devotion. Purity of doctrine. Undefiled worship requires an accurate view of Who God is. This is so, so important, and this is something that you probably have heard me talk about before. Um we in our sanctification Need to be cultivating a really high view of who God is. What what do we often do though with God? Humanize them. Humanize them. We bring 'em way down here to our level. Our angst and our worries bring God way down here. And what do we do with ourselves often? Right? We elevate who we are. So having a correct view, I like to say a high view of God and a correct view of mankind. And when I say that I mean who we were in our fallen nature, but also who we are in Christ. No longer condemned if you are in Christ. Right? That's an incredible truth and much encouragement. So we have to cultivate this high view of God. And how do we do that? In his word. Right? Being in his word. Being within the church, serving the body, praying. worshiping, like we just said, with purity of devotion and doctrine. To reject or distort the truth about who God is as he has revealed himself in his word is to worship the wrong God. That's why often if you are interacting with people and they say, I believe in Jesus, you need to ask them, who is this Jesus that they serve? Is it the Jesus of the Bible that we understand? Again, bringing it back to the measuring stick of the Bible It's so important to cultivate a really high view of who God is. Again, various heretical groups deny the deity of the Christ, reject the truth of the Trinity, or teach that there are many gods The worship offered by these groups is false worship because their understanding of God is erroneous. Again, that's what we're going to see as we go through church history is the defense of that truth Right? Throughout time everyone's trying to to discredit the deity of Jesus Christ. Right? That's a common theme through the New Testament. It's a common theme through church history. And we're gonna see how these defenders fought against that. In John's writings, the truth that Jesus is the Messiah, the truth that he became fully human in his incarnation, and the truth that he is God the Son. Love, um, if if you ever study the four Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, you see Matthew, Mark, and Luke are are kind of historical documents of the life of Jesus From his birth, but then quickly to his ministry, that three, three and a half years of his ministry. John is a little bit different, right? It was written several, several years after. We'll get to that next week But it really focuses on the deity of Jesus Christ. That's why I love John. That's why often we point people to John if they're new believers. But some verses here. John 1-1 Right? In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. But you've got to keep going. John 1. 14. His humanity, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth And then lastly, John 1 17, a couple more verses. For the law was given through Moses, grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. So even that first chapter of John is so rich in the deity of Jesus Christ. Alright, let's go to John 4. 23 in your Bible, and we'll be wrapping up here. John four, verse twenty three. Less John four twenty-three, but an hour is coming and now is when the true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit. So we just read that. So the question, what can you do to make your worship to make sure your worship is character characterized by both Purity of devotion, right, spirit, and the purity of doctrine truth. What are your thoughts there? Some closing comments. What can you do to betress or build up to make sure your worship is characterized that way, especially as you go into Sunday morning worship? Sean. Um as you were talking, it's just kind of the concept of purity of doctrine as the entirety of scripture. That's one thing. um today's society and kind of almost the illustration of of Israel in the past is that there's a tendency to focus on one aspect of God to the exclusion of everything else for instance, the love of God as opposed to the judgment, the righteousness and holiness of God. And all those things factor together, not just one. And you know, there's big things right now in in in commercials and stuff. He gets us and some of this other stuff that you know it's like yes these are true aspects of Jesus. He did these things. But he also did it because of this And the other thing so when we stop high one characteristic of God above everything else and only that we have a tendency to go to false doctrine in that because we forget everything else about God's nature and character and why Jesus Yeah, Sean, really good point. Couple things there. Um a defining I'll call it a defining moment in my walk was studying the attributes of God. And in in particular this was a book by Pink. Not the singer. But in and it's a little bit hard to read because it kind of goes back to the King James language, but it it goes over um all those various attributes of God. So to Sean's point God is love, yes, but He is also just, He is also righteous. I'll claim chief attribute, His holiness. To understand that in in totality was just it was mind boggling. It was a defining moment in my walk. And so I encourage you, if you haven't done so, and what do we find in Scripture? That's what we see in Scripture, is God's attributes. It starts with what? In Romans 1? General Revelation. We see a couple of his invisible attributes, just by his creation. And then special revelation, the word, we have everything we need to know that God wants us to know about Himself in the Word. So that needs to be cultivated to have the totality. When you read scripture to understand the context Right? Not just to take a particular passage, but understand the context. That's why I love survey classes. I love to get the broader picture so when I am in a book or in a passage, I can fit it into that broader narrative Right? God's redemptive plan. The entirety of Scripture. Good. All right, what else? How do we prepare ourselves for worship? How about on just a a Sunday morning? Julie. has been a favorite for a couple of years. Few years when we started doing it, we never look back. Yeah. help focus. It it like shuts the door on distractions. Yeah. Yeah. So Julie's talking about um there is a prayer uh time where anyone can come We meet in the the room right off of the the worship um center, the stage there to the right, um from nine o'clock to nine twenty. And it's just uh it's a sweet, simple time of prayer, but it's just it's getting your mind ready. Um, I don't know if you've noticed after uh Pastor Gabe's sabbatical, what does he do now at the beginning of service? He prays. I'm sure he probably saw that. And said that's a great idea. To just settle people down, get them acclimated, get them ready before a holy God. All right? Good. Um look at the email Life and Hope and um you know what the passage is going to be preached on. Love it. You've got lyrics to the songs. Yep. Uh you can look through those And by the way, I'd like to since this we're talking about this, I'm gonna apologize ahead of time. Um one of the songs may not we're singing today may not be as doctorally sound. So I'm not gonna pick that song ever again. Shocking But um so apologize for that. No Scott, I appreciate that. So a couple things you're talking about is preparation. Right? Life at Hope. It has the the scripture that um the the pastor's gonna preach on, it has the songs that you can go through. It's a preparation. You know, what's the night before look like? Is it Craziness? Or are you really starting to prepare your mind? And that's a challenge even for me guys, right, to to be consistent with that. When we had little kids, or if you have little kids, you know, do you set out their stuff F the night before, so the morning isn't craziness. There's things you can do so that you're not running into church hairy scary or whatever, right? Um preparation, it's important And and to Scott's point, I I appreciate um his admission there. We are very intentional, even with the songs we sing, um, to try and make sure that they're they're sound It happens, right? We're human. Um, but but really everything we do on a Sunday morning is try to be very intentional to bring honor and glory to the Lord. So good Yes. Um some time ago, months ago, Pastor Dave and maybe all of the elders, I'm not sure, put together um something in the form of a bookmark. Thank you. And you'll find it in the back of the seat, each seat in the worship center. And it takes you through Uh you can start it the week before, like Monday. You can start preparing for Sunday. And it gives leading questions and scriptures to prepare yourself for the upcoming worship service. Yeah. Thank you for that reminder. It's just in the back pocket of um of your chairs, so if you get a chance, grab one of those. Yes, thank you for that reminder. Um Oh yes, please. Alright, so um maybe twenty-five, thirty years ago I'm driving down the road on the highway and driving behind an eight two-wheel of the truck and there was this profound message. It wasn't scripture, but it said Is Jesus the person that you worship in a box on Sunday, or is he someone that you worship every single day of the week? So it it's stuck to this day that when you read scripture like 1 Corinthians ten thirty one, eat and drink, you know, Colossians 317, where the word be Those two verses alone sum up how we're supposed to be conducting our life as believers. We're supposed to be worshiping God twenty-four hours a day all the time. We come to worship at Hope Bible on Sunday after worshiping him every single day of the week. This is just Our summary of the whole week. We're coming in. We are ready. We should be ready before we even step through the door because we're so appreciative. Thankful of what God, what Jesus did for us on the cross, that we want to live our life, not just on something. Right. But every single day. Right. Yeah, that's a great point, Brian. We we're talking about Sunday morning here, right, because it's right in front of us, but it's how we are conducting our worship throughout the week. Right. And it goes back to these pillars, guys. It's it's staying founded in God's Word. The work of Jesus Christ, both his life and death, and then the sanctity of our worship. That's what we want to cultivate. But I those are the pillars, all right, and the foundation Jesus Christ I want you to keep that. That's the framework we're gonna have for the rest of the twelve weeks. Right? Is that fair? Right, let me close. Father, we are excited again to be in your word. We're excited to hear to understand how you have worked through your church for the last 2,000 years and more importantly What does that mean for us today? What is the application? What are we to be doing because we love you, Lord, and we want to worship you with purity Lord, we do love you, we give you all the glory, and we thank you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.