Heavenly Father, we uh once again we do not take um every day, every breath, every new mercy for granted. So we're excited to be here amongst um uh your children, the believer, the saints, um, to fellowship, to worship to dig into your word, to understand what our church fathers did to defend the faith and how that might apply to us today. So we we do ask for your wisdom, discernment And let us just have joy in understanding what they went through, what they defended, and how we need to defend that today. So we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Um I want to start by just thanking Scott for filling in for me yesterday. With the the format that we have with the new members class um during the Sunday school hour, one of the three purposes of the new member class is for the elders to get to know the potential new members and vice versa. So we try to rotate the elders through um each week and so my turn last week was to to go before the the members. And the topic was on salvation. So I always love talking about that topic. Um so again, I appreciate Scott filling in for me. Any uh so so I wasn't here I'm gonna put Scott on the spot, right? What what were some big nuggets that you learned from last week? Without looking at your your book if you can't. Julie, come on. Pull the thread on that, Brian. It's too vague. Well we need some grace for somebody to have this future. No names though, right? Okay, Grace. What else? Say that again? Okay, what is that? Um it's repetitive because believe that for an eight Yeah, yeah. That's critical, right? Absolutely. Good. Who were the two big bubbles you talked about last week? Give me one. Augustine, good. Who was the other one? Chrysostom, yeah. However you pronounce that. Good, good. And so explain to me a little bit about Augustine. What what were the big big nuggets about Augustine? So he was searching, wasn't he? Yeah, good. Okay. Scott, are you feeling more encouraged now? Okay, good. Um how about John Christmas? He was kind of um influential in doing what? Preaching. Uh Hermenutics. That's the word you're looking for. Hermeneutics, right? And we've talked about that before. The kind of the art and science of how you study your Bible is so, so important. And what was, I won't don't want to say unique, but uh what was his hermeneutic? What was he advocating for? Literal. Yeah, literal, grammatical, historical, straightforward basically, right? Read the scripture for what it says It's literal. So good. Um I just want to read the intro from last week. You don't have to turn there. But these were very influential men in the history of the church. It says within the Roman Empire one was from the West, the other from the East. One is known primarily as a theologian. Who would that be? Augustine, right. Though he was also a preacher. The other is known primarily as a preacher, though he also engaged in doctrinal discussion. and debate. And it's interesting if you look at church leaders today, even within our own church, we we kind of gravitate maybe more towards one spectrum or the other, right? All the elders kind of um um have strengths, if you will, towards one or the other. So it's just neat how that all gets complemented together. The impact of their legacy reverberated Uh reverberated in the centuries after them and is still felt today. For Protestant reformers like John Calvin, these two church fathers held a unique place of influence. So when we get to the reformers, um we'll hopefully get to see some of that influence. But that's pretty neat. These early treat uh church leaders had such an influence even during that critical time of the Reformation. Calvin especially appreciated the theology of Augustine, his emphasis on man's sinful depravity and God's undeserved grace. Calvin also greatly valued the way Christostum approached the Bible, interpreting it in a straightforward way that explained the literal meaning of the text and emphasized its practical implication. So you see the combination of those two had a really huge impact. All right, good. So Scott, thank you again for doing that. All right, we are just jamming here. So um with the lesson last week, Scott finished up really this this period we call the Patristic period, these early church fathers. And what was the time frame roughly? From the beginning of the church to the end of this period. It's kind of on the chart there, but About 500 years, right? Remember we broke it up 500 and then the Middle Ages are what? A thousand years And then the reformation to where we're at today, another 500. So that's roughly how it's broken up. So what we're going to do now is we're going to be transitioning into what is called the the Middle Ages. Now if you notice there we're going to take just three lessons to get through basically a thousand years of history. Alright so it really is meant to be more of a survey. Even this week it's about a thousand years of activity. We're really getting after what are the big nuggets right from that time period. What are the big um lessons learned or takeaways? And that's our purpose. So that's how I I want you to think about it. Okay. Um and here's the map. I think it's on page nineteen of your book. And again, we're going to cover um all five of those centuries today, so it's it really is going to be a high-level look You know, this week we're going to talk about some big words, right? Theological terms, Apollinarianism, Nestorianism Eutikianism, what in the world is that? Right, we're gonna boil that down to make it really easy for you, but it's really important to understand what they were trying to contend against with some of these uh heresies. Okay? Um we're basically going to cover seven major councils today. So Again, these big groups that got together to debate, like Julie said, what does Scripture say? It was to articulate, to confirm what the Scripture said And we've said this over and over again, the councils for us even today are not the authority. Right? Scripture is always the authority. But to see these body of men come together to affirm, to articulate what was written and and to wrestle with it is important. Now it's it's also important to understand the fact that they could even come together. They had the freedom to come together and have these debates is really quite spectacular Do you remember what happened to many of the early church fathers in the first, second, even third century? Martyred, all of them. Right, the persecution was intense. And I know here in America we strongly defend right separation between church and state, but we have some incredible freedoms that are protected by our constitution, by our government We have entered into this period, the last couple lessons, where by God's perfect design, right, the emperors were protecting Christians. And they often brought these councils together for political reasons because the debates that were happening within the church were so intense they were concerned it was starting to rip apart the empire. And so, yes, somewhat politically motivated, but it did provide a forum by God's perfect design to allow these debates to happen Right, so I wanted you to keep that in perspective. That is a blessing from God. Okay? Just a reminder on what was happening. Again, we talked about the Roman Empire at the time. You had the West and the East And um I think it was two lessons ago, right? Two of the big centers was were Alexandria and the capital, Constantinople. And in Alexandria you had um an individual he was a bishop actually of the church start a a heresy if you will write Arianism. Remember Arius and what was he what was he advocating for? Do you remember Jesus was not God. He was c a created being, right? And and that's what had to be defended against. So Athanasius was a big proponent and someone we talked about that defended that faith. But um and and there was overwhelming support at the um council of Nicaea, right? That first council of Nicaea 320 bishops, 318 signed, you know, articulating no no Jesus is God, right? Reaffirming his deity. Yet Arianism continued to gain popularity, especially in the east. Alright, so that had to continue to be defended. We'll talk a little bit about that today But I wanted you again to just kind of orient yourself context with what was happening in the Roman Empire at the time. Okay? And then again, just another neat map, I think, because we're going to talk about some of these councils. We've talked about the Council of Nicaea. There'll be another one. Chalcedon and Constantinople are the big ones we're going to talk about today. And I wanted you to just have context on the map. No, so what is this today? Modern day Turkey, right? This is Turkey. Um again just for orientation. Okay? And I uh again we we're gonna talk about some big words, we're gonna talk about some people. What I want you to understand at the end of the day what what are the big rocks, what were they defending? And it always goes back to who? Jesus Christ. I mean you're gonna see again and again, especially this week, it's about defending his deity, but we're gonna see this week also about his human nature. So this whole debate about his human nature and his divine nature in one person, how do you reconcile that? And that's difficult, guys. That's a difficult doctrine. And we'll talk some more about that. But but I want you to keep that in perspective. It's always about Jesus Christ. And so when you are interacting with people, maybe from from different beliefs, different religions, that's where you want to bring the discussion back. Right? If if they say, I believe in Jesus, you gotta start pulling that thread. Who is the Jesus that they believe? Is it the Jesus of the Bible? Or is it some other Jesus? And that's the discussion you can have. Those are the questions you want to lead people to. Always bring it back to Jesus Christ. Alright, contending for the truth. A little bit of a backdrop. The New Testament predicts the coming of false teachers. We've talked about that before, who seek to undermine the truth and distort sound doctrine from within the church. So we talked about external pressures, apologetics or apologists internal to the church, they were known as polemicists. Good job, Justin. Alright? You don't need to understand or or differentiate those terms. Just know that there was pressure coming both external and internal. But a lot of what we're going to see today These councils over many, many years, were all about defending the truth within the church. So this is all coming from within the church. And we see this clearly warned about in Scripture. Matthew 7. 15. Jesus warned, Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. Acts 20. The Apostle Paul similarly instructed the Ephesian elders. Be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock. I know that after my departure, savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them. Therefore be on the alert. I have to tell you, as an elder, I take this verse with great, great responsibility and trepidation Right? We as elders are to feed you, to lead you, but also protect you. And and I just want you guys to know there's a lot that happens behind the scenes to make sure this flock is protected. Because we love you. And and when you read these passages of how deceptive the enemy gets into the church, that's always my fear. Lord I I do I have the wisdom and discernment to make sure we're catching this before that it even enters into the flock. So you can be praying for us. We absolutely want that wisdom and discernment up front and early, but it happens. Everybody, it happens, and so we all need to be defenders. And we're going to talk about that at the very end. Make sure I leave time for an application question Yeah. Yeah, Naila, I I appreciate you bringing that up. And again, I I want you all to take accountability and responsibility for being defenders. Right, of the faith in in our church, God's church. And let me be careful. I'm not saying Hope Bible church. You know what I'm saying there, the the true church. Right? That's what I want you to be a protector of. We're not a perfect church. We're we're a bunch of human beings that have come together. Um but we need to be protecting each other and holding us accountable as the leadership for sure. Alright, Second Peter too. You remember First Peter um had kind of an emphasis on that external pressure, the apologists, and second Peter is really about internal um concerns. But false prophets also rose arose among the people, just as there will also be false teachers among you who will secretly introduce destructive heresies. That's that's the concern, secretly, right? It's not this big open clang trumpet, you know, trying to deceive everyone. It's secret It's deceptive. That's the danger. And that's why we have to know the word so, so well. Even denying the master who brought them, bringing swift destruction upon themselves. So you remember Peter, when did he die roughly? When when was first and second Peter written? Kind of mid sixties, right? About the time when mid to late sixties, about the time that so Peter and Paul Died about the same time, right? 68-ish, late 60s. So here is Peter warning, and then when was um first, second John written and Jude? So you John you're gonna see shows the evidence of that. Second John seven, the Apostle John explained that Many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver. So he calls someone who denies Christ coming in the flesh, taking on full human nature as the Antichrist. Right? Those are strong words. And we're going to see that happen with some of these uh uh heresies that happen. Those who deny Christ's coming in the flesh are deceiver and an antichrist. Jude warns about certain persons who have crept in unnoticed, those who were long beforehand marked out for this condemnation, ungodly persons who turn the grace of our God into licentiatiousness and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. As errors arose in the early centuries of church history that The true church responded by defending what Scripture teaches and clearly articulating the truth in the face of heretical attack. I do want to say this, you know, sometimes like, Lord, why did you allow this to happen, especially within the church? But what does this um this tension do? Right? It it forces the truth to become articulated. It forces the truth to be defended. It it forces the light to shine forth. So it's not necessarily a bad thing, right? We we have to work through that. We have to be warriors and defend, but by doing so we're strengthening the Word of God. All right? Alright, so we'll jump into some of your fill in the blanks. So after Emperor Constantine, uh you remember he took over as the the emperor of all of the Roman Empire And he was very v very favorable towards the Christians and and protected them. He was the first one to start to protect them to allow these councils to happen. He brought peace to Christians living in the Roman Empire in the early fourth century. Church leaders were able to address the major heresies of their day by organizing synods and councils. And we'll talk about seven of those councils today. Again, that's bringing all of them together. So the largest of these councils were organized by the emperors themselves. Right? Make sure you understand the the emperors are saying, hey, we got to get together. Now again, it was probably politically motivated But it shows the seriousness of these um debates or these um confrontations, if you will. They were so concerned about the unity of the Empire that it was going to tear it apart that they wanted to get all these folks together to to see if they could settle it. And involved church leaders from all over the Roman world. These councils are known as ecumenical councils Because they included all of the churches in the empire. As we um get towards the end of this class in modern day times, you know, we have had ecumenical gatherings But they didn't back in those days have the the the spectrum of denominations and and religions that we have today And so for us today to bring together the Christian church, right, it's usually for tolerance, for unity. Um it's It's not necessarily what we are looking for or what they did back in the day here. But at the time here it was just bringing all of the churches in the uh empire together to have these discussions. As we talked about in church history, seven ecumenical councils are generally recogniz The central theological issues addressed these seven councils centered on, as I mentioned, the person of Jesus Christ. So that's one of the big rocks I want you to walk away with. This was all about Jesus Christ trying to explain Jesus Christ as the Son of God and God. Right We'll focus on the three most important as I mentioned earlier. Um the Council of Nicaea in three twenty five, the council of Constantinople in three eighty one, about fifty-five years later, and then the Council of Chalcedon in four fifty-one. I think that was seventy plus years. And then we'll briefly touch at the end the four other counsels. All right, let's turn in your Bibles to Second John seven and eleven. Second John seven through eleven. For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not acknowledge Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the Antichrist. Watch yourselves that you might not lose what we have accomplished, but what you may receive so that you may receive a full reward. Anyone who goes too far and does not abide in the teaching of Christ does not have God. The one who abides in the teaching, he has both the Father and the Son. And that if anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house and do not give him a greeting. For the one who gives him a greeting participates in his evil deeds. So what was it what was the primary doctrinal issue and we we talked about this verse earlier that the false teachers were distorting. Yeah, but specifically verse seven That he came in the flesh. Right? This is all about um really what we're tackling today is the humanity of Christ. That's the focus today. Did he truly have a human nature? That's what's going to be discussed. And that's what he's saying. If you don't believe that, you're a deceiver and an antichrist. And it even says later on in verse um 10, right? Do not receive them into your home. Yes, we are be to be hospitable, but when there is a clear um heresy, you are not even to welcome them into your home, right? Who um today, what religion doesn't believe in um uh the deity of God for sure, that he was created? Jehovah's Witness Right, Jehovah's Witness. Has anyone had a Jehovah's Witness come to your door? Yes. And how did you handle it? Didn't let him in. Good. It's cold out there, isn't it? Seriously, anyone um want to share an interaction with a Jehovah Witness? So so Julie referenced um John one 14, John 1, yeah, 14. Obviously the very beginning of John 1. Um in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God, and the Word was with God. Right, and then fourteen, and the word became flesh and dwelt among them. So that's a great passage to take them to. Rex. They translate that word uh And in the beginning was the word and the word was not God, a God. Uh they put an A in there and they want to take you to their translation, not yours. It says A loss. Yeah, great point. And just a simple add of A, right? We've talked uh we're gonna talk a little bit about a simple add of adding an I What does that do? But great, great point. Good. Okay. So we covered um this first council, the council of Nicaea, 325. That was shortly after um Constantine became emperor. And do you remember what was in lesson five? Do you remember so we'll just do a quick um summary here. Do you remember what the key issue was here? Again, Arianism what is what was trying to be defeated, if you will. The deity of Christ, exactly. Right? That Jesus is God. That's the starting point. And as mentioned they had roughly three hundred and twenty bishops, that's a lot of a lot of folks, and three hundred and eighteen of those um affirmed that the the deity of Christ and again they met for for many many days in this case forty days so almost um you know, a month and a half. It wasn't just a quick weekend retreat. It was it was long time, a lot of debate, which again it's great to just to just have that sharpening, if you will, in affirmation at the end of all of it. So there was actually two issues that were prominent at the Council of Nicaea. The one we talk about is um the deity of Christ, but they also had another issue here. So in addition to addressing the doctrinal issue of Christ's deity, the council also addressed the date for celebrating Resurrection Sunday, Easter. And we did not talk about that. We're not going to talk about that today. If you have questions about that, you can come see me later. So you might remember, and I don't know if this is in your book, but the issue or the positions that were being taken were about the essence of Christ Right? What was his substance or his essence? And Arius had this idea of a uh heteroousius. Ousius meaning substance or essence And hetero means different. So he's saying that Christ's essence was different from God because he felt God was a created being. Now He put Christ, I mean Christ as a uh created being. He put Christ as the very top of creation. You know, it was Christ who was created and everything else. So yeah, he has a prominent role, but he doesn't have the same essence Okay? And that's driven by again this big theological term, this ontological equality. Here's what I want you to remember though The logic is Christ was co-eternal. So he existed with God eternally from time past. In doing so, he must be of the same essence. If he's of the same essence, he must be equal to God. That's the logic flow there. And if the enemy can can negate any one of those, then he's one. Right? And that's what Arius was trying to do. That's the heresy. Is that he was created so he wasn't co-eternal. If he wasn't co-eternal, then he isn't of the same substance and he isn't God. That's the logic flow there. So that was hetero. Um let me jump down. So they started to have this debate and they came up with another term, homoi. So they added the I homoi Usius Meaning similar to. Right? He has a lot of likeness to God, but similar is not the same as the same ass So a lot of people gravitated to this idea of Homoy because it it kind of um s uh smoothed over some of the debate. But the defenders were like, no There's no way we're going there. It is still different. And so they landed on homo, meaning the same substance. And that would be the Trinitarian view that we affirm today at Hope Bible Church. Alright, the results of all of that, the views of Arius, were rejected by the Council overwhelmingly, like I talk about. The Nicene Creed, which was adopted by the Council, defended the truth that God was uh God the Son is like I talked about co-eternal, co-essential, and co-equal with God the Father. That that logic train is really, really important Um, I don't know, do you guys have the Nicene Creed in your book in this section? Probably not. It's in lesson five. You don't need to go there. We we covered that a little bit Again, the idea of the councils was simply to be an articulation of biblical truth, of what they heard from the apostles, what was written in Scripture. Alright? It is not our authority today. One of the words in that Nicene Creed though is this term incarnate. Which means to take on human nature and form. And this is going to be important as we talk about some of these heresies. Incarnate, taking on human nature and form. Another word that is in the extended Nicene Creed, so it was actually expanded the Nicene Creed, I think we're going to talk about that in a second, to include the Holy Spirit, language about the Holy Spirit to affirm the deity of the Holy Spirit as well. But they're they also use the term Catholic, the Catholic Church, which um um causes some people to stumble. It's a low seat. It simply meant the universal church at the time. It did not refer to what we know as the Roman Catholic Church today. So just a little trivia to get there if you see that in the Creed That's what it means, just the universal church. Again, the creed focuses on the deity of Christ because that was the primary issue at stake. Although it fur it affirms belief in the Holy Spirit, it does It does not explain the doctrine of the Holy Spirit in any detail. That's the original Nicene Creed. Like I said, it was expanded several years later when they met again. We talked about this already, but let's go to can someone go to John 1. 1? Julie, can I have you go to John 1. 1? Lewis, can you go to John 5. 18? And Carolyn? Can I have you go to John eight, fifty-eight through fifty-nine? And again to to reaffirm uh what was written in Or articulated in the Nicene King. So Julie uh John one. We're all familiar with that, but read it for me, please. So if he was there from the beginning, right, it gets to that co eternal aspect. And if he was there from the beginning, then you have the same substance, right? Coessential. And so he must be co equal. So that verse absolutely reaffirms. How about five eighteen? Oh yes. Do you think it kind of even hints of the Trinity because it talks about being with God It has aspects, Julie, of of plurality for sure, right? Um similar to Genesis one when it talks about um we will make man in our image. Right? It doesn't specifically call out three persons, but you get the idea there's more than one. Right? Ah Lewis, John five eighteen. This is why the Jews began trying all the more to kill him. Not only was he breaking the Sabbath But he was even calling God his own father, making himself equal to God. Good. So that was the big problem, right? He was calling himself God. They they were okay with all the miracles But he was claiming to be God. Good. Um Rom or John eight, fifty-eight through fifty-nine. Good. Alright, again another affirmation. And let's quickly go over to Hebrews 1-3 Hebrews one three and he is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of his nature. This I'm reading from the NASB, the exact representation of his nature or essence or substance and upholds all things by the word of his power when he had made purification of sins. He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. So again this idea of co-essence I think is affirmed in this passage And I I often draw people to this passage. I'm like, do you want to know God? Study Jesus. Because Jesus right here is the exact representation of God. And we have lots that is told about us um in the Gospels for sure about Jesus. Christ. Alright, so let's get to this first council. Um the Council of Constantinople. Again in 381, it was about 55 years after the Council of Nicaea. And the key issues. Yes, the the deity, but also the humanity of Christ. That's the big change that we're going to see here. And then as I just mentioned, also the deity of the Holy Spirit. It was just briefly mentioned in the night um Council at Nicaea, it is expanded here at the Council of Constantinople. Alright, in spite of the Nicene Creed, the false teachings of Arius continue to be very popular, like I talked about, right? They They were condemned, if you will, at the Council of Nicaea, but Arius was a pretty crafty dude. He had a lot of popularity, so that belief continued to promulgate throughout the empire. The view of Homoi, remember adding that I, Homoy Usius, being similar but still different, was particularly popular popular, right? Because it kind of blended the two together. It was a softer approach to what he was trying to say. One of the key defenders we talked about, Athanasius, along with other church leaders, um continue to defend the doctrine of Christ, equality to the Father. In rejecting the doctrine of the Trinity, that's really what they're doing here, right? They're rejecting the Trinity by saying Jesus Christ is not God The polaros of Arius also denied the deity of the Holy Spirit. Um proponents of this view were known as pneumatiens, that's a mouthful But this pneumatology, that's the study of the Holy Spirit, right? Pneumatic meaning spirit or force. And you can think of our word today, pneumatics, right? And you think of this under pressure, this force. So pneumatology, the study of the Holy Spirit They were denying the the the deity of the Holy Spirit. Boy, and if that breaks down, right, the deity of Jesus Christ and the deity of the Holy Spirit, we can't trust anything that's in the Bible. It all falls apart So a new heresy about Christ called Apollinarianism also arose, and we'll get to that in a second. The creator of this view, and a lot of times these heresies are named after the people that are pushing So Apollinarius of Laodicea taught that although Jesus possessed a human body, he did not have a human spirit or soul. Instead, his physical body was like a shell occupied by a divine mind. So think visualize that. What he was trying to say was yes we see this this physical being Jesus Christ but he doesn't have a human nature it's just a shell. What's inside of him is really the divine nature And and the body's just moving around by this divine nature. I mean that's the thought. Now again, they're they're trying to reconcile in their mind this very difficult paradox of one person having a divine nature and a human nature. It's hard. It's hard to reconcile that in your mind. We know it's true from Scripture, but that's what they were wrestling with. The problem is apparently they weren't going back to Scripture, right, to to und truly understand what the word said. And that's how you um started some of these heretical teachings. Okay. Alright, so we're going to talk about that in a second here. These issues motivated so the emperor at the time was Theodosius uh to convene this council at Constantinople and it lasted for about three months. So the first one was forty days, this one about three months. That's a long time In and that was in 381. It's important to note in 380 Theodosius outlawed heretical views of Arius and declared the the Nicene or the Trinitarian Christianity to be the official religion of the Roman Empire. So here you have a Roman Emperor designating this is this is the state religion, but it was Trinitarianism, all right? That's the context that we have as we start this council Alright, so here are the positions. We talked obviously about Arianism. Again, deny the eternality of the Sun. Argue in instead that he was a created being. Okay? And then we talked about this idea this now of Apollinarianism. So here you gotta understand Apollinarius affirmed the deity of Christ. That wasn't the question. The question was his humanity. He did not accept the full humanity of Christ. Instead he saw Jesus' human body as a physical shell like we just talked about. He denied that Jesus Jesus possessed a human soul We're going to talk about the implications of that in a second. Right? So so have that in your brain. What are the implications of that if that's true? If he truly does not have a human nature. Let me give you some additional context here. Apollinarius was an Alexandrian thinker. You remember the church in Alexandria? That's where Arius is from And this is where Apollinarius is also from. It's where Athanasius was from, a friend of Athanasius and a strong opponent of Arianism. He became bishop of Laodicea in three sixty one. In the three seventies he got into trouble for teaching quite openly that Christ did not have a human mind or spirit. Apollinarius believed that the human mind was and and here's the problem he had. Apollinarius believed that the human mind was the source of all human weakness and sin. That's the context that he had. He therefore felt that Christ's sinless perfection required him not to have a human mind. So he was trying to defend basically the deity of Christ by saying if if the human will is evil, then no way can can Christ have a human will Right, so his logic in reasoning was absolutely wrong. The divine and infinite mind of the son of Logos, Apollinarius taught took the place of a human mind of Christ. He was a divine mind in a human body. This absence of a human mind preserved Christ from the possibility of sin Apollinarius also thought if that if Christ had a human as well as a divine mind he would split apart into two separate persons A human son of man and a divine son of God. So again, to devoid this disastrous conclusion, Apollinarius denied that Christ had a human mind. So because his logic was wrong, he had to um come up with this heretical view to to make reason of it all. Right? That's a dangerous place to be. Go back to what Scott um taught you at last week about a good hermeneutic. That's where you got to start from A good understanding of the scripture. Let that be your foundation, and then that drives your thought from there on out. Okay? Polinarianism. Obviously, the counter to that, Trinitarianism. Right. The Orthodox position insisted that the incarnate Christ is both truly God and truly man. Hence he possessed both a full divine nature and a full human nature. Moreover, with regard to the Holy Spirit, the Orthodox position affirmed the full deity of the Spirit of God. The Trinity consists of three co-equal persons Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. So you have one person that has both natures. Again, that's hard to wrap your head around, but we trust Scripture. The results, the Council again affirmed what was written in the Nicene Creed, talking about the deity of Jesus. Both Arianism and Apollinarianism were denounced as heretical positions In so doing, the council affirmed a belief in both the full deity and the full humanity of Christ. So again, this was their ability to articulate that Trinitarian position. Fully human, fully divine. As I mentioned, um the Nicene Creed was expanded to include the Holy Spirit, so if you go online and look at the full Nicene Creed today you'll see um the Holy Spirit mentioned in there as well as the third member of the Trinity. I'm not going to cover that. Okay, let's talk um a little bit about the implications that we we talked about. Apollinarianism denied the full or true humanity of Christ. So let's go to Hebrews chapter four. You know, why is it so important that that Christ had a human nature as well as a divine nature. Hebrews chapter 4, and I'm going to be reading starting in verse 14. Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are yet without sin. Let us therefore draw near with confidence to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and may find grace to help What are the implications if Jesus did not have a human nature, if he was not fully human? Thoughts. Rex. That's it, right? What else? Bill. Paul calls him the second Adam, right? So if he's not a human, he can't be a son of Adam. He can't be a representative, right? Yep. Yeah, thanks Phil. Good. What else? Specifically to the passage we just read. He wasn't tempted. All right, good. Joel, were you gonna be able to do that? Right, okay. Um is there an example in the Bible of extreme temptation by uh on Jesus Christ? Matthew four, right? Forty days in the wilderness without food or water. You know, I i I think it's hard for us to imagine that. Sometimes I think, well, I missed lunch today and I'm really hungry. Forty days. You can't imag he he was probably um had lost a lot of weight. It certainly says he was hungry, but you probably can't even begin to imagine what he was going through. He was at his lowest point from a physical standpoint. Alright, tempted by Satan. And what did he do? He he went back to scripture. That's how he resisted the devil But y you know, just think of he was fully tempted, it said, in every way. And often we we can't even appreciate that because what? We don't often go through the full cycle of temptation. We often give in to it Right? He he never did that. He never ever did that. So in his human nature, he experienced all the things we experience. Think of the emotions that come out in the Bible. Jesus, right? The emotions that he felt. And he is now our great high priest who sits at the right hand of God and can sympathize because he had a full human nature. To deny that, all that goes away. Like Rex said, the whole gospel just falls apart. So huge implications for someone believing in that heretical view. The other thing I think that's important is when he was resurrected, what what form was he in? Bodily. Bodily, right? Yes, spirit, but he had a bodily form When he ascended bodily form, when he comes again it says he's going to come the same way. That means in bodily form And it's a representation of what's going to happen when our spirit goes up to heaven, right? At the glorification and we're united with a new body, right? So absolutely a human nature. And we see that over and over again in scripture. Yeah. You know, w we won't spend too much time on this. I think it's a great no, I think it's a great thought, Brian, but I hope when I get to heaven I do recognize you, right? Because I do love you You know, I think of our wives and our children and our family, and I think there's an idea, absolutely, we'd love to say, yay, great to see you again. But to your point. we will be in the glory of God. And that's going to overwhelm anything that's happening. So let's just leave it there. It's a wonderful thought. And we'll come back to that if we have time. Alright, so let's start getting at some of these counsels. The Council of Chalcedon, again, this was about 70 years after the Council of Constantinople. Again, just to give you some time frame, you know, so seven decades later. And very similar Of the key issue, the two natures of Christ, his deity and his humanity. So that's what's happening over this span of time um really um several centuries of talking about yes his deity but really his humanity as well. The Council of Constantinople had a Affirm the true deity and true humanity of Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God, the second member of the Trinity, took on flesh and became a man in his incarnation. And that's why, you know, even Christmas time was often debated, right? Because it was this issue of the incarnate, Jesus taking on a human flesh, human nature. Questions remained as to how these two natures, the divine and human related to one another. That and again, that's tough to reconcile. So that's what they were trying to reconcile in their mind. The question would be addressed right now at the Council of Chalcedon Emperor Marcion called the council. Again, this was an emperor that brought the council together. He had denounced an earlier council that met at Ephesus in 449. We we're not going to cover that um as being illegitimate. The Council of Chalcedon, though, was convened to override what happened at that earlier council. So it's interesting. Again, some three hundred and seventy bishops attended this particular council and it was Leo first. He was the bishop of Rome. Um so the church at Rome, he was the head bishop there, was unable to attend, but he was er very influential in what happened at this council. So he sent a letter ahead. to be read at the Council and it had a huge influence on what was discussed and what was ultimately written in the Council of Chalcedon. Basically articulating this Trinitarian view. All right, but some of the positions, and this is where we get into some some big uh big theological terms, but I'm going to break it down for you And uh maybe make it easier for you to understand. We're gonna bring back our good buddy Dave Doyle in the process. So so hang tight. Alright, this first one, Nestorianism. You can imagine who was the Baba behind this? Nestorius, of course, right? So Nestorianism. This view divided the two natures of Christ Putting a wall of separation between them to the point that he was viewed as two persons. So that was the issue. He c he couldn't reconcile them living in one person or being part of one person. So he said it's gotta be two people. So now we got four people of the Trinity, right? Craziness. There's debate as to whether Nestorius um actually held the view associated with his name. In summary, Nestorianism asserted that Christ possessed two natures and was therefore Two persons. Right? So that's the big deal with Nestorianism. Two natures, he affirmed two natures, but it meant it had to uh reside in two different people All right, the second one is Eutikianism. In response to Nestorianism, Eutiches emphasized that Jesus Christ was a single person with a single divine nature. The human nature was was either eclipsed by the divine nature or mixed together with the divine resulting in a hybrid nature. In summary, Eutikanism argued that Christ was only one person, so he got that right, but he said it he he possessed only one nature. So think of this this blending together of the two natures. And it was recognized that the the uh prominent nature would obviously be his divine nature. So his human nature was kinda sucked in and really the divine nature took over. But it's really this blending or hybrid of the two natures. Again, he got the one person right, but he got the two natures wrong. He he combined them together. Um let me see if I want Yeah, Eutychius taught that the union between Christ's human and divine natures was such a close fusion of the two. that the human nature had been swallowed up or lost in the divine, like a drop of wine in the sea. I mean that's the the image I just gave you. Think of the sea as his divine nature and the drop of wine as his human nature. Alright, so that's the proportion that he saw. Alright, I just wanted to share that. I thought that was a good imagery of it's not necessarily the two are equal and come together that way. um his divine nature overwhelmingly. But the key is he he combined those two, brought them together. Alright. So we talked of Pollinarianism, um we talked Nestorianism, we talked Eutikianism. Leo, like I just mentioned, sent this letter to the Council. What he was um proposing, this term hypostatic union, hypostatic, a distinct personal being or substance. Again, big theological term. Basically what it means is a single person with two natures the union of these two natures coming together in a single substance, right? A one person. Leo articulated a position that avoided the errors of both Nestorianism and Eutikianism. He affirmed that Christ in his incarnation possesses two natures, divine and human. In Jesus is both truly God and truly man. The integrity of each nature must be preserved. That's important. Right, it's not a blending, but the integrity of fully man, fully God have to be preserved. Yet at the same time Leo also affirmed that Christ is a single person. In becoming a man, Jesus did not become multiple persons. In summary, Leo's position asserted that Christ is a single person who possesses two natures. And again, a bit of a mystery I'll admit that. Alright, so how do I remember all this, Christopher? These are a lot of big terms. I don't know what to do with these. We bring in some doyalisms. How many how many were here when Dave Doyle was here? Alright, you you know Dave and some of his uh I actually don't think he came up with these. Um But he did use them and he was always good about um just using some common language to describe you know difficult terms or big big words or what have you. But but this is it. Right? So we talked about Apollinarianism, this idea that the divine nature was just in the shell of a human body. So God in a bot, right? He's simply God in a body. Nestorianism talked about um He he realized the two natures, but he said that must mean there's two people. Right? So God with a buddy. And then the last one, Eutychianism, was a blending of these two natures into one nature. Right? So you got God and a bod God with a buddy and God in a blender. That's how you remember all that. All right? All false. All false. Really the the view we affirm, obviously the Trinitarian, but this hypostatic union Two distinct natures that have to be preserved coming together in one person. Yes. Is it worth digging into what is a person and what is a nature? Oh good. So Bill asks um what is a person and what is a nature? Any thoughts? What is a person? What do you think, Bill? Uh intellect, will, and emotions. So I I would think of person as like the specific thoughts, decisions, emotion affections that that an intellectual individual fields right as opposed to a nature which is more of like character and attributes that are that are general for God. Yeah. So what Bill said for a person and and I think this is spot on you often heal, you know, mind, will, affections. You know, that is a person. God is a person. Right? And and he made us in his image as people with mind, will and affections. And I think of nature, Bill, like you said, really the essence that we've been talking about. Right, the essence of that entity. Um so that that's a great discussion. That's a good good thought. Any other thoughts on that? We we we didn't we didn't talk about it here in and I'm not going to But, you know, there there is debate even against um or amongst uh good and godly Christians, Pastor Dave would often talk about was Jesus capable of sinning? Right? And and we're not going to get into there, but it's something good to ponder. If he was had this divine nature, then no way could he sin. But he had a human nature that was tempted. Could he have sinned but he didn't We know that his human nature was in complete submission to his divine nature. That we know. But I I'll just let you know that that is something that is debated. What we do know is Christ never sinned. And he couldn't sin, right? That if if he sinned then the gospel again falls apart. Nail I didn't want to go into this debate, so Yeah. Naila, uh it's a fair point and I tend to to and this is just me personally tend towards that view but Um like I said, good and godly Christians will go back to Scripture to uh maybe point to a different view. And none of it is heretical. It's just something that gets debated, right? With these again, trying to To reconcile these two natures in one person, how does that work itself out? Rex. And uh one thing that I guess it was sort of like the middle row, right? So the ability but not the possibility of sin. Yep. And that sort of Yeah. Kind of a third view. Yeah. Yep. Yeah, thanks Rex for I and I remember because I was uh part of that class, so thank you for bringing that up. And we got into a good um discussion about that. It it's a good topic to talk about, but Again, it's trying to reconcile, you know, these how does two natures work in one person? All right. So with the time we have remaining, let's go over um we're just gonna briefly cover the four remaining councils and then maybe some time for application at the end. So there was another council. Remember the first council at Ephesus, there were some issues with that. We didn't talk about that, but the Council of Chalcedon was to override some of what was done. Um and there was a lot of politics that were happening um during that first um council. But here we have the council of Ephesus in 431. At this council, the church sought to protect the doctrine of Christ's deity even in his incarnation Accordingly, they affirm that a proper title for Mary is the term Theotokus, meaning the bearer of God. The purpose behind this title was not to elevate Mary but to safeguard the deity of Christ. In the incarnation, God the Son took on flesh and became human. When Mary gave birth to Jesus, the the baby in the manger was God incarnate. The debate here was mostly about Jesus had to go through the normal process of a human birth to take on that human nature. Some were arguing against that. So that's why they have the language. It wasn't to elevate Mary as someone who should be worshipped, such as the Roman Catholic Church does today. Right? That would happen later. But that wasn't the intent here. It was to to bring back the the the fact that Jesus had to go through that normal process. So Mary was the God bearer, the bearer of God. The second council of Constantinople. So a lot of this happened within that region I showed you on the the map earlier in Turkey. In the East, after the Council of Chalcedon, there remained a significant number of people who rejected the hypostatic union. Remember the definition we just talked about. insisting and said that Christ possessed a single nature. Which um which cartoon was that I guess it could have been a couple of them. Apollinarianism talked about a single nature, uh, and Eutikianism, right, talked about this blending of having one nature So that was the debate that was happening there. Emperor Justinian convened the council to address the controversy over the issue. The council affirmed the Council of Chalcedon, but also condemned the writings of three earlier theologians who had been associated with nastorious. So again they were condemning these um these heretics, which is awesome, which is great Right, then we get to the third council of Constantinople. What's happening in Constantinople? 680. The primary question answered at this council was whether Christ possessed one will or two wills. So we get to Bill's question, what is the person? What is the nature? Um, do we have different wills going on here? And I think back to our earlier discussion, you know, could Jesus sin? This plays into that, right? Absolutely plays into. And that's why it's so difficult to just have a a, you know, everyone can agree to this theology, if you will. Because it's bringing in these ideas of what is a person, what is a nature. The primary question, yeah, one or two wills. In keeping with the church's teaching that Christ possesses two natures, the council affirmed that he likewise possessed possesses two wills, divine and human. The council was careful to clarify that Christ's human will is always in perfect submission to and accordance with His divine will. So here's where we see, you know, yes, two different wills even, and yet one is clearly in submission to the divine will. Alright, the last one The Second Council of Nicaea. In the 7th and 8th centuries, a major debate erupted in the East over the veneration of icons or images of Jesus and the saints. Some of the emperors were concerned that icons of Jesus in particular violated the second commandment. What is the second commandment? No brethren. Right, no graven images, no idols, and thus constituted idolatry. Um a council met in Hiera to condemn icons, but its rulings were overwhelmed in 787 by the Second Council of Nicaea which affirmed icons as being orthodox. Those who supported the use of icons argue that icons of Jesus do not violate the second commandment because Christ is the image of the invisible. So this can be hotly debated, right? Um the use of icons or pictures. Yeah, the problem is do they become um idol like? And and we do see some of that in the Catholic Church that that I was born in, right? Um pictures and um statues of Mary, you know, it it becomes idols and and now you have people worshiping Mary. at the same level they worship Christ. So that was the debate or the fear here is that these these icons or images would be worshipped And it was like, hey, you gotta have some discernment here. They're not in and of themselves bad, but when they become idols, absolutely. So that's what was being debated. Let me close you with this, and I'm going to set up an application for you because we're out of time. And I want you to be thinking about it, and we might start next class with that application Okay. But let me let me close with this again. I would reemphasize the creeds um are are good for us. They're good for us to to see what was defended against. And again, through this entire period, what we're seeing is the focus is Jesus Christ. And that's that's the goal of the enemy is to discredit the deity And the human nature of Jesus Christ. And that's still our goal today is to defend that. Okay? But we go back to Scripture. The creeds are just affirmation. In learning about church councils and historic creeds, it is important to remember a simple principle. God's word is our authority over church history and church tradition. That means that the decision of a church council is valid only in so far as it accords with what the word of God teaches. And I know you all know that, um, but it's good to remind ourselves. So here's the application that I have for you and I want you to be thinking about it. So here's the scenario You're at a small group meeting, and I know this might be far-fetched, but I want you to think through the mechanics of what you would do. And one of the group members comes up to you on the side You're sitting there sipping a cup of coffee and has these thoughts or asserts that that he or she really feels that Christ has a blended nature Right? It just doesn't make sense. You got one person, you're going to have one nature. That's what's said to you. How do you respond? I'm going to leave you there. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we love you. We love your word. We love our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Um very exciting to see just through your redemptive plan, um, through church history of these um these defenders of the faith, how they stood so strongly and were able to just go back and affirm your word. Let us have the same boldness and courage today, Lord. We are privileged to be in a church that admires your word, that wants to protect your word, that preaches your word And yet we are warned that the enemy is going to secretly work its way in. Give us discernment, Lord. Help us to protect your church. We love you, we thank you, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen