I'll call it the twenty-first century, although again if we have some time we can talk a little bit about what that looks like. And I said it, I said it last week. What was the standard now? What could go wrong? That now becomes the authority versus that's a gift by God to be used for God. By the twentieth century, theological liberalism was prevalent in both Europe and the United States, in addition to rejecting one, the inerrancy of Scripture Many proponents of liberalism also denied the deity of Christ, the miracles recorded in the Bible, the substitutionary atonement of Jesus' death on the cross, and the bodily resurrection of Christ Start with, all right, this is God speaking. Second, we talk about the work of God in salvation. And that's why we must defend the pure gospel. You know, a lot of these terms, even like Methodists, started out very pure and as they go through time they get diluted, um, infiltrated by others, and so a lot of these terms have Now these five fundamentals were basically to dispute um what was mainly coming from the the the liberals. These are seminary professors teaching the next generation and they're denying the inerrancy of scripture. So you have a lot of uh different PCA type churches um in America today. The trial itself generated negative publicity for fundamentalists and their creationist views, which were perceived to be outdated and contrary to scientific progress. Now you you start to see you know kind of the split of a lot of these mainline denominations into even smaller, you know, splinter groups, if you will. Don't hit 'em over the head with a Bible. It's pray, it's meet with people, I don't care if you're an introvert or an extrovert, and share the gospel. But if our goal is faithfulness, the choice between honoring God and pleasing men is a clear one. We want to try and cultivate a very high view, an accurate view of who God is, and a correct or accurate view of who we are when we were in our sinful state and then as a child of God The truth of Scripture ought to govern both our private devotion and our corporate worship. For certain persons have crept in unnoticed, those who were long beforehand marked out for this condemnation, ungodly persons who turn the grace of our God into licentiousness The negative part of independence is you are independent, right? You know, people will say, I I can just go online and listen to the sermon, right? Heavenly Father, we we again we don't take any day for granted. Um many of these great men that we talked about it started with with the moms or the grandmas, right, as we learn in Scripture back home He described it right across from the heel of of Italy. You know what what can we do? So that was his encouragement that we need to be doing all three. And we put Guadalupe on the on the spot. I think therefore a spark of the movement. Okay? were either legends or coincidences that could be explained as a result of natural causes. Right, that's the pattern we see here. Right, as we look back uh over the c last couple of centuries, we see that. He follows with this. Hasafluk is his name. Right? Right, that Scripture has no falsehood in it, no errors, the virgin birth and deity of Jesus Christ, the substitutionary atonement of Christ's death Alright, that's what's happening here. um and strengthen this modernism movement. In the nineteen fifties and sixties, a preacher named Billy Graham emerged as a popular evangelist uh evangelist. Let's see, we can be grateful for the many churches across the world that have been faithful to honor God's Word and contend earnestly for the faith. There's no more write-ins, but I'll I'll throw this chart up there. Oh, what's the word I'm looking for? And uh that sounds good. I said it's God's truth. Or listening to the false teachers. And taking it to heart, it's all truth. Uh uh Guadalupe and then Julie. And that's what our kids, that's what we're being um influenced by, social media, the news. I mean, to me that was a subtle nuance. That's what they get tripped up on. um what's the often turns as big eva. you know, I'd much rather have face to face you know for sure interaction anyway. Um and we ask for a special blessing over uh Gabe's father, Billy Powell, who will be preaching today. Um and know that we are continuing to write history as you continue to unfold your revealed will. I didn't know that much about church history. You're going to see during this time frame, and it's probably still relevant to us today, but this the supremacy of the Word of God, right? And you can see through, I do like this this side of the map here, if you will. And I I wish this lesson maybe integrated a bit more of uh the impact that you courageous women have made. the schisms, but then kind of a reset with the Reformation, but then what we have and are living in right now this age of reason, right? Point is throughout history we see these pillars being attacked again and again and again. Okay, good. You know, a lot of those Ivy League schools that were stood up were were founded on Christian principles. We'll talk about some more creeds and then this idea of evangelicals that we've talked a little bit about in the past. Alright, I wanted to start here. Germanic forces uh coming in from the north. But he brought a lot of um relevance to what was happening. Remember what was happening down here in the south, what was the influence? more influence on the Western side, so they weren't sure what exactly. You know, heavy today it's heavy, heavy muscle. and how he interacts with um you know their beliefs and and how to share the gospel. Anyone who was there Friday night, anything you want to add to that? When they were on the dividing line it it seemed like y you know, we we have a distinct line here, but during over a period of uh hundreds of years, that line moves a little bit and so they were caught in the middle of uh we have more influence on the eastern side and then we have a little bit And then we need to be sharing the gospel. To just be encouraged about how God is moving in other places, other countries, but how his redemptive plan is is unfolding. Um we heard several testimonies of folks that will be going on the short-term missions trip. Right? Which is emphasized by what? Which focus on the scientific method, right? The shift is known as the Enlightenment or the Age of Reason. Right? You know, rationalism also moved into romanticism, where there was a focus on our happiness, our joy, right, and in a huge emphasis on the arts Those are gifts from God. I am thoroughly convinced that the Lord had a hand in our constitution and our form of government. Okay, so that heavy heavy influence on the beginning of America. Um maybe they thought they were doing a good thing, but but this uh we're gonna talk about this term theological liberalism, right? But it soon became dominated by those who claimed the Bible should be discarded. God, he was thinking, oh we're gonna build it up on this foundation of reason. What's the the to defend against the internal threat, what were those people called? Armed with reason and science, some Enlightenment thinkers openly question the inspiration, authority, and accuracy of Scripture. and their authority. defraud, if you will, the the authenticity of the authors, again you're starting to to strip away the authority of the Bible. And taught the and taught that the gospels were not historical accounts about the life of Jesus. Broadly speaking, liberalism rejected the inspiration and inerrancy of Scripture and redefined the church's mission in terms of things like social activism. In response to these attacks, Bible-believing Christians from various Protestant denominations, Baptists, Presbyterians, Methodists, and more, banded together So that's the clash that is happening now during this time period. Um and then you see the stand-up here of the Princeton Theological Seminary. and the church's influence in society. Yeah, Jonathan Edwards. In the mid-18th century, the Lord raised up a formidable defense at Princeton Theological Seminary. Um we have some key folks. Right. He became a professor of systematic theology, um, defended the doctrine of biblical inerrancy. and worship. They start to add to it. Again from Warfield, we have but one Savior, and that one Savior is Jesus Christ our Lord. In the late 19th and early twentieth, the movement included well-known evangelists. is they went out and they're like, we know we know exactly what occupations everyone has and we know how much they make and if we use ten percent as a guy, this is what, you know, so they were like, hey man Started the Moody Institute, Schofield, you probably recognize the Schofield Bible and Billy Sunday. In 1910, the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church identified five fundamentals. and skeptical attacks to scripture. Um let me read a couple quotes from there. Written by sixty-four authors from several denominations. and to give us an inheritance among all them that are sanctified. Alright, so now we have fundamentalism versus modernism. uh primarily you had Presbyterian, Baptists, and Methodists at this time frame. Public opinion opinion against fundamentalism increased as a result of the Scopes Monkey trial. Machin left. William Jennings Bryan, a three-time presidential candidate. Presbyterian Church or OPC, the Presbyterian Church in America, PCA, the Conservative Baptist Association of America, and the General Association of Regular Baptist Churches. So this group began to identify themselves as new evangelicals or later simply as evangelicals. The deity of Christ, his atoning death on the cross, and his bodily resurrection from the grave. And you end up with with so many of the denominations we have today, many of them calling themselves Christians, but quite liberal. than that of earlier fundamentalists. in his evangelistic crusades caused many fundamentalists to separate from Graham. You know, UC Franklin Graham, I think, also associated very much in in political type of activities. You you see that kind of movement too, you just gotta be careful is all I'm saying. that is always a good thing. Myself, a defender of the faith. of the good news of Jesus Christ. Historic fundamentalism contended earnestly for the truth of Scripture in the face of liberal attack. Let me get through these and then we have a good amount of time to have some discussion so I want to do that. Sinners are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, based on the finished work of Christ alone. In an age when we are told that truth is relative and all beliefs systems are equally valid, it requires gospel courage. They say they worship God. And then the third piece, finally we ought to do all this as an act of worship for the glory of God alone. It's found in Christ, right? James. He doesn't say Jude, the brother of Jesus and of James, right? So here I love it, Jude is is recognizing him not as his brother, but as the deity of Jesus Christ. How do we contend earnestly for the faith today? came Friday night, uh David Hosa Flu uh he was we he was going through a book of the Bible when he came across the Titan. He got convicted and he went back to it and says, I need to proceed this because this is the truth. someone else and be able to speak with authority or conviction with what we believe and we could easily be turned by somebody else's argument. prosperity preachers because it sounds so good and so sweet and made me feel like I can do this. Um real quick, Julie, before we get to you, Guadalupe, a couple points. So that's the first point. for the boutique if they would memorize scripture, but they wanted me to just say, What does this Bible verse mean to you? And that's you guys gotta defend against that when you're in a small group or or you have Bible studies that you're leading. If we don't understand it, let's study it. You know, go ahead and and build out that short elevator speech that's ready to go at a moment's notice. us as Christians that or those who are trying to remain faithful to God's word, it really does, you know, you see something and and I've had this happen recently, it's like, oh well, I have a response Together in our modern society that that create what causes us some problems. that actually get harmed when we actually say that and the accusation becomes public that we are being hateful or unloving. Right, even though they've opened the Bible, their authority is themselves and their starting point is what they think, their reasoning. Um so you're trying to draw them back. All right, and why when we ask you when you go through the new members class, hey have you read the bylaws? We love you, we thank you, we do look for anticipation of your your second coming and that day of glorification. It's also a place where some building is going on, where believers are being fitted together like bricks and using their spiritual gifts to build in and what we're probably gonna do is just make it part of a survey series. Let us uh spur one another on to good deeds. Um this has been such a fun and exciting course to just see your redemptive hand. class or something that might have been an encouragement to you. Um as we've gone through these thirteen weeks, just anything that really kind of popped out at you or you were not aware of before taking this of the church being established to today. Right? But you start to see that get corrupted and distorted. The Ottomans, right? Now I bring that up. A bunch of ropes and a knot, and he said that basically described what was going on in Albania, right? Um they kind of fluctuated back and forth. um on the eastern side. for our trip to um uh Columbia, really to encourage those people, right, to come alongside them and encourage them. And so it was very encouraging to to hear that. Time period that we're going to discuss today. Bible and how do we glorify God? and brought a lot of that to the Declaration of the Independence, the uh the Constitution. That's the influence that we got. the fundamentalists that are going to fight against that. These skeptics challenge the veracity of Scripture. to defend the cardinal doctrines of the Christian faith. Um again these Ivy most of the Ivy League schools were based on uh Christian principles, um some Puritans how God is um you know unfolding his plan in the midst of all these world events that are happening that are are pretty significant. succeeded uh his son, um let's see, prolific writer and an ardent defender of the fundamental doctrines of Christian faith. And here's what they were trying to reinforce. by submitting to his word. um individual that I mentioned. is God breathed, he asserts with a m with as much energy as he could employ that scripture is the product of a specifically divine operation. and purity of doctrine. setting up churches there in Albania and throughout the region and w started to um talk about giving. You know, how do we how do we do this? Ten percent. Um so we'll be going through your professions and figuring out I I'm joking. This threat is coming in is coming from internal. denominations and why we have independent churches like ours today. um points comprise the Niagara Creed. Right, how this is moving away from the authority of the Bible, these biblical truths, to people who want to claim, this is the key, they want to claim they are Christians, but they don't want to believe in the truth of the Bible funded the publication of the Fundamentals, a Testimony to the Faith. key to the gospel, the bodily resurrection of Christ, and the authenticity of Christ's miracles. in this world of the dying. But we go to it as a book of the present, a living book. to help people with life issues. And who were willing to fight for these doctrinal tooths came to be known as the fundamentalists, as I mentioned earlier between Bible believing Christians and theological liberals. The conflict began to brew when several Presbyterian seminary professors were removed because they denied the doctrine of biblical inerrancy. Protestantism was split into mainline Protestants and Fundamentalists on the other. of teaching the theory of evolution in a public school. Right? So we have the rise then of new evangelicalism. from fundamentalism. Association of Evangelicals. Talk about him in a second. You might see when we talk about maybe the seeker-sensitive churches, right? associated with certain political platforms. So I think uh you know the caution here is let's just be careful about putting labels on people and ourselves. just encouragement when we have missionaries come in because often we can be very isolated and think about just Hope Bible Church or our area here in Columbia. Wavering. Gospel clarity is what the world around us desperately needs. to proclaim the exclusive message. Every other uh religion um uh again distorts the gospel. conduct their services rather than giving in to entertainment driven trends, as noted above. not popularity. worship. Um in earlier texts, I don't know if we covered it here, his brothers didn't believe in Jesus, right? May mercy and peace and love be multiplied to you. That was his intent, but that's not what he did. But this idea Jude was writing to encourage them initially of um just I want to remind you of the gospel. And that's why expository preaching is so critical because it it it allows you to walk through verse by verse even some of the hard points. just a little bit, but when we talk about where the where the battle kind of starts or where things start, it starts with us in our own heart to have the high view of scripture and the You know, the veracity of the truth of scripture. And if we're not building that discipline in our lives, how can we defend against, you know, uh heresy that comes along? Seeking God, but let no let us be also that person that can share the real truth and gear them the right path. God has equipped you. classes at at Alpha Pregnancy Center, they were really trying to get the ladies in the Word of God and and they would give them a little bonus but What do you think it means? Erica. scripture it makes people upset at the response. things we talk about in society. Loving is a very harsh thing to try and deal with. Sure. the person in front of you and you're really just gonna throw the Bible at them and that's not love. People come in with issues nine times out of ten, not always, nine times out of ten, it's because they're not in the word. And I totally believe the words. from each other's interpretation and we do it with an integrated worldview so that yeah every every part of life that we see is flown from the worldview. Men and women contend earnestly for the faith, and I pray we would have that same courage. All right, we are on our last lesson, lesson number thirteen. for correction, for training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. Science and observation, experimentation. I observe, therefore I am what I think I am. the authority of the Bible. What made me happy. How does that contrast with the Reformation? in all of Scripture being inspired, that it was inerrant, that it was authoritative, that it was sufficient, right? to question whether Scripture should be regarded as the foundation for the Christian faith. fundamentalists, going back to the fundamentals of the Bible. When the Bible speaks, God speaks. Apart from works. Jesus did it all. And we will now talk about the rise of fundamentalism, those who are going to um fight against that, fight earnestly for the faith, defend the Bible. Which met annually, a group of scholars associated with this conference articulated fourteen doctrinal principles outlining basic Christian beliefs. Right, the the list of five that I mentioned earlier, this is uh direct confrontation or to refute those. Right as Paul said. if you will, that he had for some of these other denominations. And to have people come in internationally to see how God is raising up um solid churches around the world is quite exciting. That's gross immorality, and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ. reminding ourselves of the gospel every day. to be everything. Right, so I had a conversation with someone who happy to be my father. But but this that's a little bit condemning over here. convinced to that ourselves before we even go out because it's not just looking at someone else. the Lord knew my heart and put the right people at the right path. change or t or orient them and say, read what the what does the Bible say? That's a line from the speaker on Friday was that point about being ready, but I didn't want to share with people. that there's not enough confidence and yes the Bible speaks clearly about these issues. and I can um go and see what God's word says about it to be able to build that defense. is just God's word speaks to every part of society. That if you are speaking God's truth in Aaron, I will appreciate it, you hate me. It will be offensive to those who are not Christians, right? Right? Right? And and so they might they might end up counseling never moved an inch, if you will. Agree a hundred percent. And we assume individuals contending for the faith. up one another and encourage one another as the building stands in the community around us. not only individually but uh together as a church, a local body, and then as a universal church, um that the bride would be taken up and uh that would be a sweet re reunification, Lord Very encouraging. On to our lesson today. 16 through 17. Who who's the authority there? When we talk about the sanctity of worship, that is part of worship, is is recognizing the first fruits from God and giving you. Affirm. Yes. understand and give the whole counsel of God's word. Sometimes we feel we must be totally studied up on a subject and well read before we can shared it. that I think we do need to be aware of the culture and just how pervasive that is. that's that's my holding, those are my feelings. We can't take personally their response. Right, in how we present the gospel for sure. You know? Um but yeah, now you see the rise of of independent churches like ours. us from contending for the face of this fragmentation. Um just grateful for your attendance and faithfulness. Right, you guys are all a part of God's redemptive plan working through the church, like Bill said. The supremacy of the Word of God, the sufficiency of the work of God, and the sanctity of the worship of God. Systematic theology, this is actually the first in an English language. We're just socializing, right? It's in our homes, it's in our community. So to Bill's point, at the outset this movement was primarily led by Christian philosophers and scientists. That we're learning about often don't come from outside the visible church, they come from inside. So now that could be spread more quickly in a broader audience. Very negative connotations, but it wasn't that way, it wasn't how it started, especially with fundamentalism. Let's see, in 1936, J. Love it. Western side heavily influenced, use the Latin language, the right side, the Eastern side Greek. Did I I missed. So subtly in line with all this thinking. When you're trying to speak God's truth. Right? Early on we saw the the early church fathers have to contend for what? Creation was defended, if you will, it lost public support, right? James. You see kind of uh from this tension that happened in the mainline denominations, you have splinter groups, that's where you saw the rise of independent churches like we have today of um you know different parts of our worldview away from scripture. At the time it violated Tennessee's state law, so it was a law, you couldn't teach that. Because it comes back to the gospel, you're not arguing with somebody. And it's we know the gospel is offensive. But he brought a lot of perspective, I think, of what it looked like for someone kind of on that dividing line. That's right. The reformers' commitment to Scripture alone should be our commitment as well. It's to to be confident in sharing and ministering um the Word of God. Equipping, okay. Absolutely. So the Word of God, Scripture, the true church, views Scripture alone as its final authority. If evangelicals, again, going back to that pure form of the word, are to stand firm in this generation, they must ground their convictions in the doctrinal pillars articulated by the New Testament. Armed with biblical convictions, we can stand firm in the generation, this generation of church history. Yep, no great point, Sean. Comments can lead to all kinds of errors. I want the gospel to offend, not me is to offend. Great insight. From a timeline perspective, um here's some of the the big key items we'll talk about. Yeah. The Bible is the Word of God in such a way that when the Bible speaks, God speaks. Right, that's the word I'm looking for. So we know a lot of the Ivy League school today are are very liberal, right? Yeah. They don't want to give up their right to fight for their side of the marriage or their argument or what have you. Yeah, absolutely. All of this now is starting to get denied, right? I didn't change them, but that's not the goal. So those were the the two brothers that actually um have epistles in the New Testament, right? I um I see that um that a lot of the social issues of the day are what is getting a lot of churches tripped up. Yeah. How many of you were here Friday night? Give it up. So I don't know if you heard what Bill said. Machin was one of the last theological conservatives to teach at Princeton Seminary. That was 1925. It's in the power of the Holy Spirit. He has hidden his word in your heart to just share the the simple purity of the gospel. Yeah. And so those of us around here are almost guilty or ashamed into staying silent about the truth. The Ottoman Empire, I think that was around 1475-ish. And the authority is now the person versus the Bible. In particular they were concerned that the fundamental movement had become known for infighting in anti intellectualism. Uh who was Jude? Gives a a label to Jesus Christ. And then to your point, I mean we we are being assaulted every day by the the remnants of this age of enlightenment. Just constant, constant, constant battle. What can what should we be doing? When we are made in the image of God, right, we are given the ability to reason. Good Julie. It's Jesus Christ plus circumcision. They want that label Christian, but they're throwing out God's holy word. We seek to obey his commandments out of love for him. Now, many applications, how much you apply that to your life is going to be different, but the meeting, um, what was the author's original intent? Well you know what's a great war tactic? But he started his his presentation with a little bit of church history. Um here we go. Well what God? Like that's actually what we're going through my head, what Jan said about letting the gospel be let the word be offensive to that meaning not being offensive. I won't get all serial, right? And y try to imagine, again, this is coming from within the church. In going to the Bible, we never think of ourselves as going back to a book of the distant past, to a thing of antiquity. The term evangelical comes from the Greek word for gospel. And if you believe one part and not believe another part, then you're making the gospel different. Human reasoning, right? It was what you think, right? Some argue the basis for Christianity should be found in the feelings of dependence on God. Charles Hodge, I'm sure you've heard of some of these, best known for the systematic theology that he published in 1872. This includes a clear affirmation of the deity of Christ. See that ten times fast. I go back to the the simple um pattern that the missionary told us, right? All of the fitness is social issues. I'm going to read you probably have some of the quotes in your workbook. How do we approach this whole idea of giving? You guys remember this map of the Roman Empire being split in half between the Western and Eastern Okay? To authenticate their authority, right? When Paul declares then that every scripture or all scripture is the product of the divine breath What have we seen throughout time, even starting at the Jerusalem Council? Yeah, uh something real quick. A lot of us know maybe back to the Reformation, that gets a lot of attention, but so much happened before that that is even relevant to us today. Um let's go to our key passage. All scripture, not some of it, all scriptures inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof. They want something that sounds good to them. You're trying to minister the word. I I wanted to highlight um what happens to these countries that are right here on the dividing line Don't hit 'em over the head. Okay, well we're at on the timeline again, we're at the the very end of that. So the heading, the Bible comes under attack. And um the uh David the the missionary was was relating some of that as he was dealing with Muslims. Gressham-Mokham left the Presbyterian Church USA, so PC USA, to establish the Orthodox But that might be good for you, but it's not good for me. It's great that we're praying, it's great that we're meeting people, but if we don't ultimately get to that point where we're telling them about Jesus, we haven't really completed the mission Man, human. Many of them were deist and from that enlightenment romanticism type of time frame or thinking You get a candy bar. So modernism is the term that was given to this liberal movement and this age of reason and enlightenment Men and women, right? Now, having said that, are we opposed to reasoning and science and the arts? When Descartes wrote that, he wasn't some like militant atheist, right? This is from the document The Fundamentals. In seventies and eighties, evangelicals became increasingly engaged in American politics. So it's good for you. Because if we're not convinced ourselves in our own heart, and if we don't have knowledge of scripture in our own heart, then there's no way that we can look at something Uh you guys have heard me say it and and this is not me being an elder, it's just the importance of everyone having daily time in the Word for for that particular reason. Let's wrestle with it, right? And that's where many of us, even on social media, might want to say something with regard to scripture, the use of scripture. So this is how we need to be acting. She had to interpret. That's the chief aim of man, right? But to Bill's point, this is coming from within the church. And again, it's the pillars that we talked about, right? And the last pillar we talk about, the worship of God. They affirm truth. We're trying to bring them back to the gospel message, the pure gospel message, and the power that's in God's Word, His living Word. Sorry. The God of the Bible? That's not a one-time deal, right, that we're saved. But the other part of that is there's been a lot of people that I've heard say the word Yep. Now what he did, I I won't do it on the chart here, but he would take one of these away. And I think we saw that during the last election. We Gosworth has the answer for all of those things. The Bible started to be questioned now. But they offended me. So uh the ability for us to observe things that are happening around us and put it in the context of science. As a result, a new category emerged in church history, the the category of liberal Christianity or theological liberalism, the word I just uh used earlier. Through classes like this, through equipping classes. These are his living words, his holy Bible. Can you think of a popular evangelical during this time frame? So I'm not here to to say how you should view Billy Graham, but it it maybe had a more friendly tone than than some of the fundamentalists. What did the Reformers do? They denied the biblical accounts of supernatural events, arguing that miracles That's where evangelical comes comes from. John T. What are your thoughts? Good. Um they actually were a very isolated nation as they they went through time. That is the the ma uh major religion there um that he's dealing with. Yeah. And what they convey though is is this is how we also worship God in our giving Beloved, while I was making every effort to write you about our common salvation, again bringing them back to the purity of salvation I felt the necessity to write to you appealing that you contend earnestly for the faith, which was once for all handed down to the saints. I d I don't think that's good for me. But really it's the church as a whole contending for the faith. Let us be um courageously in our w in the Word of God, and let us boldly proclaim the gospel. We talked about the Middle Ages, right, and the corruption of the the papacy and all that that's wrought Rome actually fall in four seventy-six. So again, what what do we know about these creeds or councils? The next day I how many of you went to the dinner last night? The ability to to reason, to look at the world around us and reason in our own minds. So again you see these men and women um emerge by God's grace to defend the faith. How does God talk to us today? And you're going to see the effect that it has on um I'll call it mainstream denominations and probably why we have so many We got to bring 'em in first, right? Keep me straight. Go ahead and put the bills in there. Those big evangelical denominations where they're just sliding right into apostasy. Yeah. Right? But here they were right on the dividing line of Western and Eastern culture, of religions, of focus, and he had this really neat picture of Right, right, the Muslim and Islam and that started to creep up and you see a heavy influence And that includes from the pulpit, right? I I love you sharing that. If you can isolate the enemy, right, they're more easily defended. The red arrows are a hint. Right, just a couple of you. And he just had this very simple kind of uh list, if you will, and it's we need to be praying, we need to be meeting people, just getting out there and meeting people This is known as the fundamentalist modernist controversy. No, what is scripture saying to you? So I think it's just a nice cautionary tale for us that like the the challenges to these three pillars As hard as it might be to swallow and apply. You we gotta remember as well that there are a lot of hurting and hungry people for the word. The goal is to minister the word of God. Right? Right? Alright, so here we are talking about Princeton theology. The articles themselves expanded on the five fundamentals written up here and strengthened the fundamentalist stance against modernism It seems commonplace today, right? We we know that. Um real quick, so in in this context, what role does the church play then in contending earnestly for the faith? So we'll bundle Old Testament, New Testament, and then church history. You you you women who are at home raising up a generation, right, don't underestimate the incredible incredible power and privilege that you have. Yeah. Scopes, a substitute high school biology teacher in Tennessee, was accused It's going to convict them. But you're missing the protection of the body, right? And yes, it's always um incredibly encouraging to have um missionaries come in from internationals specifically She did an awesome job. So those started to become the predominant thinking, if you will, during this time frame. It was what you think. All right? It's almost like the this is the the way the question should be asked first, right? This is another day that you have given us the privilege to serve you, to to ascribe all the glory due your name Any perspectives or I just thought it was neat how he he brought that to bear. The true church understands that sinners are justified, that lovely, lovely word, justified by God's grace through faith The defense attorney, Clarence Darrow, was also well known, which brought national attention to the trial. They say they worship or know Jesus? But because you know just how um heavy the response is and um If you contradict my feelings, you are hurting me. Julie talked about the fragmentation of individual interpretations of scripture. It has been enlightening to me, like I I mentioned when we first started this. It should be at the top of your your lesson there. That's the shift that's happening. That's what that's the the thought pattern that started to happen here. A very harsh thing to defend against, right? Alright, any questions on that? And so indeed it is, living in the power of an endless life and able to build us up Alright, so I want you to go to your Bibles. And so here I'm thinking, you know, I can I can be that one person that can Yeah, good. Who who's checking you? We we talked about some of the the courageous women, especially when we talked about the missionaries. Little rock by little rock. He was relating a story about um um This has been such a an enriching um curriculum for me. To validate who Jesus was, his authority, to validate the apostles and who they were. We see that influence happening in churches and denominations, and we're gonna get into that in a little bit here It's Jesus Christ plus works. And so they were talking, they said, we we got a plan for this. So Jude, a bondservant of Jesus Christ, I love that. But yeah, but yeah, I think that that is where um a lot of churches and Christians are getting tripped up They had to reset. In this lesson we will survey the ideological battle that took place in the early twentieth century, again, between these theological liberals and fundamentalism Right, let me fill out just the top portion of this. Half brother of Jesus Christ. And um I was saying a referring to a passage or verse. Let's ask somebody who might. Yeah. Alright, let's close. And that's what happened here at the Niagara Creed. I think I've shared with you guys before, uh that's why I get so jazzed about biblical counseling, because the cornerstone of that is we are trying to use the Bible So now the clash that we're gonna have between the two. In the in the spirit, I'm sure, of sharing the gospel. And and everyone can decide on their own what they want to do there. I said it. They they don't want to seem unloving or unkind. We knew that during Jesus' time, right? But oftentimes they don't want to go there Let me say that again. He's recognizing the authority, the deity of Jesus Christ. So it's not so what they're teaching these women is the Bible so And I'm hoping you can be thinking about it, I hope we have a little bit of time at the end. Yeah. I thought this was interesting. This is Albania. That's what we just talked about. The living word shall continue to be the discerning companion of all who resort to it for the help which is not to be had elsewhere In the 1940s, a group of Bible-believing Christians sought to distance themselves We want our entire lives to be an act of acceptable For sure, for sure. So in the 17th and 18th centuries, the philosophical underpinnings of Europe began to shift. 1925. Especially through social media. Yeah. So those are two critical elements. We don't do that. Um I did not learn the term hermeneutics until I came to this church, but when I was teaching And and we see throughout time that sometimes some of these will get emphasized more than others We had a missionary from Albania come and talk to us and it was extremely interesting Um I'm just going to read a couple of these. First we must hold fast to the authority of God's word without where it You know, the opportunity. Well that's the Proverbs twenty seven seventeen, iron sharpened iron. What what role does the church play then in contending earnestly for the faith? There were previous ones in Latin. To glorify God. I don't have it, but you get it. One is we may feel we we we have a lack of confidence because I don't know the whole Bible. The deity of Christ, that Christ was God. As theological liberalism liberalism began to spread So I'll just fill those out. They have absolutely moved in that direction. So you can see kind of the the oh what's the word I'm looking for? That gets you down that slippery slope. Different tactics, um same motivation. And so today I talked about uh the Muslim influence, especially in the Ottoman Empire Justin, really loud. That's the mentality that that started to happen This can be confusing both for those outside and inside evangelicalism. Second, we must contend for the purity of the gospel Um the Puritans drove a lot of that, and there was even the Princeton Seminary that was started, so we'll talk a little bit about that However, you know, he talked about um He taught there for more than 50 years. So so shame on all of America. However, they insisted their tone needed to be more friendly. I mean it's just rampant and that's why we need the Bible to defend against that. They had to bring people back to the authority. Right? But back then it was it was heresy. We've talked about that. Holding to doctrines like the inspiration, inerrancy, and sufficiency of Scripture may make us unpopular. But if you're taking the whole gospel, the entire Bible, all of Scripture, And if you hate me, I am going to destroy you It's inerrancy. So that's kind of the context of the thinking, the change, this age of reason. Do you remember the two terms in one of our early lessons we talked about, um internal versus external What was the importance of miracles in the Bible in general? Through the Bible. So to be a mainline Protestant was basically you had moved towards liberalism, right, versus the fundamentalists Um, you see those type of movements coming out where, hey They add to it. As noted above, faithfulness must be the goal Pastors are admonished, the whole counsel There's not here's the things we talk about at church and here's the things we talk about in politics and here's And if we've done that faithfully, then we've done what God has called us to do. Where is your accountability? We would learn from our from our past So that's kind of the start of it. And the gospel message is the power, right? Um so she's gonna get there and just be rocking the place. Right. What you have to fight against is not to care how they respond In Gullia, right? Those were the three big denominations, if you will. Um the prosecution was led by Churches should look to God's word in determining how they Let's go to commentaries. The Fundamentals consisted of ninety essays, so I think of Luther right away, right? So again, submits to him as Master and Lord. We need to share the truth of the gospel. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But you know, how do we contend to contend for the faith that we do it together in a church with other people who are committed to the Word of God so that we try to That you give us um uh ears to to know and understand and to be obedient. This idea of the Enlightenment, um That's what was happening now is they didn't they started to not believe in These early evangelicals openly affirm their belief in the inspiration and in the errandcy of the Bible Gospel clarity is what they need. Can you recite it for me? Again, this is coming from within the church. This lesson is titled The Battle for the Bible What Jesus? Yeah. And it's hard, it's it would be easy for us to say I failed. So that's where you see the fall and you have this So it was their opportunity to kind of practice giving the their testimony and the gospel message You see the difference there? Okay, good. There were some documents during this time, the Presbyterian businessman named Lyman Stewart The controversy within Presbyterian circles was representative of what was happening in all of American Christianity. Share the good news. I really do. I have to add a little vignette from our our speaker, the missionary from Albania, David Yeah, that's fair. Julie, I love that. You know, why what is the answer for the hope that I see in you? And you can see right across from uh And I'm not trying to shame anybody. I think, I reason When the Bible speaks, God speaks If we are to be faithful, then we must similarly take our stand on the truth of God's word. Doctrinally, we look to God's word to understand who he is so that we can worship him accurately. It wasn't until after his resurrection in that time period that he was on the earth for forty days that many eyes were opened to include his brothers. This is not impossible. Yep. I will tell you um in the counseling ministry that's something we have to fight against often because Sure. It was just tur so much turmoil So now you start to doubt yourself Our love for Christ should motivate our witness to the world. Don't wait for that. Absolutely. And so we we are grateful for Lord for um just the instruction that you've given us, opening our eyes to your word. So you've heard this quote before, I think, therefore I am. And then we have Benjamin Warfield. I mean let's pause there for a second. Nothing that we are and nothing that we can do enters in the slightest measure into the ground of our acceptance with God. Again, if any of those things are false, we might as well throw the Bible out. So so interesting, isn't it, that even though he lost the case But I put back up here, you remember we started with these three pillars Um this uh our pursuit of happiness, right? Followers of Jesus submit to him There's work, there's something else that has to be done. Let's go to Jude. Um brother of I said that. Yeah. Yeah. Um the word of God, the work Some of these names are probably very familiar, Dwight Moody Again, trying to go back to the fundamentals of the Bible. In 1942, they established an organization called the National Yeah, it's easier said than done. So of course I got really excited about that, and Scott was right in front of me, so I was poking him like look at that, that's cool But it's taken out of context here. So I hate to burst your bubble, but many of our founding fathers, right, came out of this this um enlightenment Princeton Seminary was started in 1812. That's his inspired word. The true church worships the triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, in purity of devotion. If evangelicals are to be true to both their name and their heritage, they must not forget to focus on the accurate and bold proclamation Yeah, you know, sort of thing, we have to be convicted and convinced But I I I kinda walk around with that fear like, ooh, I don't know what to say and that. It's not what you think. It was offensive. They were just it's like if you don't actually care about You know, we talked um earlier about the Ivy League There wasn't a clear distinction. So super excited about that. Again, science, philosophy, reason, those are gifts from God, but how they are used in context is what's important here. This is from Warfield, so this is the third The pure gospel message being distorted. Right? It's it's being convinced ourselves You're gonna get a backlash. Good. Like I noticed uh in what Julie and Erica were saying, what fight what hind You're all familiar with this, but this is really the foundation of what we're talking about today, um, the authority of Scripture. It's inspiration. The starting point has changed from the Bible to the person That's the shift that's happening They also deny the original authorship of many parts of Scripture. And I'll build those out for you. How uh just I I can't even imagine that I forgot that tie-in, so thank you for bringing that to bear, Brian. Sure. Father, we love you, we thank you. Yeah. That is contending together. To see um just Are they authoritative? Other groups created similar statements or creeds in an effort to safeguard essential biblical doctrines in the face of liberalism growing influence. Though Graham grew up in fundamentalist circles, his willingness to partner with theological liberals and Roman Catholics There's a constant battle too. Here's these three pillars All right. Right? So they were trying to uh reassert the inerrancy of scripture And right so We we recognize the strength to do this does not originate with us Okay? Right? Billy Graham. The Jesus of the Bible? So that those those l those little subtle And I'll tell you, you gain confidence as you practice, right? Right? Until then And and that's why It talks about the pure gospel. So now this idea we we have um these foundations, again we have this influence now, this theological liberalism. Let's go back to the three pillars that we talked about. It's that simple We are to be No. And then who took over the um the eastern side? So what the deacons did The three circles I showed you up front. But it's so rampant on social media. So yes, while there's an element of we might not be ready for a conversation on the other side So Jan. I'm curious, a hundred years from now, what they're gonna say about us, about Hope Bible Church These were men of the church. Good. Do you remember uh one of the people we talked about was actually the president of Princeton? Now, um he was only like president for about a month because he took the smallpox inoculation and ended up dying from it, but But here's where you start to see that split in a mainline denomination James and Jude. Right? We all got that as believers. I mean so subtle, right? But God is love, Christ is love, and Christ will not hurt me. And that's why we have a plurality of elders. Um and we won't be necessarily getting into But um it is men and women And this is where again where we're seeing the influence happening within the mainline denomination. So this was a big trial that happened that w had a huge influence So excellent point. And then we'll wrap things up So what would it mean to pray and meet people but not share the gospel? He he's using it in many ways for his glory. If if the enemy can get you to add to the gospel, he's one Alright, the term fundamentalist generally has a negative connotation in contemporary culture. The movement was also associated with various Bible conferences like the Niagara Bible Conference To those who are the call, beloved in God the Father, and kept for Jesus Christ And I was really seeking God. Sean. I leave you with this though, I've said it before. Major, major shift in thinking. He was a self proclaimed Christian. Quite liberal in their theology In question, Julie. All right, standing firm in this generation. And I I just what you point out, Sean, is again where is their starting point and what is their authority Have you read the bylaws? Really, really strong attack on the Word of God. So he talked a little bit about his perspective on But even even David encouraged, you know, our mission field is right here And it was a direct assault, as you can tell, on Alright, polemics versus apologetics. I I say good, I say that. This is the first one in English. Right? I just it was extremely encouraging Founded by Archibald Alexander who served as the school's first chair of systematic theology In leaving the mainline denominations, fundamentalists started new organ organizations such as the Orthodox But yes, if he is proclaiming the gospel clearly Um I think he had said something along the lines of How can you defend against not being loving? So I I think of uh First Corinthians thirteen, you know, the love passage. His son A. So you see this heritage, this line of of men defending the faith there at the Princeton Theological Seminary. Um I would say this and again um not as an elder, just as a person What do you think the author's intent was when he wrote that That's so subtle and so dangerous And I can understand these issues Yeah. It should still be used, even if you don't have the perfect knowledge Come alongside. And it's a different culture over there. Yeah, yeah. Right? The enemy is extremely crafty. Others look to social activism. So they people started to give and it and they were able to stand up these churches throughout the region. As a result, the evangelical movement in the United States is often Speculation. And what was the starting point? For instance, they asserted that Moses did not write the Pentateuch The attack on the trustworthiness of the Bible caused some profession Christians And I think that's another um And and that's kind of what is happening here with these folks. Nope. And that word hate is a very strong thing in our society right now. For sure. And remember we bookend the fall of the Roman Empire. So I'm encouraging you when the next time you open up your Bible Right? Now you remember You we have to Because the public outcry or the public accusation of the Christian being unloved. They're they're not building that foundation You're in battle together, so great, great insight. And then we see um his humanity being attacked. When you read the Bible, is that how you think about it? They're not willing to really submit as Lord Jesus Christ. Because like we we we ask how do we contend for the fate And Erica talked about the fragmentation So I'm super, super excited for us. Dangerous, dangerous, dangerous That's where you gotta bring them back to. So I want to start with um notice how Jude um And brother of James. But this idea to contend earnestly for the faith. I Scott, anything from your I mean when you were on the What do they do often? It seems like to speak the truth of If you it and it really I think for a lot of people It's the power of Christ. That is going to be foundational. Quite exciting. We we are just so encouraged by your truth by the Bible. The controversy was especially heated in Presbyterian circles. Significant, significant change in philosophy. Not programs, not music, not secret-sensitive churches. Great point, Brian, right? So we'll talk. And what have we seen from the very beginning I would love to get just some insights on A. Don't make this hard. But And so that's the purity that you want to bring them back to Well what do you think that verse means The Bible being attacked, the authority of the Word being attacked, all right Absolutely not. Yeah. Yeah. Because that's how we govern an independent church Sure. Um kind of think of like North Korea isolation. All right. It is still very prevalent in our world today Yeah. And again, that was significant because it was the first systematic theology in English. Hodge took over. I had amazing here his really good sort of meeting But it was falling into this, you know, kind of trap. Right? It's not enough to just have Jesus Christ These fourteen points were Tolerance Be ready for that. Come alongside. What was going on in 1812? So we're always growing So even within that group you see some contention and fighting happening. And And I We can explain things with science, gravity, right? So we have to start our own part of that In the nineteen twenties these Christians became known as Although Scopes was found guilty Um And this this is where we talk about But so Jen, you bring up a good point, right? I was one of those people, I'll confess I was one of those people that fell for the It's a spiritual building. Miss Erica. So rationalism and empiricism Our right for that, that comes from that kind of thinking. He thought he was doing Christianity a favor, trying to tear down belief in Christian And again, as Bill pointed out Right, good. Julie. We hold each other accountable. You don't have to remember that, but I think that's pretty cool. You're making skews. Um we see that often where well take the good stuff Sean. Sure. Amy. Yes, Bill. Yeah. Church history is still being written So he was asking the deacons The ninety-five pieces That's the label I want to put on Bring them back to the Bible But there's a lot of things in our life that Because like as you were saying, like we can't So uh I'll call it the feeding aspect, right? I said that's true It has been throughout history, but especially in this But Alright, any questions on that so far When you practice your testimony And it can be quick and concise, but practicing really helps. So was there another yes? And I I didn't really mention this. You know, you go through it. But You remember? So again if you can divide um uh You know how do you de how do you say that in a positive way? So the one person that I'm missionary that We love you, we thank you, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Lord, we love you, we thank you, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. We're fools So trying to tie into Brian's comment So just be thinking about that as we go through the lesson. Versus War. So we're getting near the end And the error can come Right? We see a rise of rationalism So if you tell me something that hurts me then you are an actual Let me close on that, because that's a very positive uh way to close this up. Those who embrace the five fundamentals I love that. The chief shepherd is who we serve first and foremost. So it's a it's a place for the And I think we we have to fight against that. And the idea Yes So I I want to ask you, we'll have a little bit of a discussion So it's great that we have people It started on the Western side. That's how isolated Love is gentle, love is kind. So I gotta really put If if the gospel ultimately This is coming from internal though Remember when I started the class However Um and I pray that we would be courageous defenders. Yeah. We see his authority being attacked throughout. What are we doing? Do you remember? Why Um So so um Yeah. Now They need the gospel. And he decided to skip over it. So it's really interesting to see As a result of these struggles, American This is God's living word. May you continue to do that today. So at the time You have the Let me do this You know enough. It's graciousness. So Second Timothy three So Just gets messy. Good. Amen. Amen.