Heavenly Father, you are a mighty God, you are a mighty fortress, and we put all of our hope in you. Um today we're going to see again how important your inspired word is. And so let that be a a source of encouragement for us today. Not only in our equipping class, but as we go to um our service this morning and worship in many different forms in song. in the exposition of your word, in the fellowship of the saints and singing, let this just be a wonderful time of giving you, ascribing to you all the glory to your name And so we uh we are thankful for today, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, so we are on lesson ten. And we are entering kind of the last period here. So we are just jamming through church history, 2,000 plus years of church history, and we just finished up that thousand years of uh the Middle Ages and boy there was just a lot going on there. And we'll talk a little bit more about that in a second. Um I do want to show you um weaken out a little bit, but I told my wife how Just it's so exciting for me to be teaching this class and to see how church history lines up with world history and just to see that connection. So what did she do? She went out and bought me this this big old timeline, this big old wall thing. Yeah I'll put it up here for you afterwards, but it is so much fun. And as I've gone through it, you know, it's really highlighting a lot of the things that we're talking about in the class here. So obviously this is kind of a survey as well. We're just touching some of the highlights. But it has been so fun to go through that and I guess shows some of my geekiness. I'm a visual person so it always helps to have a map in front of me, but uh I'll leave this up here if you guys want to look at it afterward And I think I'm going to reference it at the end, so make sure you call me out on that. Yeah, okay. Alright, so there's that piece Okay, so let's go again to kind of our wall map here and we're we're now starting to enter this Reformation period and we're going to talk primarily about two bubbas that you know probably pretty well, all right? Luther and Calvin. You all are I've heard those names and we'll talk about the Reformation. Um these two normally stand out on top, but there are many others and we'll we'll talk about some of those those names. If you have never been in our conference room up by the admin offices, um I what's the name of the conference room? Do you remember? The Calvin Conference Room. But we have portraits of a lot of the reformers with some some tabs that talk about you know their accomplishments. So if you're interested, go ahead and uh you know jump in there just to take a look. But that's what is patterned after of course. Um again, I really like this map because it takes all the church history and kind of organizes it really well. So we're we're up near the top, like I said, looking at the Reformation, the last 500 years. But as I've highlighted a couple times, what's really important. You know, what happened over those Middle Ages, it really became known as the Dark Ages because what had happened to the purity of the church um how the word was handled. We saw a lot of corruption, right, with the papacy. And you can see the three pillars that we keep talking about Those were defiled, if you will. Those were um I just came across something. I'm gonna pull it up real quick because I liked how it was phrased. Yeah, since Satan cannot destroy the gospel, he has to often neutralize it. its usefulness by addition, subtraction, or substitution. Right? Don't we see that throughout church history, we see that today. So he's gonna use whatever means he can to neutralize The authority of the word, the sufficiency of the work of Christ, and the sanctity of worship. And we saw how that grew over the Middle Ages, didn't we? Um, with the corruption of the Roman Catholic Church and the schisms that happened. A moving away from the Word of God. The Word of God was not available to everyone. It was just the Latin Vulgate, and only the popes and the priests could relay what God intended That's a dangerous place to be. And so we're going to see with the Reformation really a reset, and you're I'm going to show you that it really goes back to the Word of God. It was the authority of the Word of God and the power of the Word of God that really created this revival, this reformation. And that's true for us today, which is why I get excited about a church that is so focused on the Word of God. And why we have to be the defenders of that faith. Okay? Alright, so we'll talk more about Calvin and Luther. Um you know, two different portraits there, two very different people as far as personality. We'll talk about that in a little bit. It was brought up last week, this certificate of indulgence. You know, I grabbed this from the web. Um this is maybe what one of those looked like. So I do believe you actually got a piece of paper back in the day, Joni. I think you asked that question. Um I don't believe that happens today and I don't know when that was phased out, but you no kidding got a piece of paper and this is going to be a big issue today, right? Um specifically this idea of indulgence Because it it absolutely adds adds to or subtracts from the true gospel message. And we're going to see that the reformers, that's what they were They were defending against, right? Going back to the basics of the Bible. Okay? Alright, if you are um in chapter ten in your books The key passages are Hebrews four twelve for the word of God is living and active and sharper than any two edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow marrow And able to judge the thoughts and intentions of the heart. That's the power of the Word of God. This is not the Bible is not a historical document. It is the inspired word of God. So the you might see the the title of this chapter, After Darkness, Light. That was a Latin phrase. Um and it was used during the Reformation to highlight reclaiming the gospel authority, reclaiming reclaiming gospel clarity. Right? We talked about the Middle Ages, especially the High Middle Ages, as being a very dark time in the history of the church. This idea of the Reformation, actually Luther would have used the term evangelical, and that meant gospel people or gospel clarity. That's what he meant. Today that term has some baggage to it when we talk about being evangelical, but back then it was just getting back to the purity of the gospel. And um you should have a timeline at the top of your chart. We are in the 16th century. So that would be the 1500s Okay. All right, so from a a human perspective, what's happening here? What enabled the reformation? There's three factors that really help again from a human Perspective. First one was a pretty big invention that happened just prior to this time period. Anybody remember what that was? The printing press, right? The Gutenberg printing press. Johann Gutenberg's invention of a movable type printing press around 1450 So this was just prior to the 16th century, meant that printed materials could be published quickly and in great quantities rather than having to be copied by hand information in books and pamphlets could now be mass produced. Well it's hard for us to imagine today, right? Um on my timeline here, I show where did I see Yeah. The uh World Wide Web. Anybody remember a date on that? Where can I find it? No, I just had it. Oh it's down here. World Wide Web debut in nineteen ninety. That wasn't that long ago. The iPhone really was like fifteen years ago. And we think of how information spreads with those forums. They didn't have that back in the day, but this would have been huge, right? The ability to mass produce documents and we're going to see that becomes a a pivotal enabler, if you will, for the Reformation to get information out. Okay. Um the second element was if you remember um the we talked a lot last week about the papacy and the corruption there, but the growth of the of the papacy as far as authority. So the authority and the reputation of the papacy decline though during the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. So during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries is when you kind of saw the zenith of the r the rise of the papacy and the authority that they had. Now you're starting to see that decay. You know, some of the they even ruled over the kings. I mean that's the kind of authority they had. Now you're starting to see, especially some of these European countries kind of take back some of that authority. And you're gonna see actually that princes and kings actually help to protect excuse me some of the the reformers. So we'll see that as we go through this. Part of that, the the decline that they had was due to, remember we talked about some of the schisms that um occurred in the the Roman Catholic Church where other popes um were rising up to claim the overall authority. So now you have this infighting between two or three different popes. Who's in charge? Who knows Those skip schisms start to erode that author authority. And again we see the European monarchs felt a greater freedom to defy that papal authority. Alright, so that's the shift that you're starting to see. So we have the Gutenberg uh G Gutenberg Press, printing press, and we have kind of the decline of the authority of the Pope um in the rise of these monarchs in specifically in Europe. The third is the rise of humanism. And we often think of humanism today in in a negative term, you know, secular humanism. Um back then it was just uh going back to the humanities, those original documents, Greek philosophy, um the arts. And uh the Bible, going back to the original Hebrew and Greek manuscripts of the Bible. So it got people back to the foundation, right? That was absolutely critical. And that makes sense, right? Because instead of the the Latin Vulgate trying to translate from that, you now had translations that were happening in the common language. So people can now Begin to understand what was written in God's word from those original languages. You're going to have clarity when that happens Again, that's why a a good translation is so very, very important, as well as a good hermeneutic. All right, let me highlight again where we're at from a timeline perspective And we're gonna talk about some of these things that you're familiar with, right? The ninety five uh thesis from Luther, we're gonna talk about Calvin institutes and then obviously their death, but those were were probably the two biggest um champions of the Reformation. during this time. Alright, those three factors that I just talked about absolutely were enablers. They set the stage for the Protestant uh Protestant Reformation. However, the true catalysts behind the Reformation was what? It's not a trick question. God, the Holy Spirit, and specifically the the authority of the Word of God. All right? And I think what we have to keep in mind, especially when we talk about the Reformation, because there's we know a lot about that, right? And there's a lot of complexity to it, there's a lot of nuances to it, some, there's a lot of baggage to it, too. Right? When we talk about Calvinism and other things, I think what we have to remember is how are we seeing God's hand move in all of this in church history? Right, that's the big rock that we want to take away from this. And ultimately, like I said, it's the it's the Holy Spirit working through the written word of God, the inspired word of God. As Scripture was studied in its original languages and preached in the vernacular of the common languages, the Holy Spirit used the truth of his word to open blind eyes and awaken dead hearts. Um I I often talk about um just my involvement now in biblical counseling. Uh that was something that Crean was always very passionate about, but just We didn't have the means or we didn't have the um the freedom or time with seven kids, right, for her to really pursue that. Once we got here, we did. And it was actually um uh the fundamentals class that we just started that I said, yeah, I'll go with you. And it just hearts on fire now Right? Because what we're doing is applying the Word of God to people's lives, to people's issues. And when you see their issues and their lives be transformed by the word of God. It is just so exciting. I I just can't tell you how exciting it is. So Again, going back to the Word of God, so, so, so important. Um anytime you see in history a revival It's a movement of the Holy Spirit through the Word of God. That's what's happening. And that's what we need today. That's why we need to continue to proclaim the gospel, the good news. Get people in a Bible-believing church, whether it's here or somewhere else, and in the Word. In the Word. The Reformers were also committed to translating the Bible into the common languages of Europe. We talked a lot about that last week Um you'll see some of the reformers will continue that work. Thanks to the printing press, copies of scripture were now available to people like never before. Like I talk about, think about the internet though. Right? There there are very few people that don't have access to the Bible. Because almost everyone has access to the internet. I know some of you are from Africa. When I was stationed in Germany we did a lot of work in Africa. I'll leave it at that. But you know, the amount of people that had cell phones and internet connection, it it was quite prolific. And you think of uh Elon Musk today with the Starlink. Right? There's no place you can go. You can't go where you can't get the internet. So um when we think about the explosion of the communications that we have today, you know, what is the Lord doing? I I don't know. But strap in. It's exciting. Alright, so the reformers recognize God's word as the power behind their movement. That is absolutely critical and the the big takeaway from the Reformation. You know, the reset is going back to the Word of God. What does it say? Quote from Martin Luther: All I have done is put forth, preach, and write the Word of God And apart from this, I have done nothing. It is the Word that has done great things. I have done nothing. The Word has done and achieved everything. And we're going to see with Martin Luther that it was really his transformation, his story, that led to him being such a prominent figure during this time. But he has his own personal story of transformation that we'll talk about in a second. Another quote, by the word the earth has been subdued, by the word the church has been saved, and by the word also it shall be re-established. The Pope, Luther, Augustine, or even an angel from heaven, these should not be masters, judges, or arbiters, but only witnesses, disciples, and comp Nor should any doctrine be taught or heard in the church except the pure word of God. Otherwise let the teachers and the hearers be accursed along with their doctrine Bold, bold, bold statements. The reformers' commitment to Scripture flowed from their conviction that Christ alone is the head of the church. Consequently, his word is the ultimate authority over the church. And obviously you know this is where we start to get the solas of the Reformation, the five solas, right? And we start with Sola Scriptura, which means Scripture alone. The Reformation principle of sola scriptura, Scripture alone, is intended to summarize their commitment to the authority and sufficiency of Scripture. God's word alone is the authority that establishes what to believe and how to live. It's all there. The city of Geneva was an important center during the 16th century. 16th century Reformation. Here's how the reformers explained their commitment to the authority of God's Word. And this was um actually John Calvin had a prominent role in this in the Geneva Confession of 1536 We affirm that we desire to follow Scripture alone as the rule of faith and religion. This obviously was very counter to what was happening in the Roman Catholic Church, right? So obviously they were not uh favored, many of them were considered heretics. But they did have a certain amount of protection by some of these monarchs, the kings and the priests. Alright, so we're going to see that. Again, isn't that beautiful how the Lord provides? And yet some of these would die as martyrs That is part of God's plan. It should be noted that the reformers did not dismiss the value of historical councils and creeds or the writings of the church fathers. But they rightly understood that all those things are subject to the authority of Scripture. You remember the councils that we talked about, they were affirming what was written in Scripture. That was the goal there, not to become the authority. All right, so let's talk about um before we jump into that I wanted to show you a map. Again, I think it's helpful for orientation Do you remember that the Eastern Church fell uh when Rome was taken in 476, right? And that's when you started to see the rise of the Holy Roman Empire that swept you know through Europe and Eastern uh what was the Eastern Roman Empire. But you see now um during the sixteenth century the influence of Luther, Calvin um sporadically throughout Europe. You have John Knox up here in Scotland. Give me Scotland or I die. Calvin I think was because of his persecution ended up in Switzerland and that's why you see the influence there and then you can see the influence of the Western Roman Empire, the Eastern Orthodox, and I mentioned the Ottoman Empire that took over just before the sixteenth century. I think it was 1475 And then you have the the Muslim influence that continues down to the south. So that's kind of the landscape that's uh happening during the sixteenth century. Right, so let's talk a little bit about Martin Luther. I I know many of you know his story, but it's it's fun to go over that again. He was born in fourteen eighty-three, but there's this um understanding that uh in fifteen oh five. He was twenty-one years old. His dad very much wanted him to go to law school because um that made much more money than being a pastor. And that's probably true today too. So he was a law student. He was he was walking by himself in the German countryside and all of a sudden a a storm came up and brewed up. It was a uh apparently a very dramatic storm and there was this crackle of lightning or thunder right in front of him. I mean just shook his bones. Okay? He was very, very afraid. So what did he do? He cried out for help. He didn't cry out to God, though. Remember the the Roman Catholic, what did they, who did they pray to? The saints. So he had his personal saint, Saint Anne. Saint Anne was his saint. So he cried out, Saint Anne, spare me and I will become a monk. Now, what you've probably heard about Luther, he is a very um dedicated man. If he says something, he's gonna do it. All right? Um kind of eccentric Kind of a loud dude, and we'll we'll see more about that. But so 15 days later, he joined the monastic the monastery. The danger passed, but the pledge of Martin Luther made in that moment was a promise he intended to keep. He left behind the study of law much to his father's dismay of course, and entered what was known as the Augustinian monastery. Now you remember Augustine was really influential in what? The grace of God Right, that was kind of his theme. So that's what this monastery was pushing, um, in a city in Germany. So now we have um Luther is part of a monastery. Though he had escaped the threat of thunderstorm, he continued to live under the constant threat of God's holy wrath. He felt a heavy weight of guilt pressing down on his conscience despite his repeated efforts to assuage it. So he was trying to earn his right standing before God through good works, through a legalistic checklist attitude. Right? I need to do this, this, this, this and then I'll be okay. And he went through some very extreme um measures to try and go after that. There's stories of during the winter he would sleep without a blanket. I mean just shivering cold Um he would deny himself of uh food and and other pleasures. Um Luther worked tirelessly to try to earn God's favor and pay the punishment for his sins. So he felt this heavy weight of his sins And he needed to pay for those. He wanted to get rid of those. How do I get rid of the guilt? I do good things. But it was all from a very legalistic perspective. He performed severe acts of self-asceticism, like I talked about Sleeping without blankets, fasting for long periods, and it did some significant damage to his health. He was a pretty sickly dude because of how he treated his body in these circumstances. He went to confession so often his confessor had to tell him to stop. Come back when you really got something that that you need to confess. Alright? It just you can imagine how heavy this guilt was. And maybe some of you felt that before your conversion. I don't know. But he was growing more and more discouraged. He wasn't starting to feel peace and freedom. He would the weight was getting heavier This is Luther's own assessment during this time. Quote, if ever a monk got to heaven by monkery, I would have been the monk. Right? Monkery, that's an official term. His point is I did everything I possibly could to earn my way, to try and remove the guilt that I had. In the midst of this struggle, and this is a turning point, Luther became fixated with the phrase the righteousness of God. All Luther could see in the statement, though, was the perfect standard of God's righteousness He knew he fell short of it. And this is Romans three, twenty-three. For Luther the righteousness of God stood as the continual reminder of his own condemnation, because he rightly recognized he was not You've often talked uh heard me talk about what we need to do consistently in our sanctification, and that is what? Cultivate a really high view of God but all of his attributes. So what Luther was doing here is he was correctly focused on a chief attribute of God. And what's that? His holiness, his righteousness But he stopped there, right? You've got to consider all of the attributes of God, and you're going to see that in a second. But that's where he was. So God brought him to that point. I want to pause for a second How I don't know if any of you want to share your own testimony testimony. Did you feel anything similar before becoming a believer or a Christian? Just this weight of sin. No, you were all perfect. Sir, do you want to share? No, no, I was going to say could you repeat that again? Yeah, uh I'm I'm asking if you're willing to share just your own testimony, this this understanding of God's righteousness in our sinfulness. Great, great testimony. And I like this um this cycle you're talking about, right? You come to church and maybe you feel pretty good as you leave, but then throughout the week this cycle continues. And you use that word this sense of condemnation. Right, that's it. And that is a correct view of man before salvation. We are all condemned, right, to death. We all deserve the wages of our sin, our death, right? So that word is a very important word, condemnation. So Luther's actually in the monastery for almost a decade before he has this transformation. Roughly a decade after entering the monastery, Luther's despair finally began to lift While teaching through the books of Psalms and Romans and later Galatians, so Romans obviously had a huge impact on him This desperate monk's eyes were open to the truth of the gospel of grace. Through his study of scriptures, specifically Romans 1, 16 and 17, let's go there in your Bibles. Romans 1 Romans one sixteen, starting verse sixteen, for I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed. From faith to faith, as it is written, but the righteous man shall live by faith. This was absolutely transforming for Luther. Luther came to see that the righteousness of God revealed in the gospel is not merely the righteous standard of God. He got that right God is holy, holy, holy. That is, he has a standard of perfection, absolute perfection, but also the righteous provision of God. in which God reckons believers as righteous by clothing them in the perfect righteousness of his son. What is the theological term we use for reckons believers as righteous? Somebody said it Nope. Justification. Justification. My my uh belief, one of the most beautiful words in the Bible. Right, justification. We just heard our state beforehand was condemnation before a holy, holy, holy God. And now, through justification, a legal term, right? Not something we did We are now declared righteous before this holy God by nothing that we did. That's the gospel. Right? And that's what Luther now understood. That this attribute of God, yes righteous, he's also full of grace and mercy and provides the righteousness we need to be reconciled to God. That is the gospel message. And that was the big aha, was this idea of justification. Another quote from Martin Luther. At last, meditating day and night and by the mercy of God, I gave heed to the context of the words. In it the righteousness of God is revealed, as it is written. He who through faith is righteous shall live. Then I began to understand that the righteousness of God is that through which the righteous live by a gift of God, namely by faith. Here I felt as if I were entirely born again. and had entered paradise itself through the gates that had been flung open. An entirely new side of the scriptures opened itself to me, and I extoled my sweetest word with a love as great as the loathing with which Before I had hated the term the righteousness of God. Why? Because it was heavy, it was condemning, when he just saw it in that singular sense. Thus that verse in Paul, Romans 1. 17, was for me truly the gate of paradise. You know, hopefully that's what we all feel as we go through our own transformation. Um let me let me share this. I will be honest, my testimony of my conversion, I remember I don't remember the exact date, but it was the summer before my last year in college um when I was uh clearly regenerated in my heart. I'll be very honest, at that time I don't recall having this incredible sense of who I was as a sinner. It was more about um just the regeneration of of being a child of God now. It was the justification. I was excited. It wasn't un until I was sanctified the maturity that the gravity of who I was and I hear I see some head shaking like yeah that was my testimony too. So everyone's testimony um conversion experience is a little bit different but that You know, I certainly went through periods of time where I felt the the heaviness, the guilt of my sin in in as a Catholic praying to God, but didn't have a personal relationship with Jesus. But um I just wanted to point out I didn't feel that heaviness. It wasn't until afterwards that my understanding, my correct understanding of who I was, and that's the gospel that I preach to myself these days, right, is still helpful so that I am praising a holy God. I don't know if anyone had similar experiences or anything you want to share? Yep. Excellent. Um you guys have heard me say I love Romans 8 is probably my favorite chapter in in the Bible right now because it is um an assurance of who we are in Christ. It is easy for us as humans to condemn ourselves once again and to go back to that promise. We yes we should be examining ourselves, but we are no longer condemned. And Romans eight is full of other promises um of who we are as a child of God, the assurances, um just all kinds of good stuff. So yes, love chapter eight. Thank you guys for your testimony sharing there. Beautiful. Love to hear um of the transformation of of people's hearts. Okay, leave le uh Luther would later identify this as the great exchange of the gospel. The penalty for the believer's sin was imputed. Remember, justification has kind of two components to it. This declaration that you are righteous, right? This positional standing now before um a holy God before Jesus Christ. You're declared righteous. It also has this idea of imputation, right? You can stand there with this declaration because of imputation. So bottom line is our sin is imputed to Christ's account. He carries that burden now. Past, present, and future. And His righteousness is imputed to our accounts. We now have that covering. So now when God looks at us through his Jesus Christ glasses, he sees us as righteous. That's the great exchange that Luther is talking about here No message is more important than the good news of God's grace. No sinner is good enough to earn God's favor. All of us stand in desperate need of divine mercy, and that's the the gospel message that we need to be sharing. The drama surrounding Luther's conversion may be unique to him, but the recognition of personal unworthiness and the need of God's grace is something every true believer has experienced firsthand. So again, I appreciate those who shared. Um however, as you know, when we reflect on the story of of even Luther's conversion, along with the the larger um aspect of what's happening in the Reformation We celebrate the wonder of our own testimony, that we have been saved by grace and not by works. Why? So that no one can boast. That's the key there. It has to be all God, because if we had any element of it then what? We can boast. Then some of that glory comes to us if it was an earned effort. Alright. Yeah, make sure I'm not missing any words here. So we are on to the the 95 Thesis and the diet of worms. No, this isn't German, right? So the W becomes a V. Worms. Worms was a city. The diet of Worms Alright, so we're back to this idea of the indulgences. And you might have remembered uh Pastor Gabe preaching on this a couple weeks ago when he brought this up. But in the previous lesson we introduced indulgences. What were those? Pardons that re supposedly reduced um the punishment for sin not only for yourself, but you could do that for your your relatives that died to get them out of purgatory purgatory quicker Um and this was all in exchange for what? For money. Show me the money. And that's what was being corrupted. Right? This was their their big gift giving campaign. The more indulgences, the more they could build So there was an event in fifteen seventeen, um church authorities commissioned a monk, John Tetzel to sell indulgences throughout Saxony, throughout the the English region there. And fifteen seventeen is often considered kind of the start of the Reformation. So you might remember back in twenty seventeen we celebrated five hundred years. of the Reformation. Um it probably started sooner than that, but this is kind of a a defining moment, the ninety-five thesis being nailed to the door. At this time Luther was teaching at the University of Wittenberg in Germany When Tetso began selling indulgences near Wittenberg, Luther was incessed, right? He had already come through this conversion and understood the the grace and mercy of God and and here was this person trying to uh have people earn their way. Um to get rid of that guilt. So obviously he was very incessant. Again, uh Luther was a very colorful, intense person. To articulate his concerns, Luther drafted what we know as the ninety-five arguments or thesis. primarily focused on the abuse of the indulgences. Right? It wasn't, hey, Catholic Church, you just gotta go away and everything about you You know, that would transform uh over time, but right now it was really his primary argument was about the the abuse of these indulgences. He wrote the ninety five thesis originally in Latin, right? So it was meant for kind of an inner church debate, if you will, but like we talked about because of the printing press Someone translated what he wrote into German and then that started to spread throughout. So now the common people were starting to get this and like, hey, wait a minute, he's writing This is wrong. Right? So that started this this movement. And again, by God's providence. However, um you can imagine the the authorities in the Roman Catholic Church were not happy. Initially the Pope hoped it would be handled within the the monastery that he was at, but obviously it just started to grow and grow and grow Um in fifteen nineteen Luther debated a man, Jonathan Eck, on this topic of uh papal authority. Luther admitted that he admired her the teachings of John uh Jan Hus, who we talked about last time, which was a dangerous thing to do since Hus had been executed as a heretic. So the Roman Catholic Church was kind of giving time for the monastery. Hey take care of this this dude He's causing a problem. And it continued. So now they had to take action. So they issued a decree, what they called a a papal bull. A bull was a decree, um, basically saying, hey, you gotta stop what you're doing. And ultimately they would um they threatened to execu excommunicate Luther from the church if he did not recant his beliefs When Luther refused to relinquish his views, he was excommunicated in January 1521. Actually, my understanding is they burned his books Right in retaliation. So what did he do to that bull? He burned it right in front of him. Right. Here you go. That's the kind of attitude he a he had. Um And this is where we get the Diet of Worm. So he was summoned before the Emperor, Charles V, or yeah, to an Imperial Council. That's what the diet is called, an imperial council. When you see diet, just think of Council in the city of Worms. So that's where you get the Diet of Worms. Um he arrived in April and he was given a list of his heresies But Luther refused to recant. And I love this uh bold statement by Luther. Since then your majesty and your lordships desire a simple reply I will answer without horns and without teeth. Unless I am convinced by Scripture and plain reason, I do not accept the authority of popes and councils For they have contradicted each other. My conscience is captive to the Word of God. Let that be our battle cry as well. I cannot and I will not recant anything, for to go against conscience is neither right nor safe. God help me, amen. So again, standing firmly on the authority of Scripture. He was obviously later declared a heretic. kicked out of the the church. Um however, like I talked about, he had a protector. And he had a protector in a prince um named Frederick III. And he ended up um kidnapping Luther and kind of hiding him out in the castle So he was um uh known as Junker George, Squire George was the nickname they gave him, again, span uh spending time in this castle in Wartburg, again in Germany. But while he was there Luther had time now to translate the Bible. So he translated the New Testament in uh from Greek and um into the German language. So that's what he did while he was there He also wrote a hymn, um, again, a lot of emphasis on the Psalms, and specifically Psalm 46, he wrote a hymn you're all familiar with. A mighty fortress is our God. And it's a great hymn. A mighty you guys know it. His German translation would be influential on the translation efforts of William Tyndale. Remember we talked about William Tyndale last um week about um his work in translating uh the Bible specifically the New Testament into English. Alright. Alright, on to the heart of the gospel. Again, kind of the foundation of what was happening here with the Reformation leaders. As we've been saying over and over and over In keeping with their commitment to the authority of Scripture, Luther and his fellow reformers look to God's Word to define the heart of the gospel. During the Middle Ages, the doctrine of justification, like we just talked about, had become confused and distorted. That is the means that Satan wants to use. He wants to distort biblical truth. And this idea of justification, right, faith alone, grace alone, was distorted. Such that what people were adding to the gospel. You had to earn your way. You had to earn your salvation. There was a work that you had to do. Part of the confusion about justification was due to the Latin translation of the Greek term. The Latin term um that was used could mean to make righteous and lent itself toward a process. But the Greek term means to declare righteousness this word justification, which speaks of a judicial verdict issued at a moment of time. Again, the importance of a good translation and understanding the original Hebrew and Greek languages. So it it wasn't um a process that we did, it was a declaration by God. All right, so I I talked to you earlier about the solas, right? We talked earlier about sola scriptura Um scripture alone. Scripture alone is our authority. We also talk about the other four solas. Thus the reformers taught that the believers are saved by grace alone Sola Gracia, through faith alone, sola fide, in the person and work of Christ alone, solus Christus, all of the glory for their salvation goes to God alone. Sola de gloria Right, for the glory of God alone. Remember what I said, for us to take on any aspect of our salvation, in theory, is to take some of that glory away and put it on ourselves, which is heretical, right? All the glory to God Now Luther had to distinguish the biblical gospel from Roman Catholic teaching by differentiating between what he called the theology of the cross and the theology of glory. So let me summarize those real quick. Theology of the cross emphasized that human beings can do nothing to earn their own righteousness before God, nor can they add anything to the righteousness provided for them through Christ. Right? So that's what we've been talking about. On the other hand, what he called the theology of glory taught that even after the fall there remained some ability in sinful people to achieve their own righteousness before God. This view implied that part of the credit or glory for salvation belongs to the sinner. Luther and his fellow reformers rejected this and rightly insisted that all the glory for salvation belongs to God alone. Again, a quote from Martin Luther. Through faith in Christ, therefore, Christ's righteousness becomes our righteousness, and all that he has become ours. Rather, he himself becomes ours. This is an infinite righteousness, in one that swallows up all sin in a moment For it is impossible that sin should exist in Christ. On the contrary, he who trusts in Christ exists in Christ. He is one with Christ, having the same righteousness as he Back to Romans 8. 1, right? There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Alright, I gotta keep moving here. Too much good stuff. Alright, so let's move to our buddy Calvin. And again, uh really big contrast between Luther and Kelvin. Luther again, a very colorful, extreme person There are things that he said that we cringe at today. There are some things that he did that we would cringe at today. And let me say this. I don't emphasize too much the negative aspect I do try to highlight periodically though that these were human beings. They didn't always get it right. And there was, you know, some that taught some some pretty weird doctrines, and we have to be careful of that. Again, the point of this class is to show God's redemptive um plan, his his sovereignty, his providence throughout history, right? How he is always working to purify his church and his his word can never be changed. Right? The power of his word can never be changed. And he builds up men and women that are going to defend that faith and and bring us back to the Word of God. So that's what I want you to take a away from that. But these are not people to be idolized though. They're they're God's instruments that He uses throughout time as He's using you and I today. Alright, so let's talk about Calvin. Calvin was a much more Subdued, kinda quiet, kind of scholarly dude versus what you saw with um Luther. Calvin was born in 1509, so he was about twenty-five years younger than than Luther, so he's often referred to as the second generation. of the Protestant reformers. They had a lot in common, but they had some differences for sh for sure. So just like Luther, he was also a lawyer For kind of the same reasons. His dad said, Hey man, you can't make a lot of money being a pastor. Why don't you why don't you be a lawyer? So he was studying as a lawyer before that God got a hold before God got a hold of him. Um and I talked about this earlier when persecution against Protestants, so that's the movement that's happening to protest erupted in France. Calvin fled to Switzerland So you remember on the map there was this heavy influence of Calvinism or Calvin in Switzerland, that's why. Because that's where the Lord brought him, right? So don't be surprised when the Lord picks you up and moves you across country or internationally Right? He's using his people continually um to carry out his his wonderful plan and his will. Um in Basil he penned his first edition of the Institutes of the Christian Religion. How many people have Calvin Institutes Couple hands. I have it only because as part of the EIT training that I went through, this was one of the resources that we got. I've read maybe two pages of it Um there is an elder in this church though that this is this is probably on his bedstand. This is his nighttime reading. I won't mention Rob's name. But I don't say that critically. I admire this guy so much and he is just he is a theologian and he just eats this stuff up. But um this became a a really important resource through history and it went from his initial edition of six chapters to his final edition of eighty chapters in the book. So it's a a pretty um Pretty dense volume there. And the intent of of the institutes was um really apologetic in nature So remember we talked about apologetics. Where where is that pressure coming from when I talk about apologetics? External, right, Justin. Right? This was the church persecuting this reformation this movement and and um Calvin was triply simply trying to put something together to say you don't need to be persecuting us. This is what we believe. Right? So he captured that in what is called the Institutes of Calvin Uh let's see here, what do I want to cover? Um 1538, um this man that he had associated with, uh William Farrell and Calvin, came into conflict with the city council and were forced to leave Geneva Calvin traveled to Strausburg where he got married, so he was married, and published his first contemporary or commentary on the book of Romans So again, Romans was a very influential epistle for both Luther and Calvin, and we understand why. And he wrote the second edition of the Institute that I just showed you. Later in kind of the mid-16th centuries, Calvin began to face opposition from some of the citizens of Geneva, which is where he was at. The uh opposition groups known as the Libertines resisted Calvin and the rules that were enacted by the Church of Geneva. Beginning in fifty five, Calvin welcomed English Protestant refugees who were fleeing from the Roman Catholic Queen Mary to Geneva. Among them was the Scottish preacher John Knox that I talked about earlier. So John Knox, very influential um in Scotland, of course, and that's where you get the quote um Um give me Scotland or I die. In fifty-eight Calvin became ill and worked quickly to finish up the final uh edition of the Institute. So in fifty eight he thought he was gonna die, and that's where he um he was like, All right, man, I I gotta pump it out, and that's where he ended up with eighty chapters. However, he would go on to live a few more years, I think five or six um more years. Died in fifteen sixty four The aim of his life had been the glory of God, though his legacy is often reduced to a few cue points related to God's sovereignty in salvation. So often when we think of Calvinism this idea of election comes up and the sovereignty of God in someone's salvation. However, Calvin was really big on the sovereignty of in all every area of our life. Right? So it was much broader than just salvation. And he r he got that right, right? God's sovereignty in every aspect of our life. Here's a quote from Calvin. For what is more consonant with faith than to recognize that we are naked of all virtue in order to be clothed by God, that we are empty of all good to be filled by Him, that we are slaves of sin to be freed by Him, blind to the ill to be illumined by him, lame to be made straight by him, weak to be sustained by him, to take away from us all occasion for glorifying, that he alone may stand forth gloriously, and we glory in him You know, I go back to Sharon's comment about even after our salvation, in our sanctification, remembering this truth, that it's all God, and it all points back to God, what kind of attitude should that give us Just one of great praise and thankfulness. You want joy and peace in your life? Start to cultivate a spirit of thankfulness for all that the Lord has done. God works all things. Right? For those who love Christ Jesus. Okay. Make sure I covered everything. Alright, any questions on Luther or Calvin? Kind of wrapping things up here. Other people you should know. So these are Some other people that were um around during this time. Um Philip Melenkthon might be a familiar name, close associate of Luther in Wittenberg. He was the principal author of the Augsburg Confession, which was presented to Emperor Charles V of the Diet of Augsburg. What's the diet again? Council. Yeah. Um a name you might be very familiar with is Zwingli, Protestant reformer in Zurich. He was a contemporary of Luther. Let's see He is considered the father of the reform branch of the Reformation. He convinced the Zurich City Council to allow him to make sweeping ecclesiastical reforms. What is ecclesiology again? The study of the church right? Um to include even abolishment of the Mass. Now, um he and Luther had a big dispute though. Do you remember what the issue was? They did not agree vehemently on this point. It was the Lord's Supper. Right? Luther, you remember the Roman Catholic Church believed in what? Transubstantiation. Right? This idea of when you when you took the elements, the the wine and the bread, it actually transformed into this was Jesus' body and his blood. And you remember the reason behind that was they were bringing back in the sacrifice. Right? There was the need to continue to have this sacrifice for your sins Which is heresy, of course. Right? Luther didn't believe in that, but he did believe that somehow during that time, the Eucharist, that the presence of God was there. Right? That's the the difference. It's kind of this modified version. Zwingli was like, no, none of that. It's simply symbolic. You know, when you read scripture, it's simply symbolic. So that was the big that was a big contention between the two of them was around the Lord's Supper. Um I'll highlight just some of the the major differences maybe between Luther Calvin and Zwingli a little bit. Let's see. Covenantalism. You know, Zwingli um had a had a big covenantal influence, so the church was a contemporary representation of Israel. So again, there's some contention there, and and we know there's there's uh distinction today even uh between I'll call it reformers and or dispensationalists and um covenantalism, right? So y you have those complexities that are happening, even though there was so much in common with the Reformation, when you get back to the basics, really it's it's defending those three pillars we keep talking about. That's what they went back to There were still a lot of differences when you talk about you know executing church, um the Eucharist, um some of these ideas about um reform versus or dispensational versus covenantal. Predestination was was another key issue. It's often pointed to Calvin or Calvinists believing in double predestination, meaning that God predestined those who would be saved, but he also predestined those for hell. Right? That's what double predestination would be. Versus Luther that would believe in just a single predestination. See God destined people to heaven. People went to hell simply because of their sinful nature. Right? He didn't say this one to heaven, this one to hell simply I'm going to choose some because of my grace and mercy, the rest are getting the judgment they deserve. Right? So that's the difference between predestination. And again, the intent of this class, I mean you could spend thirteen weeks on talking about all these differences. That's not the intent of this class, right? It's simply to show God's hand during this time to kind of reset the church back to focusing on scripture. But I'm trying to highlight there were even differences between the these these men that would be, you know, their names written in Hebrews eleven, right? That's how important they were. Um there were differences That we we even see today. Alright, so that was Zwingley, and then we talked um we talked about William Tyndale last week, English Bible translator who fled to Europe Because translating was illegal in England at the time. He translated the New Testament from Greek and the Pentateuch, Pentateuch being the first five books of the Old Testament from Hebrew, so that was the the language that was used. In fifteen thirty six he was arrested and executed by command of Henry VIII, the King of England. So again, a very dangerous time for these reformers. And then we have Thomas Cranmer, so that's who you have here on your last fill in the blank He was the Protestant Archbishop of Canterbury, who helped spark the Reformation in England during the reigns of Henry VIII and Edward VI. He was again executed for his faith by um Mary, you might have heard a bloody Mary, right, in her reign And he was uh persecuted and executed. And then John Knox, I talked earlier about the the Scottish Reformer up in Scotland, who was exiled to England and then to Europe um before returning to Scotland to lead the reformation efforts there He came into conflict with the Roman Catholic ruler, Mary Queen of Scots. In the end, Knox brought Reform theology to Scotland, thereby founding Presbyterianism. So that's where you get um kind of that denomination or branch. And again the quote, give me Scotland or I die. Okay. Um very, very exciting time in our church history Again, 16th century, about 500 years ago, and I I guess the big takeaway is again pointing back to these pillars. Right, uh the Word of God, which is why we are very blessed to be part of a church that that holds the Word in such high regard um and to have like-minded churches around us that do the same. So looking forward to those partnerships. But again we all play a part in defending the faith if you will. Right, so any questions? Again I know this was at a very high level about um some of these reformers. Before you leave, has everyone, every family picked up it's a little booklet called The Heartbeat of Hope Bible Church. We um presented this, passed it out at our congregation meeting last Sunday. If you do not have a copy, they're um outside by the Welcome Center, you know, the little uh area that we have there. I encourage you to grab one. This is uh something Gabe started to put together. during his sabbatical. Um and again you talk about hope Bible church and and what does that mean. That's what this pamphlet really goes through. But let me just read the outline. Proclaiming the hope of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The need for hope The only source of genuine hope proclaiming the gospel of salvation, proclaiming the gospel for life. Right? And we talked a lot about that today. So this is not a um a uh a document, an institute, or whatever, it's simply affirming the truth. And why, where does our name come from? Hope Bible Church. This is a great pamphlet to help explain that. So that's the Hope um Bible, applying all the Bible to all of life, making disciples, personal discipleship, biblical counseling, and then church Being the church for the glory of God. God's design for the church and each member's unique role. So I highly encourage you to make sure you pick up one if you have not received a copy already. Okay? Any questions? If you haven't um stuck your head into the worship center facility, you need to do that. It is really looking good. Everything's painted Uh brick is up on the wall. They're they're trying to decide which lights they want to go with. But um Greg and Bill, I'll I'll give you guys a shout out. I know you'll you'll give praise to the team and there's lots of people that are volunteering, but You know, leadership is always the catalyst and it is really looking good. We're getting close. We're getting close. So all right, let me close and pray. Father, we love you. Um it is just exciting to see um what some of these church leaders did, but we know it's by your hand. We know and are encouraged that it's by going back to your inspired word, your authoritative word, your sufficiency for all of life. Lord, is found in your word. May we be good stewards of your word. We rely, though, Lord, on the Holy Spirit to illumine and to empower us. Let us be filled or controlled by the Holy Spirit. May we find joy in obedience to your commands, Lord. There is peace in that that will guard our hearts. Lord, continue to bless our worship time this morning. May you be glorified in Jesus' name. Amen.