Oh precious Father, um another day where your mercies are new and fresh. We don't take that for granted to be here, fellowshipping with the saints, digging into your word, understanding just a a small tidbit of what some of these church leaders went through to defend the faith, to have courage to share the gospel, the true gospel of your word. So I pray that you bless our time this morning, that you would bless our time of worship, the singing, the preaching, the fellowship, that you would be glorified. We thank you and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. Lesson eleven already. I can't believe that we are getting near the end of our quarter. We blew through the Reformation last week. All right. So Sixteenth century recovered in about an hour what could we have missed, right? Um there is a lot there with the Reformation. Like I said, you could spend a whole quarter talking about the Reformation. But it was important, um let me jump to this. because I really do like this map. I lost my pointer. I like this because it showed, you know, the corruption that was happening across all three of these pillars, certainly in the Middle Ages. And and there was a drifting away from, you know, the true scripture, if you will, and and it got distorted and there was corruption and we've talked a lot about that And there was a reset that happened, the Reformation. So that was a really important time in our in our history in God's redemptive plan. But again, God is always there, right, raising up leaders, men and women, to defend the faith. Um And so we're gonna see now, but how did that Reformation influence make it to America? Right? So that's how we're gonna see kind of the Western influence. what we'll be talking about today with the the Puritans. You can see we're going to cover both the 17th and the 18th century. So the 16th century you can kind of put that in your noggin That was really devoted to the Reformation. And then the follow-on to that in the 17th and 18th century, you're going to see the influence into the West, specifically America. So that's what we'll talk about today. If you are at chapter 11 in your book, I think it's page 85 in your book, I want to read the key passage here, John 3, 1 through 3. But start with this. You know, the the theme um as we've been last couple weeks and going forward is really about gospel courage Right, it's going back to the pure gospel of the Word. And and the Reformers initially were what? Battling, defending against corruption. in the Roman Catholic Church, right? The the the papal corruption of the bishops and the things that they were doing liturgically in their masses, the indulgences, we talked all about that And so these reformers were really defending against that corruption, defending against or for the true gospel. Back to the pure gospel. I I want to encourage you this way though. We have talked for eleven weeks about defending, defending, defending I I want to reaffirm the gospel. There's joy in that. There is joy in spreading the gospel. There is joy in living out the gospel in our own lives. And we all of us need the gospel. Even once you are saved, we need the gospel. It's a reminder of what Christ did in our lives. So as I was doing this last time, I'm like, man, I'm just pounding them on the defense piece. I want to make sure I encourage you. It is a joy, right, to share God's word with people. So I wanted to remind you as we as we talk through these folks of of courage that it is also an incredible joy to be defending the faith. So let's go over the key passage, John 3. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews, this man came to Jesus by night and said to him, Rabbi, we know that you have come from God as a teacher, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him Jesus answered and said to him, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God All right, that points to the true gospel message. Everyone must be born again. And again, that's kind of our theme as we go through this. Gospel courage. All right, before we jump in, any any big questions about the reformers, what we covered last week? Again, we we uh passed over a lot of detail that happened during the Reformation, but You know, some of the big ones we talk about Calvin and Luther and Knox. Um just any big comments or uh things you want to add from that time period? Okay. We'll jump right in then So again, we're going to be talking about this idea of uh the Puritans. So let me get on my timeline here. Um the Puritans, where did they come from? You know, how did they get to America? What did that look like And we're going to talk about um three main, really four. They're brothers though. So uh Jonathan Edwards and Charles and John Wesley and then George Whitfield. So those are all kind of the big names we're going to be talking about And you'll see some of the revival that happens not only in England, but what they call the Great Awakening that was happening in America, um, with very close timelines. Okay. So as we often do, a little bit of background as we we start to talk about these folks. We talked last time about um the the Queen of England, uh Mary, had this uh name Bloody Mary Right, because she was such a persecutor of English Protestants. So the English Protestants were severely persecuted under the reign of Mary, even though it was a very short time. If you are familiar with uh Fox's books Fox's Book of Martyrs, that is covering this time period of the persecution under Bloody Mary. So what often happens during persecution? People flee, right? We we saw that in what book of the Bible? Acts, the very beginning of church history, right? So it's it's not uncommon for the Lord to use persecution to have his word spread throughout the world. And we're gonna we see that over and over again. So we should not be surprised by that. So many fled to Eng um from England to cities like Geneva and Frankfurt. And you see that influence in in Europe. However, when they returned home to England because of some of the leadership had changed out, the persecution died down. Um after Queen Elizabeth was crowned in 1558, they wanted to see the Church of England implement the same reforms they have had observed in the Protestant congregations in Europe. So they're persecuted, they go to Europe, they they see uh the Protestants in action and this group, uh the Puritans want to bring that that purity back to the church in England Now it was under um, I believe it was Henry VIII, if you remember the story, I believe he was married to uh Catherine. And he wanted to divorce Catherine because she only gave him a daughter. He wanted a son, right? But the Catholic Church wouldn't allow him to be divorced for that. So he said, All right I'm done with the Catholic Church, right? And so that's how we instituted some of the Protestant reforms actually in the Church of England. So when you hear of Anglican, that is the Church of England. That's what that means. Now It wasn't all bad, but here's the three main features that the Anglican church had. One is you still had the king or queen that was the head of it, all right It was very liturgical. So you had a lot of the the mass, you know, liturgy type of flavor to to the mass. However, they were somewhat theologically reformed, right? So they were reformed in their theology. The Puritans coming back from their persecution wanted complete reform. Right? They didn't want the king and queen to be the head They didn't want the the liturgy or the liturgy that was there. Yes, they wanted the reform theology. So that's the environment that we're talking about when they come back. These English Protestants sought to purify the church of any remaining Roman Catholic corruption like I just talked about. Okay? Um this and for that reason they that's how they became known as the Puritans. They wanted to purify the church. Actually that term started from the the opposition called them Puritans and they're like, hey I kinda like that. So they started to call themselves the Puritans. So under Queen Elizabeth, um early part of the sixteen hundreds, the English um Protestant movement retained elements of Roman Catholic litur liturgy, like I talked about. This proved frustrating for the Puritans. Now this is interesting when James VI of Scotland became James James I of England in 1603 Let me get out my handy dandy wall chart because I um yeah, so uh eventually you we get the United Kingdom, which is Scotland, Wales and England combined actually in seventeen oh seven Right, so that's when they were actually unified. You're good. But here there there must have been some kind of unity that happened because we have King James now um in England in sixteen oh three. So he was um in Scotland and now he becomes uh the King of England. So they haven't yet unified. The Puritans hoped he would be more friendly to their intended reforms Um they had a big conference though, but James made it clear, so King James, that he did not intend to support the Puritan case. So they made a plea, they made an appeal, they thought, oh new leadership Didn't happen, okay? But something good did come out of um England. You remember the the Bible they had w was not a very good translation. That the uh Bible, the translation that was being used by the Church of England However, King James commissioned a new English translation of the Bible. Can you guess what translation that is That's where we get the King James Version of the Bible. Happened in sixteen eleven, right? So that's that's when that translation happened. And it was a good one, right? So yes he didn't Take on the Puritan movement, but what came out of that by God's provision, God's sovereignty, uh was a very good translation of the Bible Of course, though, under his leadership the Puritans remained to be very frustrated. So what are you going to do about that? It worsened though in 1625 when Charles I came to the throne. Charles had married a Roman Catholic queen So a lot of nuances that drive, you know, kind of the politics, and you see the church here being governed a lot by what's happening at the state level, right, at the political level during this time period He appointed William Loud as the Archbishop of Canterbury. Loud opposed the Puritans persecuting Puritan pastors who deviated from Anglican liturgy prescribed in the Book of Common Prayer. So that's when this um conflict started to happen. They came out with this uh Book of the Common Prayer. And that was basically, hey, when you have a Mass, this is exactly how you're supposed to perform that Mass. Alright, so that's what went out through all the churches to follow this format. Now, here the Book of Common Prayer, and this was a big sticking point, prohibited them from teaching on God's sovereignty in salvation. Right? That was a big point. God's sovereignty in salvation. What were they doing? They were adding to the gospel message. Right? You had to, yes, you Jesus Christ um our salvation, yet you had to do good works to earn that salvation. So they added to the gospel. And what the Protestants, the Puritans were were pushing for is no God alone is our salvation or works our salvation through Jesus Christ. So obviously you have this conflict brewing and that's where you have uh reference to the English Civil War. That's what happened um at this breaking point and that was the mid sixteen hundreds. And so you had the Puritan supporters of the parliament parliament fought against the royalist supporters of Charles I. So that's the conflict that was happening. However, Parliament won the war. Charles was executed in 1649, and his family was exiled to the Netherlands. The Puritan general, so there was a general that took over, Oliver Cromwell came to uh power during this time and that's where you get the protectorate. So now the the Puritans were protected, right? They're side one, if you will But it was a very short-lived time. However, during this time uh the Puritans met at what was called the Westminster Assembly And drafted what many of you now know is the Westminster Confession and Catechism. So when you hear of the Westminster Confession That's the time period that this was happening. And we'll come back to that in a little bit. So obviously you got um someone in favor in charge, so the Puritans were able to actually enact some of their desired changes in the Church of England. But like I said, it would not last long. In fact, after Cromwell's death, um Charles the Second, so this would have been the son, his family was um deported, if you will, into exile, but they are now brought back and I'm sure he's just as happy as can be, right? No. Lots of uh a revenge attitude for what had happened to his family. So they returned from the Netherlands. He was crowned king. Um when the monarchy was restored in England, the Church of England returned to its status prior to the English Civil War So again, it was a very fleeting time. It was a short time of this protection. But when Charles II came back, they basically went back to the way that the English church had been before. Okay, so that's that's the environment that is happening here if you get a sense of that. So as a result, roughly 2,400 Puritan pastors were forced out of the church. And again the mid sixteen hundreds, known as the Great Ejection. So there was the protectorate, they were protected, and now they're ejected, right? The whole lot of them protec um rejected or ejected. The dissenters formed their own separate congregations and faced legal consequences as a result. For example, John Bunyan, does that ring a bell? Who who was John Bunyan? What did he author Pilgrim's progress, all right. So John Bunyan during this time was imprisoned for twelve years for preaching without a license. Alright, so again this was not a friendly environment. They were being heavily, heavily persecuted for defending their faith, for defending the gospel. When the Puritans sidelined, England entered a period of deep spiritual decline at the end of the 17th century. At the dawn of the eighteenth century, the need for revival was great. So that's that's the environment again that we're going to be talking about, end of the 17th, into the 18th Um you'll see a revival in England England and a great awakening in America. All right, your first fill in the blank. So as we talked about do to, do to, do to That's the right answer, but it's not playing. It's not playing nice. I think you're checking it. Don't worry that stuff. Oh, there we go. Alright, due to persecution like we talked about, and this was again during the reign of James the First. So yes we got um a great translation out of 'em, but because of that persecution, you know, a lot of them uh fled or were kicked out. And it was during this time that now we start to see the influence on the West, specifically in America. So after spending a short time in Amsterdam, they embarked for North America on the Mayflower. Landing at Plymouth in 1620. So this was the time period where you start to see the migration of the Puritans, and you can see the maps here two big, I'll call it big lines of of effort. So about twenty five hundred came to America, um a large portion up in the New England region, and then there was another about twenty thousand that came down to the West Indies in this region. really driven by the the reformers, this Protestant viewpoint um and the influx of the Puritans to America. Um how many of you are familiar with the Valley of Vision? Anybody have that? This is a collection of uh prayers from the Puritans It's it's a really good book um in the sense that um these were very, very devout individuals and their their prayers are just very hard hitting. So I I would encourage you, it's a great reference. Um Let me just read some of the preface here. The Puritan movement was a religious phenomenon of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, yet its influence continued to at least the time of Charles Haddon Spurgeon. So Spurgeon um was influenced and may be regarded the last great Puritan. Uh Spurgeon was a Baptist preacher, but obviously heavily influenced by the Puritan. Although the political storm ended in 1660, its theological groundswell carried forward distinct forms of practical religion for many decades, particularly family worship and private devotion. In these spheres and in that authority of Scripture over the whole of life, New England Presbyterians and Congregationalists were at one with English dissenters and Anglican evangelicals in a close knit union that transcended differences of worship discipline and polity. So I if you caught that, right, you have some different viewpoints coming together. There is much that they are unified in. Alright, so you have the spirit of unity versus maybe um what we would call as tolerance when we have ecumenical meetings today where all these different denominations are coming together um in the spirit of peace and unity, right? But it's really tolerance. There's so many differences between those major groups. Not the case here. Yes, there were some theological, doctrinal differences, but so much still in common and driven by prayer. Um the strength of Puritan character in life lay in the practice of prayer and meditation. Many of those who held the doctrines of grace wrote down a record of God's intimate dealings with their souls not with an eye to publication, but to test their spiritual growth and to encourage themselves by their reversal in times of low spiritual fervor. So what were they doing? They were journaling, if you will. They were keeping track of what the Lord was doing in their life. They were trying to cultivate a spirit of thankfulness by remembering what the Lord had done. Hopefully just a great example for us today, especially in our times of trial and tribulation, that's not the time to be cultivating the spirit of thankfulness You need to have that ahead of time in order to manage those times and to do it well. This book is not intended to be read as a prayer manual. The soul learns to pray by praying. It's a discipline. For prayer is communion with a transcendent and imminent God. So what do those two terms mean? Transcendent. What do we think of when we say a transcendent God? Above all. Above all. Right high above all creation. God is so far above we can't even understand that. And he if he left it at that relationship, it would be terrible. But what does it mean that he's an imminent God Not I, but A, imminent. He's a relational God. He's a personal God. That's the kind of God we worship. That's the God that we pray to. Alright, so I want you to remember that. Yes, he is transcendent but he is also chosen to be imminent, to have a personal relationship with his children. Alright, after Charles I came to the throne, many more Puritans left England, convinced that persecution in their homeland would only grow worse. And this is where you get what is called the Great Migration of the 1630s. Um think about that for a second. Okay, so they've been persecuted, they went to England, they're back They feel like the the environment is so bad, they're gonna take everything, which probably wasn't much, cram into a boat, the Mayflower, which many of them didn't survive the passage to start a new life in America. Can you imagine? I can't imagine. It's huge. Absolutely huge. So the Plymouth colony in New England was established in sixteen 1620, and you might remember the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1628, so this was in the early 1600s. In 1636, Harvard University was founded. Many of these Ivy League schools that we call them, they were originally founded by Puritans, right, with that type of mindset. They have obviously migrated since then. Many are very liberal, but back in the day at the very beginning, they were founded on on some of these godly principles um these universities. We'll hear more about that in a little bit. Uh around that same time Roger Williams left Massachusetts Bay to establish Rhode Island and the first Baptist Church in America in sixteen thirty eight. So all this again was was early sixteen hundreds. The initial wave of Puritans in New England was very devout, but subsequent generations lacked the conviction of their predecessors. Over time a growing sense of spiritual indifference set in. So here's you have this generation of folks who leave everything. Come to a foreign land, set up shop, and within a generation all of that's gone. Have we ever seen that in history before? Yes, we're gonna go through that However, so that's the 1600s. When we get to the beginning of the 17th century, though, this is where we see Jonathan Edwards come on the scene. We're going to talk a lot more about him Um but by the time of Jonathan Edwards, again early 1700s would have been the eighteenth century, churches of New England were largely populated by nominal Christians, right? So that's the environment. You have this this fire, this passion for a reform type of theology, and again within uh a very short time, 70, 80 years, nominal Christians Right, it's dead. In both England and New England, right, America, New England, there was a great need for revival. Such paved the way for the ministries and impact of men like Jonathan Edwards and George Whitfield. So I want you to turn in your Bibles to Judges 2. Judges 2 Now you remember Judges was um is right after Joshua, so Joshua leads them into um the land, the new land, if you will, um and when he dies, who's in charge? Remember the baton was passed from Moses to Joshua. Who did Joshua pass the baton to? There was nobody, right? He didn't have a son that followed him and said, Hey, here's you go, or or another leader And that's where you get this period of the judges. And we'll talk about, I'll show you a slide here in a second. But let me read Joshua or Judges 2, starting in verse 6. When Joshua had dismissed the people, the sons of Israel went each to his inheritance to possess the land, and the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua. and all the days of the elders who survived Joshua, who had seen all the great work of the Lord which he has done for Israel. Then Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died at the age of one hundred and ten. And they buried him in the territory of the inheritance in Timnatheris, in the hill country of Ephraim, north of Mount Gash. And all the generation also were gathered to their fathers, and there arose another generation after them who did not know the Lord, nor yet the work which he had done for Israel. They forgot all that the Lord had done for them. Verse 11. Then the sons of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served the Baals. And they forsook the Lord, the God of their fathers who had brought them out of the land of Egypt and followed other gods from among the gods of the peoples who were around them, and bowed themselves down to them. Thus they provoked the Lord to anger. So they forsook the Lord and served Baal and the Ashcaroth. And the anger of the Lord burned against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of plunderers, who plundered them And he sold them into the hands of their enemies around them so that they could no longer stand before their enemies. And in verse fifteen, wherever they went The hand of the Lord was against them for evil, as the Lord had spoken, as the Lord had sworn to them, so that they were severely distressed. Then verse 16, then the Lord raised up judges who delivered them from the hands of those who plundered them. So I stole this chart from my uh Old Testament survey class and you basically in judges what you see is this cycle. There are seven cycles of everything's good Right? They do evil, they they forget the Lord, and then what happens? Right? Uh there's consequences of that. They cry out to the Lord God gives them judges to deliver them. They repent, they go back to the Lord, everything's good, and then they just start it all over again. Seven times they went through this cycle. All right? And so you're starting to see a little bit of that happening here in New England, where uh again this this movement um happens with the Puritans, the Reformation in England, in Europe um in the United States and then within a very short time you see that lost. Why does that happen? What are some things that are happening here? Any thoughts Why do we see this generational loss of what the Lord has done for his people, what the Lord has done for us, nominal Christians that maybe grew up in a Christian home but aren't really saved What's happening here? What contributes to that? Sin always? Rex. A lack of persecution. Okay. All right, you become comfortable, don't you? Pass persecution can can really be a driving catalyst. Good. What else? Selfishness. Selfishness. Okay. Parents, what role or responsibility do we have here? Right? That we are to pass on when they're sleeping, awake, standing, walking, right? This continual passing on. I suspect one of the factors is parents weren't doing that, right? That legacy wasn't passed on. What did what did I read about the Puritans kind of keeping that journal Of all that the Lord has done, we we have that journal, right? And if we're not spending time in the Word, that's another factor. We're not spending time in God's word. We get caught up in the social media and all these other influences that are happening and we forget. In just a generation, right We forget. Alright, so just a warning for us all that we have that responsibility to to carry on, to pass on to the next generation. Um I did want to highlight that during this time period too, you start to see uh what we call the age of enlightenment was starting to happen. And this is all about you know, focus on self, what makes me happen, but trying to understand that through um through reasoning and through science. So that's where you start to see this influence that we still have today um with the age of enlightenment So of course there was a great, great need for revival, like I said, not only in England, but here in America in very in just a very short time period. Due to spiritual decline in both England and the American colonies, the stage was set for an evangelical revival in England and the Great Awakening in America. So that's how we're going to kind of focus our attention the the next several minutes. Um when we talk about England, the revival there, we're basically talking about and these were brothers John and Charles Wesley and George Whitfield. Jonathan Edwards is going to be a large influence when we talk about um the Great Awakening in America. However, they were all contemporaries. They were all born about the same time And you will even see that George Whitfield had a huge presence kind of as a missionary evangelical to the to America. All right, and so he will play a part in the Great Awakening as well. God raised up key leaders like we just talked about. Jonathan Edwards was born in seventeen oh three, just to give you a sense here. John Wesley, seventeen oh three Charles Wesley seventeen oh seven and then George Whitfield about um seven years later seventeen fourteen. So again very close together they were contemporaries. So John and Charles Wesley were born into a large family of nineteen children. Can you imagine? Nineteen children. Their father, however, was an Anglican minister. So they grew up in the church, but they were nominal Christians. They were those kids that grew up in a Christian family but didn't really know the Lord George Whitfield, by contrast, was only two years old when his father died. Whitfield grew up in poverty. So you see that contrast there Charles Wesley founded a group. So Wesley, I think John and Charles are going to Oxford University. Remember we talked about Oxford University happening during the scholastic period. But they form a group called the Holy Club. And so both uh his brother and George Whitfield would eventually join the group. All three men would later admit they were not converted at this time As you can imagine, by the name, the intent was to try and be holy, but it was by trying to earn holiness versus through grace alone. Okay? So that's what's happening here. In his efforts to earn salvation through external good works, George Whitfield forced himself to endure severe discipline which damaged his health. Do you remember someone else that we talked about that that happened to? Luther, do you remember? Right? He he was trying to just these extreme measures and ended up severely damaging his health. So that was the consequence of trying to earn his salvation Yet nothing he did could regenerate his heart or secure his salvation. Why? Because everyone must be born again. Right? That's what Jesus said to Nicodemus. Other students at Oxford called members of the Holy Club Methodist Because their methodical approach to self-discipline and spirituality. This nickname later came to define the movement these men would lead. That's where we get the term Methodist. Now The Methodists of today is a much more liberal group than than what we see here, right, when they actually were termed Methodists. Um they were just very methodical, but they were believers believing in the the the Reform theology. So very different. But you start to see how we're getting these different denominations that are being formed as we go through church history. Because Whitfield's family was very poor when he enrolled at uh Pembroke College, Oxford, he paid his expenses by working as a servitor. An errand boy serving the other students. So again, Whitfield was extremely poor um growing up, which can also be a catalyst In 1733, so we're in the early 1700s here, which would be the eighteenth century, uh. Wesley gave Whitfield a copy of a Puritan work called The Life of God and the Soul of Man by Henry Scougel. It showed Whitfield that unless he was born again, go back to our main passage, he would be contemned by God. The Lord used that book to draw Whitfield to saving Faith. Okay? So we're hearing a bit of their their testimonies of how they came to salvation. After being genuinely converted, Whitfield embarked on a ministry of evangelism and preaching. When it became difficult to find preaching opportunities in churches, he began to preach outdoors. So now you see because again, you were not allowed necessarily to teach reform theology um certainly in Europe or England during this time. So to be able to preach outdoors was very freeing and they were able to reach a lot more people this way. This would become the hallmark of the Methodist movement was to preach outdoors In 1738, the Lord opened the eyes of both John and Charles Wesley on different occasions. So remember Whitfield was about 1733. This is about five years later, where John and Charles are are finally saved. Um their hearts were transformed. The dead moralism that had previously characterized them was replaced by a true life of regeneration. Um that same year, so this was 1738, almost a hundred years after the initial pilgrimage here of the of the Puritans that I showed on the previous slide, that same year Whitfield made his first voyage to the American colony. So You kind of see this missionary activity happening. His first visit was to the colony of Georgia. A couple years later he would tour New England, preaching in major cities like New York and Boston Um and this preaching I talked about earlier corresponds with the revival in America known as the Great Awakening. So yes, Jonathan Edwards played a major role in that, but you can see how Whitfield um also was a a a big part of that. After returning to England in 1740, Whitfield encountered resistance from John Wesley over the doctrine of God's sovereignty in salvation. So even the buddies Right, we've talked about that before. It's not always, hey, we agree on everything. We saw Calvin and Luther, right, disagree about um the the Lord's Supper. It happens Paul and John Mark in the Bible. It happens. But this was a pretty distinct doctrine, God's sovereignty and salvation. This resulted in early Methodism being split. with Whitfield embracing the reform doctrine of election and Wesley advocating Arminian view. Alright, so this is where you start to see Arminianism come in where it's not just God's sovereignty. Um and we we don't have time to get into all that distinction. But Rex. Right. So you see that distinction even between brothers. So thank you, Rex. Good. Um during this time both John Wesley and George Whitfield significantly influenced people throughout England. So so how Um yeah, calling them to consider whether they had truly been born again. By being willing to preach outside, they were not constrained by the size of local churches or the approval of the clergy, like I talked about earlier. So here we're gonna I'm just gonna kinda summarize the impact of of um Whitfield and the Wesleys through this time period Uh we talked about it earlier. Whitfield had a major impact on the American colonies during his life. He made thirteen transatlantic voyages, seven of those to America. So I talked about um the the Puritan migration here, he probably went to these areas as well, but at least seven times to America. On his seventh trip in seventeen seventy, he died after preaching in New Hampshire. Over his life, Whitfield preached some eighteen thousand sermons. He was the most well-known preacher in both England and New England in the eighteenth century and one of the most recognizable figures of his day. So that's Whitfield. Charles Wesley. Um in seventeen eighty eight he died. He is most well known for composing more than six thousand hymns, and you are probably familiar with some of his hymns including Anne Kennedy in O for a thousand tongues to sing. Just some marvelous, marvelous, um theologically sound uh hymns that we are blessed with today. John Wesley died in seventeen ninety one. Uh A couple years after his brother, giving shape to the Methodist movement, though he traveled to America only one time, the Methodist movement would become the largest Protestant denomination in America in the nineteenth century So pretty big influence. Alright, I'm going to skip that discussion. Alright, let's talk about Jonathan Edwards and what is often referred to as the Great Awakening. Edwards was born in 1703. I mentioned that earlier He was the fifth of eleven children. And guess what? He was the only boy. So one boy, ten girls. And I'm looking at Michael, my son, one boy and six girls. The joke was I don't know if it was a joke or if it was true or not, but his um daughters or his um sisters were pretty it was a pretty tall family and they were imagined to be about six feet tall so the dad would always joke I have sixty feet of daughters. I don't use that with my daughters. Right. So we gotta fill in here We won't talk a lot about Solomon Stoddard, but um that's a pretty well known name uh throughout this time period as well. But Edwards grew up in a a history, his dad, his grandfather were were ministers, so he grew up in that faith. However, you're going to see that that he also had to go through that transformation, right? We all have a testimony of salvation. As a young teenager, Edward started college at Yale Uh during this time, uh at age sixteen he became very ill and thought he was going to die. This resulted in a period of sober reflection during which he considered the condition of his soul. So again, it is often these times of either persecution or trial and tribulation that formed the catalysts for us to really search. Search for God, search for meaning. In 1721, he embraced the Lord Jesus in saving faith As a result of his conversion, he came to love the doctrine of God's sovereignty, a doctrine he had struggled to embrace earlier. Over the next few years, Edwards Penn Seventy revol uh revelations, resolutions, he called them. Seventy resolutions, in which he articulated his desire to glorify God and walk in loving obedience to him. Here are several excerpts from his resolutions. I won't read all of these. You might have some of these um in your book. Number five, resolve never to lose one moment of time, but improve it with the most profitable way I possibly can Um sixteen, resolve never to speak evil of anyone, so that it shall tend to his dishonor more or less upon no account except for some real good. Let me go forty eight Resolved constantly, with the utmost niceness and diligence, and the strictest scrutiny, to be looking into the state of my soul, that I may know whether I have truly an interest in Christ or no that when I come to die I may not have any negligence respecting this to repent of. And I think of uh Psalm 139 when I hear him write that too. examine ourselves. But 139, if you read it, is not in the context of condemnation. It's examining ourselves as a child of God. So this is um profound in the sense that he he's um putting a um a goal in front of him, right? But it's severe. And he would admit, and you'll find it in some of his journaling, he fell short. A lot, right? So we have to be careful about maybe creating a checklist, and yet we are striving, we are being sanctified. We want to grow in the fruit of the Spirit and the evidences of that versus maybe a strict set of um guidelines. So you have to find that balance that's right for you. It could be easy to construct a list like this and start condemning yourself when you fall short, because you will fall short. And that's my encouragement. No condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Um, Jonathan Edwards has um in uh I'll call it an interest for the Green family because where we lived in Massachusetts it was on the western side of the state That's where Jonathan Edwards had his churches. One was about an hour away in Northampton, which was near Springfield, Massachusetts But later he would go to um Stockbridge, Massachusetts, which was just minutes from our house. So we were able to go to the church that um he led there but it was interesting where he was part of the Great Awakening and it's just it's dead in New England, right? It's dead. However Like I often tell people, that clarity, sometimes when you go to the dead places, the clarity is so succinct that it almost makes it easier to share the gospel verses There are times we were stationed in the Bible belt where everyone's a Christian, right? And it's harder. Sometimes you have to convince them they're not a Christian first before you can actually share the gospel where Up in New England it was it was pretty black and white. So sometimes that can be a benefit. Alright, I just covered all that. Alright, so the Great Awakening In the mid to late seventeen thirties, Edwards Church became the starting point for a revival that spread throughout the surrounding area Like we talked about though, in 1740, George Whitfield came to Northampton, that was the church near Springfield, to preach as part of his preaching tour through New England The Lord used Whitfield's evangelistic preaching to convict the hearts of many who had grown up in the church but had never truly converted to Christ. So again, we talked about an environment of a lot of nominal Christians in the area, but not truly saved. Many throughout New England were awakened to the deadness of their hypocritical religion and came to saving faith. This movement is known as the Great Awakening. Edwards preached the famous sermon Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God to a congregation in Enfield, Connecticut. The sermon stirred up many in the congregation to cry out for God's mercy. and repent of their hypocrisy. In a similar time frame, in response to the dramatic conversions that occurred during the Great Awakening Edwards emphasized the fruit of genuine salvation. Works like a treatise on religious affections explain the true conversion as evidenced by spiritual fruit. That is how we can examine ourselves. And others right in the church. Not for judgment, but to see is there fruit growing? Galatians five twenty-two. Alright, we continue with Edwards a little bit later in his life. He was impacted by the life and death of David Brainerd, who served as a missionary to Native American tribes in New England. In seventeen forty nine, Edwards published Brainerd's biography and diary. So again, you're starting to see kind of this missionary activity happening Due to a number of issues, including his refusal to serve communion to church members who had not been truly converted, Edwards was voted out of his church after serving there for more than twenty years. He preached his farewell sermon in 1750. So he was um pretty rigid and and he was right. Communion is for who? Believers. True believers. It's not an evangelistic tool per se. He remained steadfast on that. But again, a church filled with nominal Christians Um driven maybe by by some politics, he was actually booted out of the church that he started. And that's when he moved to Stockbridge, Massachusetts, which was just a couple a couple minutes from where we lived in Pittsfield. During this time he also published a treatise on the freedom of the will. This important work demonstrated um um the connection between s God's sovereignty and man's will. So that can be a bit of a paradox understanding that, and that's where Arminianism comes into play as well, trying to um trying to articulate those those two components, if you will, of God's sovereignty and man's will. Later in the 1700s, Edwards moved to New Jersey to serve as the president of the College of New Jersey, later called anybody? Princeton. Princeton. Right? Princeton University. So a little trivia, actually, um my wife and one of my daughters are up in that area for a baby shower And my wife is pretty adventurous and she's like, Hey, let's go to Princeton. So they spent the day yesterday touring Princeton and I I I texted her, I said, Hey, by the way, did you know that Jonathan Edwards was actually a president there for a short for a short time and they apparently have a hall of presidents and she said, Yes, I saw that on the plaque. So Princeton University. And again, I talk about Harvard, Princeton, all of these were were originally founded on on uh reform principles or Puritan or bi Puritans. Um obviously they have they have moved to much more liberal stances as we go through time. Even though he was only fifty four years old, when he died he remains one of America's most influential theologians. So again it was pretty neat to to be in the area um that he preached to go to his church. It was also very sad to see the reality of you know what he had started and the condition that um the the area was in when we lived there. But again, that clarity was was so succinct in in many ways it made it easier to know who was a Christian and who wasn't um in and how to evangelize. So there's always God is always working. Always, always working. Alright, last little bit here. And this is um kind of following what what happened after the Reformation and after we have this Puritan migration to the uh Americas. At its core, the Protestant Reformation was built on the foundational pri principles of, and we've talked about this, right? Scripture alone, sola scriptura. Scripture provided the authority for defining doctrines and determining convictions, and then obviously faith alone. Solafide articulated the truth of the gospel, that sinners are justified or declared righteous in God's sight. We talked about that, right? by grace through faith in Jesus Christ, apart from their own self-righteous works. These two principles are clearly evidenced by both the Puritans and the 18th century church leaders who follow them Um do you guys have in your book the two inserts from the Westminster? You do. Okay. So I won't read all of that, um, but um these are two statements from the the Westminster Confession regarding both the authority of Scripture and justification by faith. So let's just cover um a couple of those. So again, articulating, these aren't doctrinal authoritative statements, but they articulate or affirm what we find in Scripture. So the confession on Scripture, the authority of the Holy Scripture for which it ought to be believed and obeyed, dependeth not upon the testimony of any man or church, but wholly upon God. Right? He is the the inspiration of the word. He is also the word. Down on justification. Those whom God effectually calleth, he also freely justifieth, not by infusing righteousness into them. Who believed that, um, I'm thinking of a a denomination here, believe that at this point of salvation you were actually infused with righteousness? Do you remember? That was the Roman Catholic Church. You know, that's what they believe, is that you're actually infused with righteousness. That's not the case. But by pardoning their sins and by accounting and accepting their persons as righteous Not for anything wrought in them or done by them, but for Christ's sake alone. Nor by imputing faith itself, the act of believing, or any other evangelical evangelical obedience to them as their righteousness. This isn't about our righteousness now being somehow infused with righteousness or made righteous. It's a positional standing Right? That's what we teach is a positional standing when we are declared righteous to them as their righteousness, but by imputing the obedience and satisfaction of Christ unto them. They receiving and resting on him and his righteousness by faith. Which faith they have not of themselves, it is the gift of God. Being declared righteous. Now when God looks at you through his glasses, right, he sees a righteous child of God Not by anything that we've done. The other element of that is the imputation. So the imputation of our sin being placed on God His righteousness covering us, not infusing us, not making us righteous, but covering us. So when God looks at you If you are a believer, he sees a righteous child. And that's why I really like to emphasize that because again, we are not under condemnation. We examine ourselves because we want to be more Christ-like, we want to be sanctified but it is not under a spirit of condemn condemnation. That's the totally opposite of justification. That's why I love the word justification. It is packed with so much wonderful truth and meaning. Okay All right, a couple minutes left. Let me go to my cool timeline that my wife bought me. Because there's some other um important things that are happening. So again, we're in the kind of late 1600s through the 1700s to the 1800s. You have uh Johann Sebastian Bach during during this time frame, 1685 to 1750 I talked earlier about the United Kingdom um being formed together. That was the early 1700s. So that would have been the time that um this group of folks that we talked about, Edwards, the Wesleys, Whitfield were born. So around the time that um um Those three areas were combined under the United Kingdom. Let's see here. You have the first Bible translation into Arabic in 1671. Isaac Watts, great hymn writer, right in the uh late 1600s. Let's see what other cool things. You had the French Revolution during this time, late 1700s Um if you're not familiar with the French Rev Revolution, results in a new government and a new religion hostile to Christianity, the cult of reason. Thousands of Catholic and some Protestant clergy are executed. So not a good time in history. Um you see Napoleon comes on the scene in the early eighteen hundreds. What else happened in the seventeen hundreds in America? The American Revolution, right? Alright. Any uh big questions, comments, Nada? Alright, let me pray and we'll finish up Father uh the the theme today, gospel courage, um let that be our anthem, our theme, and and not only to defend it, but I I really pray that we would be encouraged to have the joy and the peace of ministering the gospel. We get to do that in our families, with each other, too, with ourselves, Lord. We need the gospel every day. It reminds us of who you are Holy, holy, holy God. It reminds us of who we were in bondage to sin. And as believers, it reminds us of who we are as Um your child. And and that should dictate how we treat others, all of us being made in the image of God. It should remind us to be quick to forgive as you have forgiven us. It should remind us to be Praying for our brothers and sisters to come alongside, to equip, to encourage. Lord, that let that be the anthem of our heart today, gospel courage. Be with Pastor Gabe as he uh exposites your word For all those who are helping to lead worship and singing, and let the fellowship be sweet. Lord, we love you and we thank you and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen.