All right, let's pray. Father, we don't take for granted that uh each day is full of your new mercies, um new opportunities to worship you Again, that broad definition of focusing on and responding to you. And so we get to worship you in so many different ways. So let our time this morning even be a time of worship as we get to see clearly how your hand of redemption, your um sovereignty, your providence is at work continually throughout history And let that be a a bulwark, a foundation in which we build on to have the courage to also be defenders of the faith today. So we pray for wisdom, discernment. For excitement, Lord. Especially in our church today. So we give you all the glory and we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Ask a couple men for uh their forgiveness. So I want to go back to the scenario that we talked about last week. You remember you're in a small group and someone was off to the side talking about a um doctrine that was basically said, you know, uh Jesus Christ didn't have two natures, he had one blended nature. And we talked a little bit about that last week. Um how would you handle that? So we had this discussion and I think just because I'm looking like this, I wanted to get the small group leader perspective and I see Brian and I have two more other small group leaders in the group here and they didn't shout and raise their hand. So I did want to give Greg and Brian, who are also faithful leaders of a couple of our small groups, just any thoughts on that discussion from a small group leader perspective. And if you don't have anything, that's fine, but just I don't know if it was kind of trolling in your head or the thoughts that I do ask for your forgiveness for for overlooking you guys. That was not my intent Yep, good, good. Um, you know, I I brought that up to really emphasize the fact it's it's easy. We've talked about two or three key church leaders as we've gone through um church history here, but we haven't really talked about the the lay people and the role that they played, right? And and my encouragement to all of my admonishment to all of you is We all play a role in helping defend the faith and defend the church. That's really the intent of that exercise is don't feel like, boy, the red flags were going off, but that's not my job to to let anybody know or to you know, interact and really get at the heart of what's going on. Yes, it is, right? We all play a role in that. And so that was really the intent. The other piece of that is You know, that particular issue I asked, is that part of a basic doctrine that we have as a church, or is that the part of the broader what we teach? Meaning people can have different opinions about that And having the discernment to say, no, that's part of the basic doctrine of Hope Bible Church, which means it's important for our membership, right? For the unity that we have here. And so that would be another cause of concern that you would want to address, get your small group leader involved, maybe the elders have to get involved, right? That's the escalation you want. And again, this was never meant to be a, oh, he said something bad. I'm going to go rat him out to the elders. That's not the intent here, right? It's defending the faith and you taking ownership of that. That's really the intent of that exercise. Does that make sense? Yeah, Rex, great, great point. Always asking for clarification, right? That always needs to be part of the initial discussion. What do you mean by this term, right? Let's dig into that first. So good. This is all good discussion. Again, I just want to encourage you, you are equipped to have those discussions. And you have a mandate to have those discussions. Okay? All right. Let's jump into the lesson here. All right, we are on lesson nine. We're starting to turn the corner here into the last, I'll call it, uh, quarter of our church history. We are still in the Middle Ages which um as you remember covers uh a a large period, a thousand years. We're kind of focused on the last half of that, uh called the High Middle Ages. And um we talked uh a little bit about some of these folks and we'll go into more detail about some of these forerunners of what we know as the Reformation, folks like Luther and Calvin and others. Okay? So that's going to set the stage And here we are on your map, again, this is on page 19. This is a really, really good depiction of, you know, capturing A a lot of uh uh time, if you will, two thousand uh years of church history in one diagram. And again, like I said, we're up here in uh what's called the high middle ages. We're we're near the end of this And we'll cover a little bit of background because there's a lot that has happened during this period that is really shaping um the environment to include the church. I did want to highlight over here, you know, we've talked throughout about the three pillars that we're trying to defend. You know, the Word of God, the Work of God, and then the worship, the sanctity of worship. And what we're seeing over time is is um Those pillars have been attacked throughout history. You know, that's what the enemy is always trying to attack is those three pillars. And we see those start to diminish as we see the rise of the Roman Catholic Church and and um the the papacy. And we'll talk more about that today. But you can see what's happening, um, emphasis on tradition. Tradition starts to rule versus scripture, right? The authority of a person starts to rule and then you have the sacraments. So in the Catholic Church you have the seven sacraments and you start to get works aren't uh the work or the works of Jesus Christ aren't sufficient enough. They add things to it for your salvation, right? And then you start to worship Mary and the saints, right? Everything gets replaced. All these pillars get re get replaced Over time, slowly, right? And yet God maintains a remnant. He maintains a remnant that is going to fight the good fight. And that's true for us today. All right, we are on lesson nine in your book, if you aren't there already. Let me read the key passage there, Acts five, twenty-nine through thirty-two. It says Peter and the apostles answered, We must obey God rather than men And you're going to see that come to play here in a bit. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus whom you had put to death by hanging him on a cross. He is the one whom God exalted to his right hand as a prince and a savior to grant repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. But again, at the top, we must obey God rather than Men. That's always our our rally cry, if you will. So I left the timeline up there from last week just as a reminder. Again, we're covering uh about five hundred years of history. And if you remember, the bookend of what was the Roman Empire at the time started with the fall of the Western side When Rome fell in four hundred-six and that was again the the Germanic forces, the barbarians coming from basically Europe down south into the western part. And then you had what was left over is the Eastern Empire, the Byzantine Empire, and that would fall eventually, I think it was 1475 by the Ottoman Empire. That would last actually until World War Two or one. World War One. And we talked about some of the the forces that happened in there. So Islam actually didn't come on the scene until uh the seventh century with uh Muhammad getting revelation uh from the uh angel Gabriel and that was uh his revelations were put into the Quran and he said that that aligned with the the Old Testament New Testament scriptures but they obviously did not And then you had the Roman Catholic Church who actually had that split between Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodox happened in ten fifty-four, and that's kind of the uh scholars believe to be the official um split, if you will, between the the West and the East. Right. Alright, so before we get to the blanks, let's do a little background here So we talked about um the rise of the papacy and do you remember it was actually Emperor Leo who who had a lot of good things. I think it was um the the Council of Constantinople Right, where he defended the humanity of Jesus Christ. He also started that's when you started to see the uprise of of the authority of the Bishop of Rome, right? Started with Leo And there were two key pieces that um he started to use and then that would flow on to kind of defend this authority of the Roman bishop. Do you remember what those were? Two key pieces. One was a piece of scripture On this rock, all right? So that was what Matthew sixteen, eighteen, where Jesus says to Peter, you know, on this rock I will build my church. Jesus was referring to himself. And not Peter, but Peter was a bishop of Rome, and so it was concluded that whoever is the bishop of Rome, that's the rock that will go forward. So that was part of the authority that was given to him The second one was this idea or rumor of uh the donation of Constantine, where uh they believe there was a piece of paper that Constantine wrote before his death that said whoever is the Bishop of Rome is given you know, special power. So using those two artifacts if you were, that was their justification. And and that was really the start of what you see is the rise in the corruption of this position of the Bishop of Rome and ultimately the Roman Catholic Church. You're gonna see or or the zenith of that power um happened uh around the twelfth, thirteenth century. So You remember there was a lot happening between the eleventh and and fourteenth century or thirteenth century. We have the Crusades, you have this um division of East and West from a religious standpoint, you have the growth of the the Muslim, the Islam, and then you get the holy wars, the Crusades start to happen. And the last piece of that was the rise of the universities. And we're going to see that come to play today. So a lot happening during this time period. During this tenure, again, we're talking about the eleventh to thirteenth century, which is really the the rise and the zenith of um the the Catholic Church The fourth council of the Lateran dogmatized the doctrine of transubstantiation. Alright, so we're going to talk a little bit about that. As well as the sacramental system. You remember I talked about the sacraments that we're starting to have. great authority. And that really those sacraments added to what you needed to s for salvation. It it was not the sufficiency of the work of Christ. you needed to add to it. So this idea of transubstantiation, this is the erroneous notion that the elements of communion, the Lord's Supper, like we do uh the bread and the cup are physically transformed into the body and blood of Jesus. Alright? Does that make sense? That's what the Catholic Church believes when you go down and you receive those elements that is actually the physical body and blood of Jesus Christ. Sounds crazy, doesn't it? Now why would they do that? Let me read a a little bit from Grudom. The Roman Catholic view, transubstantiation, according to the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church in the Eucharist, that's what they called the Lord's Supper, the Eucharist. The bread and wine actually become the body and blood of Christ. This happens at the moment the priest says, This is my body. So again, the authority is in the priest during the celebration of the Mass At the same time as the priest says this, the bread is raised up, elevated and adored. This action of elevating the bread and pronouncing it to to be Christ's body can only be performed by a priest. It goes on to talk about as a propitionary sacrifice, propitiation that um uh suitable substitute to um appease the wrath of God. The sacrifice of the Mass affects the remission of sins and the punishment for sins as a sacrifice of appeal. It brings about the conferring of supernatural and natural gifts. The Eucharistic sacrifice of propitiation can, as the Council of Trent expressly asserted, be offered not merely for the living, but also for the poor souls in purgatory. Moreover, the Roman Catholic view fails to recognize, and this is Grudham's commentary on it, recognize the clear New Testament teaching on the finality and completeness of Christ's sacrifice once for all time for our sins. The book of Hebrews emphasizes this many times as when it says, Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly as the high priest enters the holy place yearly with blood not his own, for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, he has appeared once for all at the end of the age to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So you can see what the Catholic Church is doing by reinserting this um element of sacrifice again is negating what the sufficiency of what Christ did on the cross. Right? That's the danger of it. And the the uh heresy of it. But that's when we see this really um start to take hold is during this time frame to really dogmatize this doctrine of transubstantiation All right, so that was, you know, one there's really three elements here that uh provide good background. That was one of them. We have the height of the the Roman Catholic Church and this um um institutionalizing, if you will, transubstantiation, the sacraments, again, all those things that were against the pillars of God that we talked about earlier The second one, around the same time, the Western Church, which is what we're talking about here, adopted the idea of the treasure House of Merit. You may have heard of the sale of indulgences, right? This is what this is referring to. And the idea, the treasure house of merit, think of it this way Because Jesus and Mary and the Saints have done so many good things, think of a bank account that is just full of of extra goodies, extra goodness. And the idea of the indulgences is if you can take some of those indulgences and apply them to yourself, that will cover some of your sins. And not only for yourself But those who had passed away and are now in purgatory. Purgatory was an idea that started to evolve around here. It's kind of a middle place where people would carry out um the time that was needed to overcome their sins. It was a waiting place before they would go to heaven. Again, sounds crazy. But you can now take these indulgences and not only to apply them to yourself, but you could apply them to mom and dad, relatives that have passed away. Why? So they wouldn't have to spend as much time in purgatory. Okay? The problem was is they now started to sell well, that's a problem in itself In addition to that, the church started to sell these indulgences, alright? From which the Pope would dispense indulgences. Pardons reducing the amount of punishment for sin. The notion of papal indulgences is not biblical, but it dominated the Roman Catholic uh dominated Roman Catholic Catholicism in the late Middle Ages. It did not take long for the system of indulgences to be abused, of course. By offering indulgences in exchange for money ties, the Roman Catholic Church was able to raise significant sums of money. The sale of indulgences became a major fundraising tool for the late uh medieval popes. Alright, so strongly, strongly abused I know y uh you guys know, you look around at some of the properties that Roman Catholics have, the churches, um just very grandiose, um, own a lot of property and a lot of it was driven by the sale of indulgences. What's the The uh St. Peter's Basilica, yeah, that um my understanding is a lot of majority of that was paid through indulgences, all right? So just gross, gross abuse of power and privileges that that were taken on. So this is kind of setting the scene, right, for for these uh pre uh reformers, if you will. And then the reformers ultimately. In the thirteen hundreds, due to political infighting in Europe, um so here's so that the first was trans subse transubstantiation, the sacraments, second was the sale of indulgences. And the third is really schisms within the Catholic Church. So in thirteen hundred, due to political infighting in Europe, the papacy relocated from Rome to Avion, France where it remained for about seventy years. Pope Gregory finally returned the papacy to Rome when his successor, Urban, insisted on staying in Rome French cardinals elected a rival vote uh uh pope in Avion. In fourteen oh nine the Council of Pissa attempted to resolve this schism, but this only resulted in the election of a third rival pope, the papal schism was not resolved until the Council of Constance in 1417. So you can see that there is a lot happening, um, even friction within the church itself with these rival factions, if you will, who really is the Pope, right? Who is the authority? And they're all clamoring for um that authority mafia style Right, so for your fill-ins here is uh at the bottom, says by the late 1400s the Roman Catholic Church in Europe was in desperate need of a reformation. And you can see why, all the the three elements that I just listed Lots of corruption. The corruption of the pap uh papacy was evident from the sale of indulgences to the papal schism In which three rival popes each claim to be the true leader of the church. So that's the scene that we have here as we enter um the high middle ages. You sure can. Uh what did the did you get like a certificate or something for the indulgence? Uh was it an actual object that people purchased? I don't know anything about about it as Catholic so Joni I do believe back in the day you did get you did get a certificate. You got something Um I think in modern day times you don't see the the sale of indulgences. I don't remember that being a thing, um as I went through the Catholic process, if you will. So it might have it might have petered out over time. Um it's still a thing. doctrine. Yeah, yeah. But I don't think they mechanize it the same way, Bill, but they could. I I don't know. But I think back in the day you actually got something. Yeah. Yeah, I think it was something you purchased. Good question. All right, like I said though, in the midst of all this, God raised up voices, faithful men and women that defended and confronted The Papel. Now think about it, they had risen to the zenith of their power. They were extremely powerful during this time. So to confront them would have been a extremely courageous thing to do. Isn't that always the case, though And they would end up um um going through intense persecution. But that's the call that we have. Okay. Let me um I'm gonna Go through a couple of the maps that we talked about last week just to reorient you again. Again, we had um what was the Roman Empire at the time that was then uh divided into West and East. Um the West spoke what language? Latin And the East, Greek, right? So that that caused some friction in and of itself. Um we saw again that the West was overtaken by the fall of Rome in four seventy-six and it was from uh the Germanic forces from um the north that would come down to the south. But what would happen is they embraced what was happening in the Western um uh religious sense, right? So this Roman Catholic Church that was now Expanding into what was then the Holy Roman Empire went all the way up into Europe. They embraced that form of Christianity So heavy influences by what was happening with the public and this corruption that was taking place. So what was happening on the eastern side Again, what was known as the Byzantine Empire, and that was simply because the capital was called Byzantine before Constantine uh renamed it as Constantinople Um, but when you hear the Byzantine Empire, that's what that is. It's the eastern side of the Roman Empire. That was eventually taken over by the Ottoman Empire um near the end of the 15th century century and again lasted until World War One. And then lastly we have the influence that we saw of Islam, right, through Mohammed in the late seventh century and um as they started to expand their caliphate um that they were taking uh regions up in that roman empire and that's when you started to see the clash of the the Holy Wars, the Crusades, which were just craziness, right? The first one we talked about was successful, but then the next two were stalemates or defeats. Um and ultimately the fourth one You remember East and West um were enemies, but in this case they united to try and counter a common enemy, but then they ended up going against each other anyway. So just a lot of mayhem happening during that time frame. So now we get to um the pre-reformers. And this is from um this uh fill-in is from last week, so you don't have this fill-in, but I just wanted to show you again the the three folks that we're going to be talking about. um known as the pre-reformers. Peter, it's actually Peter Valdo. The W is a V, not Waldo, like where is Waldo, right? No connection there. uh Peter Valdo, John Wycliffe, which many are familiar with the Wycliffe Bible Translation Ministry that's still in effect today Um we'll see that he was one of the first to translate into the common language and then Jan Hoos. So to orient yourself a little bit uh with these individuals on a map, again we're we're um in the the European sector, if you will. John Wycliffe, um primarily from England. We'll see Pa Peter Valdo in what is today Germany. That's where you get the V, the Valdo, and then John Hus, uh Bohemia, which is actually modern day um Czechoslovakia or the Czech Republic. Okay? So Jen, I I think it's helpful to orient yourself. Um and they they were successive. They were not necessarily all there at the same time. You'll see that in the dates that we have on the order of how they drew off of each other and then we'll see the reformers. These were the foundational men that set the stage for the reformers and what they would um fight against Alright, so our first dude is Peter Valdo, again the twelfth, thirteenth century. He was a merchant from Lyon in modern day France. Um after being influenced by the story of the fourth century Christian named Alexis. A man who sold all of his belongings in devotion to Christ, Valdal sold his belongings and began a life of preaching and service to the Lord. So he was a a prominent man, a merchant, so somewhat wealthy, and through the influence of this man, um just wanted to get back to bare bones, right? Ended up selling everything and started, like I said, a life of preaching and service to the Lord. So initially Baldo and his followers were known as the poor of Leon because again they followed suit. They followed this pattern of of selling all their belongings and really dedicating themselves to um the the word and service. And as happens, um we get a movement usually driven after the person's name so his followers would be become known as the Valdenzians. Now Valdo, like I said, loved the word of God um and commissioned a translation of portions of Scripture from the Latin Vulgate. So the Latin Vulgate was simply the translation of the Bible in Latin. That's what the the Roman Catholic Church was using. That was the official translation of the Roman Catholic Church, the Latin Vulgate. Now you remember, uh remember the map, not everyone spoke Latin Right? You talk about all those European dialects, they were all very different than Latin. That was not the common language. So that's an issue. But Sobaldo was the first one to start this translation into a local dialect. His reading of scripture inspired and informed his preaching ministry. So most didn't talk or or many people didn't obviously speak the Latin language. The Roman Catholic Church denounced the Valdensian movement at the third Lateran Council, though he did not receive authorization from the Pope, Waldo determined to continue preaching anyway. He boldly insisted that it was better to obey God than men. Where did we read that? In our initial passage, right? That's where Acts five comes from It is better to obey God than men. Now, at that time to be able to preach, you had to get authorization from the Pope, from the Catholic Church And he didn't get that authorization. So he continued to preach, and of course he was deemed a heretic, he was persecuted, and he would later die because of that. There is a um I I don't know how official it is, but uh Peter, the name Peter of Aldo, they they're not sure if his first name was actually Peter. It might have been a nickname based on his claim here, it is better to serve God than man. Um that was Peter speaking right in Acts. And so uh he might have gotten the nickname Peter from that instant. As I said, Baldo and followers were subsequently persecuted by Roman Catholic authorities as heretics. However, the movement survived, though the Waldensians were often forced into hiding in the Alps And um there's some commentary that says they they memorize large portions of Scripture um because remember they didn't have the the translation like we have today. They would memorize large portions of scripture with the understanding that might be taken away from them. Right? This translation might be taken away from them. So here they are in hiding and the thought is if enough of them memorized these large portions, when they got back together, they could put all the pieces together and still have a transcript if you will. So I think that's pretty cool. Now they shared several important convictions with the later reformers. Again, this is really setting the stage for the later reformers. First, the authority of Scripture over the authority of the Pope. This was a really big deal, right? The Pope had risen, like I said, to his zenith of power. The Pope was everything The Pope, you know, think of um the benefit of owning the the scriptures, if you will. The lay people didn't understand it. That interpretation all came from the Pope. The Pope had the authority. And now they're saying, no, no, no, no, no. Scripture is more important than your authority. Right? Very bold. Second, the need to ta translate scripture into the common language. Right? This was really significant. Right, all of us have have one of these, more than probably one of these in our house. We have it on our phone, we have it on our iPad. Um you can't imagine not having access to Scripture. And yet, what would be the benefit to the Pope to regulate that to himself. Yeah, can tell you whatever he wants. He has the power. That gives you the power when you have all the knowledge. All right, and here you see this bold movement against that to say no, it needs to be translated into the common language. Um just a side note, you may hear um the Septuagint. What's the Septuagint? Greek Old Testament. It's a Greek translation of the Old Testament. And then we talked about the Vulgate, you know, the Latin translation of the entire Bible Right the third piece of this, the ability of the people to understand and preach God's word. So it's not only putting the the translation into the common language but the ability to preach and teach God's word to the people that they might understand it and apply it. Right? This is significant. significant in the the history of the church, especially after the rise of the Roman Catholic Church. So later on in the sixteenth century, right, when we actually will talk about the Reformers, this group, the the Valdensians, would join the Reform branch of the Protestant Reformation. All right, I just want to see if we want to do this discussion. Let me let me skip that. Okay. Any questions on Voldo? All right, let's go to the third person that we're talking about here. John Wycliffe So we saw Waldo uh Valdo in the twelfth, thirteenth century. Here we have um uh Wycliffe in in basically the fourteenth century. And like I said, I think we all recognize that mission that is even in existence today, trying to um get as many translations out to the common language around the world. So a a pretty significant movement. The Valdensian movement was primarily a movement of laity or non-clergy, right? We talked about that. Getting the scripture to the lay people, the common people uh preaching the word to the common people that they might understand. So the converts of that, John Wycliffe, um an English priest and professor at Oxford We have the beginning of a scholarly movement of resistance against the corruption of the papacy. So you remember we talked about the scholastic movement last week that was all happening during this 11th through 13th century um as the crusades were happening and and the scholastic movement was just a systemic or or systematic way of of learning of education. And um you're gonna see that some of these men were um were a part of that movement. So it's it's not all bad. Um you just see kind of the converse of of Valdo with the laity and now Wycliffe with uh the more of the scholarly movement. So Oxford was in where, do you remember? England, right? It was one of the first universities and Oxford stood up um about the time that the Crusades started. So it's a it's a long has a h long history institution, um Oxford and Ox obviously it's been transformed over over many, many years Right, so John Wycliffe is known as the morning star of the Reformation. He did not shy away from pointing out the corruption he observed. So he was a light in a very dark time Right? He was not afraid. He had the courage to point out corruption that he observed within the priesthood and leadership of the church. His criticism of the papacy was especially pointed. Wycliffe advocated the translation of the Bible into the common language along with some of his colleagues at Oxford. He was involved in translating scriptures from what was in place at the time? The Latin Vulgate into English Right? This is huge. Now he didn't do this by himself. So Wycliffe um most likely translated some of the New Testament, specifically the four gospels, but the rest of it was his contemporaries, his associates uh associates that helped translate the entirety of the New and Old Testament. In his writings, Wycliffe thundered against Roman Catholic abuses. He rejected the doctrine of transubstantiation And disapproved of both the sale of indulgences like we just talked about and the mandatory celibacy, right? That the priest could not get married, um, could not have relations, abstinence, if you will, claiming that was not Furthermore, he insisted that the church should give up its property holdings and that the clergy should embrace a life of poverty and simple devotion to Christ. He also talked about this idea of the visible and the invisible church. Wycliffe also taught that the church was made up of the souls of the elect. This invisible church was different from the visible church of priests, cardinals, and popes. You know, what every what everybody saw. Okay? The distinction between the visible and invisible church would continue to be important point of emphasis during the Protestant Reformation. So his emphasis was on the church body. We have talked about this term before. It's slightly different how we might use it today in the fact that we think of the visible church as that which we see right now, those in front of us. And that includes the wheat and the tares, right? The invisible church is all those true Christians, right? Those true believers. That's how we would use that term today. We can't make that distinction. I can't look into your hearts and make that distinction, right? So that's the visible. That's what we see today But the point he was trying to make here was the the body of the church is not the Pope, it's not the priests, it's not the saints, it's the body of believers, the elect Right? Very important distinction. His followers of Wycliffe were known as the Lawlards. This term seems to mean Mumbler, think of la la la la la la la right mumblers, that's what they were uh accused of being. And was a pejorative term of Of course, given to this group by their opponents, like Wycliffe, the lawless were committed to the authority of Scripture and advocated its translation into the English language. So if you get called a lawler, that's not a good thing. At one of the councils, Wycliffe's body was eventually exhumed and burned in effigy. So again, great persecution of these early leaders However, like the uh Valdensians, Wycliffe and his followers advocated doctrines that would lay the foundation or plant the seeds. for the later Protestant Reformation, which we'll start talking about next week. Three items there. They include a commitment to the authority of Scripture over the Pope. Right? Where does the authority lie? And again, Satan has been trying to knock down the authority of Jesus Christ from since time began. Critical. That's why we're we're so adamant about the authority, the sufficiency, the inspiration of Scripture. Second, A desire to see the Word of God translated into the vernacular or the common language. Huge. We take that for granted today. And then third, the conviction that Scripture could be understood by those who do not have a formal clerical training. And what's the key to that understanding? What do we know today? Even for us today, what enables us to um understand scripture? The Holy Spirit. Right? The power of the Holy Spirit. Good. All right. I wanna I don't know if you have in your hand in your booklet some just a couple um quotes from from Wycliffe. I want to go through some of this because I think it's important. I won't read all of them. One important way John Wycliffe acted as a forerunner to the Protestant Reformation was by affirming the authority of Scripture above any other religious authority. After the Reformation, this Protestant principle would be summarized by the Latin phrase, sola scriptura, scripture alone. That's where that comes from. Alright, so um we'll walk through a couple of the principles affirmed by uh Wycliffe and the supremacy and necessity of Scripture. So number one, Wycliffe insisted that God's word was a better source of truth than any collection of popes or priests. So let me read that quote. I believe that a Christian man well understanding it may gather sufficient knowledge during his pilgrimage upon earth. that all truth is contained in Scripture, that we should admit of no conclusion not approved there, and there is no court beside the court of heaven, that through there were a hundred popes, and all the friars in the world were turned into cardinals, yet should we learn more from the gospel than we should learn from all that magnitude, and that true sons will in no wise go about to infringe the will and testament of their heavenly Father Love that. Very bold. Number two, because they are accountable to the Word of God, all people should be exposed to the truth of Scripture. That just makes sense, doesn't it? If we're all held accountable to this standard, we should all be able to understand it and have access to it. Holy Scripture is the faultless, most true, most perfect, and most holy law of God, which is The duty of all men to learn, to know, to defend, and to observe, inasmuch as they are bound to serve the Lord in accordance with it So critical that we are spending time in God's Word. Let me ask you guys if you're willing, how many have signed up for the scripture reading plan Okay, good. How many are behind? I'm included. But encourage you to be steadfast in that. Again, just a a great way to encourage us to be in the Word. And it's never too late to sign up for that if you guys want to, right? It's on the Life at Hope Link, so I encourage you to do that. In addition to that, I know Pastor Mike and Pastor Gabe are including some weekly podcasts, which just gives some of their insights to the readings, which is a lot of fun to see how the Lord is is working through them as well. So encourage you to do that. Let's see, I don't want to cover all of these. Number three, in order to make the Word of God available to lay people, non-priests, Wick Wiff argued that it ought to be translated from Latin into the common language of the people like we talked about. I won't quote that. Number five, and this was pretty bold. Wycliffe called the Pope the Antichrist, because the Pope stood at the head of a movement which had placed itself above the Word of God and which suppressed the translation of God's word into the common language of the people. Here's this quote, as our Lord Jesus Christ ordained by the writing of our four evangelists, the Gospels, to make his gospel surely known, and maintained against heretics and men out of faith, so the devil, even Satan, devises by Antichrist and his worldly false clerks to destroy holy writ and Christian men's belief by claiming that the church is of more authority. And more to be believed than any gospel. Very, very dangerous what was happening with the Roman Catholic Church. And Wycliffe called them out as an Antichrist. I'm sure that didn't go over very well And all wasn't well, right? Wycliffe's efforts to translate the Bible into English were met with charges of heresy, but he remained confident that his action met with God's approval. They say it is heresy to speak of the Holy Scripture in English. And so they would condemn the Holy Ghost who gave it in tongues to the apostles of Christ, to speak the word of God in all languages that were ordained of God under heaven. Isn't that beautiful? And then number seven, Wycliffe saw the diminishment of Scripture as a direct attack on the glory of God. In response, he committed his life to the honor of God and his word. Let God be my witness that before everything I have God's glory in my eye in the good of the church, which springs out of reverence for holy scripture and following the law of Christ. It goes back to The passage that we started with, right? We must obey God rather than men. Let that be our rally cry. Okay, With Wycliffe's emphasis on the authority of God over his church would be embraced and espoused a generation later by the Bohemian preacher Jan Hoos, who we'll talk about in a second. However, a century and a half later, Wick um after Wycliffe, William Tyndale, which is a f familiar name, would continue his legacy with regard to Bible translation. Unlike Withcliffe, who translated the Latin Vulgate into English, Tyndale was able to translate from the Hebrew and the Greek. A little side note there, I have a friend um who speaks Spanish and I asked him What is his favorite translation? And he actually said it was a Spanish translation. I don't remember uh what it was called, but he said because it was easier to translate Latin into Spanish than what we have in our English version. I don't know if that's true or not, um, but that was his comment. I'm like, that's very interesting. So he actually claimed a a Spanish translation as maybe more accurate. As we talked about, most English speaking Christians take it for granted that we have the Word of God in our own language. We can be thankful for faithful Bible translators like Wycliffe and Tyndale who labor to make the English Bible a reality. Let's do this discussion topic as before we get to our last person here. Turn to your Bibles in Ezekiel Ezekiel thirty-four. It reads medieval Roman Catholic authorities actively opposed any attempt to make the Word of God available to people in their low own language. So let's read Ezekiel thirty four one through twelve. Then the word of the Lord came to me saying, Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to those shepherds, Thus says the Lord God, Woe, shepherds of Israel who have been feeding themselves, should not the shepherds feed the flock? You eat the fat and clothe yourselves with the wool. You slaughter the fat sheep without feeding the flock. Those who are sickly you have not strengthened. The disease you have not healed. The broken you have not bound up. The scattered you have not brought back. Nor have you sought for the lost, but with force and with severity you have dominated them. And they were scattered for lack of a shepherd, and they became food for every beast of the field and were scattered. My flock wandered through all the mountains and on every high hill, and my flock was scattered over all the surface of the earth, and there was no one to search Or seek for them. Therefore you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. As I live, declares the Lord God, surely, because my flock has become a prey My flock was even become food for all the beasts of the field for lack of a shepherd, and my shepherds did not search for my flock, but rather the shepherds fed themselves and did not feed my flock. Therefore you shepherds hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I shall demand my sheep from them, and make them cease from feeding sheep. So the shepherds will not feed themselves any more, but I shall deliver my flock from their mouth For thus says the Lord God, Behold, I myself will search for my sheep and seek them out. his scattered sheep, so I will care for my sheep and I will deliver them from all the places to which they were scattered on a cloudy and gloomy day. This passage was written about Old Testament Israel, but the principle expresses also applies to church history. What does God think about spiritual leadership that fails to feed the flock. Yeah, very good. Um I think I told you guys the elders something we started uh for our elder meetings is we start with a meal just to kind of get to know each other a bit better Uh but we're also going to through a book right now on authority. And it's it's to go through these principles to make sure we're staying in line with Scripture and we're not falling into that trap of becoming authoritarian And and you guys help us remain accountable for that, right? That's an important process that was there another hand? Uh Randall. Uh from the Ezekiel passage it seemed like basically God saying I told Yeah, I love it. Dereliction of duty, basically. Yeah, dereliction of duty. Keep it simple, right? Was there another hand up? No, excellent. Um how about, you know, new beginning of New Testament? What do what do we see happening with Jesus? Who does he confront? Right, the Pharisees, the Sadducees. You were to feed my sheep, and now you you hold it over them. Yeah, good. Uh I love it. Um you know, just to reemphasize, never am I trying to lift Hope Bible Church up as some kind of you know pinnacle, but just what you guys are talking about. And often when we get new members, it's you know, why did you come to Hope Bible Church? It was that draw to the word And and I think I hope you understand our our desire is that w we're teaching you all how to be the Bereans, right? That's the intent. This is a growing disciples class. Um you might hear tonight it might be turn to equipping classes. We'll figure out what that looks like, but it is to equip, right, so that we're all equipped to be like the Bereans in search scripture. Put yourself in the shoes back in this day when you you weren't equipped. You didn't have the word. You couldn't test what the Pope was saying. Right? You had to take it as legitimate And that these reformers are breaking through that. Just critical to reset what was happening in church. All right, let's cover our last dude here. Jan Hoos. He lived in what is uh modern-day Czech Republic. He was from a village called Husinek, which means Gooseville. The Bohemian word hus means goose, and that's going to be important later, so it's not just a fun trivia fact. Again, he was educated at the University of Prague, so um we talk about all of these gentlemen basically being from the the university system and and he came after Wycliffe and was heavily influenced by um uh the preaching and teaching of Wycliffe. Hush was also known as a gifted preacher. He preached regularly in the Beth Bethlehem Chapel in the city of Prague, by preaching in the Bohemian language rather than in Latin, Hus exposed the congregation to the Word of God. So again, you see all these different languages that are now starting to be exposed to the Word of God. Some of the commentary on this this um this Bethel Chapel, it's estimated there were no chairs in there. So when you went into the chapel you you had to stand Right? That that was it. And they estimated that he would have three thousand people a week listening to his preaching. What does that tell you? I mean people just hungry for the word of God. You can you can imagine how excited they were to finally get this solid teaching. Because you know when you hear the word of God, it just it inspires your soul. Right? That's how we're made. That's the Holy Spirit in us. Like Wycliffe, Huss preached against the corruption of the clergy and the sale of indulgences. In his book On the Church De Ecclesia, again, that's where we get ecclesiology, the study of the church. Huss insisted that Christ alone, not the Pope, is the head of the church. Huss appealed to Christ as the highest authority over popes councils and kings. So again, um he was dealing with, you know, three different popes at the time of authority, that schism that was happening. and went back to know Christ is the head of the church. A quick from or a quote from Jan Hoos. If the papal utterances agree with the law of Christ, they are to be obeyed. Okay? So they didn't get it all wrong, but we're agreed they are to be obeyed. If they are in variance with it, then Christ's disciples must stand loyally and manfully with Christ against all papal bulls, what whatsoever, and be ready, if necessary, to endure malediction and death. When the Pope uses the power in an unscriptural way to resist him as not a sin It is a mandate. When elders at Hope Bible Church use power in an unscriptural way, to resist them is not a sin. It's a mandate. there to hold us accountable. So of course he wasn't favored, so the Roman Catholic authorities summoned Huss to defend his views at another council, Council of Constance, which was in Germany. He was promised safe passage, but um was tricked shortly afterward his arrival he was arrested and imprisoned. Right, so on july sixth, fourteen fifteen, he was led outside the the city of Consumer. So again he was impr he was tricked in prison and burned at the stake. The English phrase, your goose is cooked, comes from his execution, right? Gooseville, husk, goose, that's where you get that term the goose is cooked. So I told you that was gonna come back. According to Fox's Book of Martyrs, if you don't have that, it's a great resource. Huss told his executioners, You are now going to burn a goose, Hus signifying goose in the Bohemian language, but in a century you will have a swan which you can neither roast nor Boyle. Though those words may be only legendary, they demonstrate the close connection between Huss and the Protestant Reformation since Luther's posting of the ninety-five thesis came roughly one hundred years after the death of Huss, um which is where you see the swan. When the people of Bohemia heard that Huss had been executed, they were outraged This resulted in several armed conflicts between the followers of Huss and the Roman Catholic forces. And again, we'll see next week that all three of these would be heavy influences. as we talk about the reformers. So as we build out this pillars, I just added one on the back end there or on the right, the reformers, and we'll get more into that next week talking about again really the corruption of the Roman Catholic Church and specifically the papacy, the Reformation is really going to reset that and get back to those three pillars But just a couple comments in closing here. As we will see in the next lesson, the foundational issue that sparked the Reformation was the issue of authority in the church. It often gets back to this issue of authority, who is in authority. From a Roman Catholic perspective, the Pope was regarded as the head of the church. And the church held authority over the Bible and its interpretation. The forerunners of the Reformation challenged this notion. They viewed Christ alone as the rightful head of the church. Consequently, his word was to be revered as the highest authority The pre-reformers were convinced that the Word of Christ should be accessible to all the people, not just the clergy. They advocated the translation of the scriptures into the common languages of Europe. They also preached and taught in the vernacular, the the everyday common language of the people. Of course they were um branded as heretics. Many of them were persecuted and died But the word of God could not be suppressed. And I think that's the beautiful point in all of this, right? We we see this turmoil, yet God's hand is evident throughout it all. And used for his glory and his good purposes. Um I I'll close with this. We we often think of Hebrews eleven, you know, the hall of faith. What what would it be like to have your name in the hall of faith, you know, written in chapter eleven there? These um these these faithful men and women. And I think as we go through church history, we haven't li um named everyone, but there are some key figures that stand out in this this journey that we've been in. So it's important to recognize them. um and to understand the the courage that they had to defend the faith in very trying times. Alright, let me close. Like I said next week we'll we'll actually get into the Reformation period and start to close it out into modern day times I will uh I will say this real quick. It's um when this author, uh Nathan, he has a um he does a lesson um that he records and so as the teacher I get to go listen to the lesson and that's where I get some of these tidbits. But He's he made this during um the transition from the presidency in twenty twenty, right? And that wasn't um uh a quiet transition, right, when you talk about January sixth and some of the things that happened there. But you you hear him make a couple comments about the turmoil that's happening in our country in twenty twenty and it's just it's just interesting as he relates to some of the things happening here in church history and then where we're at today. So just thought that was interesting. Alright, let me close. Father, a lot to unpack. Um we want to make sure we're understanding the key principles and how that applies to us. today, right? There are many things we might take for granted. Just having the translation in English, on our iPads, in our hands, let us not take that for granted. Let us be Good stewards of your word. Let us be diligent to be in your word because it is the source of hope. It restores the soul. It is your inspired word. That's how you speak to us today, Lord. So let us just cherish this wonderful gift you have given us in the canon, the closed canon of Scripture. Lord, we love you. We thank you. We pray for your continued blessing on the rest of our worship service. Be with Pastor Mike as he exposites the word. We're excited again to hear some more testimonies as we worship in observing baptism. And may we just have a joy in fellowship with the saints, our brothers and sisters your children. We love you, we thank you, and we give you all the glory in Jesus' name. Amen