Dear Heavenly Father, we just uh thank you for this day. Um it's cold outside, Lord. Um we thank you for the seasons that you've provided. We also thank you for um the shelter and uh this building that you've provided for us to keep us warm uh and safe from the elements and uh Lord we just pray that you will um in the next couple days as we have this inclement weather that he will um give us wisdom in our travels and keep us safe in our travels But Lord, uh, as we come to you this morning, um we just pray that it will be a time as we remember um a couple of the instruments that you've used. in um spreading the light of your word um to the world. Uh man who uh who's doctrine we can read and uh and have encouragement from, but doctrine that is founded upon your word, Lord. And just help us to remember that everything that we read, digest Meditate upon needs to come from your word because your word is truth. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, so we are in lesson six, and it is titled Grace and truth. And as a preface at the top of that lesson, we have a passage from John 1 fourteen through sixteen. And it says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only begotten. from the Father, full of grace and truth. John testified about him and cried out, saying, This was he of whom was whom I said, He who comes after me has a higher rank than I, for he existed before me. For of his fullness we have all received. And grace upon grace. For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. So a couple places there we see Jesus is providing grace and truth to us and it is um realized um upon us. Um So as we are going through the course, uh we start out with the Apostolic Age and we are wrapping up the patristic um period, the end of the fifth century today. Um And then we will go into the Middle Ages next week. Page 19, Pastor Christopher has referred to this page I think almost every week Just to kind of give you an idea of where we are in the early church period, early church history. And I would like to point out Chapter one was an introduction. But then chapter two was first century, chapter three was second century, chapter four third, chapter five was fourth century And chapter six is the fifth century. So we're hitting us basically about about a century at a time in these first few lessons. Guess what? We go into the Middle Ages, the early and high middle ages We only have three chapters. We're only going to spend three weeks on that uh millennium right there. So It's interesting to see how these early centuries, these early church fathers had an impact in in the church history, in uh the foundation laying up foundation for us. And then there's Kind of a dark period with j a few lights in it, but the foundation is was certainly set early on. Um So, uh timeline, uh, we've got the apostolic age, and then today we're wrapping up the patristic period. And we're going to focus on two gentlemen today, Augustine and John Chrysostom. But I would like to add in a third, just for introduction, I'm just going to say his name. But the three gentlemen uh are Jerome and Augustine and John Chrysostom. And they were all um contemporaries of each other and you could define them as Jerome being the great scholar, Augustine being the great theologian, and Christostom being the great preacher. And each of them had their own lane And I'm just going to just touch on Jerome. He he's not in your materials at all. Uh J-E-R-O-M-E. Okay. A little side story. We're we're in spiritual leadership programs. Uh we're we're talking about the early church fathers and we're talking about Augustine and John Christostom and uh And uh Ignatius and then Jerome and and J and Chester says, Jerome just doesn't fit. That means it doesn't fit everybody else. Yes. But Jerome, uh, I believe he was from Rome. He he was born around 347 A. D. and uh Died in 420 A. D. So he was a contemporary of Augustine and John Chrysostom. And he the reason why he is important to us is he was one of the early translators And as we know we have the Old Testament was translated to Greek and was the Septuagint. And the Septuagint was what uh the scriptures that um was available to the Jews during Jesus' time. They read from the Septuagint. Uh Jerome wanted to translate the Bible into Latin. But instead of taking the Septuagint and translating it Yes. He said no, I need to go back to the original Hebrew and Aramaic. So he went down to Bethlehem and uh became a monk in in Bethlehem and translated the scriptures directly from Hebrew to uh Latin. And so we have our first Latin Vulgate came from Jerome. So that's all I'm going to say about the great scholar, but this lesson is focused on Augustine and or Augustine and John Christophane. No, no. Hippo, so that's or uh Jerome, uh I forgot what Jerome's uh he he does Jerome of some but someplace, but Um if if there was like another um I guess Jerome, would it just be like where that person is from? What if they were from both from I don't know how it as we talk about John Christophe, we'll learn that Christophe's not his last name. Um but um but John Chrysostom and Augustine, um they were two um influential Christian leaders at the beginning of the early fifth century, late fourth century, and they you will see as we go through this lesson and you'll see this lesson is a little different than the past lessons. There's a lot of excerpts from their writings that we'll go through on this lesson. But we're going to focus on their doctrines of grace and truth. You will I snagged this from uh Pastor Christopher's it's it's a little hazy, a little blurry there. Um but We've got the Western Empire of Rome and the Eastern Empire of Rome. Augustine was in the Western Empire, Christostom was in the Eastern Empire. One, as I said before, was a great theologian. one was a great preacher and the preacher was also a theologian and the theologian was also a preacher. It's just that there were had some expertise in uh in preaching and um theologizing um respectively. And you will see uh from their writings as we go about truth and as we talk about grace that they did lay the foundations for the reformers, for Luther and for Calvin. You'll see a lot of what Calvin writes mirrors what Augustine wrote in his um in his writings. Um Augustine he emphasized spiritual depravity. and God's undeserved grace. And Calvin valued the way Christosom approached the Bible, how he interpreted the Bible. Straightforward. and uh went and interpreting the Bible according to its literal meaning of the text. So Augustine Augustine was born in North Africa, not far from the Mediterranean coast in modern-day Algeria. His father was an unbeliever His mother was a Christian. His mother's name was Monica. And although we do not follow the Roman Catholic um teachings Uh she is a saint. She um we are all saints, but she is a saint in the Roman Catholic Church. Saint Monica. Um the Santa Marca Highway in California is named after her. Um she taught Augustine, the Bible, she taught him about Christian faith, but it did not sink in for him. She prayed for her for Augustine's conversion, but he decided to live his own life And he went about living life trying to find satisfaction. In his confessions, Augustine explains how God saved him. Praise. Our hearts are restless until they find rest in you, Lord. The restlessness in Augustine's unredeemed heart compelled him to chase after the pleasures of this world. And if you think about Ecclesiastes, you can see Solomon trying to try different avenues to become satisfied, to find fulfillment in life. And yet he doesn't find it anywhere. And that's what Augustine was doing. He was chasing after um temporary fulfillment, temporary um fulfillment of his desires, and he um was unable was unable to find it At sixteen he left home to study rhetoric in Carthage, and a year later he began a romantic relationship with a woman that He never married. They ha they had a relationship for fifteen years, never married, and they had a son out of wedlock. But Augustine's search for satisfaction Led him on a quest for truth. And he's rejected the Bible because he did not find it eloquent or philosoph philosophically sophisticated. In some ways he thought it was too simple that uh hey, you just have to believe in Jesus. And but yet he thought its rules and regulations were too complex and and and he didn't find the balance um that we see in in scripture. So he tried different types of religions. He went through the false teachings of Manichaeism and it's a heresy that attempts to combine Christianity with a false religion of Zora Estrane uh Zora Straneism. Um and during this time that he was teaching in Carthage, um he got a teaching position in Milan So in three eighty-four he went up to Milan. And at this time he abandoned uh Maconakiism and began to explore Neoplaton Platonism. Um but nothing satisfied his soul. He was still searching, still longing for that satisfaction. So in Milan he heard of a great preacher, uh great orator called Ambrose Now we haven't talked about Ambrose, but Br Ambrose is one of the great early church fathers. And a little story about Ambrose is he was the governor of the region of Milan. And The bishop at the church in Milan um died and they were looking for a new bishop. And uh so they had a council to elect a new bishop and the people started chant tradition has it, the people started chanting Ambrose's name that they wanted their governor to be get home their church leader. And so he was elected as um a church leader. Um he resigned from the governorship. and began his post as the bishop in the Church of Milan. And he was a great preacher, a great orator. And so while in Milan, Augustine said, hey, I want to check this guy out. I want to see how he develops thought, how he um preaches. And So he went to church to hear Ambrose preach. And it was at that time that he not only heard a great orator, but he heard the truth of the Bible and he heard the gospel. And at that point he the the Spirit of God was knocking on at his door. And uh and Augustine says, um this is from his testimony, one day while he was sitting under a tree in Milan, he heard a child from a nearby nearby house say, pick it up and read it. And Augustine took it as if it came from God. He found the Bible, opened it, opened it up And his eyes fell on the truth of Romans 13, 13 and 14. And I think that passage is in your your books. And it says, let us behave properly as in the day, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity or insensuality not in strife and jealousy, but put on the Lord Jesus, and make no provision for the flesh in regards to its lust And so here, he'd been living a life of promiscuity. He'd been living a life of sensuality. And by reading this passage He realized he needed to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And at that time the blinders were removed from Augustine's eyes and he understood the gospel and believed. After his conversion, he initially thought of going into uh the monastery to become a monk Um he was ordained a priest, but later on in three ninety-five, so uh eleven years after he became he went to Milan Um he was appointed bishop uh of the church in Hippo uh initially to become as the co-bishop, but later on he became the bishop there, and he served there for um about thirty-five years until his death in four thirty. Um in addition to preaching, Augustine wrote Numerous treatises, uh including theological works uh and important polemical works against heretical movements like Maconism and Pelagiism Augustine would become one of the most influential theologians in all of church history, especially in the West. As noted above, his writings made a significant impact on the reformers during the 16th century Protestant refer reformation. So that's a little bit about Augustine's life. Now we're gonna focus our attention to uh his theology. And Augustine has been called the doctor of grace, because of his emphasis on God's grace in salvation. And a lot of his writings was in response to a false teacher named Pelagius. Pelagius thought that people are born morally neutral. That's not what we believe. That's not what Scripture says. He says that when people are born morally neutral, they are capable of pursuing God and obtaining salvation through their own volition and effort. Obviously, Augustine saw this as heresy and um and wrote a lot against this. Uh Augustine insisted that people enter this world with a sinful nature. They are spiritually dead in their sins They are unable to earn God's favor through their own efforts. Rather, he must draw them to himself and save them by his grace. God's saving grace is something that cannot be earned through personal merit or good works. So Excerpt from Augustine's Augustine's writings, sinners are not justified on the basis of their own merit. They are saved by grace. Um we won't go through all of the passages in here, but we will go through these first two because I I think they're Both great. Um we conclude that man is not justified by the precepts of a holy life, but by faith in Jesus Christ. In a word, not by the law of works, but by the law of faith, not by the letter, but by the Spirit, not by merits or deeds, but by free grace. No one merits justifications by his good works, since unless he has been justified, he cannot do good works. Nevertheless, God justifies the Gentiles by faith I think that second sense, since he since unless he hit has been justified, he cannot do good works. We are incapable of doing good without the spirit in us without the regeneration of our spirit. And um and until we are justified to God, we are incapable. of good works. Um so the Old Testament oh I've already hit the next one. The Old Testament safes likewise were not saved on the basis of their good works, but rather faith in Christ Um that second point there, um speaking of Old Testament saints, of whatever virtue you may declare that ancient righteous people were possessed, nothing saved them, but in the belief in the mediator who shed his blood for the remissions of their sins. We know that Abraham was justified by faith, as it says in Genesis Um it's not by his good works, but he looked forward to the promised redeemer, to the Son of God. And it is by that faith, his faith in God, that Abraham and Old Testament saints. are saved. Because salvation is by grace and not by works, even the worst sinners can be saved. Um again that second point down there. There is another sense in this verse, for nothing you will save them, with none of their merits going before you will save them. All in them is rough, all foul, all to be detested. And though they bring nothing to you whereby they may be saved, for nothing you will save them, that is, with the free gift of your grace. We are born in with a sinful nature, and we are detestable to God. We As he says, all in us is rough, all in us is foul. There's nothing that we can do to merit salvation, nothing good in us except by the grace of God, that we can have faith um in in Him. Um the gospel of grace precludes anyone from boasting about their salvation Again, that second point there, that second quote, no man can say that it is by the merit of his own works or by the merit of his own prayers or by the merit of his own faith, that God's grace has been conferred. Nor suppose that the doctrine is true which those heretics hold, that the grace of God is given in proportion to our own merit. There's nothing that we've done. God does not extend more grace to a person who has more merit or more good works and less grace to a person that has less fewer good works and less merit. All the grace that we receive. is from God and He gives it to us freely and abundantly. And there's nothing that we can do to boast about our salvation. It is truly all. from God. Um Augustine did not always speak about justification with the kind of consistency or clarity of the sixteenth century Protestant from for reformers like Calvin or Luther, but he did clearly affirm the truth of Ephesians 2, 8 through 10, and we know this passage. For by grace you have been saved through faith, in that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not as a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship Created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, so that we would walk in them. Um I know we haven't done all the discussions, but I I did like this this uh discussion question. Um mercy refers to withholding a of a deserved punishment and grace refers to the reception of an undeserved blessing. In salvation God extends both mercy and grace to us. Growing up in college, uh, I listened to uh the News Boys. They were one of the more popular groups, and they're still around amazingly so. Um But on their their going public album, the first song is a song that call that's named That's a Real Good Thing. And um and it starts off with the chorus And it says, when we don't get what we deserve, that's a real good thing. When we get what we don't deserve, that's a real good thing. And in that, they summarize Mercy, and they summarize grace. So again, mercy is the withholding of deserved punishment, and grace is the reception of deserved blessing. So um so what What do we Christians deserve that we will not receive? Death. Death, wrath? Absolutely. And then what will Christians receive that they do not deserve? Grace. Forgiveness of sin, uh eternal life, reconciliation to God, having a Father that loves us. So that is um Augustine's um a lot of his excerpts on the doctrine of grace. And hopefully if you have read some Taliban and some Luther, hopefully you you do see some of their trains of thoughts coming from what um Augustine is saying in his writings. But Augustine also uh held firm to the inerrancy of the word of God. Um he declared his allegiance and submission to the word of truth. Um Augustine recogniz that because it comes from God, Scripture is free from error. And to state it another way, Augustine affirmed that the Bible is absolutely true. That first excerpt under that paragraph, he says, I have learned to yield this respect and honor only to the canonical books of Scripture Of these alone do I most firmly believe that the authors were completely free from error. And it seems to me that the most disastrous Consequences must follow upon our believing that anything false is found in the sacred books. If we crack open that door and say, hey, the Bible may be may have some falsehood in it, or may have a sliver of untruth in it, or a sliver of error in it. That crack opens up a whole Pandora's box and now what can we rely upon in God's word? We must shut that door completely. We must firmly believe that the Bible is inherent. Manuscripts, handwritten copies of manuscript. I'm glad you asked that. So so in his writings, because I that's in my notes, in his writings, he did attest to all twenty-seven New Testament books as being canonical. So he did have some manuscripts, uh probably copies of manuscripts that he read from, but he did firmly believe the twenty-seven books as canonical. Now, on the flip side Uh on the Old Testament, he did uh think the books of the Apocrypha were also canonical. So that's one thing that we would not agree with him on. But but yes, by the fifth century they did determine that the twenty seven books of the New Testament are part of the canon and are truly God's word. Any other questions about that? Yes, only I I don't think the first Pope has been had been appointed at this point. So he wasn't really wasn't really attaching himself Catholic Church that was like a Catholic uh believer at a point where he separated himself from that or did that not even play at all. I mean he Yeah. I mean at this point the church was still the church. The the denomination of the Catholic Church I don't think had been f firmly established. Fine at this point. Because we will s we will start seeing um the suppression of the scriptures being allowed to be read by the common man when the church Yeah, but I'm sure Pastor Christopher will go over that in the next few weeks. Um Augustine not only viewed scripture as inerrant, but also as absolute in its authority There is no authority higher than the Word of God. And that second point there. Therefore, everything written in Scripture must be believed absolutely. There's no wiggle room That says, well, I will believe portions of Scripture. It's it's all or or nothing in in God's sight. And Augustine also saw that the Bible has a high authority than anything else ever written, including the right early writings of the Church Fathers in the innumerable books that have been written after the close of the canon, we may sometimes find the same truth as in Scripture. But there is not the same authority. Scripture has sacredness peculiar to itself. And then he goes on talking about um Nicaea. So the council of Nicaea was 325. So about 75 years later, Augustine writes this next point, let those things be removed from our mist. Which we quote against each other not from divine canonical books, but from everywhere else. Someone may ask, why do you want to remove these things from the midst? because I do not want the holy church proved by human documents but by divine oracles. So he he wanted to make sure Yeah, you know, there are some good things about the Nicene Creed. It kind of puts our belief system into a little nugget, into a 30-second elevator pitch, as you could say But don't go to the point where sa where you say that, hey, this is divine inspiration. The creeds are helpful, but Augustine wanted us to say, always go back to God's word, always go back to Scripture, because everything written by man after the close of the canon is exactly that, written by man, not by God. Um oh, sorry, I got a little bit ahead of myself. He uns he understood the authority of church councils like the Council of the Nicaea must be subjected to the authority of Scripture. His comment to a proponent of arrogant Makes that clear. I must not press the authority of Nicaea against you, nor you that of Arianin against me, but I do acknowledge the one as you do not the other. But let us come to ground that is common to both, the testimony of the Holy Scriptures. So yes, the Council of I Nicaea was helpful, but they do not have ultimate authority. The scriptures have ultimate authority. And uh Augustine or Augustine also saw the Bible as sufficient, meaning that the Word of God reveals truth necessary to know sound doctrine and Uh righteous living. Um so that's the sufficiency of the Bible is a key um doctrine that we should have in our lives that the Bible is sufficient um in our lives. And what does sufficiency of scripture mean? Wayne Grudom has this as his uh definition. It contains all the words of God we need for salvation, for trusting him perfectly and for obeying him perfectly. So the scriptures is sufficient for us to have a solid belief system to believe in God It's sufficient for us to obtain salvation. Not that we obtain salvation, but we are granted salvation. Um and it allows and it it's sufficient for us to obey God perfectly. We often say, well what's God's will for our life? Should I go to this college or should I go to this college? Should I take this job or should I take that job? Should I marry this person? Well, the Bible may not answer those specifically, but there are doctrines in in the Bible that may lead you one path or another. And the Bible is sufficient to obeying God and obeying Him perfectly. Um so a millennium after Augustine, the Protestant reformers rallied around these same convictions that the Word of God is inerrant, authoritative, and sufficient. Though the reformers did not agree with Augustine on every theological nuance, like the Apocrypha. Um they greatly appreciated his emphasis on the undeserved nature of God's grace and the authoritative truth of God's word. Uh any questions on Augustine before we move on to John Chrysostom. Alright. So John Chrysostom He was born in Antioch, and there's a couple of Antiochs in the Bible. So which one are we talking about? We're talking about the Antioch that Is in Asia Minor and Modern Day Turkey that Paul visited on his first missionary journey. He was born there around three forty seven. Uh as a young man he was trained in rhetoric and excelled in oratory. And in his zeal to serve the Lord he left Antioch to live as a monk in the wilderness. And during this uh these two years he spent the majority of his time committing scripture to memory. And he lived in harsh conditions, getting minimal food and rest As a result, he damaged his health and he had returned to the city. He lived a minimalist life and to the point where he wasn't taking care of his body. If you turn to the very first page of the lesson, you'll see that um Chrysostom um died well before um Augustine and part of that was he did not take care of his body during these two years and it caused permanent damage uh to his body. And so his his lifespan was a little shorter. Um but back in Antioch, uh, John began to preach in the main church there, and he wrote sermons and uh all of his sermons are in a collection called homilies and through God's providence We have his homilies. I have not looked them up, but you can Google homilies John Chrysostom and you can obtain his works. That is something that we do have And it kind of it's it's interesting in that we have most of his works and the Bible, the New Testament was written 400 years earlier and we don't quite have we have the Bible as as uh has been copied, but we don't have the original artifacts of the Bible. Um but he preached in the Antioch for about twelve years from three eighty six to three ninety-seven and as he preached his sermons uh there is There is the practice of homiletics. And homiletics is taking the Bible and putting this into a sermon. And before you put it into a sermon, you have to interpret it. And so the the method of interpreting scripture is called hermeneutics. And John Christoph's hermeneutics was to interpret the Bible literally rather than allegorically. A couple Weeks ago, Pastor Christopher talked about origin. And Origin interpreted the Bible, said there were three ways to interpret the Bible. There was the literal way spiritual way and moral way. And that allowed for different heresies to come into the church. We believe that the scripture can only be interpreted one way, literally. And we'll talk about that in a little bit. And John Christosom was careful to draw out the practical implications of the text for his listeners. The style of style and substance of his preaching made him very popular with the people in Antioch. So John Christophem Christophem is not his last name. Christophem is actually kind of a nickname. Anyone want to venture a guess as to what Christostom means? Like it has the word Christ or Christmas and nothing. It does. But don't go down that route. It means Goldenmouth. So his preaching was was great. It was respected, uh highly respected. that people hung on to his words and um and he is one of the most famous preachers in church history. In 397, he moved from Antioch to Constantinople, where he was appointed the bishop there. His friend nominated him without his knowledge. But uh he took that as a direction from God that I need to go to Constantinople. And Constantinople, just a reminder, it was the capital city of the Eastern Roman Empire. And uh While he was there, Christostum preached against the flaunting of wealth. And as he's preaching this, the emperor's wife took offense at this preaching. uh personal offense at this preaching. And um she thought John was targeting her. So that uh resulted in him being exiled. And uh she she uh kicked him out of Constantinople and um I don't know w exactly where he was exiled to but he was not in Constantinople and then he died. in the year 407 while he was in exile. So again, we'll we'll talk about some of his doctrines of grace and truth Because John was so carefully tied to the biblical text, his preaching in many places affirms that salvation is by grace through faith alone. If I could get a couple volunteers to read some passages of scripture. Any Okay. Can you take uh Romans three twenty-seven? Yes. Uh Romans five two. Sharon. Uh Ephesians two eight And then Julie, oh, we're going to skip Colossians, but uh if you can do 1 Timothy 1, 15 and 16. Uh read it from the Bible, because this is an excerpt on what he's his opinion on that uh passage. Okay. No need to boast. Our Justification is not by works, it is by faith. And Christosom says, but what is the law of faith? Is being saved by grace. Here he shows God's power in that he has not only saved, but he has even justified. and led them to boasting, and this too, without needing works, but looking for faith only. He he says, Hey, we have been saved by grace through faith, and it's not of ourselves, nothing for us to boast upon. Um Lewis, I think you had Romans 5 2. Yep, 5-2. We have also obtained access through him by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Okay. And Chrysostam, his commentary on this verse, if he then has brought us near to himself. when we were far off. Much more will he keep us now that we are near. And let me beg you to consider how he everywhere sets down these two points. His part and our part. On his part, however There be things varied and numerous and diverse, for he died for us and further reconciled us and brought us to himself, and gave us grace unspeakable. But we brought faith only as our contribution In this process of salvation and our pro redemption path of its redemption, God did everything. Explain that even further as we do Ephesians two eight. Okay. So J John says, even faith Paul says, is not from us. If the Lord had not come, if he had not called us, how should we have been able to believe? For how Paul says, shall they believe if they have not heard? Coming from Romans ten, fourteen. So even the act of faith is not self-initiated. It is He says, the gift of God. So God's done everything to redeem us. He has done everything to uh save us. Our contribution is faith, but even that is not from our us. It is from God by his grace. Um and then 1 Timothy 15 and 16. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners as Jesus. However, for this reason I came that in me first Jesus Christ might show up All long suffering as a pattern to those who are going to believe on less now to the King Eternal, Immortal, Invisible, who alone is wise I serve or another. Okay. So John comments on this ver these verses, whereas people on receiving some great good ask themselves If it is not a dream, as not believing it, so it is with respects to the gifts of God. nor work should immediately through faith alone be ex advanced the highest favor. It seemed to them incredible that a person who had misspent all his former life in vain and wicked actions, should afterwards be saved by faith alone. On this account he says it is saying to be believed. As long as we have breath on this earth, we we have the opportunity to become a Christian. And it doesn't matter what we've done in the past, how evil, how many evil acts we've committed, God can save us And and that and John is saying, hey, this is a blessing. Uh it's not the people who do good works that become Christians. It's even some of the most vile people on earth. They can receive God's grace. and they can receive his salvation. So in these excerpts, Chris John clearly expresses the truth of the gospel of grace. His clarity is due to the fact That he was looking to the Word of God and interpreting its truth in a straightforward way. Um any any comments on John Christosom's doctrine of grace? By the way, I encourage you to take a few minutes this week to reread these excerpts from both Augustine and John Christophem. and the ones that we didn't read and just just ponder some of their their thought processes and how they've um taken scripture and commented on them. Again, we see A lot of these doctrines in our church today. The total depravity of man, the undeserved grace, the irresistible grace that God has given us. these men the way for us to understand some of these doctrines um more clearly. Um and like August Uh Augustine uh Christostom uh affirmed that God's word is without error. Um he affirmed the authority of Scripture, noting that all arguments must be supported by the Word of God. And he says there These then are the reasons, but it is necessary to establish them all from Scripture, to show with exactness that all that has been said on this subject is not an invention of human reasoning, but the very sentences of the scriptures. For thus will what we say be at once more deserving of credit and sink the deeper into your minds. Here Christophem is saying, go back to the Bible. Um anything that's been said by man is subject to the invention of human reasoning. Uh we need to check everything that's written to Scripture. Um and it is important that Christosom had to do um that Christosom had a method of interpreting the Bible. And rather than treating the Bible, the biblical accounts like allegories, like Origen did Christosim took the Bible at face value. He interpreted it literally. And it says, for we ought to unlock the passage by first giving a clear interpretation of the words. What then does the saying mean? We must not attend to the words merely, but turn our attention to the sense and learn the aim of the speaker and the cause and the occasion And by putting all these things together, turn out the hidden meaning. Here we see the historical grammatical method of interpreting the Bible that it should be done literally. Hey, this author was writing to a group of people. Why was he writing this letter to this church? What was the circumstances that the people in this church were uh facing? How was the apostle Paul or Peter uh encouraging them in their circumstances. And and so Paul Christophon was taking the Bible, trying to find out the meaning of what the author was saying. to his audience. And so proper biblical interpretation involves a clear understanding of what the Bible means. Sound Bible study involves looking at the details like the words, the flow of the argument In its context, the author's intent and the historical setting, the cause and the occasion Um the so my my brother um who works for Youth for Christ, um last fall had the opportunity to do a tour of the seven churches of Revelation. Um there's only five cities still uh existing. Two of the cities are no longer around so he went to five but he also went to Patmos. And um his guide was was great in that um he he was able to explain a lot of what they were seeing geographically to how John um was was writing to each of the churches. Um and um like one one of the churches, uh you know what I did not uh um get a good illustration. But by seeing the actual location, you can see why Paul or in Revelation John was using the words that they were using because the church was experiencing a type of persecution or the church was located in a certain geographic area that explain things. And he said the the words just became uh more alive to him. And that's how we are to interpret scripture. We should understand, hey, what is the context? What is the author's intent um in in explaining the scripture. So um there are four different types. Uh I I'm going to take a few minutes to talk about the different types of biblical hermeneutics. And again, uh hermeneutics, if you want it's misspelled, and I will misspell it. Um Hermeneutics is the art of interpretation, is the art of biblical interpretation. And there are four primary methods of interpreting the Bible. There is the literal method, which is the one we use, which is the historical grammatical method. And again, it's taking the words, looking at the words, looking at the context of the words, determining what the author of the tense is, what what's going on with this people group or with this church or with the country of Judah or the country of Israel at that time. And and that's not to say there are figures of speech. There's not to say that there's uh in the parables there's some uh meanings that we have to look at but but we take the words at their face value. Can I give you an example uh since the Really, really. So yeah, if if Jesus really wanted us to cut off our hand or gouge out our eye, uh his disciples would have been blind and maimed. Um So so that was not what Jesus' intent was there. He's saying, hey, you have a sin problem, you need to go to extreme measures to take care to take care of of your sin. Um there's the uh a second method of interpretation or of biblical hermeneutics is the moral interpretation. And um that's saying that there is some sort of moral um guidance that we can take from certain passages of scripture. The the one that skips brought up the most is Leviticus and the eating of unclean animals. And if the moral meaning behind that is if you eat an unclean animal, their bad habits of these animals, the bad habits of the animal are going to come into your body and you will take on these bad moral habits, I guess. snakes would be considered uh sly and um and and clever and that may not be the best thing for you to have. Uh supposed to be why That's true. Um there's the allegorical interpretation, and that's saying that there's a second level of meaning behind each passage of scripture. So there is kind of what Origin was saying. This is this was what Origin was primarily saying, that there is a a second spiritual higher level meaning in each passage of scripture. Um hang on one second. Um They they may say that Noah's flood was not a worldwide flood and that that actually happened Um but it was an allegory to some spiritual um meaning. Uh some of the some examples would be like the Song of Solomon. We believe the Song of Solomon is a love letter between a man and his um beloved. Uh someone who interprets allegorically would say this is a letter about Christ's love for the church. You may take the story of David and Goliath. instead of uh a teenager defeating a large, tall man with uh s slinging stones, this would be um a picture of the Messiah beating Satan and conquering Satan. So there's a lot of subjectivity into interpretation of using the allegorical method because a lot of people could put in their own different meanings into what different descriptor say. And finally there's the anagological, A-N-A-G-O-G-I-C-A-L, anagological interpretation. And that is interpreting scripture that everything in scripture points to something in the future, what life will be in our eternal state. Um they may say that all scripture is a parable and that none of it is actually true, none in the historical sense. Um they may say that Noah's Ark Is a picture of the church and then it represents the church. So again, there's a lot of subjectivity to it But we believe that there's only one interpretation of the Bible, one meaning in the Bible. One meaning, lots of applications. So uh We may interpret the Bible, we study it, we look at the words that the authors use, we looked at why they use those words, what the audience was experiencing at that time what the purpose of the letter or the book was for, and we come to one interpretation. And then as we come to that interpretation, we say, how does this apply to our lives? And it may apply to my life differently than to Greg's life or to Brian's life. There are multiple interpretations or applications, but one interpretation. Where all these other methods, people are providing their own opinions, their own subjectivity into the verses. And uh That comes to two more terms that I'd like to talk about is exegesis and isegesis. So exegesis is means to bring out what's the meaning that's brought out by the scriptures, and eisegesis is what are we putting into the scriptures. So this is good, this is bad. We we want to avoid bringing our own presuppositions, our own prejudices into our interpretation of the scripture. we may want to, we may have a thought of, hey, this is what I want to argue, and we may try to look into the Bible as to what verses can support my argument. That's not the way to go about things. We are to look at scriptures, find out what the interpretation is, and hey, if it supports your argument, great, but but don't try to read into the words of scriptures that's not there. So um that's a little bit of some terminology regarding biblical interpretation. And John Christosom was a great proponent in interpreting the Bible literally and he laid a lot of the foundations for the historical grammatical interpretation of the Bible. Any questions on a rudimentary basic level of biblical interpretation? Alright. So Um going back to our three pillars that we've been um going we've been revisiting every week. Um We've been looking at the supremacy of the Word of God, the sufficiency of the Work of God, the sanctity of the worship of God and how each of these pillars have been addressed at different points in uh church history. Um and this week we're we're adding Augustine and Christostom to both the supremacy to the of the word of God They believed that the Bible had the highest authority. They believed the Bible was inerrant. They believed that the Bible was sufficient for doctrine and sound living. And then they also emphasize the sufficiency of the work of God. That it's nothing on our own but all of God's work in our lives. It's his grace that he has extended to us, and only by that grace are we saved from our sins. So any uh any questions before we close Yep. All right, let's pray. Dear Henry Father, we just again thank you for this day um and for this time of reflection about these doctrines of grace, and Lord, we are so grateful, so thankful for your work. The work of grace that you've extended to us, the work of your son um dying on the cross, the work of your spirit regenerating our spirit so that we may become alive and and have faith to uh to receive your salvation. Lord, I pray for um the service that uh you will speak through Pastor Gabe, that we will have open hearts and open ears as we listen to a message uh from your word. And help us to take uh what Pastor Gabe says and and compare it to scriptures. Help us to uh to make sure everything that is said is is sound. And uh we just pray that you will honor this time. In Jesus' name. Amen.