Oh precious Father, what a joy it is again to be in your house this morning, to be with uh brothers and sisters in fellowship, um opportunity to worship you this morning, to hear your word preached, to hear your word taught. Um to talk your word to each other, to sing your word, what an absolute privilege. I know there are many who are probably traveling, so I pray for uh safe travel for many. And for um just family engagements, this can be a very stressing time, and yet I pray that the power of your word, the power of your gospel message would go forth in many of these families this Christmas time. And so We love you. We celebrate you, Lord. We celebrate your coming. God in flesh incarnate, and we look forward to your second coming Give us wisdom and discernment as we walk through church history, Lord, and understand what the forefathers had to deal with, what they defended. contended for and let us have the same mindset to put on the full armor of God, to be your ambassadors, your warriors, your soldiers, Lord. We love you and we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, we are on lesson four. I believe that's page 35 in your book. Here we are from a schedule standpoint. I'm going to say this up front. We're going to talk about a lot of people as we go through this church history. And you might be like, Christopher, I don't remember any of them. That's okay. What I really want you to focus on is what were the major issues that were being addressed or they had to um contend with as they go through this these different periods of time. And I'm going to show you a chart here in a second that will help I think put all that into order. So I'm a visual guy, I'll show you a visual map All right, I wanted to show you this chart again just because to put in order we're going to be talking about 1 and 2 Peter. We're going to be talking about Jude And then you see roughly twenty, twenty-five later, you have uh the epistles of John here towards the end of that first century. All right, so that's gonna come into play as you understand um what was happening when we hear, you know, uh Peter first uh first and second peter and Jude especially and also the epistles of John, kind of the time frame that they're in. Okay? And if we need to come back to that we can. Turn in your booklets to page nineteen. I believe it's nineteen. Do you see this wall map in your book? You might be like, whoa, this is pretty overwhelming, but but someone spent a lot of time on this and it it is really good if you take a look at it. So I'm probably gonna continue to reference it as we go through time here. Let me start with, you see the foundation down here, right? Jesus Christ and the the apostolic teachings. And then here's our three pillars, right? The Word of God, the work of God and the worship of God. And you can see what's depicted here is over time how those are are degraded, if you will, through through secular means, right? Man's thought in each of those areas. And then the with with the Reformation you kind of have a reset. And then what they do down here, you can see um we're in the the patristic Uh age, what does that mean again? Do you remember? Think patriarch. Father, right? So the apostolic fathers. And again, those were those who came after the apostles. Was roughly five hundred years. So you can see they have he calls them, if you consider this a building, these are five rooms, if you will, and it's one for each century. So again that period was about five hundred years. You have five rooms, five centuries. Then we talked about the Middle Ages was a thousand years. So you see ten centuries worth of church history here. And then we come to the Reformation up to the point we're at today, again another five hundred years. So I think this you know, slices it up nicely to give you an idea of where we're at as we walk through church history. And a reminder, this is not a closed book, church history. We're still writing it today You guys are still a part of it. And that's something I really want you to walk away from this class is, you know, it all started at Pentecost, but you're still a part of that movement You're still part of God's redemptive plan using his church. So today in lesson four, we're gonna be uh well we started second century last week and we're gonna continue towards the end of that and then into the third century. So that's where we're at today. Does that make sense? Any questions? Good? Um can you guys see the screen? You might move over here if you can't see the screen, but Okay, um I do like my timeline chart, so again what we're going to do is I'll probably keep the beginning to show you the beginning of the church aid, but then I'll do a sliding scale in here as we go through. through time. So here we are in the second into the third century. All right. We're going to talk about primarily these four individuals. Justin Martyr. His last name isn't actually martyr, that is how he died, but he's often referred to as Justin Martyr. Um Irenaeus also was martyred, and then Tertilian and Origen were not martyred, but they were persecuted and eventually died of Okay, so that's where we're at today. Um what can you remember? What were some of the big things from last week, that kind of the the first century, those who immediately followed um the apostles? Can you remember any of their names? Clement. Clement of Rome, good. Ignatius. Ignatius. You're cheating, Guadalupe. No, that's good. That's all fine. And Polycarp, right, was another one And what was what was the the big role that they had? They they simply had to carry on. The apostles were all dead now. Right? They they had to take the baton and now carry it on. Can you imagine that responsibility? And what did they have at their disposal to help with that? Scripture and what what does scripture look like back then though? Letters. Letters. Right? It wasn't it wasn't this. It was different parchments that they were starting to collect. And and I want we're gonna talk about some guys today that you're gonna be like, huh, there was some good stuff, there was some bad stuff. And you gotta remember they didn't have this They didn't have study guides, they didn't have footnotes, they didn't have references back to Old Testament scripture, right? So give them a little bit of slack, but what are we supposed to always be doing? What's the plumb line? Scripture, right? As we go through church history, we still need to go back to the plumb line. Although, Greg, I don't think we use plumb lines anymore, do we We use lasers and So laser plumb line whatever this is it. This is it. Okay? Alright. So if you turn to your books, um yeah, page thirty-five I think. Is that right for lesson? Yeah, for lesson four. Page 35 and we'll jump in. I want to start with this key passage that you should have up in the the left-hand corner, Jude 3 through 4. And you remember, again, Jude, let me go back to your our schedule chart Here's Jude, right? So Paul died in 68, and Jude wrote the letter or the epistle Jude was written about that same time. Alright, so there was already warnings of false teachers coming in And then you have Jude um who addresses some of that too and we'll get into that. And we're going to start with our our passage here. Beloved, well I was making every effort To write to you about our common salvation, I felt the necessity to write to you appealing that you contend earnestly for the faith. which was once for all handed down to the saints. For certain persons have crept in unnoticed, those who were long beforehand marked out for condemnation. Ungodly persons who turn the grace of our God into licentatiousness and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ. Licentatiousness, just gross immorality, often sexual immorality Hard to imagine these false teachers coming in and that's the result. But they were warned in in several of the epistles beforehand that that was going to happen Jesus warned, right? False teachers, the wolves were going to creep in into the church. That's the danger here. And that's what we have to contend earnestly for And that's our our story as well today. Okay? From the very beginning, the church has faced that threats from both without and within. So think external to the church We endured opposition and persecution from both proponents of false religion and hostile governments, but also internally the church has been threatened by false teachers. They claim to be part of the church, but promote doctrines or practices that are antithetical to genuine Christianity. But God has always raised up leaders to defend the faith Amen? Alright. So think of this idea of external and internal. So external, what do you think that is? Apologetics. Right? Defending the faith. Apologetics. Legal defense. Apologia refers to a defense of the faith in the face of exact External attack. So that's what I want you to take away from that. Apologetics external. Let me read from First Peter three. And again, you can think of apologetics associated with First Peter, so that external pressure Do not fear their intimidation and do not be troubled, but sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defence to everyone who asks you, to give an account for the hope that is in you yet with gentleness and reverence. So I love that. What do they see in us? What does it say here? Hope. Hope. That's it. Right? They see something different about a true Christian. They see the hope that they have. And it says, Be ready to give an account for the hope that is in you. How are we supposed to do that? What's the end of that verse say? Gentleness and reverence. Don't forget the qualifier, right? That's how we are to be interacting with the outer world We defend the faith, but it's not clobbering over the head, right? It's with gentleness. It's with grace. We see we saw Jesus do that. Now there were times when he was bold Right with the Pharisees and the Sadducees because they were supposed to be the religious leaders. So he was had very strong language for them. Gentleness and reverence. Alright, so that is external, apologetics, internal, polemics Polemics from a Greek word meaning war refers to theological disputation or debate It speaks of contending for the truth. That's the word that we see up in Jude 3-4. In the face of internal attack from false teachers. The key verse in this regard is 2 Corinthians 10. 5, where the Apostle Paul talks about casting down the false arguments of his opponents. Let me read that, 2 Corinthians 10. 5. We are destroying speculations. I'll tell you what, let's actually go to our Bibles because I wanted to expand that 2 Corinthians, right after Romans, first and second. Now what was um can you remember the major theme of 1 Corinthians? That's it, right? There was a there was a lot of bad stuff going on in the church of Corinth. Do you remember uh one of the biggies that Paul had to address? There was an incestuous relationship, right? The son with his father's wife and in the church was basically allowing it, right? So he had to come in with some very strong words to say, you cannot allow this behavior especially within the church. So First Corinthians is a lot about um correcting some immoral behavior that was happening within the church. All right. 2 Corinthians is a lot about Paul defending his authority. He was being questioned by false teachers And Paul's coming in and saying, this is who I am, this is the authority I've been given. From whom? From God. Right? From God. So let's go to 2 Corinthians 10. And I wanted to start in actually verse one. Now I, Paul myself, urge you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. I who am meek when face to face with you, but bold towards you when absent. I ask that when I am present I may not be bold with the confidence with which I propose to be courageous against some who regard us as if we walked according to the flesh For though we walk in the flesh so this was some of the criticism that they were getting from the false teachers, for though we walk in the flesh we do not war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses. We are destroying speculations in every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of God And we are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. And we are ready to punish all disobedience whenever your obedience is complete. You are looking at things as they are outwardly. If anyone is confident in himself that he is Christ, let him consider this again within himself that just as he is Christ, so also are we For even if I should boast somewhat further about our authority, which the Lord gave for building you up and not for destroying you, I shall not be put to shame. And then he goes on to describe um you know um why he has that authority in some of his credentials. What kind of language is used up in verse four and five? For the weapons of our warfare are not of flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses We are destroying speculations. What kind of language is that? A lot of a lot of what kind of terminology? Military. Military. War. Right? He going to war. That's the defense that's happening here. It's not gentle and meek. It's it's spiritual warfare. Right? Destroying speculations Okay, good. So in this lesson we will consider a number of significant Christian leaders in the second and third centuries, as I mentioned. When faced with threats from both outside and inside the church, these leaders rush to defend the truth and refute error. Let me go back. I didn't mention it on the chart. Yeah, so you'll see down here, um Next week we're going to talk about the you've often probably heard of the Nicene Creed. Alright, so we're going to talk about that. And you'll see reference to these early century fathers as Anta, not anti against, but Anta before the Nicene. Okay, and then post Nicene fathers after that. We've got to mention that and we have the chart up. Yeah, so and and tough, that's how you pronounce that, and to simply meaning before versus anti against. This was anti- or e nine. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Thanks for that clarification. Yeah, and like I said, we'll talk about that next week. All right, so we are going to talk first about the the apologists. Again, that was external pressure or oppression against the church. The Lord Jesus promised his followers would be hated by unbelievers in the world. We see that in John 15. He told his disciples, If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you So again, as we go through this, I want you to be thinking about what kind of pressures do we have today against a modern our modern day church and how are we to respond? What's the application of what we're learning. In 2 Timothy, the Apostle Paul gives a similar warning. Indeed, all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. And that certainly was happening in the second century. Christians were often viewed as troublemakers and a public nuisance. Roman society's negative attitude towards Christianity was perpetuated by a number of vicious rumors. So we talked about some of the persecution that happened in the time of Nero, certainly towards the end with um John um as he was um uh confined to the island of Patmos. So, you know, nothing new to see persecution in the church. But this is coming from external. So hard to imagine sometimes, but some of the criticisms that Christians uh received were that we were atheists or they were atheists. Now you've got to remember the time frame, you know, the the Greeks, Romans, who did they worship? They worshiped many, many gods Right? And and so as Christians we were denying all of those gods. And so the criticism was, hey, you know, you're atheist. You remember Paul in Acts 17, his famous um preaching, if you will, on Mars Hill. What was Mars Hill? That's where all the gods were were, you know, that's where they sacrificed and worshipped all these different gods. So he was making a point by having that sermon, if you will. on Mars Hill. You're saying there's only one true God. Yeah, and what was interesting is um whenever something bad happens, so these gods you know governed the the natural resources, the rivers, the sun, you know, they had a God for everything. So isn't it convenient that if the river dried up, who would they blame? The Christians Right? What about if the rivers overflowed? Who who got blamed for that The Christians, right? The idea the gods were angry because the Christians were turning people away from them, so it was their fault. Always very convenient. But what's the what's the the opposite of that? What were what were the Christians actually saying? No, we do believe in a God, the one true God, who's in control of all of this You know, that was kind of their counter to all of that. Okay, another criticism is that they were insurrectionists. In part because their worldview was so radically different from the society around them. For example, they refused to participate in anything that smacked of the worship of Caesar. You know, often in that time period Caesar was often designated as Lord or a God. I mean that's how he was worshipped, and the Christians were not going to do that. So they were accused of being insurrectionists, even wanting and not to be confused with the zealots that truly were nationalists. They were trying to overthrow the Roman government for selfish desires. But the counter to that is the Christians, they said, no, no, no. We recognize that Caesar was placed there by God. The authorities are in place by God's hand Right? We pray for Caesar. We we pay taxes. Right? That was the counter to all of that. All right, another one, another accusation was immorality The third rumor suggested the Christians participated in sexual immorality at their secret meetings. You can imagine, right, in Jude we hear this term, the love feast the agape feast. I mean if you're an outsider and you hear that, I get it, right? What's going on here? That sounds a little speculative. Um using terms like brother and sister, those familiar terms. Familial. So I get that. But the idea was, no, what we're trying to preach is the scriptures um describe the highest morality you can ever have All right, that that's God's standard, the highest morality you can ever have. But again, that's something that had to be countered. And then the last one, which might sound a little bit crazy, but cannibalism Perhaps most shocking of all, Christians were even accused of being cannibals. This rumor was sparked by a misunderstanding of the Lord's table. When outsiders heard the phrase, this is my body and this is my blood, they failed to understand their symbolic meaning. Now we're gonna we're gonna talk later as we get into um Catholicism and that movement They have this term transubsu transub yeah. Transubstation transubstantiation. Transubstantiation, thank you That started to happen around the ninth century, so we'll see that later, and codified really in the thirteenth century, where they they do believe there's th these are literal You know, body and blood, right? And and that's when you'll start to see that. But but early on that was uh the criticism and again the counter is no, these were just um spiritual um had had symbolism, if you will, spiritually. Okay? In response to these false rumors, a number of early Christian apologists wrote to defend the faith by setting the record straight. And in one the person we're going to describe we're talking about in this lesson is Justin Martyr. Again, his last name is not Martyr. That's how he died. When you see this C that stands for circa, what does that mean? Around. Around, approximately. So uh again just some of the trivia when we talk about timelines, that's what that means. You can see there he was born around one hundred. Who who was on the scene in one hundred? Or who died in one hundred? John, right? Uh from the first century uh church, John the last apostle. So Justin um born in one hundred and died about one around one hundred sixty-five into a non-Christian family. Um He searched like many of us do um a lot of the the philosophy of the time to make understanding of the world around him. Okay? But it wasn't until he met this elderly Christian man that truly explained the true gospel to him. And that's when Justin was converted and became the defender that he was. Justin embraced Christianity as the true philosophy. But Through that experience, though, he understood kind of the behavior of Greek philosophy and those who were searching for meaning in trying to understand true knowledge. So so what did he do? Let's go to a very familiar passage, but I love it. Go to John 1. John 1. So you know this idea of Lagos Well just filling the blanks here, right? This idea of logos, um word meaning word or logic, he was now appealing to their Their desire or need to look for logic, look for wisdom with what? The true wisdom. So let's go to John 1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. And then you've got to go to verse 14 And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. Obviously, we're talking about Jesus Christ here. So he was trying to uh very cleverly take them back to their desire to get after logic with the word, right, with Jesus Christ. And he used that like it says here as a a bridge if you will to have those discussions with them. Pastor, did you say Justin was Greek? Um I didn't say. I don't know Good question. Now what we do have, we do have some of his artifacts and you can you can see some on the screen there, some screenshots. I don't know if that's what he looked like. That's what I found on the internet But we do have some of his works and you can see there um he wrote or what we do have is the first apology or defense. He has a second apology and then a dialogue with Trifo, which we have today. And these were letters that were written to whom? To the the Roman governors, if you will, or the the Roman authorities to include the Senate, the Roman Senate, which had a lot of power back in those days And what he was trying to do was address those things, those criticisms I just talked about on the slide before. So again, those external pressures What he was trying to convince them of is you don't need to be persecuting us. We're not a threat to you. We're not a threat to your kingdom. We're not a threat to your authority. Quite the opposite. So that's the defense he was trying to make. His dialogue with Trifo records his conversation with a Jewish man about whether Jesus truly is the Messiah. Justice musters numerous arguments from the Old Testament So again, they had the parchments, they had scripture to show that Jesus is both the promised Savior and the Divine Son of God. So these were the defense that he was making on behalf of the church. After debate debating a Roman philosopher, Justin was denounced to authorities as a Christian. He was beheaded around the year 165 During the reign of Emperor Marcus Aurelius. That name should be familiar from the movie Gladiator, and don't like to make those references, but uh that's where you see that. Alright, do you guys have in your book there's a big um segment from Justin? Okay, good. So we're gonna kind of change gears here a little bit and talk about this insert that you have. Um yeah. This insert that you have is him describing church service. So I want you to see if you can identify some of the components that jump out to you that might be relevant today as I read this. Okay. And on the day called Sunday, all who live in cities or in the country gather together to one place, and the memoirs of the apostles or the writings of the prophets are read as long as time permits. Then when the reader has ceased The president or pastor verbally instructs and exhorts to the imitation of these good things. Then we all rise together and pray and As we before said, when our prayer is ended, bread and wine and water are brought, and the President in like manner offers prayers and thanksgivings according to his ability, and the people assent, saying, Amen And there is a distribution to each and a participation of that over which thanks have been given, and to those who are absent a portion is sent by the deacons, and they who are well to do and willing give what each thinks fit And what is collected is deposited with the President, who cares for the orphans and widows, and those who through sickness or any other cause are in want, and those who are in bonds And the stranger sojourning among us, and in a word takes care of all who are in need. But Sunday is the day on which we all hold our common assembly, because it is the first day on which God, having wrought a change in the darkness and matter made the world. And Jesus Christ our Savior on the same day rose from the dead. So we talked a little bit, I think it was last week about is it Sunday, is it Saturday? There are a couple groups that um practice their worship service on Saturday. And that's primarily driven by the Sabbath being you know the final day of creation, a day of rest. But like I said, they'll have verses that that reinforce that There are re uh verses that reinforce Sunday. It's a secondary issue, right? Now, some of those groups I would say doctrinally have some distinct. There's a lot of alignment. I'm just thinking of seven-day advent uh Adventists that was brought up, a lot of alignment with uh Hope Bible Church, but there are some distinctives, and that's where you need to have wisdom and discernment. Okay, not about the day. But so put that aside, I don't I don't want to make that an issue. What jumps out to you as as I read this of some of the components that you see today in our church service Communion, all right. Um practice of of handing out the Lord's Supper, the elements. Good. Um I I also look looks like someone of a Sermon. They read the Word of God and then expound. Was it good um expository preaching? I don't know. I don't know. It maybe the focus was more on the application. So here's the truth. How do we apply that to our lives? So good. There was an element of reading the word and then preaching the word. Right, so giving, right? Giving is a form of worship and it met the needs of the church. It met the orphans and the widows. in one place. Gathering in one place. All right. Coming together. It wasn't, hey everyone get on your Zoom and uh we'll do that virtually, right? It was they collectively came together. Prayer. Good. Okay. So you should be encouraged. Those are all the elements we do today, isn't it? Right? And I suspected that was patterned after what they saw in the New Testament church. It just carried over. Now, what order do these need to be in? What what chapter do I got what book do I gotta go to? If there's not. We have a lot of freedom into what that looks like. And I've mentioned this before. Um the elders and those who oversee, you know, Sunday morning worship, very intentional about each and every element, um even the timing of it. I think uh if you haven't noticed, you know, Gabe went on the sabbatical, what changed when he came back? He starts with prayer. He probably saw that at another church and said, Hey, that's a good idea to just settle everyone down, get everyone into you know, uh a space of worshiping on the Lord. Now what I did notice one Sunday I was standing in the back as he started his prayer, you know, I look out and it's pretty empty. I'm like, where is everybody? And then the prayer ends and the song starts and everyone comes in because they were holding people back during the prayer time, right? So we we gotta change, if you will, be flexible. But yeah, we try to be very intentional. It doesn't mean we can't change things around. Um but the songs that we choose, just everything that is done is trying to point back to God Trying, you know, back to that pillar, right? The sanctity of worship. That is the intent. But yes, we have a lot of freedom on what that looks like. You know, I've been to uh churches as we've moved around the country through the military Some are much more, I'll call it liturgical, right? A very rigid schedule, if you will, some a bit more free-flowing We certainly want to see a service that has order though. That should be the the grounding principle is one of order. Yep. Um you bring up a great point though, Guadalupe. Culture is a big thing. In in how um that service looks like is very much driven by the culture. And that's not a bad thing. So if the service is three hours but it's orderly, that's okay. If if that's what you know you want to do. Um if it's a lot of free-flowing, then then maybe not. Um so Just take that into consideration. But I I guess what I wanted to encourage you with is a lot of the elements that you see in our modern day church, you know, that's how they practice church in the very first um part of church history. Justin says there, he says, As long as time for this can bring that up with Pastor Gabe. That's funny. As long as time permits, yes, good catch. Good cat. Who caught that? Mark, I think you caught that. That's why the bats put like Their hands in the oven before they serve it. All right, so that's the apologetics. Um and again, Justin is just one primary example, maybe the most um prominent example of an apologist um early in the days. Now do we still have apologists? We're all apologists, right? All of us have to be defending those external pressures. How? Right Yep. In in what temperament though? How do we do that? Good. Alright, so we're gonna move on to the polemics. Contenders, these are internal threats Right. We we see often in the epistles this warning of false teachers. Sorry, was there a comment? Well I know a little conference between the external and internal. So one is this attack against Christianity Within the church, yes. Which has seeped into the church, right? The walls that have snuck in. And and what I would tell you, you know, don't get too hung up on the terms. Um I just think it's neat, you know, uh apologists and uh polemics, that distinction, but it's all the same, defending, contending the faith, right? All right. So we talked about the false speech. All right, so we're going to talk about um four of these um if you will you know um truths that were being distorted and um you know how they had to deal with those. So the first one, you've probably heard this term Gnosticism. And we actually see this start to come up in some of the later epistles, right? You see this in in Peter is dealing with and like I said, 1 Peter is really a get a great book um tying to the apologists that defense externally and second peter is is really a good uh epistle that touches on the polemicis or that internal um internal defense, if you will, against false teachers. But this idea of Gnosticism, it was not don't think of Gnosticism as a separate religious group. It was really an umbrella term for a lot of different philosophies that were brought together, but they had a very similar, you know, thought pattern here. And there's there's two really big distinctions. A diverse group of false movements that each claim to possess the Secret knowledge of salvation. The Greek word gnosis means knowledge. Gnosticism was characterized by forms of dualism in which material things were viewed as inferior or evil in comparison with spiritual realities. So two two distinctions here was this, hey, we we got secret knowledge. We received that really special knowledge from the Lord And the second part of it was the idea that the material stuff is evil. So that has impacts, right As a result, Gnostic groups generally denied that Jesus had a real physical body. Instead, they wrongly claimed he only had the appearance of a body. It only seemed like he had a body. Alright? What are the implications of that? Right off the bat. If Jesus didn't have a body then he didn't what? He didn't die, he didn't he wasn't our sacrifice No resurrection, no sacrifice, right? It totally deletes the gospel. Totally. And and again, this really came in prominence around the second, third century, but it started, we see that in the epistles. I wanted to read just a little bit from uh this church history resource. In the age of the Apostolic Fathers, the church had an extremely narrow, conservative, traditional attitude to Towards doctrine. Christian teachers tended simply to repeat what the New Testament says. You know, we talked about that. The the early fathers, we talked about Clement and Polycarp. What did they what did they primarily do? They simply took the New Testament letters and were just reaffirming it, right? They weren't doing necessarily, you know, exp uh expository preaching and that type of study. They didn't have the resources. So they were just reaffirming without necessarily having any deep understanding of what it meant, like I just said. However, two forms of teaching developed and I'm just going to cover one. which the church regarded as deviating from apostolic doctrine and therefore as heretical. The first was called docetism, from the Greek word dokio, to seem Remember I talked about the the the Gnostics, it only appeared, or it seemed, that Jesus had a body. It's rooted in this idea or this doctrine of docetism. Okay? So that's the underlying thought here. Docetic views were widespread in Asia Minor According to Jesus Christ was not a true human being. Christ only seemed to be a man. In fact, he was a purely heavenly being who could not have had any real contact with the inferior world of flesh. They had this idea. I think it's in the second section here. The Gnostics actually had this idea. That there was uh another god, I wanted to get the name here. I think oh here it is. Um it's D-E-M-I-U-R-G-E, however you want to describe uh pronounce that, demerge. it's Greek for architect that this other god um actually created the earth. Right? So that was evil. You know, that was the thought that they had. It sounds crazy, doesn't it? I mean we don't seem to deal with that type of thought pattern today. However, what do we deal with? This idea of secret knowledge, where do we see that pop up today? Okay, maybe. I don't know enough about them. Specifically we were stationed out in Utah. The Mormons, right? What did they get? Secret knowledge. Joseph Smith claims he got secret knowledge from the Lord. That created an entire religious movement, right? Very, very dangerous. We talked a little bit about um last week I think it was of the first, you know, the Pentecostal or Charismatic movement. You get a lot of See uh getting new revelation from the Lord. Very, very dangerous. And so maybe we don't have this idea of Gnostics today, but we certainly have a remnant of some of their their theology, don't we? Absolutely, right. You see you see elements of that. So, you know, the enemy is pretty crafty, but he's not stupid. He he'll keep using the same deceit, maybe just in a different form Right. So again another important reason for us to study church history is to understand what were some of those tactics that the enemy is using and still using today. Just we see it in a different form. Right? So that's some of the application we can get from this. So Gnosticism was a big one. Okay, let's go on to the second one. It's pronounced Marcionism in keeping with Gnostic ideas about the inferiority of the physical world. So again, using some of those Gnostic beliefs, Marcion of Sinop taught that the God of the Old Testament was an evil deity because he created this physical universe Marcion further insisted that Jesus was sent by an unknown God to save people from the God of the Old Testament. To purport his views, Marcion rejected the Old Testament in most of the writings of the apostles In response to Marcion and other false teachers, Christians began to create the list of the books that the church recognized as canonical. And we're going to get into this idea of canonization in some of the later chapters, meaning how we how we ended up with 66 books. Now this what I'm told or what I got from the recording is this original list here is very similar to our New Testament list. So it's pretty close to what we have in our two test New Testament today. But don't you see what happened here? By God allowing these false views to come into the church. Wha w what happened? How did they respond? What were they forced to do? State what the truth was and come up, hey here's here's no kidding the scripture we're going to be use that we're going to use as as our defense, right? It forced them to start to to canonize, if you will, the Bible that we have today. So there's goodness that came out of that. Now, Marcion did um did agree with some of the New Testament. You know, he would take portions of Luke and like, I agree with that, but I don't agree with that, right? What's the danger there What do we think about Scripture? What portions of Scripture were inspired by God? All of it. Right? 2 Timothy 3. 16. And all of it is profitable. for our life. Alright, another one was modalism. And this is simply um think of of a single person presenting himself in different forms to different people. So think of a a man could be a farmer, he could be a husband, and he could be a father. Right? Um that's kind of the idea here. And the idea was that God is just one person and in the Old Test Old Testament he's God the Father. Um in the Gospels he is Jesus and in the New Testament he's the Holy Spirit. We obviously don't don't believe that. We believe in one God. three persons, each being fully God, right? In their being in essence. But that's what modalism promotes. Alright. And then monotonism. A movement known as the New Prophecy by its followers, it was started by a self-proclaimed prophet named Motanus. of self-asceticism, right? That's mean denying the body, if you will, um severely. And predicted that Jesus would return shortly. So they they got that right, that Jesus was going to return, he could return at any time, right? But they took that in and ran with it in a very false way. Again This idea of getting new prophecy, new revelation. That's why we have to be very careful of those movements that promote and we we see that today in the Pentecostal and Charismatic movements, in others that we just talked about. Right? Always a danger of of self-proclamation. Okay. In response in response to the errors of false teaching, the church was careful to articulate its doctrinal convictions These theological convictions were grounded in the authority of Scripture, yet their expression was often clarified in the face of heretical attacks. So these, you know, I talked about Justin had these apol these letters of apology We're going to see some of the councils that get together. They they um culminate with a creed, you know, the Nicene Creed. These are all affirmations of what's written in Scripture. Now, not all of these creeds, we're going to have to parse them out Right? You can't take all of them at face value as doctrine. Those aren't the authority. Scripture is the authority. But many of these creeds um are spot on, and again, just trying to reaffirm the doctrinal um teachings of the apostles and Jesus. Okay, so we're going to get into some of these polemicists. First one. Oh, before I did that, I want to reiterate, you know, again, I'm going to start building out this chart which is going to show you in the middle is the three pillars that we talked about and then what is happening through time, what are they defending? So we saw the first one in Acts fifteen, the Jerusalem Council, right? And that's where Judaism was trying to seek its way back in to add, hey, you need to be circumcised as well. Right? And that's not the gospel message. So a letter was written to reaffirm, no, here's the gospel message. And we're going to see that build as we go through time. This study is all about the apologists and the polemicists, which actually continue through time, even today. Right. Uh we are both of these today. All right. All right, we're going to start with uh Ireneus. You can see the pronunciation there, born around 130, so we're starting to get towards uh the middle of the second century His most famous work known as Against Heresies was written to refute the false teaching of Gnosticism, again countering this philosophy of Gnosticism. As a young man he heard polycarp. Remember we talked about polycarp last uh last week, linking him to the Apostolic Fathers He became the bishop of church in the Roman province of Gaul in what is now Lyons, France, in his best known work, like I just mentioned. Arrhenius pointed to the scriptures to defend the truth and also to refute the errors of the Gnostics And um I don't know if you have some of his snippets there, but I'll I'll read one of those. The gospel has come down to us, which they did at one time proclaim in public, and at the later period by the will of God, handed down to us in the scriptures, to be the ground and pillar of our faith. Who is he referring to there The apostles, right? That's what he's saying. We we have the true gospel, that is our defense. That is going to be the pillar of our faith The ancient tradition, we talked about that, right? That b basically means the instruction handed down of the apostles is believing in one God the creator of heaven and earth, and all things therein by means of Christ Jesus the Son of God, who because of his surpassing love towards his creation condescended to be born of the Virgin, he himself uniting man through himself to God, and having suffered under Pontius Pilate, and rising again, and having been received up in splendor, shall come in glory, the Saviour of those who are saved and the judge of those who are judged, and sending into an eternal fire those who transform the truth, and despise his Father and His Advent, the Second Coming. Believers today should be encouraged to see those core Christian doctrines articulated with clarity and defended with boldness. You know, that's a really important part. Articulated with clarity. There's a skill to that. There's an art to that that has to be um built up over time. And he was eventually martyred, like I said earlier in two oh two. Okay? Right. The second one, Tertillion of Carthage. And this is where we're going to get into some good and bad. Born in North Africa in the city of Carthage, Tertillian is traditionally thought to have been trained as a lawyer. Not that all lawyers are bad. I'm not saying that. That's for you, Rex. Whether or not he received such training, he exhibits a high degree of education and rhetorical ability in his writing. He was the first major Christian author to write predominantly in Latin rather than Greek. Consequently he is known as the father of Latin. So interesting, Tertillion is the first person to use this word Trinity that we often talk of today. In describing the reality of God's three in oneness, and that's what you know, tri, three, inity one, three in one, Tertillian was the first person to use that Latin term. Tertilli you won't find that in the Bible, by the way, you won't find Trinity in the Bible, but we absolutely see evidence of it. Tertillian firmly upheld the truth that there is only one God, yet he also recognized that the Trinity consists of three persons, Father, Son, and in Holy Spirit. So what was he countering? You remember the list of four um items that I gave? Modalism, right? Not one person presenting himself in three different ways but three different persons. He also wrote an apology, a defense, as well as a number of polemical works, including a polemic against Marcion. So he was specifically writing against Marcionism. Tertilian was also strongly opposed to the idea that Christianity should be influenced by Greek philosophy. And you saw that start to come in, right, in in some of the heretical teachings focused on Greek philosophy. So he was countering that as well. However, in spite of his theological precision in some areas, Tertillian eventually joined the Motanist movement. You remember what that was? Motanism, this special revelation, all right? Uh the secret uh knowledge, if you will um or additional revelation I should say versus uh the Gnostics. Um his association with that movement has made him a somewhat controversial figure in subsequent church history. And again, I go back to, you know, those early early fathers didn't have this. They didn't have the commentaries. They didn't have the study guides. However, that's a pretty l uh big leap to go to kind of a motonous view, isn't it? So how do we how do we frame this guy? Is he good? Is he bad? Is he saved? Is he unsaved? I don't know. Yeah. Um the again the author of this study um said he gets asked that question a lot. He doesn't really know how to answer it, and he relayed he got um this counsel from you know one of his senior mentors, would you let him preach in your pulpit? That might be the way to answer it. Would you let him preach in your pulpit? Now let me Let me bring it home to modern day. Steve Lawson, prominent, prominent uh pastor, incredible expository preacher. uh has written a number of books, has been on a lot of different boards, includ including you know the Master's Seminary, just prominent, prominent, prominent. Has fallen. Right. My my question to you is w what do you do with his books, with his writings? Do you throw them all in the trash can? So Julie says, the ones that line up with scripture, yes, I I I you know that's the discernment you always have to use. And it's a tough call. We as elders even talked about it Um I'll share that one elder had before it was announced actually went out and bought um he has um Steve Lawson had this uh like video series, you know, he was going to do a study with a small group and then this happened and he's like, uh what do I you know what do I do? Um and it just takes a great amount of wisdom and discernment. I don't think the answer is throw it all out And yet now you have to be extremely careful and and maybe you should have been doing that anyway. You know, the propensity is to just take that and say, oh, it's Steve Lawson, and now you've got to be a bit more critical. If it's going to cause someone to stumble in your group, maybe it's not the right time to do it. So so have that question with your group. If there are If they're at a place where they're like, no, I understand the controversy, but I feel I can work through the because there's some really good material here, then press. I mean that's the discernment I would ask for. Yeah. Yeah. Right. No, you you guys are spot on. And that's that's the world we live in. And and I would tell you that's not a bad thing to have something that forces us to go back to scripture, right, and really be like the Bereans. That's a good thing. You know, that group that had to go back and start listening, you know, no, here's the letters that that are are in this collection that we need to have to defend the faith, right? Um and that's why it's so important. that we believe all of Scripture is inspired. This is all authoritative. It's all sufficient for what we need today. Okay. Alright, so Arrhenius, Sicilian, one more origin of Alexandria. No survey of the pre-nicene church would be complete without mentioning Origen. Origen was born in Alexandria, Egypt. As a young man, his father was martyred for being a Christian. So that's the example he had. Origen wanted to go with him to be martyred. But was prevented by his mother, who hid his clothes so he could not leave the house. That's a good mom He attended a Christian training school in Alexandria and was part of the church there until he came into conflict with the bishop. Origin moved to Caesarea where he became a well known teacher and prolific writer. And he was influential in the fact that um producing roughly two thousand treaties on various theological subjects. His legacy, however, again is a mix of both positive and negative, which we're going to talk about here in a second. On the positive side, Origin organized the first systematic approach to theology So if you've never gone through a systematic theology book, um MacArthur has some, Grutum, although there's some caveats there, but that's a really good well uh easy to read and there are others highly encourage it you know systematic kind of that overview of certain topics or doctrines taken from the collection of scripture Alright, so highly encouraged. But he was origin was kind of the first to put together a systematic theology. Um and it was called On First Principles. He also wrote commentaries on a number of the books of the Bible, so here you start to see commentaries starting to be written. and defended the Christian faith against a pagan philosopher named Celsus. On the negative side, Origen taught some strange doctrines. such as the pre existence of the human soul. He also promoted an allegorical approach to the interpretation of the Bible. The allegorical approach had already been used in Alexandria, and Origen continued to popularize it. Um give me an example of uh an allegory in the Bible I was gonna take you to scripture, but we're running out of time. So Jesus says, I am the door. It's represent it's an allegory. That's what an allegory is Um symbolic method, characters and events represent other ideas. You see that in Galatians 4, where it talks about Abraham had a son with the slave and with his wife, right? And it in that contrast is the saved and the unsaved. That's an allegory that's used in Galatians 4. Galatians 4, 21 through 31. I was going to take you there, but I don't have time. Let me do this. So here's w here's what he was prescribing in this allegorical method. According to origin, each text of scripture has three levels of meaning corresponding to the body, soul, and spirit And let me just I'll fill these out for you. So we talked about the body, the literal meaning, focus on what the text says if taken at face value. Um this meaning was regarded as the least helpful, which is ironic because that's the most helpful Right? Take the text at face value. The soul, the ethical meaning involved the moral truth being taught by the text, and then the spiritual meaning allow here's the danger, allowed the interpreter to turn the text into a series of symbols or metaphors which were generally interpreted in ways that pointed to d uh Jesus. That's a danger. So there are different but this gets at to how do we study our Bible. That's the hermeneutic Hermeneutic meaning the art and science of how we study God's Word. And there are different hermeneutics. We're going to see in a couple lessons. Um we at Hope Bible Church affirm a literal grammatical historical hermeneutic. And when I say literal, it means literal to the the parts of speech that we understand. So for example I just told you there are allegories in the Bible. So to take a literal approach would be I literally understand that as an allegory. Jesus is the door. I understand it as an allegory. Right? You're not trying to create um different meanings though out of that. Right? So that's what literal means is you understand parts of speech. There's poetry, there's um you know other parts um symbolism that we understand and we take that literal because those are how we understand you know grammar today. Does that make sense? So that's the literal approach. We're going to get into more of that um later on. But there are many that use this allegorical or symbolic approach and it's dangerous. So uh you've heard of exegesis. What does exegesis mean? Yeah. Let me I took a snapshot. Here we go. A legitimate interpretation that draws meaning from the original context of a biblical passage. The goal of exegesis is to discover the true meaning of the text, right? And that's when when Pastor Gabe or any other preacher is up there, that's what they're trying to do, to exposit, to exegesis the original meaning of the author. when written. Um true meaning of the text respecting its grammar, its syntax, its settings, so this is the context that we talked about. The word exegesis literally means to lead out or to pull out The converse of that is eegesis, E-I-S, a subjective interpretation that brings meaning to the text by imposing the reader's own ideas. The goal of Isegesis is to make a point even at the expense of the meaning of the words. So what is origin promoting here? Right? Really Isegesis, trying to uh add meaning to the text. Every scripture he's saying has some kind of symbolic pointing back to Jesus. Now yes, all of Scripture is about Jesus, but not every single verse has this direct delineation back to Jesus Christ. Does that make sense? Really important how we study our Bibles. Really important what hermeneutic we use. And again, we're going to talk about that. I think it's in lesson six. Okay. Uh we are near the end. Yeah, we're gonna talk about that in oh, so every verse has one meaning. And that's always the The goal, um, the privilege of a a pastor who's preaching or teaching is to search out what is that one meaning. What was the author's original intent, led by the Holy Spirit? One meaning, how many applications? Many, right? Depending on your your personal life, it could have many, many applications. So I want to make sure we hit that. One meaning, one application. All right, let me do that this. This is the end and there's some standing for some truths and summaries down there. I wanted to go to kind of the application or discussion I think you have at the end of your your lesson there. How can believers in the church today continue to contend earnestly for the faith? Let me pause at that one. Okay, so so Julie says hold it like we've been talking about again and again again, hold it against Scripture, which means what? You gotta know scripture. Right? We talk often about boy you gotta be in the word. Daily you gotta be in the word. But if you're not, right, confess that before the Lord. Be encouraged and find out a plan. You know, we're about to start a new year There if uh there's a slide in Life at Hope that um you would have seen that came out on Friday, they might display it today. That talks about, hey, you know, there's a w there's some plans in place, how you can do that with the church body. So I encourage you to click on that link. If you struggle with accountability and really being in the word, there are lots of resources to help you do that. And I don't say that critically, right? We all struggle sometimes with that discipline. It's building discipline of being in the word, but it's important. So yes. Uh what prevents believers from taking a strong stand in the areas of uh apologetics and polemics? Sin, right? Fear of man, laziness Compromise. I think we're all familiar with the seeker-sensitive movement that was that was out there. You know, how do how do we appeal to the unsaved? Yes, we're supposed to be sharing the gospel. That's how you appeal to them You give them the word of God. But church is for who? The believers. And that's why on Sunday morning it's all geared around the believers. We pray that we get visitors. We pray that there are unsaved that come to our church But we don't shy away from preaching the gospel, right? So sin, laziness, compromise are all um negatives that stand in the way from us Holding firm to the faith. John MacArthur, this was, boy, maybe eight years ago, if you remember, he had a big conference, Strange Fire Conference. And that was him, you know, he saw what was happening with the Pentecostal Charismatic Movement and it was starting to have an influence and in the the core church, if you will. And so he had a big conference, again standing and trying to defend the faith. And he got a lot of criticism for that. But that's a a great example. We all need to carry that baton. We're all responsible. Alright, I am out of time, but any closing comments, questions? Again, I'm not so concerned about your memory names as much as what are some of the things they had to fight against, and we see a lot of that today. So that's what I want you to remember. Alright, let me close the prayer. Oh Father, so much to cover. This is so interesting. We love to see this is your hand at work. This is your redemptive plan unfolding. And so we have much at our fingertips to now understand. I do pray that you give me clarity to be able to explain this to all who are in the class, that we would retain it, those aspects that are necessary for us to apply today. Let us be just wonderful, diligent, disciplined students of your word, and let it be a joy. Let us have joy in searching your scriptures and to see how the Holy Spirit illumines your word. We love you, we thank you, we pray for the West uh rest of our worship service, and uh we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.