Then what that means for us is we need to do what Jesus did as he glorified God, uh representing the glory of God on in his death, we too can glorify God by dying to ourselves. I don't need to repay evil for evil. Okay, this we're mixing metaphors here. Uh he was a Hebrew of the Hebrews, of the tribe of Benjamin. And he sends us away from hell. No, I just imagine someone off in the corner of their home that they can no longer pay for and they've been evicted and they're just hungering down in the corner, the phone's ringing, and people are knocking out the door, like, go away, go away I die to myself because, because, because, because, because, because. I'm split my mind. And right? So that's not good. uh self-deceit. uh to to repentance. But sorry now if you hit the North Pole, you're going south. and until recently was the director of a youth ministry at his church, nor because by the time you read this he will have moved to Texas where he and his wife and two daughters plan to open a Christian bookstore. All right. of of God. There is no way that he is the Messiah. We don't need to be concerned about others' opinions about us. uh he was saying, Father, receive my worship, delight in my sacrifice. The fact that God is a righteous judge tells us that He will ensure that that sinner will receive the just penalty for their sin. And so that's what we're going to do today in much greater detail. uh put God to death, but that we are forgiven. What do they think when they hear that line? That's great. Yeah. The Bible teaches justification means. Alright. Uh a lot of mixed metaphors in there. And so when the enemy is always attacking your mind, telling you who you are, sinner you are such and so, you quote this uh verse And Philippians in Christ. Just a case thing we said was just as this buying everything. Right, we're gonna feel like uh you become like you get to sinner. He sees the righteousness of Christ. We don't become perfected in the sense that, okay, now that I'm a Christian, I can live every day and I'll never sin again. And God giving us his uh the righteousness of Christ and clothing us in that. You know, you shouldn't use the word in the definition of the word, right? Now I I I I see how you live and you're not righteous. when we were spending time in Matthew 18. Uh because he chose from the beginning of time whom he would uh um save. uh what is owed if there's non-payment. D is there a tablet between you and God that lists out your sins, lists out the consequence for your sin, that reflects when that payment is due? The wrath of God is hanging over us. So it's not that there's just this paper. That's right. Uh sister, you you need to stop. And so this is an opportunity for you to to prove that you really are a believer in Christ. uh because we we can be self-deceived. To say don't don't continue in this way because you might harden yourself and ultimately prove to have been a non-believer. that they don't see a way out and and they take their life, but that's something that God forgives them of. you know, here's a threat of help for you. uh unrepentance. I'm thinking I'm gonna be doing this tonight and I'm gonna get away with it, then that's when you realize or you don't realize that your head wasn't the sin. to do this Lord. So I would just keep trying to build into them the strength to overcome and and and engage in the battle against that sin. You you look at something in your life, maybe even as a believer, or especially as a believer, and you're like, God can't love me because look at look at what I've done, look at how I've sinned against him I entered your house, you gave me no water for my feet, but she has wet my feet with his with her tears and wiped them with her hair You gave me no kiss, but she, since that time since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet. Versus fifty is in our eye, which is less than two months wages. It's not because of how much they were forgiven uh objectively. The man asked Chris if he would like to help him get a special party ready for his dad. C Chuck was cordial enough, but Chris began to worry when he did not recognize where they were. He kept thinking his father would be arriving soon to celebrate Christmas w with him. Chris was told that David McAllister was dying in a nursing home and that he admitted to Chris's abduction. Chris Carrier did meet with David McAllister, held his hand and told him that he had forgiven him. He began a relationship with David McAllister. had for myself. that he is Lord of all, and he will be finally and uh eternally and universally vindicated. uh ought to be an act of worship. uh apart from his love. He is completely trustworthy on the re receiving end of any wrongdoing. that God will uphold justice righteously and perfectly and eternally. So when I am sinned against, I don't need to respond by exacting revenge. Uh that reminds us that uh though when I am tempted to sin I know I'm tempted to think, well God will forgive me be uh because of Christ, uh but we re s we see right through that lie that there are no consequences for my sin. I need to first set that in the context of my sins against God. So that's that's the plan for today. other things inside that, well, that's impossible, that's that's that's me and I'm telling the kiss that when God and declares you as being righteous, not because of what you've done or not done this morning, but because of Christ. completely because I'm becoming righteous, I'm I'm still sinning, and so I need to do the sacraments so I could you know earn grace for my sin and become more righteous But that's not what the Bible teaches. So that in forgiveness, in a sense, we're we're brought to a point of of innocence, but with the righteousness of Christ that we And so you're weeping and oh God forgive me for being so sinful, I'm so filthy. And he lifts up your chin and says, Look, you're not filthy anymore. uh his obedience to the law, his zeal for God, as his righteousness, as that which would make him right before God. He realized that righteousness was worthless. uh chapter three verse nine, not having a righteousness of my own derived from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which comes from God on the basis of faith. So justification is us believing in Christ, believing ourselves a sinner, that Christ is a Savior, that He has paid for my penalty on the cross The righteousness of God has been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. sixteen says, however, let us keep living by that same standard to which we have attained. Yeah, he's just one of those kids and I'm gonna sweep that in in the in the closet and hope nobody pays attention to that. And it's used actually to translate over 90% of the Old Testament instances of the word forgiveness in the Greek New Testament in the Greek Old Testament. uh who was forgiven then went out. Right? Or he potentially paid for sin, and that potential is realized only when a person exerts faith in Christ. Uh Christ's work in redemption, Christ's work on the cross was for those who are his people. We're not limiting and putting boxes around and saying, well, if Jesus would have just done something more, that more people would be saved. save everyone, but he didn't because he knew whom he would save. uh in how Paul describes it in Colossians chapter 3, excuse me, chapter 2, verse 13. All of your sin that you owe to God. That's that's what that tablet showed. Coming to get payment. Okay, and it's interesting that to television because what you said and that word has two meanings. And one thing that I have been wrestling with a little bit is, okay, so I'm in my small group, right? They denounce Christ, they reject Christ, and they go to the world. from your perspective of un uh uh of just their profession of faith. or or something like that or I see a sin and I'm like, hey, this is something to be repented from or something like that. Then it's a problem. I acknowledge my sin to you, and my iniquity I did not hide. The fact that you say you struggle it's in uh is a a good thing in my mind. Uh when you go north, eventually if you keep going, you're gonna go be going south. So there is an infinite distance between the east. And we seek forgiveness and then we are set free from guilt and shame and sorrow. Jesus says, a moneylender had two debtors, one who owed 500 denari and the other owed 50. I don't know, three or four years old. What makes the difference is our awareness of how much we have been forgiven. And if you have a hot tub, uh you know that there's a motor that runs the water around and when you throw sand in the hot tub that sand goes in the motor and ruins the motor. Went to Bible school, you know, I was saved when I was two years old. You know, we hear it all the time when we do baptism testimonies, you know, as we're teasing baptism class and listening to testimonies and whatnot. It's more accurate to say, look at all the things I've done since I got saved, if that's also forgiven me both. With a loud voice, if anyone worships a beast in his image and receives the marks on his forehead or on his hand But you get the point here that the more that we meditate on the love of on the forgiveness that we have, the more it should increase our love for God, right? uh and and just try and get through this uh before before we finish. I was eleven. He remained unconscious the day after or excuse me, he regained consciousness the day after Christmas. From his first desperate prayer that God would forgive David McAllister to the attitude he maintained ever after. By this time, Chris's parents had received prank phone calls. uh he was given the opportunity. He even took his young daughters to meet him. of Christlike forgiveness. I say it because he bowed alongside a man who tried to kill him. and glorified in Christ. Chris Carrier's forgiveness of David McAllister did not go unnoticed. summarizing or walking through the points that we've uh addressed uh up to this point and and then as we continue to move forward so that as we go week to week, uh those thoughts are just building up in our minds and we're just having them refreshed and saturating uh our minds. will be beneficial for me and trust that God Himself will give me a a new life, a life that's better than the one that I I can live confidently knowing that God knows what is true about me and that in the end I will be vindicated in those kinds of situations. He was giving of himself as a sacrifice to God, a a pleasing aroma. Uh whether in life or in death, we ought to live our lives as an act of worship as we read in Romans chapter twelve. That we can, having trusted him with our life, we can trust him with our soul, knowing that he will receive it into glory. And if that person is a believer, that will that will have taken place by Christ having paid that penalty on the cross And if they are an unbeliever, they will receive the penalty in themselves for eternity. And so when we think about God as a just God, we and we look at Christ hanging on the cross, uh, and then we think about ourselves and the fact that we are sinners and that we sin every single day And I have committed decide. uh sent out a cry for help. I am cleansed and free from condemnation. And that we do not need to be overwhelmed with our sin because even though we put Christ on that cross, what we intended for evil, God meant for good. The blood that flowed from that cross came back to me and washed over me and cleansed me from those very sins. I am cleansed and free from condemnation. I don't know about you, but whenever we sing that hymn, uh I just always wonder about the unbeliever who maybe hasn't heard the gospel or maybe they have, but they're an unbeliever, so you know their eyes are blinded to the truth Namely, that God is compassionate, gracious, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love and truth, who keeps loving kindness for thousands, who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin. Thank you. God's forgiven me and justification. God justifies us at the cross. means that God declares you righteous in Christ. looks at us, looks at me specifically. Jesus did it on your behalf. You'll come up later on in this lesson. equivalent to justification uh in in a sense. are clothed with, we are perfectly righteous. It says the righteousness, we are the righteousness of Christ. But he did bear our sin on the cross so that when God looks at us, it's not that we become righteous again. For there's no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified as a gift by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus. is forgiveness. But interestingly, Charizamai is only used, what is it, I think two, uh six times in the New Testament uh as a ch as uh um the word for forgiveness So a fiemi is the uh word that means forgiveness uh primarily in scripture. And it's an important term in those respects because of how Scripture uses sin to describe a death. was to be sold into slavery, to go to debtor's prison. When a debt was incurred, the the person who ha who owed that debt would be a prisoner until that that debt was repaid And he said in his final words, what it is finished, that what that means is he actually accomplished the redemption for those who would believe. That he actually accomplished salvation. They're not actually saved by what they do, by what a sinner does, even their own faith, but rather they're actually saved by the death of Christ in and of itself. Right? Right? The very same death of Christ without anything changed would cover the sins for everyone. But similar to how loans are taken today and agreements are signed today, the document, whatever it was written on, would have what the debt involved He made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us, which was hostile to us. you would uh uh take a loan uh because they didn't have uh printers um and they didn't have uh paper like we do today that's uh easily accessible and and uh plentiful And just imagine that you more imagining your mind than on the board. And there's really only one consequence, and that's death. uh even after we're saved, is not because we need to be judicially forgiven of those sins, because again that's already taken care of And we want to restore that that brokenness. I I want to be restored to a right relationship with you. Uh we don't, right? um people who have been pastors and uh women's leaders and all you know all kinds of things and yet at some point in their life Is that they've manifested that by turning away from Christ. who's grown up in in church and uh said, um, you know, all these twenty-some years, I I really just did it to please my parents to live in unrepentant sin and die in their sin and still be saved. Like I have all this evidence that they were a believer, but then there's just this this little bit of evidence that cut raises the question in my mind, God you know. than to have been born, heard the gospel, believed in Christ, and ultimately rejected him. What you're not saying though in that is you're not saying a genuine believers can't you're not saying a genuine believer would harden themselves and then find themselves in hell. Right? Yeah. When I uh when I first taught the uh uh biblical reconciliation class, um whenever it was two and a half years ago, um We were talking about forgiveness in that class and I brought up this verse and Anne taught me something. uh she raised her hand like do you know why it says from the east is from the west as opposed to from the north and the south I'm like no I've never had that thought before and she helped me to see that when you when you go north So when God thinks of our sin, or when God deals with our sin, He deals with it in a way that it will never come back to us again. There's no caveat there of unless they sin again. The solution to that is not to say, oh dear, you know, it's it's not that bad. And Jesus said to him, You have judged correctly. Look at the cross, because there your sin was paid for and wiped away. This immeasurable gift of forgiveness should create in us a deep and abiding love for God. For this reason I say to you, her sins, which are many, have been forgiven, for she loved much, but he who is forgiven little loves little. What they're doing, just saying, hey, I have an idea. To really think deeply about our sin, to realize its infinite measure. But my dad forgave my son Noah, his four-year-old grandson and uh his grandson Tristan uh of that debt of five hundred dollars. You know, sometimes we hear the dramatic testimony of someone who lived a profligate, prodigal uh life. based on what we talked about before. By God's grace, never had a significant uh rebellion in my life. And maybe even more so because I'm so prideful over my sin, right? Yeah, God God didn't need to do as much for me. And he would be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest day or night. But this is a true story that reflects this principle, that I have been forgiven an infinite debt. Uh the uh the master said, uh, you wicked slave, I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me. Thinking about all the sins that human beings can commit and have committed against others, you can make your stomach churn very, very quickly And so I can forgive someone who has done great harm against me. Chris Carrier's school let out for Christmas break on December 20, 1974. Chuck came back with an ice pick and a lit cigarette. He then took out his gun and shot Chris in the head and left him to die under some bushes. I have no idea when Christmas break began 30 years ago in my hometown of Casaqua, Iowa. He was approached by a man. Finally, Chuck pulled the motorhome over in a remote area. information leading to his safe re safe return. But a story like Chris Carrier's is needed in order to give context to this chapter in question. The previous chapter established that the key to understanding how people should forgive one another is to begin with this principle. From there, a definition of God's forgiveness was developed, and here's his definition of God's forgiveness. by the true w by the one true God to pardon graciously those who repent and believe so that they are reconciled to Him, although not all consequences are eliminated. personally with his kidnapper, he said he would jump at the chance. After his ordeal, Chris was physically scarred. The emotional scars were worse than the physical. Chris held his hand and told him that he had forgiven him. He was also reconciled to him. Review the highlights of this story. As God has forgiven them, graciously, willingly, and freely, and they should offer a costly present to any who offend them. Those who do repent and unwrap the offered package will find forgiveness and reconciliation inside. Nor do I suppose I will shake hands with Chris Carrier, we live a long way apart. uh keep his life uh must uh uh end it as it were. Think about this. Because God God has already spent all of that on Christ. It's through what Christ did for them. We we need that. So actually forgiven, that's something we forgive it up, it's your sin. He's tr he treats you as a righteous child. uh of debt. In fact, we'll get to this uh in uh we'll expand on this in just a moment, but when Christ hung on that cross To washer and redeem her, cleanser. He gives a universal call. of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. And he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. this question, right? The Apostle John says in his first epistle, they went out from us but they were not really of us. Uh why why did they do that? Yeah, so w well what I would say is the warning I think uh wisdom would would dictate that the warning should only come in if there's a repeated Now, as believers, it is right to have sorrow over our sin when when we do sin. You know? It should radically, our forgiveness should radically change how we respond to their sin toward us. That death is not the end for us. Say, I'm going to lay it all down. And like Christ, who was slandered and falsely accused, and people saw him hanging on that cross, and they thought, there is no way he is the Son of God. But uh among those who believe, he has been vindicated, and especially when he returns, every knee will bow and every tongue will confess God, uh that he is working out his purposes, and that he is accomplishing his will, and that he has not left us When other people sin against me, I need to weigh their sins against me in the balance of my sins against God. That's not the kind of picture you hang on your wall, right? Um and and so it's as though you know you open your eye when God finally opens your eyes and you look down at yourself and you realize I am filthy, I'm covered in manure. Just as if I it's not as pithy. So he doesn't turn a blind eye, he dealt with our sin as we've already talked about. His Lord commanded him to be sold along with his wife and children and all that he had and repayment to be made. Uh but but uh yeah we we believe that scripture is very clear and specific when it talks about forgiveness. is death. And then all of a sudden everything stops. you affect that you've been forgiven. When we have our sins listed on this tablet that at the cross is nailed, this is not a list of sins that we committed before we came to Christ. You live right because of the threat of health. Um and when it does, it's recognizing that though God knows who is saved, God knows whose names are written in the book of life Um I don't really know that it was genuine. Uh, but I don't think that's true from scripture. But it when you think about from east to west, if you're going west and you're continuing to go west, you're never gonna go east. That somehow God can't love me because of what I've done. So, which of them will love him more? Uh uh we all owe him infinite debt. Right? And in those moments when we hear these powerful, dramatic testimonies, we're tempted to think, wow, God saved a sinner like that. He also drinks of the wine of the wrath of God, which is meant to full strength in the cup of his anger. Alright, finally a third way that justification and forgiveness should affect our life. In the same way that I had mercy on you. reality and and forgiveness uh but I have to say that I I am well aware That there are unspeakable atrocities that human beings can perpetrate on other human beings. I want to read you this story. Now, blind from glaucoma, McAllister said, or had at first denied that he'd kidnapped Chris, but eventually he confessed. That was not the end for Chris's relationship with David McAllister. Christ gave himself against all logic for those who would turn in faith to him. We started with the recognition that as we look at Christ on the cross, as he's hanging there, we see the fullest display of the glory of And because of the the significance of my sin, because of the infinite uh consequences of my sin And last week as we kind of meditated on that thought of the the magnitude of our sin, you know, Doug So what we're going to do as we walk through the material today is just meditate on justification So to be declared righteous. Part of that reality is seeing the filth of your sin. Science, just fine, neural license, those new license to error that's five. But only those who believe actually experience the forgiveness of Christ. Okay? We know that at the cross, Jesus had that statement above his head that was nailed, this is Jesus, King of the Jews, right? It's because when we sin against our Heavenly Father, just like when we sin against a relative, you know, a family member, there's a break in the relationship. But how one responds to the sin in their life eventually manifests if they're a genuine believer or if they're Um figure out the motivation for licensing and repayment, so it's just more in terms of the consequence First, it should free us from guilt and shame and sorrow over our sin, past, present, and future. If we truly and deeply understand the forgiveness that God has wrought in us, it will free us from guilt and shame. He's forgiven me completely. Then understand more and more how much you have been forgiven. Or we we might think of an unbeliever, be it the President of the United States, or a family member who's far from God. We got we were talking about you started with just the uh wrath of God and how to speak and drink a whole cup and all we were reading the revelations of the group and um In Revelation 14 is a great contrast. Chris's assailant was a man named David McAllister. Even though Chris was scarred emotionally and physically, and despite his attacker going unpunished, Chris's attitude was gracious from the beginning. The police suspected David McAllister. Which is exactly what Christ did. Well we are going to continue our uh track through the gospel uh thoughts as we uh spend time in this gospel cyclorama. Don't ever think that if you don't exact revenge from someone, that if you don't make sure that they receive punishment, whether from you or from someone else, that somehow they will get away with their sin. That we look at Christ and we say, because of my sin, Christ is hanging on that cross. And then talk about what does that mean, how should I respond? And so when we turn to God and we say, Well what do you have for me in terms of justice? And and so when we recognize that we sin all the time, we're like, yeah, I'm I'm not justified Right, so it's so interesting that we're talking about this. That's not a term I typically have off the top of my head. Because now we have received the righteousness of Christ, when God engages with us, when God treats us, when he responds to us, he does not treat us as our sins deserve. Grace. The rest of the times, which is dozens and dozens, for forgiveness, a feme is used. Very literally, the word means to let go, uh to to send away. So his sin was uh w he was indebted to this master. And so as you're looking at that tablet between you and God, you hear a knock at the door. His sins, her sins, have been paid for on that cross. So our sin is hundred percent, past, present, future, taken care of. Right? As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. So as you sit here, if you're thinking, I want to love God more, I want to know more of God. That has not registered to them. um uh what's it called? God wouldn't save someone like that. Right. But that's not true at all. He starts out, uh my Christmas list might have looked similar to Chris Carrier's in December 1974. Chuck finally stopped with the ice pick and told Chris he was going to leave him in the Florida Everglades. Sometimes dying to ourselves mean that we means that we have to die when we are falsely accused, when we're slandered, when people uh have wrong thoughts, wrong opinions about us And so as we stand inside the gospel cyclorama and we look at Christ on that cross, we can think, though, though my sins put Jesus there. When the Father directs his gaze at us, when he turns his attention to you, Doug, this morning, he sees the righteousness of Christ. We look away. But you were not going to be a free person until your debt was paid. Because our sin is infinite against God. was is powerful enough to save everyone, but it doesn't actually save everyone. They had tablets, they had writing tablets of various materials, and they would often reuse them, and so once your debt was paid, it would be erased and used for another purpose I don't so I was about to bring up and the fact that you said that I was about to bring up our uh men's breakfast uh memory verse Psalms 325 which is We have just a few minutes left and I have something that I really want to get to. Counselor told a CNN reporter that Chris Carey was the best friend he had ever had. That when we are attacked, when we are mistreated, when we are sinned against, we can trust And in this gospel thought, we're going to see the other elements, especially the element of forgiveness that God describes of Himself there in Exodus chapter 34 and other passages. What that means is now what is left for you from the Father is nothing but mercy and grace and compassion. Whereas what justification does is it puts us in a state of righteousness. So we believe in God and He grants us the righteousness of Christ. that are used to translate into forgiveness. To cancel. And so a fiami means to send away, to let out of debtor's prison, to cancel the debt. Yeah. I don't know if you'll be able to read this, but what I'm writing here is default. Don't worry. If you recognize it's a problem, you're answering the question. So that's when I was saved, not reading the Bible and knowing this, but when I repented So often we can be the same way. And that's what Christ did for us to drink the full cup. Chris had been a regular church attender. Chris Carrier lived out Christian forgiveness. I will never meet David McAllister in this life, the author writes. And we've learned that if we are going to uh reflect the glory of God, if we're going to glorify God in our lives, Again, we've seen that on the cross we see the greatest display of the glory of God as He puts His name on display. We are covered by the righteousness of Christ. I'm trying to think of a word other than righteousness to use in the definition. I mean that's why, you know, when s when a believer takes their own life, whatever the circumstances were, you know, uh the Catholic Church would say, You can't do that and and be saved. Your your soul is at stake. In Jesus' scenario here of the moneylender, the debt was objectively different. Skipping a little bit further, Chris Carrier did follow the example of Jesus. As the hymn rightly says, there's a fountain filled with blood drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunged beneath that flood lose all their guilty stains. Yeah. An alternative view, which is probably the more common, maybe some of you would would have hoped would hold this, is that Christ, when he paid for on the cross, he paid for the sins of everybody. How is it wiped away? Castro Dave. Correct. Lots of guilt and sin gone. This is how God justifies the ungodly. You just look at the cross and say, no, he demonstrated his love for me because he paid for that sin on the cross. So my my dad called, you know, myself and my sister and let us know what happened and of course we were extremely apologetic But God's forgiveness is able to so powerfully transform a person that even the worst sins committed against someone can be forgivable. We also saw as we considered Christ in the garden as he prayed to the Father and as he walked through the steps of suffering, that what he was doing was worshiping God. And we would pay that debt in eternity in hell. He didn't say I lay my life down for everybody, but for the sheep. This is beautiful as well. Based on the fact that it's all forgiveness of today and yesterday and tomorrow, I can't talk to my soul group or anybody, a believer. He does not treat you as your sins deserve, but rather he treats you as the righteous child he has adopted. But scripture is very clear that when Christ died, he actually accomplished something. Let me read the passage and then we'll talk about it. This is a list that contains every sin you committed from the moment you breathe air in this world to the moment you take your last breath in this world. If you are truly saved by God, if you are in the Father's hands, then every sin you commit from the moment you're saved to the moment you die is already forgiven at the cross. As we look at Christ hanging in that beaten and bloody mess that his body was in, there's a beauty in that There is not an ounce of anger or justice or wrath that can come upon you because of your sin as a believer. Um, I I don't know if you're all aware of this, but kids are really aware. Jesus is in the house of a Pharisee, and Jesus says to Simon, Simon, I have something to say to you, and he replied, Say it, teacher. So when we have those thoughts of, you know, look at how much of a sinner that guy is, or or you know, I I just I I was a good kid. And we understand what we mean. If God did not forgive us of our sin, we would be in eternal hell. And so there's a warning there. And that's that's what he called us to, and that's what we can do by his grace. The Father spent the full measure of his wrath on Christ for your sin. And so, how can justification be made possible? The debt has been canceled out. It's a good question. Like you've had multiple conversations where you're appealing to them and they're just not interested. Coming back to uh forgiveness here. I wanted things like a train set, a rock p polisher, and a wood burning kit. Yeah. It's the theological terms that are often used are limited atonement, particular redemption, versus unlimited atonement, universal uh not universal redemption, that's um Um whatever, whatever so I mean this is a little different person. And so we we want to assume the best. If we never sinned, then we wouldn't be forgiven. If you think about the various metaphors of salvation, Jesus says, I lay my life down for my for the sheep. And we know that as soon as you sin, you owe repayment immediately, right? Which is a different thing that's I can't I'm this sin, I just can't seem to get this under control and I know that is wrong and I'm wrestling with this sin and and stuff like that. Right. So that's one way in which our forgiveness should affect our life. We see His His forgiveness, we see His grace, His compassion, His mercy, and we see His justice perfectly on display all at the same time. Right. So y yes and no. The Bible teaches that God declares us righteous. The fact that that that their grandfather forgave them of five hundred dollars, something that my son still hasn't made in his lifetime. In a sense we're washed clean, uh but as Jesus says, your whole body's clean, but you just need to wash your feet, right? You hear your phone ring, Mr. Yeah, and the reason because I'm sure this question will come up, the reason we ask for forgiveness for our sins continually Well, how should our justification and forgiveness affect our life? Okay, good night. We still proclaim the gospel to everyone because we, from our human perspective, don't know who all Christ has died for. You might prove that. He has a he has a cousin who's also uh a month apart and they were um at my parents' house. If you send us um only the one who wants to be canceled, their things canceled. It's like it's coming. And so we know that there are those who have professed faith in Christ, who has who have lived faithfully to Christ, who have served Christ. Is what I see. Not only did Chris Carrier make a commitment to what David McAllister had had done uh to him not standing between the two of them So justification has been uh explained as just as if I'd never sinned. And we need that external righteousness. So this is a thing. Just uh I I I admit that this is gonna be an extreme story. Um mixing justification and sanctification. Right. What's the other two for that? Well I I think it's possible for a a believer uh to to be so um uh blinded by their sin or their circumstances I guarantee you that they are were and probably still are, oblivious to the forgiveness they received. But rather he is doing exactly what he intended to do, and that is to accomplish his glory and our good, uh, because he is trustworthy of it. He was unwilling and went and threw him, his fellow slave, in prison until he should pay back what was owed. Yeah. You've you've been forgiven of this and this is what caused Christ to g to go to the cross. As it turned out, Chris did have the chance to talk personally with David McAllister. The last line Pitch wrote is one that really captures Christian forgiveness. Let's talk about forgiveness. There's a fountain filled with blood. The word justify means to declare righteous. And a fiamine. In fact, turn there uh just for a couple minutes. So our understanding of scripture is that uh it teaches that Christ uh paid for the sins of those who would believe. And not only does this tablet have the list of debt owed, and not only does this tablet have the consequences of of what is Um but at the same time I want to be wise in the counsel that I give too and and so there's a there's a difficulty there's a discernment there that is just like, oh God, give me a little bit. He's wiped that sin off my record. Look at how big a sinner I was before I got saved and all that stuff got created out They became friends. So we began this class as we look inside this gospel cyclorama at the very scenes of Christ suffering from the garden to the resurrection The Roman Catholic Church would teach that justification means that you are becoming righteous. It also has the date by which that debt needs to be repaid. So what happens to to us is that we continue in within whatever that may be and are we still continuing to give it to you. Now they love their grandpa for other reasons, but not because of the forgiveness they received. Chris had an attitude of grace from the beginning, even while McAllister was stabbing him. Just a couple more paragraphs. Oh no, but our parents it's a good place to tell your kids, especially the little ones. Um please don't sinner. Adhering to the righteous standard uh uh of God. You mean you're a believer? I come to this place where I'm counseling somebody and or I'm talking to somebody and they're struggling with a sin Or in your mind does this still kind of belong in that organization under I can myself because I've been forgiven Every penny of God's storehouse of justice was was put down, was laid on the table on Christ. Not that we were in it already, but he releases us from that bondage, from that destiny. The man introduced himself as Chuck and said he was friends with Chris's father. He shared the gospel, and David McAllister professed faith in Christ. Forgiveness. In Luke chapter seven, verse forty to forty-seven, we read this. But it's close. He was zealous for the law, and he counted all of those things in his life. Okay? But what about those of us that are involved, continue to be involved, two examples, adultery and I I don't want to live in rebellion against you because you are my heavenly father and you've forgiven me for all my sin. And then from then on God will see you through the revenue. And so what makes the difference in our love for him, why does one person love him more than another person? That's what he says when he means, or that's what he means when he says, which was hostile to us. It's not the unforgivable sin. They brought him in for questioning and a lineup, but Chris was unable to identify him. It doesn't matter if somebody thinks wrongly about me. Uh ha hot tub. And so he cultivated or the God gave him a desire to be found in him. Colossians 2, 13 and 14 says, When you were dead in your transgressions and the uncircumcision of your flesh The the collectors are coming. But that's something you say down the line when there's hardness and callousness toward your previous appeals. Like, Lord, I don't want to do this. I'm the one who put Christ on that cross. That would be the summary statement as we meditate on Christ. It's not just looking at me and I I tell them all, we have to be inside the revolution. But this morning I said and you're telling me I'm still declared righteous, even though Uh time and time again scripture uh specifically identifies that Christ Well, because of that reality I mean in a sense I could say that, right? It's not the end of our life. And even down to today, 2000 years later, even though Jesus rose from the dead, they still think that he is not who he claimed to be. Why? Uh we mentioned it last week just to lift ourselves up and remind ourselves that that we're um that we're not just sinners who uh The Father spent the full measure of his wrath pouring it out on Christ who took our sin upon himself. So um righteousness is simply um adhering to the Didn't know how to Greek class. However tiny that tear is, or however significant it is, uh we want to say, Oh Father, forgive me. When we do take an inventory of our sin like we've done the last couple weeks, we realize that I am just as guilty as the worst of sinners Though all our righteousness was as filthy rags, Christ Himself, against all logic There's overlap. And then as we live, yes we continue to sin, but we can be cleansed and washed and and grow in that righteousness. To let go or to send away or to cancel. But he didn't die for everybody. There's a danger that that you might be self-deceived. You know, we grew up in the church, we live a pretty good life, uh, wasn't didn't do drugs, didn't have sex outside of marriage, uh had good grades Nightmares terrorized Chris for years. And not only is there those those sins, but there are listed there the consequences of what happens if you cannot repay that debt. Well he says it was nailed to the cross. I'm trying to see if I can articulate this well, but I think you either gonna cover it or you covered it and I just haven't processed it. But if you're truly saved, you will persevere. Did I explain that right? In the midst of being stabbed and burned, he cried out, Father, forgive him, because he doesn't know what he's doing. The bullet passed behind his eyes and exited his right temple. I'm going to die to myself. Right. He sees me inside a red wheel because that's the blood of Christ. It's against an indefinite being. Creditors on on the phone, saying you need to pay this debt right now He pays for their sin, and he removes it far from them. It's all been taken care of. Because God Himself will make sure that no sin against me will go unpunished. And so the gospel thought number ten uh in this class is the Father has justified and forgiven me And now when we get to this, this feels to me like this is broken out into this category of hey Here's the next sentence in my notes, which just fits perfectly. And you know, in in Philippians 3, Paul talks about how uh for many years of his life he thought he had his own righteousness, right? And it's perfectly quiet. And what's the explanation for that? And so if someone is living in unrepentant sin, and you're just appealing to them as a believer, brother Um and we can we can have inklings of that in our heart in the sense of uh I mean not too long ago I heard from someone Well if you would have talked to that person five years ago, they would have said, yeah, yeah, I'm a Christian. Turning to the woman, he said to Simon, Do you see this woman Like so many forgiveness examples, the details of what happened to Chris Carrier are almost too much to bear. He had worked for Chris's elderly uncle but was fired for drinking. Is that not incredible? At one point, he visited McAllister five times in six days. And uh yeah, and in fact I don't really like that, to be honest with you. I I think the reason we can uh use the threat of hell, number one, is because scripture does. Or if you go south, you're going to hit the South Pole if you're going north. And therefore, if he accomplished salvation, then that means that those who would believe are actually saved by the death of Christ. And so that tablet says this sinner owes this debt, and if he does not repay this debt, then the consequence on non-payment Reconciliation followed. Um Yeah, I suppose it'd be good for me to have mentioned that. Um God didn't have to forgive me much. They're they're too far from God. Part of that worship is trusting God even on the receiving end of wrongdoing. It's close. You know, and someone could say, well, how can God do that? But when God forgives us, he cancels the debt I I this is this is a beautiful. Uh they dumped a bunch of sand in the hot tub. He pinned Chris to the floor and began stabbing and burning him. As he left, he told McAllister to have a good night's rest. Right. Charizomai comes from the word or is derived from uh charis, which is the word what Literally canceled out means wiped away. So if I could just ask that that we hone in and let me let me finish this out uh so that we can uh end as close on time as possible They weren't sure if they could believe that it was Chris. You know, when we think about um forgiveness, you know, financial terms is is what scripture uses quite a bit. He puts us in that balloon. How can God treat you as a righteous child? Man, that was a that was a big sinner. Right? Amen. Columnist Leonard Pitts wrote, The man is serious about God. What you see are the remnants here of writing that took place yesterday. In verse 25 of Matthew 18, Jesus says, But since he did not have the means to repay I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the guilt of my sin. And so if if God had said, I've separated your sin as far as the north is to the south, then the reality is you're gonna keep running into your sin. I it was a a great relief to me. Without a word of explanation, he went to the back of the motorhome with Chris waiting up front. And so in a sense, it is that uh I need to die to myself, uh specifically I need to forgive because of how I've been forgiven. The same thing in verse thirty when that slave And so there there's a distinction between what uh the Roman Catholic Church would teach justification means and what We would have nothing to be forgiven of so we would pray just for the next day. Simon answered and said, I suppose the one whom he forgave more. It really is the beginning. To put it in New Testament terms, God justifies us at the cross. In fact they're here right now. But it does, for those who are left behind, it does raise the question of Chris was glad to help. A hunter found Chris sitting on a rock with two black eyes and a bloody shirt. Over 20 years after Chris was kidnapped, he received a call from one of the police officers who had worked on the original investigation. And that's the right reaction. And those who are plunged beneath it lose all their guilty sins. It's anyway. Praise the Lord. How can God declare us righteous? Right. Lord so your mind is Lord, I don't want to do this. In novelty shops you can um buy balloons that have like a teddy bear in it as well. And so I think a similar way to say it is, just as if I'd lived Christ's life. He doesn't treat us in light of our sin because he has removed our sin from us. Ephesians 5, when talking to husbands, it says, Husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her And so there is a genuine warning there, but that's not where the emphasis is. When it comes to our forgiveness of God, okay, get get this in your mind. Of course, it would be one thing for Chris to claim that he would meet with a man who blinded him in one eye, but Chris would never truly know unless he had given David uh he died shortly after professing faith in Christ. The forgiveness of our trespasses. It's no condemnation for those who are in Christ. And uh being little boys, not knowing, uh But but when we think like that, we reveal how little we think we've been forgiven of I'm going to give up my dreams. I am a great sinner, like the publican. Just as if I lived Christ Christ's life, right? In spite of his uneasiness, there was nothing he could do about it by this time. I was born to missionary parents and grew up in the church and This is from the book Unpacking Forgiveness by Chris Brahms. And that's exactly what the Father did. But what a powerful statement. God declares you righteous in Christ. And it's not that everything is gone. In Romans chapter 3, verse 21 it says, But now, apart from the law, so not on the basis of anything we can do Here it is Christians are to forgive others With all that we've said about the consequences and the magnitude of our sin, the beauty of the cross. But uh imagine that that there is a tablet uh between you and God, and on that tablet is listed out all of your sin. Um The worst of sinners at least probably recognize that they're sinners. I know I couldn't do it, yet Chris tried against all logic to redeem one weak and dirty little scrap of a man. They no longer owe the debt We want to appeal on the basis of y your profession of faith. If you don't recognize it's a problem Now we'll keep talking about this. Chris Carrier's forgiveness did not stop with mere with a mere pardon No. So since you raised that question, I'll I I have to talk about that a little bit more than just answer the question Uh I because there is no more threat of health. But then you can bring in the warning to say if you keep going down this road, you may prove that you were never saved to begin with. You know, you're such a nice person, it's okay. Start in verse 9. Um that's okay. He continued to visit McAllister in the nursing home. And that's what will help me respond to the sins of others rightly. And therefore we owe an infinite debt So that's uh that's not Right. Those who don't believe in them will drink the full cup. How should Christians forgive others? He will not allow any sin to go unpunished Even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all those who believe Right. And debtor's prison was where you would go to either work off your debt or alternatively somebody on the outside could pay off your debt. The police officer asked if Chris would like to meet with McAllister. Perhaps nothing is more glorifying to Christ than Christians forgiving others as God has forgiven them. And so a righteousness is a gift to to give it or No. This is why I think Paul says to examine yourself to see if you're in the faith. All over Florida people searched for Chris. And is it not gloriously wonderful that Chris Carrier forgave David McAllister as Christ had forgiven him? We can experience power in life when we die to ourselves. Uh but what God does is he clothes us in the righteousness of Christ I I think in Philippians three, we're oh Steve, all right, go ahead. You're redeemed, you're you're a child of God. It's that they were never truly saved to begin with. So I'm going to read for the rest of the class. God's forgiveness is a commitment Yeah, have mercy on me the sinner Uh but in the sense that when God looks at me Right. Okay? And then it's like, okay, we we gotta ramp this up a little bit. My parents, who otherwise had good judgment, gave me the wood burning kit. Uh l power in life comes to those who die. I can be content. That's a word that every Christian should know and have clear in their mind. He dealt with our sin Yeah. So yeah, if somebody's struggling, they're wrestling, uh I wouldn't likely bring in that warning. Right? And when we are uh unjustly treated, we can trust specifically Christ didn't become a sinner and we don't we don't So he he or she loves uh loves God more. I don't need to attack my attacker. It's it's hanging over us. Indeed, it's also not correct to say As Jesus said, whoever wants to save his life must lose it. I think uh Romans put this right for it. Yeah. Living living by the standard of of God's character. You're you're clearly not righteous. There are two words in Scripture Uh part of particular redemption is the recognition that had God chosen to save everybody And that is how we view our fellow man, our fellow woman who owes a debt to us. Alright? He imagined an intruder breaking in the back door. And the the problem with that and I I've heard that, you know, thousands of times, um the problem with that is that puts us in a state of innocence. Right. His school bus dropped him at the corner, halfway up the block, to his house. Chris lay unconscious for six days in the Florida Everglades. When people ask Chris what he would do if he had the opportunity to speak But I plan to look both of them up in heaven. In the same way, uh because we know that God knows what is true about us He wasn't just uh dying as a as a uh kind of a thoughtless animal And as you're weeping and asking for forgiveness without you realizing it, he covers you with a white robe. And you were just quoting uh or referring to Philippians three and three And so the way to contrast the two views is either Christ actually paid for sinners, paid the sin for sinners, God, you you know what's true and about this person because it is possible for a genuine believer He didn't r remember being shot and he had no idea so much time had passed In Matthew 18, we we learn a lot about forgiveness and it's it's said in the direct context So it you could say the death of Christ The house is yours. Uh maybe you've had that thought Again, Matthew eighteen. Miraculously, he suffered no brain damage, but he lost vision in his left eye. God says, I don't I don't I bank account's empty. He finished something. So we're not taking away from what Christ accomplished. I'm going to give up my desires. That's the right response. And uh it it emphasizes the gracious, undeserved uh aspect of forgiveness Right. Jesus, because he's an infinite person, his death had infinite value, and therefore he could If you're truly saved, you will repent. We would have we'd be like, I I don't know There's 500 and I, which is about 16 months wages. He goes, Then another angel, a third one, following them saying I I admit that up front. Here's the stunningly beautiful, full-orbed picture And the last couple of uh lessons we focused on the justice aspect that God said, I will not allow any sin to go unpunished. And so even though we might be black ourselves It's used by almost every New Testament author. The Father delighted in the sacrifice of the Son and his His obedience. Anne. Christ took our sin. There's a danger that I might be deceived about your spiritual condition. When my uh oldest son Noah was little, like Chris rode with Chuck to his nearby motorhome in which the two of them rode to an unknown destination. Yeah. Or if you go east, you're never gonna go west. He prayed that God would forgive him. Right. Calvinism. Um I don't really have an exciting testimony He got behind the wheel of the motorhome and drove still further. They asked him to tell them the name of their family dog and the name of their boat Though we were covered in the filth of our sin, the righteous blood of Jesus covers us. Scripture says that it would be better to have never been born It should free us from guilt and shame. He wanted to get back at the carrier family for firing him. Is it that God turns a blind eye to sin? You've probably seen those uh stores where they take a receipt and they stick it on a a little needle and they have a stack of receipts there. You know, I I don't want to take away their joy and peace with the Lord by saying I mentioned I was going to bring up Ant Cain. Alright, second way in which our forgiveness should affect our life. Turn over to Luke chapter 7. Our awareness of how much we have been forgiven. Everything that we do, even and especially how we respond in times of difficulty and suffering When we have our eyes open to the truth, what a powerful picture that is Here's the picture that Paul is is using here. Uh Psalm one oh three twelve Right? The carrier family of Coral Gables, Florida, will never forget And the consequence of that sin And hell is eternal debtor's prison. You've received those those letters due upon receipt. And they're they've given their life to Christ, uh, and they've given their life to serve the Lord. God expects Christians to forgive in the same way that He forgives them. I can be joyful. Something dangerous. Uh repeatedly and in multiple ways, that when Jesus died This is one of my favorite passages when it comes to forgiveness. But it's it's amazing. Lacking any other evidence, McAllister was never charged. Chris Carrier tried against all logic to redeem one weak and dirty little scrap of a man. McAllister said that Chris was the best friend he had ever had. The the methodology or the means by which justification is accomplished Yeah, predestination and election just coincides hand in glove with with particular redemption. But Ephesians 1 7 says, In him, in Christ, we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness And so not only does And it's the creditors. Those who worship their beast in the image, whoever receives the mark of their hands But when Christ encountered him on the road to Emmaus But if your mind is It should remove any thought You did not anoint my head with oil, but she anointed my feet with perfume So If we want to understand forgiveness in the Bible, we have to understand this word. I need to pay this. But what we what we do with that sorrow is we go to the cross Romans 8, 1. Yeah, Joel. Uh and yet we still uh I want you to think about this If you just spend just a little bit of time, just literally a couple minutes So like let's say I'm not a sinner that That's not true In fact, Chuck said Chris looked like his father, Chris Bean. McAllister responded McAllister responded, I will now It it's the fifth point of or one of the one of the points of Calvinism When they were unable to repay, he graciously forgave them both. When you say those kinds of things, you you can say them truly and genuinely Yeah, both. Yeah. Chris tried to hold him off, but the ten year old boy didn't have a chance against the grown man You know, God forgive me. I mean in in a a sense Sanctification always thing. Chris was 10 then He he bore he didn't become a sinner No, it's to say, look at the cross The Father has justified and forgiven me Then the phone rings again. I'm going to stop doing the things that I think And uh one of the aspects what was written here was uh past sanctification, which is He didn't start something. I'm going to read uh for the rest of the class time, that is. Desperate. Thank God I'm not like tax collectors. You don't need another bath. And you'd be like, well yeah that was him, but you know, I couldn't do that if I were him. It says verse One is it is finished and the other is editing foral. That's not the primary appeal to a to a believer. Because only then will we truly grow in our love for Christ. And And the only way you can know that So if you or if someone you know is overwhelmed with guilt and shame Or something like that. No, no, no, no. But we're like, no, I'm I'm actually pretty good. Yep. He took Chris to local law enforcement and Chris called his father I imagine that when I meet them they will be together, completely reconciled to one another. Charismi It now says you are overdue Right. You're always gonna keep going around My parents were taking care of them one day and my parents had a Yeah, both and. When asked if he could meet with McAllister, given the opportunity, he said he'd jump at the chance Let me pray. We saw that last week We might think, yeah, that that person would never get saved It should His parents offered a ten thousand dollar reward for Nothing but wait. And they probably would have thought in their heart, yeah, yeah, I'm a Christian. Many nights he slept at the foot of his parents' bed. I I've sinned against you It it's illogical to speak to them about the threat of health at that point. There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ. Should you not also have had mercy on your fellow slave? He continued to visit McAllister in the nursing home. If I'm going to have a right response to those who sin against me, How do you really figure out which one is which? How could the Carrier family p possibly process their son's abduction? I don't say that because he has a master's degree in divinity Romans by seven cents He sends us away from that prison. But we ought to also use the warning Here it is Chris went. Every time he sees me We have to accept what When it comes to our forgiveness by God, our I trust you to do what is just But if you're like, I don't wanna That's why it's so important that we did what we did last week What did he say? It's as if Jesus took this tablet and he stuck it right there. Does it God just say, Oh You need to realize how serious this is. What a Uh four-year-olds don't have that much money That's what you're asking. Whoever wants to um It's one of the most frightening things to Or Ross, whichever In ancient times when Yeah Eventually they pulled over and Chuck forced Chris away from his vehicle. And I want to teach on really sancti sanctified life. I don't have any more to spend on you. You're a Christian, you're a believer I just want to keep um But yeah, if if well I think also it's the Yeah. It will never come back to us again. And a voice says Luke chapter 7. So What in the world? Only the one who would And so as we live our life Justification And even if it leads to our death Because now I love Christ Like I'm we're not joking around here What does that word mean? Mm-hmm. Carrie? And yet It's all been spent Okay.