That's the way you and I think of a habit, by and large. There were a group of theologians that lived in the 16th century and they taught on varying practical theology topics, everything from repentance to singleness. I don't want to assume upon you, but I think this is an important note to make. You gotta work. The Bible teaches, for instance, in Colossians 3. We've made a priority of date nights with our husbands, and now we want to do that. And he asked two or three questions and he's like, boom, do you sit on your wallet on that side? And you've got to begin to think about what are the frequent practices that you're doing that might be contributing to that. And I have them do personal counsel projects, self-counsel projects. I'm trying to get better at spending time in devotions and I'm trying to get better at uh praying with my kids. I would encourage you to create a log for those two reasons because you'll see, I see it every semester. I never want to do that, and I don't want to do that with you ladies this morning. And then come up with one brick in the pathway. If I just started my walk with Jesus, I am not stuck. And I'm going to study all of the attributes of God on patience. Which we would then say, okay, I need to repent of that. And we are seeking to put on godly actions that correspond to our put off. Just uh support the the development of how happy is in different spheres, starting from spiritual all the way to social. Dr. And it's important because the our habits, that conversation, they really do change. So in Philippians 2, this is a passage that I did not go to originally to consult on habits God has exalted Christ and Christ has completed his mission. All right, this passage is talking about obedience, and Paul is calling the church at Philippi to obey and to continue to obey. I'm aware that it's not a word or I shouldn't use it, but I ain't gonna stop it, okay? Through the times when I'm willing to do verse 12 and say, I'm going to work out today. fellowship, but I genuinely want to do that. that God transformed my desires through my habits. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins. then I need to take exact specific steps to practice kindness. that have just really compounded and made them to be not awesome people. Alright, if you're into definitions, you know it might be helpful to just write out to the side on your margin here what we're talking about. of our lives. spiritual disciplines and spiritual habits. They are important. We could debate a little bit about exactly what belongs in this, but just think of Christian peer friendships, uh, think of your acquaintances, think of your relationships. You know, they're not more important than your family, but yet they're still important. We don't want to eat at that place. Why do we want to cultivate date night to please the Lord? Yeah, good for you. Whatever that looks like, that your different spheres, this is going to be a way of helping you prioritize God's priorities for you in the different spheres of your life. It's kind of embarrassing, but I trust that you will not tweet this out or post it on your social media outlets too soon. Okay, so when you're thinking about your habits, at times you need that moment to pause and to say, well, what is the issue that I'm facing? If you're thinking of those different aspects, then identify what habit that is and identify it with specificity. and let that be something so specific that it is measurable. Let me be your cheerleader on this. three times of engaging in your scripture reading, make that your goal and see that faithfulness just looks like I'm going to do that. The gym owners understand this concept that whenever we tell someone else about our habits, about our goals, we tend to have more of an onus to change and to follow through on them. Did you read your Bible? Some of you would prefer an Excel spreadsheet and a checklist. It's time for some questions. So how do you identify when you're like, oh, I want to advance in vocation, but back up and let me go through those other spheres, start personally. Then what are some practical habits that I can develop to grow in being patient? Well, out of growing in patience, I'm going to ask her out for coffee. or there are some that are not gathering together with the church as a habit. So if you're hearing anything out of those two, just don't go with the Ferrari model of your habit formation plan. uh from swelling or from minimizing. Um but I still also want to pursue social relationships. No belittling my kids. K you gotta be mindful about this because that's a really unhelpful thing. we're driving three hours every weekend. What are some things I need to be thinking about? the habits. You know, is it date night with your husband? You've done it three times. You know that that's becoming a habit. Um, but the goal is pleasing God, how then do we handle a failure when we're constantly failing to change and develop habits? I'm not stuck there, not stuck in my failure. So it this book is very practical. thoughts, your imagination. in our life. And this is the passage that they used to teach on how your habits actually shape your desires separable to talk about your frequent practices and your character are not separable. even to habits. Okay, so look in Philippians 2. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess, Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father. So Paul is he's giving this example of Christ and Christ's thorough obedience all the way to the point of death. Okay, let me just briefly explain this passage and then connect the dots to the Puritans. and working out your salvation. So that God would work in me to change me, so that I actually want to do this. Let me show you one more habit from the scripture. And we get excited to read their newsletters. And then now all of a sudden you have a really vested interest and you're excited. But the reality is that we are the one that is the most blessed by those habits. I'm sure you've experienced this. And there are times when we have to see that our spiritual life is very similar because we're not hungry, we don't want it But yet what we must do is obey the Lord, because if we're not obeying him frequently, regularly, we're never going to want it. Virtue with knowledge, knowledge with self-control, self-control with steadfastness, steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, brotherly affection with love. Therefore, brothers, be all the more diligent to confirm your calling and election, for if you practice these qualities, you will never fall. I don't know about you, but my kids get really chatty late at night. And they do they do increase productivity. So I'll give you a couple more comments on those when we get down to how to start. How do we conceptualize that and how do we begin to practice God's priorities for our life? to include this as a way of helping us conceptualize our priorities in the varying spheres We've misprioritized and gotten it wrong. If you're not focusing on good personal habits, it actually makes you less effective in the other spheres and less faithful, less fruitful. They're not eating well. through our frequent practices of obedience, through our habits, so that we want to do that more and more. It helps us want to please God more. is that occasionally my back would go out and then I'd have to nurse it for a couple of days and then I could get back to things, you know. Oh man, Jesus take the wheel because this is like immobilizing. Before going, I honestly I think I equated a chiropractor to like a witch doctor and I was like, you know, like babe, I don't need it. The Lord will heal thee. Well yeah, I like I of course I do. Ladies, it's not okay for us to focus on better peer-to-peer friendships if we have things that need to be tightened up in our spiritual wall. If you're going to select something from the spiritual sphere, it's Bible reading, meditation, memorization, prayer. So with your habit, I would encourage you, make it very specific. No, no, no, no. I want to engage in family discipleship with my family at least two times per week. It's faithfulness. It's community. The students that have the greatest success are the ones that keep the log and the journal. that we're managing our time, but we're not just managing our time, we're managing our time to the glory of the Lord. I'm going to focus on spending time with people that frustrate me. So look for the broader themes and then identify something specific. Um, and I like how you're addressing that. We might get settled into thinking we can't change because that's just who we are. But then for some of us, generosity, it it actually takes a lot of work. So the log is a way of helping you keep track of your progress. And it's just like it's not gonna work, man. Okay about the rest. I need to be at my work and if I'm failing to be there, then I've imbalanced something somewhere But I also have a family. focused. It's not a sin to do that thing. hurt, credibility, things like that. So uh it's not an unhelpful habit. And in that process, it's I need to repent of and to put off sinful habitual communication, anger yelling, getting loud with my kids. And then I need to develop and put on a godly response in that moment. And he meets with organizations and managers and just coaches them for greater productivity, processes. So that that mentality of third-party help can often bring clarity for an unhelpful, unknown habit. But if you're unaware of it, that's where you need the help from a third party to come in and say, hey, you've got to think about what you're doing here, because it's it's not going to be beneficial to you long-term. uh spiritual leader, someone that you can go to and just be like, hey, nothing's nothing's on fire in my life. How many how many habits should address their life? But that's it. you know, six weeks of doing it and now it's a habit or like how do we know when you've arrived at if you have it? and a natural compulsion to do something is a great way of measuring if it's a habit or not. tooth and nail to do that thing, to discipline yourself to do that thing, you're working hard at it. So when it's a failure and it's a sinful failure, we do want to repent of that. That means that, as you read earlier, we need to discipline ourselves. Disrespectful, do you not read your Bible? your character would be uh kind of like a virtue or descriptions of who you are. On January 1, it's like we want new habits of eating. So, in regard to Jesus, therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. He challenges them to continue to obey, and that does mean that they are working out their salvation. So when we look at obedience, he says you work and you work out. You know, it's very Pinteresty. There's human effort that is involved in our sanctification. As we are working out. That you're working hard, you're working out. But that's not the way that God works. That's what we're trying to orient ourselves to. The act of obedience and engaging in our scripture is a habit that helps orient our desires to pleasing God. to want, genuinely want to please God as if we are willing to practice good habits like the habit of reading the Bible. But we must recognize that the only way for us to long to desire If I'm not in my scripture, just very candidly, and this is true for you in your own heart, if you're not in your scripture in some way, listening to it, meditating on it, reading it, memorizing it That habit, if you remove it, it sets us free. Verse 19 says, Do not lay up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, for neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. It's the habit of giving. Meaning we're already Christians, but we know we need to grow in certain character traits. Practice, frequent practice, regular practice. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. In others of you, I say that and you think past hence. And also this morning. Biblically speaking, I do my best to teach that our number one goal is not efficiency and productivity. Hi. I want to talk about the spheres of habits because this is going to be a way of helping you prioritize and focus number one priority, Jesus makes it clear that it does not matter if you gain the whole world if you lose your own soul. We could have dynamic businesses, families, dynamic relationships with peers, but if we are not right with the Lord, there is something that is emphatically wrong cultivating our relationship, prioritizing a relationship, ensuring that our relationship with God is numero uno. to know that if we don't manage our money in some way, it's going to create significant problems for us. As adults, you cannot manage our sleep. They take precedence over our jobs and over our friends, but they don't take precedence over the Lord. our vocations. We're too busy to spend time with people. With this dashed line, what you're going to see is that our desire and motivation should be that we are pleasing God. I know the font's super small, my apologies. I'm going to work on my job this year. So what this does is it provides a starting point for us to be able to say, well, you know, if if I do sense that there are some things that need to change in my relationship with the Lord, then I need to start focusing on some habits there. Just making time for family, prioritizing, deprioritizing, not letting my children rule my house Okay, I'm going to stop the share again so I can see you again. How in the world does all of this land? And uh I walk in, great guy, great experience. You ready for it? And now I to much to uh God's glory and praise, like I'm thankful that that is a back issue that has been addressed. Now here's the point. Your your frequent practice of shoving that massive brick into your back pocket is jacking you up. I want to be a mom who is genuinely caring. You gotta begin to go back and say, well, what am I regularly doing? So when you say, I will practice this new habit three times per week, two times per week, your goal is to be faithful to that. There are there are weeks where we're on vacation and it's just all torpedoed, or there are weeks where I'm away and it's just all torpedoed. But what we simply mean is that we are going to rally those around us to help encourage us to accomplish this new goal so that we can please the Lord. Some of you are technologically savvy and there's about 2,000 apps on your smartphone that can do this for you. keeping track of the development of your habit. That's not the point. a habit in the sphere that you need to work on. Can you s can you see me or am I too short? So we think, well, I let you borrow my car, there's depreciation, um, your kids are gonna scratch something and have it uh no, I'm not gonna do it. So I'm differentiating between giftedness and character traits. So if I say, well, I'm more of an introvert, that's why I'm quiet and I don't really ask people how their week was, and I don't tend to engage in social environments, it's like, I understand that. then I need to grow in that with God's help, and I can. Thank you. Every week we're going to church, and that's a habit. A lot of us when we get paid at that moment, we write another check and we give it away. Does that make sense? Rather, what we have to be able to say is, oh, let me just start with two or three times per week, making it a goal to accomplish this habit, and that is how I'm going to measure faithfulness. Every time I have a friend that gets on a new diet plan and they're like, okay, I have this new diet plan. When it comes to our log, all we're doing is literally keeping track of did we practice two times this week, three times this week, four times. That's right. Now, how do I know I'm imbalancing that? So I have to be aware of what God wants me to do. then I know that at that point I'm trying to shut down work and move to a family and prioritize that. And so there that Sunday morning time is sacred. Maybe you do. So to restore some of that, we may need someone else who can know God's priorities and help share those with us, gather some data, and then be able to share it. So you happen to say, look, I don't have four hours to spend in the Word anymore. you let me know at this word you're talking about your broad pattern you can be at work but you are still applying your excellence of thought you're still applying what they are doing and suggests improvements to help their organization. In my peer group, it's sports for kids as an unhelpful habit that that starts to creep in. So how do you do that? I think if you if you choose too many, it's actually overwhelming and it prevents the overall growth for any of your habits. Because people are different and our circumstances are different. But after the habit is formed, your intentionality is lessened and it's just beginning to become part of a compulsion of what you feel your normal day would look like. Because it's stumble to the coffee pot, stumble to the dining room table, and start reading the Bible. Yeah. So when we fail, repentance also means that we are doing something different. inventory and he has inventory of sinful habits in every sphere that he discussed. um questions to ask yourself to probes, and then helpful habits, sanctifying habits, helpful habits. as our heart is working towards pleasing God, um we will then please the Lord and then we will want to please Him even more. Paul says this. Bible reading is what I've put up here on the screening. And then there's big Cheeto stains. And at verse 10, we're diligent to confirm who we are already, but if you practice these qualities, you will never fail. He said, you are what you regularly do. Okay, we know that we have spheres in our life. hoakiness about how we need to love ourselves. Well, it's because there are personal habits that are beginning to break down. So we we've been together basically all of our life, all that we can remember. There are certain individuals that really have poor vocational habits and it's really taken a toll. Probably the majority of you that are in the room right now, like you are in the social sphere with each other. Happens again in the fall of last year and my wife is like, Greg, you have just got to go to the chiropractor. You know, once again my wife was right. It's not magical, ladies. So I I have to do that in God's priorities. Great. Even if it's something as seemingly unspiritual as nutrition or managing your finances, you're doing that because you want to please God in your finances or please God in your body. I'm convinced that's one of the most defeating ways to cultivate new habits because you think, ah, it's been 40 days. Personally, I have an inner rubric for certain habits. Good. Bringing up patience or kind words or things that I think we might say, Well that's just my personality Um and and that these are all areas of worthy of sanctification towards Christ likeness and godliness. Um but also be mindful that we are to grow in character and if we have pockets that aren't growing Sure. So yeah. all those fears somewhat. unhelpful, unhelpful habits, and then bad as in morally wrong, sinful habits. Okay, that habit is sinful and it's something that we need to repent of. And I'm a big fan of helping them establish one or two new habits at a time and then establishing more. Guber, thank you for joining us. So let's start with Philippians 2, and I want to go through the effects of habits. Imagine that as you're working out. It ain't easy. You know, like we do it for three days and we don't love it by the end. The scripture teaches this concept. Let's break this down very, very practically. That we have a track here, this vertical pathway. That I stay focused on honoring and glorifying Him. I don't I don't know if you've experienced that or not. They steer them, they guide them. This is point B. Earlier I said that your habits, what you regularly do, are intimately connected to who you are. If I'm a person that wants to grow in generosity, well then I need to make certain habits to be more generous. Your habits can deform you. This is what secular literature makes habits all about. Chewing food, daily functioning, efficiency, productivity, but it gets bigger than that. And there are times when we do things that may not be that efficient, but it's what God would have us to do. But if you're married, your relationship with your husband is more important than your peer-to-peer friendships Inmost circle. Secondarily, personal. Let me give you an example of that. So why do I bring it up and why does that like bristle us a little bit to say it that way? Now, when we talk about the social sphere and social habits, let me finish by just giving the reasoning behind this dashed line that you see. There's something inherently wrong about this because now I have immediately skipped to vocational sphere where I may have other significant areas in my life that need to be addressed, like my family or my walk with the Lord. Until someone came along and was like, hey, are you doing this? If I'm not attending church regularly, then I don't need to cultivate a girl's night. Now, point C is I don't want this to just become about self-enhancement and betterment, that we want to please God in our habit by doing something. Don't get discouraged if you had a bad week. It was very clever. The gym was trying to create a subchurch, so to speak, where you could share your goals, be encouraged to accomplish your goals. I don't need habit share, I don't need a a journal to keep track of that, I just do that all the time because this is how I think about things now So typically that starts where we forget about our habit, we forget totally, it's been a busy week, oh yeah, we didn't do it. And so when we think about our frequent daily practices, the things that almost go on autopilot in our lives, we want to use those things as a means of glorifying God too. So when we're talking about spiritual disciplines, habit formation, let's not get into the let me wake up earlier, let me let me pull my bootstraps apart. We're waking up early for the glory of the Lord so we can get some Bible study time in. This one's typically uh it's pretty broadly applicable to us. Maybe we are that cantankerous family member. You would give us your car and not think twice about it. we can't justify that in some type of personality verbiage. in the how to start between D D and F. So when it's a concrete action, a measurable task, then I'm saying I want to do this three times per week, I want to do this four times per week, I want to do this five times per week, I want to do this one time per week So that would be that would be my thoughts on the issue. in a broad pattern be applying things from the various spheres, especially spiritual. Putting them off beyond a helpful way. And when we get when we get good at that, like let's upgrade and we'll make our way to the Ferrari model So in in all seriousness, this it's I'm not a sleepwalker, but I could probably sleepwalk through the first 15 minutes of every day. We haven't made your people a priority. Verse 13. It's not magical. I want you to capture at least those those two final statements, to will and to work, for his good pleasure. God's working in you to want to continue to work out your salvation. So that there is a point authentically when you want to read your Bible When you're wrestling with what you want, one of the things you have to evaluate is what do you regularly do? Peter is saying that there are certain character traits that we as Christians should pursue, and we're supplementing our faith with them. And now the result is that they're not pleasant people to be around. Getting dressed. And I have like an internal rubric and metric to be able to prioritize those two. Another example of a personal habit is just your self-care type stuff, your nutrition, your exercise, your sleep. In our 17 years of marriage, we still understand that our relationship with the Lord is more important than our relationship with each other. But my wife and my sons are not as important as my relationship with my God Ladies, it makes us more effective to be godly women and godly wives and godly leaders and godly managers. They're very very difficult to work with, just kind of cantankerous. However, when we are doing that, back to our Philippians 2, 12 and 13, you have an arrow that's going back into the heart. So when when we're looking at this two-way bi-directional street between our heart and our habits, it's emphasizing that we do these things to please God, and in doing these things Uh I really do want things to be better. Um and girls' nights are important, by the way. I would include repentance in renewing your thoughts. So I would encourage you to even write out your exact motivation with, I want to please God by doing this. Point D. When I was writing the book, I was at the gym and they created this social media network where you could have other people hold you to your fitness goals. I know when I have buddies that are going to ask me those types of questions, that it encourages me to just step up my game a little bit. Alright, last but not least, and I really do encourage this, there is a lot of wisdom in this. And then it assesses how much you've practiced your habit. And that's and so now that changes everything. You're isolating, uh don't just think of negative things. And then in some way justify a lack of character development based off of that. When we identify the frequency of what our goal is, what we're trying to say is, I just want to practice this new habit X amount of times per week. Maybe you would have this desire, maybe you would not, but sometimes it's like, man, I I could just like enjoy a day to myself with my Bible. In my case, I have the beach close by. So when you're understanding God's priorities for you, it gives you this kind of macro picture of what is to be done. These are not sterile and these are not isolated and siloed spheres of your life, as if your family sphere does not interact with your vocational sphere in any way. be angry or aggressive. When it comes to stopping it, oftentimes you can't have the helpful habit without stopping the unhelpful habit. And then from that, getting clarity on, okay, what is that sphere or what is that habit in that sphere that I need to begin to just think about and to reprioritize. Informers. It seems like among all of the literature, no one agrees exactly when a habit has been formed. So when we're repentant, it necessitates that I can't say, Lord, I'm sorry for being a spiritual bum. Or maybe for some of us it's past tense. We want to be afraid, but it's it's connoting this idea of a reverence and an awe, this holy reverence, this holy awe that you are diligent God is working in you to want to work out. And then to the right and to the left can be some of our natural tendencies to deviate left, to deviate right. So Bible reading, giving, church attendance, we would speak of those maybe like spiritual disciplines We get excited as we give to them and we see what God is doing through them. spiritual priorities that we're disciplining ourselves in the spiritual uh areas of our life to read our Bible, to go to church, to make a habit of generosity. I once had a husband ask me in marriage counseling. I love the crunchy Cheetos. It does not change, ladies. When our want to is broken, the answer is that we must obey the Lord with His help, with the power of His Spirit, so that we can see God change our desires Nothing's gonna change. Okay, 2 Peter, it is written to Christians. Verse 5, for this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue You are what you repeatedly do, you regularly do. The only way to turn the ship is for us to be able to say, well, I need to begin to address my frequent practices, the things that I regularly do, every day, my habits. In these instances, those character traits are changed by your habits and what you frequently practice. Think of financial habits. I I don't want to minimize my buddies. So spiritual, personal, family, the family sphere of your life. Doesn't mean they're exclusionary, like uh it doesn't make me worse, or hopefully I'm not neglectful by understanding that with my wife. This is where secular literature is never going to get it right, ladies, because they can't prioritize according to God's priorities. If you're not acting like a godly wife or a godly mom, and yet you're doing really well in your vocation, then you're missing some things. But maybe I need to also focus on some good personal habits, finances, nutrition. What's the character that I'm needing to grow in? So when you're doing that, now it begins to lend itself to I've identified what I would like to change. So I want to start with the habit that I've identified. Sometimes we think, well, I blew it last week. Think of what you would like to grow in that affects all of your relationships. But that may not be a broader pattern in our life. Oh man. When we talk about our giftedness and inclinations, we have to be realistic about those. we with God's help can change to be more like Jesus and his perfect character. Awesome. How do we know that we are balanced? But there are unhelpful things about it. Unhelpful habits. So when your intentionality is decreasing and the compulsion is increasing, where it's just normative for your life, for your day. Yeah, failure when it's sinful is an issue of repentance. So if we're not if we're not doing what God's calling us to do, if we're failing and sinning against him, then we do need to change certain things and be repentant. That's not the idea is like, okay, like we are repentant, so let's change what we're doing so that we will honor the Lord. That's not necessarily what it looks like. It's like uh I could smell Sprite and Peptobismol and I just I'm gonna call in sick just like smelling that stuff these days. Meaning just very specifically that there are certain spheres that are more important than others. Now I'm sure that there are very winsome and capable people here in the room with us, but none of us can make another person go to bed. How in the world do we land the plane on some of this? Oh w what I thought took place in the army was um you know they made you do physical fitness and so there was a time when we were lifting weights and just I don't know something kind of tinked in my lower back and it never felt right after that Maybe I've just ripped myself off in this process, but here's kind of like a snippet of what you can expect the book to finalize with. Sometimes we're like, well, I'm just not a very talkative person. Does anyone else have a question? Right. Yep. And with an unhelpful habit, it's would you say it would be better to not focus on stopping, but focus on replacing with the helpful habit or Our working out of our salvation is not always cute and cuddly and cozy. You ever felt that way? You gotta eat, grinning, she tell me, you gotta eat. Character traits of godly men and women are not magical regarding how they develop. As followers of Christ, what we want is that our character would look just like his. You get things done with habits, but remember that this is an effect of the habit that you're developing. On what we need to do when we are cultivating habits So let me explain them and then I'll also share a little bit of how we we get it wrong and where habit formation should come together. Your social sphere, it speaks to those Christian relationships that you should maintain. If my spiritual life were a wreck, if my family life were a wreck, and I began to say, you know what, 2022 is the year where I'm going to work on my job. It's it's like within minutes. You feel like there are things in your marriage that you could work on and grow in, and you let that be the motivation to say, you know what, I really do want to prioritize my husband. That you're gonna have to begin to assess what are you doing regularly that is promoting who are you becoming? You identify where you want to start by s by identifying the priorities of habits We're motivated by pleasing the Lord in all of this. So you might be like, Greg, what's the deal? That's what they do. Sure. Yeah, for sure. Christian sanctification coaches that could just we could just step in to and just be like, hey, here's what's going on, here's my schedule, here's kind of what I'm doing in all my life, and they'd be like Yes, help us current. Is there suggested how many we should like try to think of that oh if you've got three that's a great thing to work on or seven or That transformation of your desires is taking place through faithful, spirit-filled obedience. So your family sphere comes next. I'm not going to let my vocation thrive in my family atrophy. So I I just, you know, just kind of try to drive along, not make a big deal out of it. So I I haven't said hire a parole officer. And how do we then pick one to work on so we're not overwhelmed with all the bad habits area? So keeping that balance. as if your social sphere does not interact with your vocational sphere. I have a buddy who is a Christian and he does what is called professional coaching. Okay, so there there are going to be times, ladies, where it's it's simply like this. It's not magical. That's point B. So when we make efficiency and productivity the end-all-be-all, we say, well, let's just develop habits to be more efficient. That would be an example of a personal habit that you cultivate, some type of budgetary guideline that you're following. Finances. But practically speaking, in the family sphere, we're better moms, we're better wives whenever we're making God our number one priority What is it that we are pleasing God by doing? Don't start the timer for how many days have you been going now and measure yourself based off of that. I never want to teach on habits in this mechanical do this, do that, wake up earlier, grab your bootstraps, pull harder mentality. I I was in basic training with many people who do not know God, did not care about God, and they were waking up at the same time as me. Remember the Ferrari that I talked about? And I I just want to follow it up with the last question from Miami. Well thank you so much, Greg, for speaking to us. And then I have to remind myself that listening may not be the most efficient thing right now, but it is what God would want me to do, to be patient and to take into consideration what my junior hire is preparing to unload on me here. We want to cultivate healthy, dynamic, God-honoring vocations, but not at the detriment of family. I I appreciate that answer. It takes awareness of God's expectations in these different spheres. Um okay, Amy, I'm gonna come a little closer just so he can hear you. So like time management. That's like the lower back pain that you're sensing. Okay. In habit formation, it is not wise to go from zero to Ferrari Or watch it come on parents. And so although God is our priority, it is not likely that most of us are spending the equivalent 40 hours a week in the Word or in prayer And just focus on those until you feel like you're doing those routinely and it's going well. And I don't know if you've ever heard some of these before, so I want to explain biblically the way that the Bible speaks of the effects of your habits. It's not about the chiropractor. And if you want to call it accountability, I'm okay with that. Yeah, sure. That habit of reading the Bible orients me back to desiring to please God Now, I'm not a big Aristotle fan, but I think there are certain times whenever unbelievers will say things that it's it's actually quite true. Your wheels will fall off if you're practicing poor nutrition. If we're prioritizing our family, then we should move outward to the vocational sphere. Get that raise you were looking for. I know that's not unwise, but how do I w what are your thoughts on how to make sure that we are balanced? Yeah. You've you've said this inevitably. Because when it's concrete and measurable, you can then look back and see if you've accomplished it or not Alright, let me let me be your number one cheerleader on this. Will you be faithful to do it this week? And then F have the tracking ability to see the growth and change, either for our encouragement or to be encouraged that it's for working or to encourage to keep going. Maybe that's where you speak with a sister in Christ who can help just bring some objectivity to what you're doing. Isn't that weird? And you're like, well, all right, Gifford, what are you talking about? Some of us are like, we're we're gonna change we're gonna be the most patient woman ever this year. Yeah, that's right. At times it is necessary to get get some third-party objectivity in your life, a sister in Christ, a biblical counselor. They were the English Puritans, if you've ever heard of them. Tell me. I did have one question if you could um go back and clarify. It's a measuring rod. How do I see God bring about transformation so that I want to please him? Some type of weird spiritual response I would give. Okay, so here's the reality. When is it a habit? Like you gotta work. We don't want to watch that. They talk and take notes. But I think you know what you're going through is if you work, you know, that's forty hours a week. I'm going to call them sweetie or lovey or whatever it is I want to call them. What do we expect to change if we're not working out? And if you see me like writing down, I try to write down some of your questions so I can chew on it. Yeah, good. Definitely know it's actually that you've conquered this and it's now a habit. Thank you for thank you for your first women's talk. It is this play on words. If you've ever heard of the term burnout, the person's, they're about to burn themselves out. It's not gonna happen by God sending a lightning bolt through your living room and zapping you so that you are more patient. I'll try not to ramble on. And when does that happen? My mom has this combination of Sprite and Pepto Bismol with crackers. They're not sleeping enough. I had this fat wallet that I had been sitting on for ten years. I was thinking, wow, like that's what the church should be doing. Well, I'm not talking it like that's not my gift. Uh so when we're talking about bad habits, I want to add uh kind of like two categories there. Here's what's going on. He says, Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence, Go to 2 Peter chapter 5. Spiritual Cheetos, electricity. Okay. Are we right? So time management would be an example of an unhelpful habit. I'm from Georgia originally, so I use ain't regularly. Make this week two times of engaging in your scripture readings. Yep. Anyone else? And it would be helpful to have a time where someone could step in and say, that's not a it's not sustainable. As Lord just read, we're disciplining ourselves for godliness. There's a habit that there there is transformation, excuse me, of such that it's no longer a discipline like I have to discipline myself to go to church on Sunday morning and to gather for I want to advance myself, get a new certificate, get a promotion, maybe even transfer. It's that balance of yes, we have giftedness, but we're all called to cultivate greater Christ-like character, whatever our natural inclination may be. And so my work isn't everything. And and oh that we could, and there will be seasons of life where we can spend more hours in the Word. It's like, ha, no. The point is that we worship the Lord in everything that we do. Um so the way that that works is you actually have certain habits that are not practiced daily, but they're still a habit. Do you pray regularly? I was teaching on this last week to our student life staff here at Masters. Okay, your spiritual sphere is your relationship with the Lord. Instead I'm going to put on a gentle tone. That's home cool. In 2022, we are thinking of habits like frequent practices. For God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. It I felt like a child. And if you do that, what you'll see is that you are now mindful of your habit and mindful of how frequently you've been practicing it. Yep, I can see you. Time management is a great example. So not only are are we changed in what we want to do, but the last part does say that he gives us the ability, he gives us the energy to work it out. You have a budget that you live by and you just generally are thinking about that budget, how much you're spending as it corresponds to a certain line item in your budget. It is not gonna work. I'll go hit the beach and just read the Bible all day. Yes. It's I am yelling in my communication and I quickly return when I'm irritated with my kids and yell at them. Yeah, good. Is it Bible reading? That's why we've been flaky at church. We start to take partnership in what they're doing. It's the habit of investing in eternal things. Spiritual. I'm not here to endorse chiropractors. I don't put it in any other pocket, I don't put it in my bag. Okay. It doesn't change by us eating spiritual Cheetos and laying on our spiritual couches. The personal sphere. I'm not saying that. So Shereen's asking the question, when do you know that it's a habit? I appreciate Dr. It's not like cute, cuddly, Pinteresty. We have to be able to say, well, what do I regularly do that is steering and directing what I want? Finances as a personal habit. 23, that what you do is to be done as an act of worship to the Lord, that your work is an opportunity to serve others and to glorify the Lord. I have more. This may sound weird, and I'm not trying to sound like a California weirdo to you ladies this morning, okay? There's like me with a sweet latte and I got my Bible and like Chris Tomlins playing behind me. Sometimes we treat our spiritual growth like we treat our physical health. That's always what I think of whenever I think of me being a slacker is just me eating Cheetos laying on the couch. Point C is that we get things done. I mean most of us can get dressed just out of habit. We have different realms. You getting some type of kickback from Habit Chair? These are attributes we can change about ourselves. Like this is I swear I've met people that are like, here, uh yeah, great. Okay. Here's who I am. That's what's beautiful about repentance, is that there's change that's possible and probable. You think, what have I done, and how has that contributed to who I am today? I think that's very helpful. And it's mindfulness too. You gotta feel the pressure of that. So we have to be realistic about that. We get it. Time management, for example. If we're late, if we're untimely, if we're going to meet a friend, we show up 20 minutes late to it, it can just start to really endanger friendships There's there's a sin to repent of here. Okay. I want you to look at this chart. It's like, you know what, man, I can respect that. It's like you want to get more done in your day? By growing and being more loving, for instance. We're not the best of communicators. Our schedules are different. It is not week one. Think of like our gross selves working out and sweaty And through your working out, God begins to do something in your life. I know you've said this at some point, you've thought this. But in God's economy, you can actually get promoted in the vocational sphere, but if you're not right with him, there's still some significant issues. Alright, we're back. I should have gone to the chiropractor like six years ago Faithfulness is our goal. Laura, you feel free to tell me or however is the best way to communicate the questions. Oh wow. And maybe you're maybe we struggle to figure out what is that about like am I being too invested in one area and and do I need to pull back from that I want to just highlight a couple of things out of verse 9, and then we'll get down to verse 12 here in a second. He works through our obedience to him to change what we want to do. That's what we're disciplining ourselves unto. We're going to the left, we're going to the right. It's the only way to get it to fit inside of this. Not the whole pathway, but one brick in that pathway so that you can see yourself grow in that particular area. I have to be aware of God's priorities in these other spheres. So those are also a priority to consider and to move toward as well. Um I am a big fan in counseling where we are meeting with people, we give them homework. Some of us we don't have the car and we want it to be a Ferrari. Others are going to bust out a hard copy piece of paper and do a check mark journal about it. God wants me to be working, for instance. Yeah, sort of like the chiropractor helping you discover it was the wallet. Here I I actually like talking about this not necessarily more, but there's fairly general agreement on sinful habits. Bible reading is low hanging fruit. Why do we want to cultivate organization at our jobs to please the Lord? I'm telling you, that's not sustainable. Honoring your wife but not being alone in a room with a woman. Thank you. What do you want? That's something that we have to practically manage. And if those personal habits break down, you can only go without sleep for so long. And I know you're wanting to get better at serving at the local church as your habit, so will you jump back in this week? Then he's got inventory of unhelpful habits again in every sphere That you've experienced this, I'm sure, that you begin to donate to a certain organization, your church, a nonprofit. I don't want to minimize the role of good and godly Christian friendship. What I'm saying is personal think of your personal habits like this. When it comes to our social habits, that we really just got to step up our game a little bit and and doing better at serving others and honoring others and cultivating good habits You know, it's not again, it's not a crisis, but I would really love your help and helping figure this out. We need to kind of step up our game. Gifford you talking about the heart. We've lived enough life by this point to be able to say the things that I have regularly practiced have made me who I am today. Okay, that don't want this to sound like hokey. Point E. Because I want to honor God in every little detail of my life. And most of us that's happening once a week. And then the and then it's just like this Ferrari plan. I don't need to emerge you. Okay, so it doesn't come through us being spiritual slackers. After that comes your vocational sphere. Cultivating peer-to-peer relationships are important. I want to read one chapter of the Bible five days per week. Ugh, I don't know if I can jump back in it this week. Okay. I can't grow. I can I can keep him sold as fast. Ladies, what I was referring to is in his book he has a chapter called Taking So how do I start? What is it? Our character is what we have regularly done. Ah, sorry. And if you're not careful, that could create disaster later on We got new goals this year. But uh it's not like I am 100% steady, focused on always wanting to please the Lord. That's not an exciting thing to think about, but all of us have lived enough life to meet people who have just really practiced some really wicked things. At the very the very beginning basis, we want to establish that God is first. She's like, You just need to go. Maybe they're good already, and I want them to be better, or maybe they're not at a place where they're great, and I would like to invest in that. So we want to articulate that. What I want you to see is that cultivating habits is an act of worship. All of us have giftedness and tendencies. He promises that I will be growing and conforming because of his work. This is from Matthew chapter 6. They're preparing for adrenal fatigue. I can see you again. What are some habits that I need to change to promote me being a patient, Mom? And you've done it. And it's it's not that we're stingy, we're just not as open-handed. Oh no one's gonna ask any more questions, Laura. Well, it's not magical and it's not mystical. The inmost circle is our spiritual sphere. We were looking down on Utah. It's like, well, being kind isn't a gift. We're all called to cultivate godly character, Christ-like character. It's just being mindful about the actual practice of the habit. I don't need to s focus on stopping bad time management. We are working out and God is working in. You know, I hate the gym after three days, so I stopped going. You know, he's like, hey, just tell me a little bit about what's going on. Sometimes accountability can communicate negative things Well, I have a couple while they're thinking. We all have families and we're all in a family to a certain degree. I was gonna also encourage them in your book for the inventory habits that you have. So he's putting forward Christ as an example of obedience. I'm going to do my best to share the screen, but you have this in your notes as well. That's all I'm trying to illustrate with this diagram. I'm not here to talk about wallet sales. It doesn't happen that way. Rather say, well, God help me to be faithful this week. Because if we go digging, you can find a lot of habits that are going to need to be worked on. And that habit is going to help cultivate greater patience in my life. Um and I wanted to bring it back to because I love how you keep But most of us we're doing that weekly. If it's an awkward moment, I drive right to the middle of it. Because on one hand, I can think religious extremes, spiritual habits are the most important. So when that time comes for me to get off, let's say six o'clock. It is not week two. They're not two distinct conversations. Well how did that happen? And I'm like, it's bedtime. And we do understand that certain individuals have to cultivate better habits just to promote functionality in their own life. Some of us have really mediocre habits when it comes to the social sphere of our life. Sometimes we think of like, wow, this relationship's really difficult. There's nothing else that I'm letting creep in. And the English Puritans talked about habits, and one of the things that they brought up was the effect of how your habits shape what you want to do. So I would be totally amiss And it was like, oh yeah, I am doing that. I want to be in the Word no less than five times per week, for instance. Here's what I'm talking about. And so it's it's hard to begin to measure exactly. Oftentimes our habits, we are all about some habits. I don't want to. So and it's like, well, with God's help through his grace, change. I'm never stuck. So like setting the I will practice this habit so many times a week and then uh creating the log of it. So mindfulness and tracking for your log You're just using these as a means of prioritization. Habits of communication, habits of drug use, habits of poor time management, habits of conflict resolution. Let's talk about your habits. Let's look at, it looks like a target here. Within five minutes, he pinpoints a habit that I had been practicing for 10 years, and I was totally unaware of it. Just meditation in renewing your thoughts. So all of those are going to be examples of what a frequent regular practice is, a habit. He said, what do you do when your want to is broken? He said it in the context of excellence. It's starting to tip the scale now to where we've just been together all of it. You cannot do anything. Um we're looking for just a friend that we can be like, hey, you know what? You see, there's two things. I'm not. You know, it's just not who I am. Okay. There are times when your sanctification is taking a lot of work. I'm not hungry Self-control, godliness, steadfastness, brotherly affection. God uses our obedience. We are the ones that are most blessed because what takes place is God uses those habits to change our hearts. Maybe what you want is not what you want to want. Here is the connection between your character and your frequent practices, that your character is the result of what you regularly practice. That those actions have led us to desiring to do those actions. It was just something so silly, and yet that little small fix started to bring about change and to bring about restoration And what our typical struggle is, we don't make it concrete enough. Our habits really do bring about significant effects. This is not cute, cuddly. If I'm struggling to be loving in general, then I need to make specific steps of practicing love so that I will be a more loving woman. The Bible does teach those. But I could actually be negligent to other spheres of my life by kicking it at the beach with my Bible. We have a local pregnancy center here in town. We know that Christians have been given all that they need for life and godliness. I'm at this section of your notes. Right? If it's communication, if it's character, if it's time, whatever it is, look for that broader theme Like you there are ladies in the room that have just been so generous and kind to other ladies. So the Bible prescribes a process for putting off, being renewed, and putting on. It's like we're slogging it out. Start to think about things like time management. So in the familial sphere, this means that our families do take precedence. So point B, the habit that I want to develop is this. We need to work out so that God can work in and feel some of that pressure to get busy and growing to be like Jesus. Let me tell you a story and then let's try to synthesize and bring some things together. Uh that we should have people that we can chat with, be encouraged by. Amy's not moving. For it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure So here we are. I am not getting a kickback. Well, I'm going to memorize scripture on patience. I love the symbiosis, even the picture on your front cover, that you know, we do what we love and we love what we do. The students that don't have the greatest success don't keep a log, don't keep a journal, and what happens is they forget about these plans for change and they don't practice them. So if you could make talk to how We're just gonna ask the questions if you guys don't ask them. I'm gonna get rid of certain terms and start to use other terms. This is something that's important to hear It's because we have to prioritize our relationship with God, and when we do so, we then prioritize our relationship with our family Those concepts are very similar. God's changing you so that you want to do it. Before long, we have no desire to honor and please the Lord. Like this is these are friends. Environment and accountability and community are going to be a huge part of cultivating habits. I would encourage you to think about the broader patterns of your family relationships and see, look, if I'm impatient with most of my family. So here's what I'm doing. So let's set goals that are sustainable so that we can then actually see God bring about change and growth in our life Just a thought is that um yes you're at work for forty hours, but this I think maybe is But those are the put-ons. I think her focus was more on the unhelpful, like how I Amy, like identifying or So I'm gonna explain more about character here in a second because they're not Excuse me, 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 5. Okay, I can assure you that and looking around the room, we've all lived enough life. Alright, like Gifford's been rambling. It happens through your frequent actions. Um helping see that there's nothing sacred I have to be able to say, well, if I'm not if I'm not naturally kind in conversation by being talkative and thoughtful But a bad habit, a morally wrong habit, is something that would be sinful I want to call this what God calls it, which is a sin. There are times when we as a family have started to donate to missionaries. Amy's question is about stopping a bad habit. Some of us are just terrible at time management, and it's not a sin. I just want, you know, like some some coaching for lack of a better term. Most likely it's after 90 days or 120 days to where you've just done it for so long that that's just what you do Um is because the goal here is not productivity, is not greater self-efficiency I haven't made the spouse you've given me a priority. I refuse to let go of it even though I'm sojourning in California. I'm not excited about it, to be honest, but I'm going to work out my salvation with fear and trembling. In those instances, we're seeing the deformation of character or the hardening of ungodly character. And then before long, we start to remember it, and then before long, we're practicing it regularly, and then before long, we don't even need a law, it's just part of what we do. And then pick one, two, maybe three. And I I love this question. And so we do want to confess, Lord, we haven't made you a priority. We are busy, we have families, we have jobs, we have other things going on. We're kind of argumentative about our preferences whenever we're spending time with others. Uh any any other questions? You were great. You have to be super intentional. Let me give you one example, and then I'd like you to go ahead and start turning over to Matthew chapter 6, if you don't mind. I can respect that question. It'll fall off at some point. You kind of bristle someone again and you're thinking, man, I don't want to be an unkind woman. But if I'm not in church regularly, then girls' night is not a priority right. You got it. Alright, now I've rearloaded this intentionally in the book. Alright, here you go. And among my busy schedule, I don't want to be a harsh mom who gets frustrated and yells. How do I please the Lord in this habit? One class, I do not require a journal, I do not require a log, and another class I do require a journal, and I do require a log. You know how that works? You'll hear 90 days, you'll hear 110 days, 73 days. We are so motivated. Okay, I'm going to stop the share for a second so I can see you more closely here. Those types of things that you're sensing. Hire a parole officer, ladies. My parents weren't like that. If I've walked with Jesus for 30 years, I am not stuck. That we want to live a life that honors the Lord. And I don't want to be obtuse and spend too much time on this point, but your personal habits Here's what I'm saying. No eating for two weeks. And then begin to reintroduce. But repentance is beautiful because it brings grace and mercy and forgiveness and renewal. Okay, great. I teach about 175 students here every semester. By growing and thinking more like him, because I'm engaging in the Bible. It reminds you that this is what you're trying to do, and then practically it gives you an assessment of how have you been doing So I know at nine o'clock there is a sense in which This is like I'm sweaty, I'm gross, and I gotta work out my salvation. That happened through frequent obedience and God working in. So how do we do that? Destination adrenal fatigue. To please God is what motivates us to cultivate habits in these different spheres. If you find that you're a mom that maybe is a bit quick-tempered, Yes, we could say, well, I really want to work on my communication with Aunt so and so. Take my car, you can stay in my house. If the boss asks, am I available to work? Patient, kind responses toward my kids. At times in counseling, I'll even imitate a male cheerleader with pom-poms, a big horn, you know, like What I'm saying is there is wisdom in this. Okay, good. They're gonna have to sit in the hot seat now. Does that make sense? Here's another habit that guides my heart. We have to reorient our measure of success because our measure of success is faithfulness. You contractually, even in before the Lord, have to be in But you're whatever the thing is, you're still at work, but you can maybe No, she's not hearing At times I wish we had personal When you've been physically ill, you know that you need to eat something to regain your strength. That's the first the first effect. They're going to say, you know what, get promoted this year And I was like, All right, I'll go. I've tried to take this directly from the end of my book. In all practicality, if that's fair. Hebrews 10. 5. And then we kind of roll over and go back to sleep. There's effort in that process, just to be clear. We're talking about walking as a habit. So now it begins to lead itself to But by and large, we are seeing that we want to be faithful to this That we're glorifying and honoring and pleasing him. We want to honor God in everything that we do. He just goes through just questions to ask like in spiritual, do you have thoughts about God that are blasphemous And no, that's not necessarily a biblical prioritization. Well, I've I've done my best. Those vocational habits are important to address and need to be addressed, but they're not more important than my family. And this goes on for years. I want to get better at prayer. She was wondering the difference between We give it to the church. So think of intentionality. It's that I see God bring about that transformation through my frequent practices of obedience. Like, I gotta wake up early. But my friendships are important, just to be clear, and so are yours. They've been working too hard, it's in ministry, or it's in a secular vocation. And I'm like, yeah, this is the reality. I'm not doodling down here. That's typically going to be a Saturday, or excuse me, for us, it's going to be a Sunday morning. I have 15, 20 minutes to spend in the Word in the morning. God calls us to obey, and he uses that obedience. But there are times, just frankly speaking, I don't want to please God. The habit of giving is a habit that orients your desires back to pleasing God. Like Gifford's gonna insert some type of psychological They're in between jobs all of the time. We're managing our nutrition to the glory of the Lord. There are certain habits that you're practicing twice a month, like giving. 30 tomorrow, I'm gonna wake up. Woo-hoo. And I've also prioritized the spiritual sphere like church. In the past, a habit would also be considered your character As I hope to show you, the things that you frequently practice, they shape who you are. Fear and trembling is is not Your relationship with the Lord is the inmost And nor should you. Maybe I need to work a little bit on my family habits. Faithfulness is our goal. So when it's a sinful habit, yes, it is. It's not always a goal. Your vocational sphere is important. And so I had to say, oh. All right. Okay, all of us have a cantankerous family member. Like we're impatient with Aunt So-and-so and we just try to avoid her at all costs. But also note this: those gifts are different from character. Yeah, good. It didn't work. It says the sphere, the spheres of habits. Nothing gets bigger than that. All right, well Well, that's what's causing all of this. It's kind of like a worksheet. And in those Yeah, okay. Number one. You have this track, and at the top of that track is a desire to please God. If I'm struggling with kindness as a character trait, Our number one goal is to glorify and please the Lord. It sounds like this is what you ladies have been discussing with spiritual Just practically speaking, we've made a priority of Bible reading and now we want to do it. Could you encourage me to do that? Yeah, great. We're tired. If you want to be excellent, then you need to repeatedly do excellent things. It'll take its toll on you. Lastly is our social sphere. There might be some family that's connected to you. When you're maintaining Christian relationships, they're important, but they're not more important than God. I had this habit that I was doing and I was just unaware of how it was affecting my entire life Okay. So forth. And it's very unattainable. It's actually a turning away from There are times when we have to emphasize verse 12. And I tried to describe for them that efficiency and productivity are important, but they're not the end-all-be-all. An example is Habit Share. So I don't want to blend giftings and character. Yes. But it may sound like a California weirdo thing. If you know the habit that's unhelpful, then you can make that change and begin to address it yourself. But it does seem that intentionality That's because your character is a result of your frequent practices. I've been married for 17 years. But yet we should still cultivate. Because there are times when we're not exactly sure where it's imbalanced. So I need to pause. Being kind is a character trait. Where sports for kids just starts to hijack a person's life. I just need to start using a calendar. And it that is the compulsion. And in verse 12. At times we've domesticated what it looks like to work out your salvation. He begins to change your heart so that you actually want to do what he wants you to do. Did you know that your habits of generosity actually steer your desires in your heart? It comes through our frequent obedience, our daily practices, what we're regularly and frequently engaging in. 24 says that we gather together as a habit. So partly that means that I think there are things that we do that are unhelpful, but uh, you know, like Because your habits form you andor deform you. Why is this still hard? Who's that lady that's gonna like get the flashlight out and shine it down your throat? And I'm like, what? So I think that's a great up great observation too. That's not a long term habit you want to continue to cultivate. So I would say in order of priority by your spheres, what are what's the most pressing habit that you should focus on? These are the habits that you must to do you must develop in order to be effective in other spheres of your life. I don't need to go. Um I first wanted to say um the first question is how do you identify Here you go, church. Like set us all free. It's like we should probably just start driving the Honda Civic. Like I said, I geek out of habit stuff. And whatever sphere that is, whatever habit that is. You know like get out of here. Because Let me just focus there. Having We're working out, God is working in. Do you keep track of a watch? They're on their way. Keep of your habit and its practice. So yes, I do have to work, but my priority is still my family. Um so And although he's not present with them currently, That's what my kids do, so maybe that's what I associate it with. Some of you, as I as I say that, you think future tense, and you think, okay, who will I be? If there are areas in our character that are deficient, But my relationship with my peer friends, it is not as important as my relationship with my wife. So the spheres of habits. If you've ever had lower back issues, you know what I'm talking about. I'll go. All right. Yeah, yeah. He helps listen to There is a sense in which our habits promote functionality in our life. So what what would happen over the next 10 years, literally till 2021 You know, like you at least go see what the word is. I'm trying to get better at being in prayer. And it it it's just a practical way of helping cultivate habits. I think that's a great observation. And we begin to think about the effects of our habits, the things that we would like to see change We're exhausted. That's why we want to do it. We've been talking a lot about forming good habits, but can you speak more about stopping a bad habit and replacing it? He's going to say that just in the prior verses. Praise God. It's like that lower back pain. There are certain individuals among us that you're just naturally good at generosity. Intentionality is where you're you're fighting Maybe you want things you shouldn't want. We have to keep that balance that our vocations The lower back issue is evident now. Okay. Like I'm in enough pain. And I'm like And then keep chopping. And it may seem insignificant. Well I think we might just have to do a popcorn style because I didn't pass out paper So identifying a habit in a sphere, let's just pick the family sphere, for instance. This is great. But if you're a a young mom, you know, like the kids are gonna wake up and then crazy train leaves the station. God is the one working in us. What do you do when your want to is broken? I'll be fine. You know, just and then what happens is I'll do something and the back is out for two or three days. So they'll say something that's very generic but not concrete and measurable. Not necessarily a certain frequency. One of the things that journaling and logging does is it reminds you of your habit. This is where we think you're spending too much time. I want to talk about character. You know, that's not always a number one goal. Boom-boom. I am not, because I have church on Sunday morning. Verse 3. But we also know that those spheres have prioritization. It makes us more effective to be those things when we are prioritizing the Lord. I wish they were all that simple. I want to get better at prayer with my husband, prayer with my kids. I'm going to work on not cutting them off when they're talking Really? Thinking about it. Yes. But that habit of reading our Bible is a habit that keeps us oriented to pleasing God. Have you done it six times consecutively? The second effect. You're missing God's prioritization. We've made a habit of this for years. Let's get out of here and go just like And you know, Lord, forgive me again. Like we don't need to confess to the Lord that we have not redeemed the time that day Like there when I wake up, that's my compulsion. So if you hear me say ain't Would you be okay with just asking about how that's going? That's why I've been withdrawn and not available to them This is I think And it's just it's not hard for them. Okay, imagine with me. That's a habit that we've learned. That's one that I'll use. So I'm just wondering, great, becoming an awareness model. Now That's the point. That's not the goal. Yeah. Repentance necessitates action. We're doing our best to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. Okay, let's let's stop. It's all about glorifying God. They're calling out regularly. I was in the army, like Laura said, I was in the army for about four and a half years I need some help. And that's your habit. Think of your life with certain spheres. Like Think in broad patterns in your life. I should devote all my time to spiritual habits. So I'm not going to In that sense, they had good habits, they lived structured lives Are you doing it or are you not doing it? Like what am I what should I prioritize? Is it Like most of us aren't like, should I continue to do that? To will. Like what are you what are you trying to balance and keep It's like you're not Yes, right. You know, are you managing a calendar? So I feel better. It seems to be generally accurate. I want to be faithful to that commitment Go ahead and ask it and I can relate to him. So I was working out and God was working in. Nothing's going to change. The goal is that we would be better at glorifying God. That's great. That's going to hurt some things. You know, ladies There are times whenever that's not where I'm at. There's an emphasis on practice. So this is why Let me go see what the chiropractor can do. But habits do make you more efficient. I've been with my wife for 22 years. We want to go eat at this place Oh. I have to begin to change my habits. It's an act of worship. That's not who I want to be. Alright, last thing for you and then I'm going to pause for some questions, Q<unk>A. So twice a month we're practicing a habit. What does that mean? How does that transformation take place? That what God begins to do is to transform our heart. It's just like We're repenting of. Driving is a habit that you've learned. And will you serve and be faithful I need to repent of that before the Lord. All right, you're back. Let me briefly explain How does that change? We just know that there's something amiss. And so we're able to say, okay What is God working in us to do? And I know there's mixed reviews about chiropractors There's no more date nights, there's no more church. And then I'll do an infrom They're not managing their time So why do we want to cultivate a habit of Bible reading? To will Okay I don't have to remind myself I'm not fighting for it. What do I need to work on? Okay, pause before we read verse 1 You have to hear that. It's community. Why did I do that? It's like, no, you shouldn't Like if you can help just sort of delineate like That's heart and habits. Identify that habit. That's not where my heart is at. My question Keep track of it. We'd be more fruitful. There's something not right here. It's like And That's the compulsion. To please the Lord.