Good morning. I'm glad to be here this morning. I bring you greetings from the Master Seminary where we are preparing to enter our 21st year. and uh graduate our 21st class. About 80 men are scheduled to graduate in May and they will join approximately uh 750 who have graduated since the inception of the seminary. I'm happy to say about 93% of those men are currently serving in full-time ministry somewhere around the world ministering the Word of God today. And we thank God for that and thank God for your support and help and prayers for the seminary. I was warmly greeted as I walked in and asked if this was the first time I'd been to the church, and I said yes. And I added, in fact, it's the first time I've been to the state of Maryland. And um they were excited that someone had come brand new to the state, they said and they then they feel like they figured out, oh, are you our speaker today? I am staying in Washington, D. C. and I um I've never been there before. I've only been in the airport uh in an emergency sort of landing I was stuck in one time. I discovered something about Washington, D. C. though And that is yesterday, the suit pants that go with this jacket and this shirt that my wife so diligently packed for me, I tore out the zipper in the pants. And I discovered in Washington, D. C. on Saturday it is very difficult to find a tailor. But it is not so difficult to find very expensive Clothing stores. And I I I don't buy my own clothes. My if I go shopping for suits or something, my wife or my daughter have to go with me to make sure I do it correctly. So I'm meandering down the street, uh uh Connecticut uh Avenue, I guess, near my hotel in Du DuPont Circle. The first store the first store I came to that had men's clothing in the windows was something called Burberry. And I thought I'd walk in and I I looked around, I picked up something and I looked at it, I just put it very carefully back and wandered out of the store very quietly making sure that I'd washed my hands before I left and uh finally finally came to uh at least I was familiar with Brooks Brothers and knew that it was more than I wanted to pay, but they were also the only store Because I had a very, very important appointment I had to get back to at my hotel. Uh there were two very important football games yesterday that had to be had to be watched, and so I had to uh Get back for that. Well, it is good to be with you this morning. I want to draw your attention to Colossians chapter 1 this morning. Colossians chapter 1 as we consider Foundations for effective Christian living. Foundations for effective Christian living, and as it were Entering the holiday season and then entering the uh new year, it's always good, I think, to remind ourselves of our foundations and what it is we are to be about in the Christian life. And one of the best passages in all of the New Testament regarding that is Colossians chapter 1, verses 9 through 14. And let me read those for you. Paul wrote to the Colossian church, a church that he had never personally visited, by the way, and he said this, for this reason also Since the day we heard of it, we have not ceased to pray for you and to ask that you be filled with the knowledge of His will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. so that you may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. strengthened with all power according to his glorious might, for the attaining of all steadfastness and patience Joyously giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light For he has delivered us from the domain of darkness, and has transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, that is, the forgiveness of sins. The church at Colossi was located in an ancient and important area. But that city itself was declining. Now the reason for the decline is somewhat interesting, and I'm I again I'm not familiar with the area, but I've kind of looked at the map and to give you an idea of what we're talking about If you imagine that the uh Interstate 95 was a river, and it would be the Lycus River in the Lyc valley in that area. And if you imagined Washington, D. C. to be a town called Hereopolis and Baltimore to be a town called Laodicea, here in Fulton we would be colossi. That would be basically about the right mileage and layout of this area. And Colossae had been around for many, many centuries prior to this, but as I said, it was a declining city. And the reason for the decline is kind of interesting. The people in Laodicea, and you remember Laodicea, we read about them in the book of Revelation. They are mentioned also at the end of Colossians. and it is not one of the the more stellar churches in that we see in the Bible. But the people of Laodicea discovered that the Roman Empire, the Roman Empire was very good at doing certain things, one of which was building roads. And they were about to redo the ancient road which had gone through uh Herapolis and then down through uh uh Colossae and then on to the Middle East. Well, the people of Laodicea sent lobbyists, to borrow a modern term, to Rome to see the emperor. And what do lobbyists usually have with them? I don't know. Any lobbyists here? I don't want to embarrass you. They usually have bags full of money. Well, in in that area it was a little bit easier. It was it was a little m less subtle But they took large bagfuls of gold to the emperor and said, We would really appreciate it if you would redesign the road. So it ran through not Colossae but Laodicea And if you would do that, we would be happy to leave these big bags that we brought with us. The Emperor, of course, was happy to do that. And so the main highway shifted from layout from uh Colossae to Laodicea and then onward. Well if you've been around the building of roads and new interstates and things like that, what happens to old towns and old roads where the traffic isn't going anymore That's what was happening to Colasi. And it was it was an interesting, because in this decline, the cultural and social decline in this area had allowed every kind of strange philosophy and religious teaching to enter the fabric of the city, seeking to fill the void. The Church of Colossi that had been founded stood in direct opposition to the prevailing culture of the day Just as I trust you here at Hope Bible Church are standing in opposition to the prevailing culture of the day In a climate of inclusiveness, the church was designed to be exclusively dedicated to God In a climate of relativism, the church was designed to be absolutist in terms of dedication of the truth of Scripture. In a climate of supposed personal freedom and lifestyle choices, the church was designed to be populated by people who lived a life of singular holiness. In the book of Colossians, Paul deals with the theological issues facing the church. He also deals primarily and foundationally With a threefold foundation for personal holiness and effective Christian living. Because holiness, separated from theology, as the scripture says, will only puff us up with knowledge And Paul wants to combat that. So before he talks about combating culture, before he talks about standing in opposition to all of these things, he talks about personal holiness. and effective Christian living, and he gives us three foundational footings. Foundational footing number one is wisdom from Christ. Wisdom from Christ. Verses 9 and 10, he says, For this reason also, since the day we heard of it, and what he had heard of was the faith of the Colossian church. Paul says, we have not ceased to pray for you and ask that you be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding. so that you may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, to please him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. The first footing is wisdom from Christ. Not wisdom from the world, but wisdom that comes from Christ. And specifically, Paul says I have been praying without ceasing that you be filled with the knowledge of His will. The knowledge of His will. This is an interesting word. It's a Greek word, epigenosis. It's kind of the intensified word for knowledge. It is full or complete knowledge. I want you to be filled with the full and complete knowledge of God's will. One writer said this for a For a theist, or one who believes in God, who believes that God's active purpose determines the order of the world and lies behind events on earth and shapes their consequences One of the most desirable objectives must be to know God's will. God wants you to know what He wants you to do. God's will, as as my boss Dr. MacArthur wrote in a book, God's will is not lost. It's not a secret. And we could go into a long, detailed uh uh uh explanation of how to know God's will. We don't have time for that today, but just to understand that this is what Paul is praying for. That the Colossian church would be filled with the knowledge of His will And he says, interestingly enough, it's two things. The knowledge of his will is kind of tied up in two things. Spiritual wisdom And understanding. Spiritual wisdom. That word spiritual wisdom is another word. Sophia. We name our daughters Sophia occasionally And it is the highest, the idea of the highest mental excellency. For the Hebrew, the ability to apply knowledge to life situations. It is very, very desirable to obtain spiritual wisdom. And Bishop Westcott in his commentary on Colossians, writing back in the Victorian area, wrote this, and it's still applicable and vital today. He says, spiritual is not opposed to carnal. And means not in connection with the human spirit, but the phrase signifies discernment confirmed and quickened by the Holy Ghost This enjoyment of the Spirit of Light is a special privilege of believers. He dispels the mists which obscure the inner vision. fills the soul with an ardent relish for divine truth and a fuller perception of it, enables it to see through a perfect medium and thus confers upon it that power and perpiscuity termed by the apostle spiritual understanding. And where this purity and penetration of discernment are possessed, and the fruits of each wisdom are gleaned and garnered up, the mind in the use of such a facility And the enjoyment of such acquisitions cannot but be conscious that it has risen to an ampler knowledge of the divine will. And I think that says it so much better than I could. He says spiritual wisdom. Also understanding. Understanding. Understanding is an interesting word, and basically the word has the idea of taking all of these bits and pieces. of knowledge and information we have and pulling it all together. The idea of synthesis, and that's actually what the word, our English word synthesis, is derived from the Greek word in this passage. It is putting facts and information together and drawing conclusions and seeing relationships. In other words, it is taking what the Bible teaches. All over, bringing it together in a systematic way to drive how we live Francis Schaefer wrote a book many, many years ago in the 1970s called How Shall We Then Live? We are to live by understanding God's will. We are to live by understanding the Word of God. And that wisdom comes from Christ. It is vital in the church today that we not only study the Word of God as your classes are set up as you As your preacher, your pastor diligently proclaims the Word of God each week, all of the preaching and all of the teaching will go out. And bounce into outer space when it hits hearts that are not living for God It will bounce off and deflect everywhere but where it's supposed to go, from the ears into the head, into the heart. That drives the way we live. And Paul says that. So that you may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. He's praying that they be filled with the knowledge of his will, with all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so that there is a purpose in all of this. That phrase is Is very, very important. So that the purpose of my prayer, the purpose of you Having all of this wisdom and understanding and being able to put everything together and come to conclusions and to see things rightly according to the scripture is not so. You can win Bible trivia games at home with your children. Or be on jeopardy, or something like that. It is so that you may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. To walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. S. Lewis Johnson said this: this worthy walk is the necessary union of theology and ethics. The necessary union of theology and ethics. In other words, we are to walk in a manner that's worthy of the Lord. We are to live a life that is reflective of The kingdom we live in. Paul talks about this in different places in Philippians when he talks about you and I as citizens of God's kingdom. He's going to talk about God's kingdom here that we've been transferred into the kingdom of his beloved son, but it is it is representing God Properly, where I'm staying at is on Embassy Row, I discovered, and all of the embassies of all the different countries are are there And uh out in Los Angeles, when I was a policeman, we have consular offices, and some of the embassies are out in Los Angeles as well And an interesting thing is that if you understand the laws of the United States and the States, if a counselor office, an ambassador from another country commits a crime in this country We can't arrest them. They are immune. They have diplomatic immunity. And so one time I was um uh working and I uh uh came along and a uh the big traffic ac I investigated traffic accidents for the most part of my career. Got to a big accident Uh people have been killed, and another person who had caused the accident was a drunk driver, and it turned out that that individual was the ambassador from a particular country. And he was quick and To tell me that, because he knew he had done something really, really bad. And all I could do with him was, besides ask him and sh to get his credentials to see that he was who he said he was, was then to put him in my car and sit him there. protect him from the people that wanted to string his n string him up and and then call the uh State Department and they sent somebody to pick him up and take him away and that was the end of it as far as I was concerned, as far as the the criminal justice system was concerned. There was another time that I was working and I was uh saw a car that was speeding, was going about 95 miles an hour in a 25 mile an hour zone. And I pulled the car over, asked him for his license and information and he gave me his uh credentials and his information, everything, and he never told me he was the ambassador of another country. And I sat down and wrote him a ticket and had him sign it. He signed it and went on his way. And then a couple of days later I got called into the captain's office and says, what in the world are you doing? You know better than you can't write the ambassador of this particular country a ticket. He said, he never told me. He sa he he willingly subjected himself to the rules of the United States. Now, you and I as believers, we do this all the time, don't we? We are citizens of heaven, but very often in our daily life. We subject ourselves to the rules and regulations and the influence and the power of Satan's domain, don't we? When Satan whispers in our ear to sin, saying that we can get away with it, we can do, you know, no problem, you can do this. We do not reply instantly, we cannot, for we are citizens of God's kingdom. We are reflecting him. We are living for him. We are not under your domain any longer. We have been transferred from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light. We are to walk in a manner that is worthy of the Lord. When I was uh in high school uh played baseball and we had an interesting baseball coach and and and no matter where we were going we had to wear a suit and tie We got our, you know, a bunch of high school baseball players. We put on our suit, our tie, we got on the bus, and we traveled to wherever it was we were going And it didn't matter if we won three to nothing or got beat 30 to nothing. After the game we went into the visiting locker room, we got out of our baseball uniforms and we put back on our suit and our ties And we got on the bus to go back to the school. And we always grouse about that being high schoolers, and probably I grouse about it now being, you know, as old as I am. But um And but he said this, he says, I will not have you representing this school in the neighborhood and communities and places we're going looking like High school kids. He said some other interesting words, but we'll leave that out of it. But he said, you're going to represent this school the way it should be represented. You're going to look the part. We need to look the part Now the Christian life is not easy. I will readily admit that. I have lived the Christian life long enough now to know it is not easy Uh some people say you know the Christian life is kind of like a a a a a sprint, you know, a hundred yard dash, you're trying to get to the end. Uh a lot of people say, no, no, it's not that, it's a marathon. It's a long-distance run and you're going forever. I don't think so. My analogy of the Christian life is football. Lots of my analogies of life are football Emmett Smith, who just recently won a dance contest, my wife maybe come out and watch once in a while, the most contrived thing I've ever seen in my life, I'm afraid. Emmett Smith is the National Football League all-time leader in rushing yardage. In his career, he rushed for 17,162 yards, almost 10 miles. On average, though, every time he got the ball, he ran 4. 2 yards. And then a whole bunch of people jumped on him and threw him to the ground. That's the Christian life. We're not on a marathon that's just a nice level course and it's all laid out and we just have to, you know, keep you know, pounding away until we get there. There's there's something to that. But but it ignores the fact that we get the ball and we run forward and on average, about every four point two yards Satan's emissaries and his people jump on us and slam us to the ground. Now, sometimes we get the ball and we a hundred yards. Free and clear. We're running, and there's no one touching us, and we're avoiding everything, and life is great. Sometimes we get the ball, and all those people in front of us. Aren't there. And the eleven guys come running at us and we end up ten yards backwards, don't we? That's the Christian life. And it is a life of Walking worthy. And when you get swammed back, you get up, you get in line, they hand you the ball again. Sometimes when it's and when you're going crazy like that, you're running for a touchdown and and and things are good and the Lord is blessing everything Rejoice with those who rejoice and grieve with those who grieve, but remember it's not always like that. And it is it is often to be remembered that it is no more God's blessing Or favor that you're going forward and rushing greatly, or that you're being thrown backwards. God is teaching us in every situation But remember the day in and day out, we get up in the morning and we're going to live the Christian life today, and we remember we may get about 4. 2 yards several times during that day. Well, how are we to do this? Well, it's interesting, so that you may walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. Pleasing him in all respects, bearing fruit in every good work, and what? Very, very important, increasing in the knowledge of God. What is a Christian life like? It's not only like a football game. Someone say, you know, the spiritual growth is this incline, you're going up and up and up and up and up. I don't think so. I I I view it like this. The passage I think use it more like this. It is it is kind of a spiral staircase. You're going up like this Because Paul prays. Look at it again. He prays, he says that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will, that you that uh you may be filled with the knowledge of his will and all spiritual wisdom and understanding. When you are filled with spiritual wisdom and understanding, You get that so that you walk in a manner worthy. When you walk in a manner worthy, what is your reward? More spiritual wisdom and understanding. You increase in the knowledge of God. The blessing of heaven. In all eternity, I think, is wrapped up in for all eternity learning more and more about the person and nature of God. Since all of his attributes are infinite, it goes on forever that we will always be learning more about him. In this life, we we kind of stumble along at it and we learn more and more. But that's it. It's increasing. We gain a spiritual wisdom and understanding that enables us to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord The reward for that is more knowledge of God. And we continue to go in that direction. It's a revolving spiral staircase up Sometimes the spiral staircase goes down. Because what is the What is the penalty of sin? Not in the ultimate sense. I know the penalty of sin is wages of sin or death, right? But in our life, what is you probably discovered this. What is the penalty of sin in your life? More sin. Once one sin is committed, the next sin is easier. And the spiral staircase goes downwards. How are we to do it? Paul says in verse eleven, strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might. For the attaining of all steadfastness and patience. We are to be strengthened with all power according to his glorious might. God has all power. There is nothing God cannot do. And God, we see in Ephesians, gives us all the spiritual blessings in the heavenly places. They are at our disposal. The power of God in your Christian life, the power of God for Hope Bible Church, the power of God in any situation is readily available and he wants to bestow it upon you. Now, what is that power all about? Homer can't Former president of Grace Theological Seminary wrote a commentary on Colossians, and he says this about the strengthening. This strengthening, however. is not for the purpose of enabling believers to work great miracles or perform stupendous feats before a skeptical world. It is rather for the production of spiritual fruit, particularly under trying circumstances. The display of patience or endurance under trial And long-suffering, non-retaliation, coupled with joy, is not always easy to demonstrate But when the believer is confronted with adversity, whether from harsh circumstances or hostile persons, and can respond as Paul here describes It is good evidence that he has learned something of the will of God and has drawn upon the resources of the Holy Spirit. We think the blessings of God are are, you know, power to go out and conquer Know its power to live, and live the way a citizen of God's kingdom should live. To be a witness to the world, not a warrior against the world. We are using the sword of the spirit to defeat the evil one and to confront him. We are not using it to slay our unbelieving next-door neighbor. Who mows his lawn at 6. 30 on Saturday morning or does other singularly annoying things. We are to witness, we are to share, we are to give forth and show forth the light of God in this world. Strengthened. And the idea there is steadfastness and patience, not great power. He says, I want you to have this power of God so you can work miracles. No. For steadfastness, for being firm, standing in one place. Holding the ground, patience, patience It is, I I I I teach and I work with with young seminary students and going through and and and the one thing I try to instill more than anything is patience. New seminary students they go out, they come out of Seminary, and they go to their first church and they want to change the world. Change their church, change it. We're gonna do everything, you know, I and I this book I read. Patience. Patience. And it it it your pastor knows what I'm talking about. He's probably seen the same thing. You probably experienced it somewhere in your life. And new employee, you get a new employee out of college or whatever business you're in, and they're new and they're gonna I've learned we're going to change everything. New boss comes in, we're going to change everything. No, let's be patient here. Let's see how this works. Let's exhibit some restraint. What is patience? When it comes right down to it, what is patience? What is patience really comprised of? Two things: humility I don't know everything. And a reliance on God. God is going to work this out, and He is going to give us direction on how to do it in His timing. Not mine. Power through Christ Then lastly, position in Christ. Position in Christ. Joyously giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. For he has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, that is, the forgiveness of sin. We have been delivered. We have been transferred from one place to another. That word transferred was used of great battles. In the ancient world. And a king would come and he would conquer an area and a people And what he would do was then take the people from this area and put them in this area. They would disconnect This was a way of gaining submission to the people. He would remove them from where they had been and where their roots were and where their loyalties were in terms of a geographic setting and move them to a different culture and a different place. and a different language, so that they would lose allegiance to the old and have allegiance to him Nebuchadnezzar did this, didn't he, with the children of Israel when he came and he conquered the first time to Jerusalem and he took Daniel and his friends. And the purpose of that was slightly different. He wanted to remove leaders, future leaders, as if Daniel and his friends were The cream of the crop. They were the bright of the brightest, the brightest of the bright. They were of nobility, of families of influence and power. And so he took those and took them to his court. To train them and raise them, remove them hundreds of miles from Jerusalem, separated them from the temple, separated them from everything they knew. People back home on one hand would be intimidated to obey and and follow Nebuchadnezzar's lead because their children are actually being held hostage in a manner of speaking as far as they were concerned. Daniel's friends over here were being trained. Remember in Daniel being raised and brought up with the food and the knowledge and the training of the Chaldeans. So they would be loyal and influenced and buy into the propaganda and the lifestyle and the and the way of working of Nebuchadnezzar. And Babylon. So then he would send them back to Jerusalem someday to actually rule for him. Local people ruling, but who are completely loyal to the folks back home. God's done, in a way, God that's what God does with us. He removes us from the world. He has transferred us From the kingdom of darkness, I need to change this, because you've been dark the whole sermon. The kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light. From the domain of Satan to the domain and the kingdom of his beloved Son. It is it is a a movement of cataclysmic implications To be saved and remain mired In the world, as John says, the world, the flesh, and the devil, to continue to live in that domain, even though your citizenship has been transferred to another place It was like that ambassador who let me write him a ticket, subjecting himself to rules and laws and regulations that had no power over him. Satan only has power over the believer when we give it to him. When we allow it to happen is the only time Satan wins What does the scripture say? Resist the devil and he'll flee from you. Stand firm when you are being assailed by Satan. Flee to God. Satan has one overarching strategy It's always the same and it always works unless you resist it. Satan's strategy with you here in Maryland is the same with my folks and people I know in California. It is the same with the believers in Israel right now where I go once in a while in my in my work. It is the same everywhere in the world that I've been, Satan has one strategy that he always uses. It's this. You're sitting there, you're presented a choice One choice is to sin, one choice is to not sin. And what does Satan always whisper in your ear? You can do it. You can get away with it. No one will know. No one will see. D. L. Moody says: character is who you are in the dark. And Satan says, you know, no one's going to see, no one's going to know, no one's going to it's inconsequential. Just, you know, go ahead. You deserve it. And a dozen other things that fit your circumstances And so we say, okay. And we believe him. And we do it. What's the very next thing Satan says? You're doomed. Boy, you've blown it now. God can never forgive you. You're you're worthless to his kingdom now. You you've you've you've lost it You might just give it up. Just set that Bible on the shelf and forget it because there's no hope for you And he will recall Scripture to your mind, all of the scripture of the holiness and the wrath of God and everything about that. And all of the things about forgiveness and etc. will be completely erased from your mind. That's how he does it. It's always how he does it. For he's delivered us, that is God, from the domain of darkness. The domain of darkness. I was giving a Lecture at the ETS meetings on Charles Spurgeon and his um w work in the church there and and basically the idea of social action and working in the church and meeting pressing needs in the community. And he talked about As a doctor walks the aisles of a hospital, so pastors and deacons and workers for Christ ought to walk the streets of the slums. And get to understand the crushing oppression that sin has brought into the world. And he says if you do that and understand that, it will make you Much more the preacher, much more the witness, because you will realize that only a great savior and a great salvation can overcome the great impacts of sin in the world. Spurgeon wasn't just a, you know uh a pie in the sky kind of guy sitting in his church and saying, you know, you need to do this. Spurgeon is estimated gave away a personal fortune. And in Victorian England, it is estimated that in his lifetime he gave away probably uh 150,000 pounds. Which if you translate 150,000 pounds of British uh currency in the eighteen eighties and transfer that amount into this this cent this day, you can see what kind of money we're talking about. He began orphanages. He had a pastor's college. He he was he was he had three great loves. To minister to poor, I shouldn't say poor. Impoverished preachers To make sure that they had food and clothes and things like that. To minister to orphans and they started the orphanage. Spurgeon's orphanages that he started still still exists today. 100 years later. And then the ministry to widows and others as well It's an interesting concept for what he what he was doing. He delivers the domain of darkness is oppressive And it can only be overcome by spiritual resources. You're here in what they call the Beltway, Washington D. C. , Baltimore, all this area here, and we're in politics and everything's going on is political. Folks, I'm here to tell you that the kingdom of God will not be advanced, one iota Based on who the next appointment to the Supreme Court is. Will not be advanced one iota as to who gets elected to any office of the land. And we live in this land and we want righteousness to reign and we vote and do our duties as citizens. But if we get caught up in the trap, That somehow we're going to make a Christian nation by means of carnal enterprises and institutions, we're fooling ourselves. How many millions and millions of dollars have gone into from Christians' pockets into political campaigns Instead of into ministries and ministers and pressing need Only God knows. And I'm talking both sides of the aisle in terms of conservative, liberal, it doesn't matter. For he's delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. We are now citizens of God's kingdom. Citizens of the kingdom of righteousness. We are like over on Massachusetts Avenue, if there was a building that was the embassy of God there, we would walk in and we'd be in a different country. And that's what we are every day because we carry the embassy of God around us in our person, everywhere we go. The kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption. That is the forgiveness of sin. Redemption is one of the great words of the Bible. And we don't always, I think, get the whole idea of redemption. Redemption is basically it is it is complete release based on the payment of a price. We were At a price we could never pay because of our sin. Christ redeemed us by his death on the cross. He purchased us out of Satan's kingdom. He removed us. There's more to redemption than that. Redemption is to be put back into a useful position. being now used for the purpose for which something was originally designed. Now I'm getting old. And I'm reminded of that fact more and more often. So this illustration may not work for some of you And so if it doesn't, grab one of them one of us who have grayer hair and and this might work for you. When I was a kid, we had blue chip stamps. Anyone remember blue chip stamps? A couple of you, good. That means there's someone that's at least as old as I am. Blue chip stamps were great. You'd go to the market. This is how it worked. You went to the market and you would buy food and groceries and and you would get stamps. You would get these these little stamps based on how much money you spent. And you would take those stamps and you'd look them and you put them in these books. And and um they had what they had around the Blue Chip Stamp Redemption Center And so you when you filled up a book or how many books, thousands of books, however many was, you could go to the Blue Chip Stamp Redemption Center, which was basically just a big warehouse of of toasters and ovens and stuff All kind everything. They had a catalog. And you'd go and you take the blue chip stamp redemption thing and you would give them to you and say, I would like this. You'd give them this many books of stamps and they would give you the item Now we didn't have very much when I was growing we didn't have anything when I was growing up and so I would go through trash cans and I'd get the because people, you know, I have a booch of sand, they'd pull them I'd pull them out of the bat bottoms of paper bags in the grocery market. We'd fill them up because a brand new baseball was one and a half books of blue chip stamps And so I would I would finally accumulate one and a half books of blue chip stamps and I would go to the redemption center up around the corner and they would go into I went in the back, they should mean once I would they'd go to the back and they'd give me a box that had a baseball in it I redeemed the baseball. I liberated it from the warehouse. But not only that, I returned it to the use for which it was intended. To be thrown, to be batted, to be played with until I wore it out. And then I go, yeah, no, it doesn't work at the allergy falls apart there. So you understand what redemption is. God doesn't use you until you well I guess he does use us until we wear out, we die, we go home to heaven. But it's it's not it's not as purposeful as being hit by a baseball bat, I guess So that's what redemption is. God has not only freed us from the warehouse that we think, oh, we're free from the dark domain of darkness. And we're free and we have liberty and we're not under Satan's bondage anymore, and we just go live for ourselves. No. God created you for a purpose. And when he redeemed you, he set you so you could then fulfill the purpose for which you have been designed. Interesting passage. Ephesians chapter 2. Starting at verse 8. Familiar passage. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not as a result of works that no one should boast, right? Everyone remembers that. You memorize it. It's one of the early. Everyone always stops there, though. Look at verse 10. For we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus for good works, what? Which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them God has a purpose for your life. He didn't save you just to fill a quota. Just to populate heaven. He saved you for a purpose before the world began. He elected you, and in that election there is not only salvation involved, but he has a set of good works. That he has designed and ordained for you, or you, or you, any one of us, individually We are designed for something that God has planned for our lives. And the question is. Are we going to do it? You say, well, how do I know? How do I know what God wants me to do? Back to Colossians. Be filled with the knowledge of His will. Well, how does that work? Well, you know, I uh I need to know what my spiritual gifts are. I you know I excuse me for just a second here, I have to rant a bit. I I I I've been involved in all these kinds of things, but I I have I I have come to the conclusion that one of the most useless exercises to go through is a spiritual gift test. Taking a test to try to determine what your spiritual gift is. I've come to the conclusion, and I'm sorry, if you've written one of those tests, I'm I'm I apologize already, but I have come to the conclusion that it is the single most useless endeavor possible. Well, how do I know what my spirit I can't work unless I know what my spiritual gift is It's an interesting concept, as you see in the scripture, that I don't do I have the gift of getting, do I have the gift of this, the gift of that? It's interesting because if you look at all the spiritual gifts of serving and ministering in the church, everything that is a spiritual gift Is also somewhere else in Scripture commanded of every believer. So, well, how do I serve? I don't know my. You know, what do you like to do? Go out and do it. The foundation of God's will is what? Psalm 24. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. You want to know what God wants you to do? Delight yourself in the Lord. And God still leads people. It's an amazing concept. But God still leads people. I was in a church. I'm a kind of a professional interim pastor in about 20, 25 different places over the years so far. working on my writing my doctoral dissertation on that subject right now. And um it's it's uh I I I've been in churches, a lot of different ones and and I always do the same thing. We're trying to you know okay they they want help finding a pastor and so we've come to this this process and we have uh five candidates. And they're well, you know, who should we start with? You know, I went one I had one elder once, well let's let's put them in alphabetical order and you know go further. A B you know well there might be a better way of doing this. And they couldn't decide. So I tell you, this is what we do. I want all five of you to take these five names and their information that's pertinent. I want you to all go home and I want you to spend hours praying about this. And and going through this, and I want you to really, really get serious about this. And I've done this about 10 times now in different churches. and recommended it to others. And I've never heard of it not working yet. And it's amazing because they come back the next day or whatever our appointed time was. And I say, okay, go around the room. Who have you listed? You know, you've put them in order now. Who's first? Well, you know Joe Smith. And they look around. All the other guys look and say, that's who I have first. That's who I have first. And I said, this is amazing that God actually leads his people. Now all the others, two through five, may be in varying sorts of order, but it's always number one, it's always the same. It's an amazing concept that God still leads his people today. We've been redeemed. We've been bought out of the slave market. We have been set to live a Christian life. We have been set to impact this world for Christ. And it's not always easy. In the Chronicles of Narnia, which has now been the first one made a movie, and I guess they're going to make movies out of the rest of them, too. In one of my favorite of the chronicles, A Horse and His Boy. C. S. Lewis wrote this. The hero was this boy named Shasta. And he had just, you know, he was he was on his way, this quest to to be ahead of the army, to warn the kings in in Narnia that that the enemy was coming to attack, and he had He and his friends on their two horses had made it through, but they were exhausted. They were they were they were wiped out, but they had gotten to where they were going ahead of the army. And they got there and and the uh the guy they met said, you know, you need to go and warn the king and you need to run ahead on your own because your horses are wiped out, the girl is wounded, you you've got to go on yourself He said this, Shasth's heart fainted at these words, for he felt he had no strength left, and he writhed inside at what seemed to be the cruelty and unfairness of the demand. He had not yet learned that if you do one good deed, your reward usually is to be set to do another, harder and better one. The Christian life is not a life of reflection on what we have done. It is a life of projection as to what God is going to do in and through us, both individually and corporately. And I pray corporately for your body and individually for you as we enter the year of 2007. Let's pray. Father, thank you again for this day. We pray, Lord, that you would Honor the apostles' prayer for the Colossians, even in our own lives and in the midst of this assembly here. Knowledge of your will. Give spiritual wisdom and insight to the assembled people here. Give strength and power to Their dear pastor, the leaders, those who would teach. Father, the work of redemption Transferring souls from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of your beloved Son. May that be the goal and enterprise of our lives as we enter a new year. Father, for every one of us, from the youngest of the boys and girls to the oldest of the senior citizens, Father, you've put each one of us into a place in a sphere of of influence where we can talk to others who are apart from you. Give us power. Allow us to walk worthy Allow us to glorify your name in the coming year. For we ask it in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.