And and that we've all kind of united around those things. Well I want you to think about it this way. But they were studying the virus to understand what is this, how does it work, what are the treatments that are effective or ineffective, so that they could improve what the if you could call them this way, the frontline workers and doctors and nurses were doing. That will soon be available to the public. Uh of course there's many forms of it, but even the the chat the type of chattel slavery still exists in some remote remote places. But be careful. From here on out, I'll be going to a a whole slew of passages. So he says, whether ethnically you're a Jew or ethnically you're a Greek, which is basically a synonym for anything other than a Jew. No, that's not what he's saying. But now as the new races, those who are within the kingdom of God, we all have equal standing before God, no matter what secondary distinctions there might be. If you have been redeemed by Christ, then you are my brother and sister in the deepest, truest sense. Therefore I urge you, my brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living and holy sacrifice accessible to God which is your spiritual service of worship We need to have a metamorphosis in our thinking. That's fleshly earthly thinking. Well the scripture teaches that unredeemed people do not have the capacity to change their hostility. but you believe what the Bible teaches. They are against you, you are not against them. So for those of you online, I'm sure most of you couldn't couldn't hear that uh unfortunately, which is another great reason to come in person. Yeah. And as long as I've done that as long as I've succeeded in not dying, then there's not really been any significant harm in all of this. That's not to say we shouldn't have those and there aren't appropriate ways to engage with those that we don't know, but um but we do need to be wise. Uh I feel different about this class. I've been listening to other pastors who take other positions and view things very differently. To speak up, to ask questions, to make comments, to contribute your own understanding, uh so that we can all learn and grow from one another Not telescopes microscopes. faith is really best stated in Ephesians chapter four, where Paul says, uh effectively, that we are to attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a mature manhood, to the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ. Peter, don't you understand the ra ramifications of that? Excluded from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. is the law of commandments contained in ordinances that he himself, so that in himself he might make the two into one new man, thus establishing peace. Verses one to three, and you were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the Spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Sorry, empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world, rather than according to Christ. Hey, can you listen to this? We don't know who would be elected. So we are to discuss issues or if we're in a disagreement or if we see something that we disagree with, we are to discuss it. You know, presumably that means talk about difficult things and yeah, we're just affirming that that's that's precisely what we need to be doing. And I'll send you the link. Thank you for uh this new quarter. Uh significant because of what's going on in our world. uh through this class that you would uh renew our minds, that you would allow us to not be conformed to this world, but to be transformed. with my brothers i uh in Christ here in the church and I know there's some measure of of disagreement, but even more than that, uh because these are volatile issues. Pope Bible Church. and helpful for all of us. Uh so he won't be as involved as Danny and I. and they were going to hospital and doctors and nurses were just frantically trying to care for these people. filling up our hospitals, people would still be dying because there wouldn't be the new treatments and more effective treatments and all the rest. Or if you're saying this, then these are the other things that you think. class, either by email or you know, getting together for lunch or a phone call or something. So give us opportunities to interact when when there's disagreement or confusion. But speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head, even Christ, from whom the whole body fitted Not my life experience, not the talking heads I listen to, not the leaders of this world, not my preferred uh news sources or philosophers. And we were talking about his experience and he was saying how uh um e they went to a particular Presbyterian church that wasn't segregated. Actually Steve Austin was pastor much later when segregation was not uh there. Uh and of course that America has a long and sordid history with racism is inarguable. Sometimes those lawn those lines are drawn along skin color. Toward the Samaritans, and vice versa. at the Philadelphia Museum doing evangelism. And it doesn't just exist in white people, as some would suggest. Even the best laws and systems cannot change the heart of man. Gentiles, he's made both groups into one and broke down the barrier of the dividing wall by abolishing in his flesh the enmity which That's not the right verse. Those who are here at Hope Bible Church, who have covenanted together as the local body of Christ, and all believers throughout the whole world Every one of us and we will see people from every tribe, nation, people, language, skin color. Not only do we need to develop new thinking, we also need to develop new living. Verse twenty two, what did we learn? And then put on the new self, which in the in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. Start working so that we can give. Christ and God. Morality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry, for it is because of these things that the wrath of God will come upon the sons of disobedience. In Scripture, as part of this transformation, we are warned about the dangers of worldliness. Fundamentally starts with evolutionary thinking, and out of that is built a whole system of how we are to think about life. That's not to say that they can't say anything true, that they can't have accurate assessments and give us a good history. books or whatever else and we just take it in. Just one step after another scooching further away from the pure devotion to Christ, where all of a sudden we become you know, spokespeople for a certain perspective or a certain uh uh campaign or whatever it might be, and we we don't realize how far we have come from Christ. Friends, we need to be constantly testing all things against God's word. Whether it's an organization or a political party or a social theory or a people group, we need to go back to Scripture and keep working toward transformation. be monogamy in marriage? Not only the historical truth, but also the moral moral truth, and the world views it as foolishness We were hostile in mind, our our very thinking was in hostility against God. Now we all know wonderful unbelievers, family members, neighbors, people who are kind, who say hello and wave, and coworkers who you interact with and have productive conversations and and you know build won't always be violent aggression, but hostility in various forms. or other efforts, just make sure you don't tell them that not only are you a Christian Right? It seems like we're the world's end and where our end. that is gonna change in me. It's just like different how I see people move towards me since like I made that change for God even in the slightest way. Like the the slightest change knowing that I acknowledge God, I've noticed some people shift from me. The the closer you get to the Lord, the more hostility you receive. We're not positively against the world. I don't know how to love someone who's trying to take my help. uh uh believers could have for fellow believers who are kind of getting sucked up in the world And therefore we ought to come uh come alongside them, not necessarily confront, though sometimes that's necessary if they're in sin, but And just come alongside each other and have these conversations. Uh and pray that the Lord works and also examine our own hearts. in the world and not actually communicating with each other, which makes things worse. So, uh, for those of you online, Jose was just talking about um First Corinthians five, that we're not to judge the world, but we are to judge those who are in the church. I mean those in our church body, but the whole general. When we think about engaging with believers that we don't know, um let's just say on social media, uh the the danger is we don't have the basis of a relationship But ultimately that we would grow in the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God, that we would be rising to the mature standard of who Christ is. uh in our minds so that we might know how we can please you in all things. perspectives, but uh it just reminds me that as true believers in Christ, we can again read the same scriptures and come to different conclusions. But Sean Mornen is definitely going to be involved as well. credit where credit is due. how we as Christians can contribute to making society more just. uh amongst ourselves. Going back and forth. have opportunity for discussion. think, at least in terms of their thought leaders and influencers, weigh that against Scripture. kinds of theories. Now, some might say that this is a waste of time. uh issues uh that we can strategize and work toward uh addressing in society to make it more just And they struggled because they were working out of ignorance. And then there's a third group of doctors who were not treating patients at all, but they were in labs looking through And we'll be more effective in talking with our family, our neighbors, our co-workers, those around us. I I plead that you would hear what we say and don't hear what we don't say. We ought to be about when we gather together for teaching, instruction, and corporate worship, growing the unity of the faith. in his word. uh judging with right judgment, not judging with I don't remember the exact title of the series, but uh those seven messages, those are so helpful, so many critical And that is the standard that we would ask you to judge what we say and think in this class. Remind us uh of some critical elements of a Christian worldview, a biblical worldview that we have to constantly remind ourselves of. That our country has suffered the scourge of racism is not unique. uh uh ethnic pride or the sin of partiality has existed in virtually every nation in the world since the beginning of time Ask the locals and find out where where are the lines drawn between the people groups? Now again, please hear me. when I was being teased and mocked, uh in an attempt to deal with that, uh sinfully I looked at this other kid and he was wearing a uh To look at another person and think they're not valuable enough for me to even be kind to them. exists. laws and just systems, the reality of the heart of man should temper our expectations of what is possible and what to expect. into his marvelous light. And he's saying not only has God brought the people of God together incl to include the Gentiles, but now all of us, those who are believers, have been have have had the enmity between us and God removed that wall. in the spirit. We're a new race, we're a new people, we have new citizenship, we're part of a new family. so that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. Love. with them, we might have vast differences in superficial ways. There's neither slave nor free man, there's neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. and my brothers, for whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother. And we will say, These are my people. of complete transformation. And we have this in all kinds of passages, but of course a great one is Romans chapter twelve, verses one and two. that which is good and acceptable and perfect. Again, when after Paul has talked about the gospel and in the early part of chapter four, talked about uh the the unity we have and ought to be growing in as the body of Christ, then he turns his his attention to uh what it means personally in our lives to be living as a Christian. Master, we need to set aside all of the immorality and sexual sin of the past and put on righteousness and live as children of light. He says you did not learn Christ in this way. Everything in life should be completely different. Christ, keep seeking the things above where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. chapter 2 verse 8 uh right before he left where paul writes see to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deceit of Christ. Secondly, unredeemed people live in hostility to God. alienated and hostile in mind, engaged in evil deeds, yet he has now reconciled you in his flesh. But he refers to us as believers how we before we were saved We were alienated separated from God things and make things and communicate so I'm not saying that unbelievers are the worst uh that they could possibly be. Romans chapter 8, verses 6 to 8. to do so. From the very beginning. Well, excellency is there is in the plural, so there's all kinds of things that we ought to be proclaiming as the excellencies of God, but I would say chief among them is the fact that God reconciles himself to his enemies. We ought not to follow the world in making enemies of those that we are called to reach. 5 ambassadors of reconciliation. Can you can you f uh rephrase the part where you said when they know that you're a believer, how do they treat you? And I've known as like the biggest So in terms of them treating you better? Okay. Because you are a believer. to give but being treated in a sideways type of manner. I love them my guide or so I move like a human in this sense. growing in our ability in to do. And hear what what's their mindset? As if you will, intense as, hey, can we read this book together? Communicating with one another. Because like you said, there you could be thinking about something totally different than you should be because you're only allowing a certain perspective to come into your mind because we're not all coming to church because we're not all together as a as a body. uh there's often a sense of, well what's most important is our physical life. introduction to a sermon you can probably might be able to remember w what it was that some people weren't happy about. Rachel can attest this to all of you. class on sermon audio. I have a pretty high expectation that there's a gonna be almost universal agreement on anything that I might say. to live out what scripture teaches in terms of how we are to pursue and preserve the unity of the faith and peace. uh what is going on and why the problems exist the way they do. identifying the problems and go attack them, get get rid of them, deal with them. what the virus was in terms of how it works or how it spread or or how to treat it very well. Well, all of those different uh facets of the medical field, of the work that doctors do, are absolutely critical. and don't hear what we don't say. being fitted and held together by what every joint supplies, according to the proper working of each individual part, causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. judgment. principles involved there. I have to get through it today. Christians should be the first people to acknowledge that corruption wherever it is found. Uh the continued presence of rampant racism in many places is undeniable. uh uh Stephen Lawson. or based on one's geographic location. um camp, uh worldview uh leadership camp and we uh one time were in Philadelphia And obviously we know what people mean by that. There is the race of Adam and the race of the second Adam. In First Peter chapter two verse nine, Peter writes, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness. There's there's kind of a triangle that he's talking about here. Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole building being fitted together is growing into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you are being built together into a dwelling of God Paul says, For by one spirit we have all been baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether slave or free, and we were all made to drink of the one spirit. Whether socially you're a slave or socially you're a non-slave, all of us have come together in this new body of Christ under one spirit. Because we have a new master. to God as a fragrant aroma. What unites us as the people of God is far more, in fact, infinitely more significant than what separates us. Russia. It is hard to overstate the implications of this reality. The people of God. Recognizing that you are now a new people, recognizing that you are now the people of God, that you are a new citizenship, that you're bound together with the body of Christ that okay what this means is we need to develop a whole new way of living. Instead, look, keep your eyes on Christ and look at this world through the lens of the reality of your your glory that will come when He comes. things in our bodies and we think, oh my goodness, this this is natural, this is right, this is what's going to make me happy. That's not what life is all about. core. Speculations and every lofty thing raised up against the knowledge of Christ, and we are taking every thought captive to the obedience But, he says, I am afraid that as the serpent deceives Eve by his craftiness, your minds will be led astray from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ I think we'll have time for some discussion at the end. is not our enemy, but we are theirs. But it's all of God's truth. Because the mindset on the flesh is hostile toward God, for it does not subject itself to the law of God, for indeed it is not even able They cannot please God because they're in the flesh. Enemy. Why? As citizens of another kingdom as a and as ambassadors of the King of Kings. Almost fifteen minutes left. It's just like confusing. um look at them as enemies were to look at them as lost sinners who need redemption the same way that we need redemption. So um you mentioned earlier, Nicolas, that um sometimes we get uh distracted by the world and kind of the way that things are kinda going. Um but we we need to wrestle carefully uh with these issues and you know of course depending on what that relationship is like, whether it's how much you can do, how close you can get, but um you know, it could be something as uh preserving peace and relationships while having difficult conversations. I think with this uh political environment and with what's going on right now, some of us as believers have kind of shunned away from that you know we're having that we should come to somebody, we should talk to somebody. uh in terms of the lack of fellowship and missing out on interacting with each other. And the fact that we haven't been able to see each other, to ask each other after the service, uh, how you doing, you know, to go out to lunch or have families over for dinner, you know, those kinds of things, that's really brought a lot of harm in terms of our unity. There's a resistance to that. in most cases to have those hard conversations in a productive way. class and the desire that we have to grow in the unity of the faith. mutual edification as we uh learn and grow from one another and most especially from your word. uh in starting this class than probably anything else that that I've done and of course uh I'm not the only teacher but uh for me personally uh I c I can say that is true. Not just in the world as human beings as we see what is going on, but particularly as Christians, as we wrestle with how do we how do we de think about these things as believers that we're supposed to end. some, uh especially when we talk about social justice, uh, but that's not primarily what this class is about. As a result, we are no longer to be children tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, by craftiness and deceitful scheming. in his word. Alright, so four principles that must be the starting point. In the South, and they were talking about how this town is still thoroughly racist, with even nooses hanging from some people's porches today sweater wrapped around his waist. And he was a this big burly long beard biker, like biker to the max, right? develop new systems that aren't oppress oppressive, that are just. And there are those who have been born of the Spirit. You, the Gentiles in the flesh, who are called uncircumcision, by the so-called circumcision which is performed by in the flesh by human hands, remember that you were at that time separate from Christ One new man, that language is significant. In uh s first Corinthians chapter twelve, verse thirteen Kingdom. Uh we don't pretend like there aren't any distinctions. Whether you talk about skin color, whether you talk about culture, whether you talk about language, whether you talk about political persuasion or national identity, or anything else that you might say distinguishes you from another person, if there are two believers, they are infinitely But he who is spiritual appraises all things, yet he himself is appraised by no one. uh just a friend in the church, whether it's just somebody in the church that you're really more acquaintances than friends, or whether it's a family member, you know, the the nature of the relationship will determine I'm not assuming, you know, anything in particular of of what specific people are thinking, but just in general, in a very general sense If and the elders have acknowledged this or we've conversed about this, if we had an election at Hope Bible Church or we you know did a tally of who was going to be president as far as the actual candidates and and just within the context of Hope Bible Church, we That's harmful to the body. And Lord, we just want to appeal to you as at this very start that you would do your work of sanctification. This class is not also primarily about working through and understanding the history of racism and the presence of racism and injustices in our country today. About what is actually going on out there. questions. have been part of a church that has done that, but we have to acknowledge that that's a reality. Churches have been guilty of the sin of racism, and we have to acknowledge that. and not classify people the way the world does. That language is not uh by accident. one where Paul says in verse thirteen and fourteen, for he rescued us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Again, not denying the reality of distinctions, but they're not in the truest sense your people anymore. Answering them, he said, Who are my mother and my brothers? We are in need, now that we are a new race, we are in need of complete transformation. Think of it this way, one million years from now, I'm gonna make a little prediction here. of Christ. Unredeemed people see God's truth as foolishness. We read, but a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. views it as foolishness. We were not weren't only hostile in mind, we were also hostile in deeds. That's probably a sign that the Spirit of God is at work in them. They live in hostility toward God. But in a in an increasing way in our country, the world is hostile to biblical Christianity I I mean this next point with all sincerity. They are fellow humans who bear the image of God who desperately need the redemption that can only be found in Christ We don't we don't have a a name tag. Uh re remember that we are a new race, that we are in need of transformation, and the world is not our enemy, but we are theirs. that type of behavior uh coming from something. I think it's been helpful. W with this virus and everybody being stuck at home and doing their own thing, we can get so caught up in watching what's going on Um not not to put uh uh how do I say this That's why I just want to encourage you guys to come in person if you're able. Of course with love and and patience like you said. I'm I'm just in a in a sense I'm a little a little nervous because this class, probably more than most things, if I can be honest with you, it's gonna test our commitment to the membership covenant that we all made, especially for those who are, of course, members of Secondly, I would plead with you to talk to us if you do have disagreements and give us the opportunity to engage with you. So uh it's it's gonna take time and we won't be able to say everything that that could be said, uh, but we're doing our best to understand these issues through the lens of God's word. from Christ. But, beloved, the same mistreatment and murder of image bearers of God happens all around the world Or whose names are on your adoption forms. And do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind so that you may prove what the will of God is. Uh Paul writes in verses three and five. Verses 2 and 3. Man, I've really strayed. Or marriage, or abortion, or fornication, or hell, or the exclusivity of Christ? And they're like all the way you think you better send me. Yeah, that's that's so important, Marcus. These that are obviously uh significant in terms of ideas, uh, we tend to think about ideas and not about people. Uh and it was always, almost always, with people I either didn't know at all, or people I knew but just didn't have a a uh consistent relationship relationship with. And we'll assess that from scripture in order to get a biblical worldview to diagnose the problems in society. Is essential because when we understand the world's perspective and God's perspective on these issues, each one of us will be able to be more discerning about what we hear and what we read. And will also be more effective in how we use our efforts and resources to fight the injustices in our society Lastly, I plead with you to engage in righteous judgment by examining all things carefully according to that standard of God's Word There's probably a number of other principles one could point out, but uh these were the four that uh my mind went to in in preparation. And we know that racism is one of those sins that has often been ignored and justified. And there was another local church in town that was segregated, and I don't remember the flow of the conversation specifically, but in the course of that we were talking about a well known speaker. Every person on the planet sins this way. Racism and partiality still exists in forms that are overt and covert We have we are a new race. We are a new race, and that should not let us. against God's truth. No matter who in the world it is, something is probably wrong in our thinking. Unredeemed people, and I don't you know use that language to be demeaning or any I I was unredeemed, right? The world views us true believers, those who are committed to the Word of God as their is we say, I don't like what you do. Especially when we deal with difficult issues that have the potential to harm the unity of the body of Christ. On the other hand, it would be equally foolish for us to go along with the idea that what we need to do in society is to tear down the current systems that are oppressive and uh politics or drama or just kind of following uh after things. to see what uh you will unfold uh to us as we uh seek to learn and grow as your disciples. He wasn't black, he was white, but that was the sin of partiality in my own heart. But in chapter 5, Paul says, therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. Because you may just find that they have just as much hostility and rage and injustice in their heart toward you as a Christian than the injustice they're seeking to fight against. Start with, uh at least, there's probably more, but at least those four. Okay, so what you're saying is is correct. And we see those who are on the opposition again as our enemy. But especially within the those that we have relationships with, with our local brothers and sisters of Christ, we should be very active in uh loving each other and having these conversations. So that's that's why I think what we're doing in this class is critically important. Now there are four things I want to plead with you throughout this class. Right, it can be so easy for all of us on on many different issues. And these are incredibly complex issues. That's the standard we will do our best to judge what the world says and thinks We we can we would be forced to think that those laws have fundamentally changed the human heart Prior to Christ, prior to redemption, we were following our master, the devil. You need to develop a new way of thinking. There's an actual hostility. Whatever we say about the problems of our world, whatever effort we engage in, and we should engage in effort a greater strength of unity among us, that we would grow in our love for each other, in our understanding of your word, in our appreciation for the different vantage points and perspectives and experiences. We must acknowledge the corruption of sin in all humanity. The blessing of being quick to identify sin as sin is we know what the solution is. Now, of course, we're more familiar with the horrors of racism in our country, things like slavery, the harassment and abuse and lynching and gruesome mistreatment of black people Uh of course what does the sinful heart do? We are a new race. Every unbeliever, including racists and unjust judges and wicked leaders, all of them are image bearers who need the gospel. I mean, I meant I think the first passage I referred to was 1 Peter 2 9. How can we proclaim that excellency if we are making enemies of those that we're called to reach? More along more uh perhaps better stated, come alongside them with love and grace and gentleness. And had conversations about it. And so there are those who read the same scriptures that we read and come to different conclusions. Somebody says something and we we don't hear what they say, we interpret what they say, well if you said this, well what you really meant was that. And until Christ comes back and establishes his k kingdom on the earth, it will continue to exist. What is God's purpose for making us those things? If you want to talk about the weather we can do that. Maybe you're confused with the statement, the world is not our enemy in relation from us to them. And just look at what the Scripture says, whether it's you know things that we talked about today or things we'll talk about the rest of this class and At many times in church history, the church has been outspoken about certain sins and then completely blind to rampant sins within its own walls Ephesians two, eleven to twenty-two. Whoever you would say that these are my people, they are not your people anymore, in the truest sense There's a lot of deception out there. Oh okay, okay. That perhaps a clearer way to state the third the fourth point is the world hates us, but we ought not to hate the world. Or you can just go to Sermon Audio and find our church sermons. That's that's really a summation of it all. And when when his brother heard that, he's like, Dolphinway, that was the segregated church when he was a kid. Because pride and partiality are inherent in sinful man, we would be foolish to think that the laws of men can rectify the injustices of slavery and segregation and other unjust laws. It must be consistent with and not at the cost of our higher calling as a new race. Feel free to take it off just for a second, just so I can hear you better. And you know, every time somebody says something, oh I gotta I gotta make sure I correct them on that. We may talk about it a little bit here and there. God's word is the standard. The guy turned out to be a Christian. But now, in Christ Jesus, you who formerly were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. We are citizens of a new kingdom. And we might not be able to communicate directly with a person, but if there's a translator, or the Lord gives us a gift of tongues, and we find a believer, we will have instant unity That's what Jesus meant in Mark chapter 3, verse 32, when he's when it says a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, Behold, your mother and your brothers are outside looking for you. We could also add to that, we are to develop along with this a new perspective. When Christ, who is your life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with him in glory. But bring up the truth about God. And I'm really curious what you think. So we'll what I sense is there's a there's there's hesitation Uh there's going to be a measure of testing of our true unity uh in Christ. But I would just plea that you don't jump jump to conclusions about what we think and just give us an opportunity to promote clarity. Now again, hear what I'm saying and not what I'm not saying. Even a you know a single book, which of you know if you were to take every uh every class session, you know, you could come up with a book for this class, that would be woefully insufficient to fully address all the issues that are involved. So, is it any wonder that racism and partiality are rampant all over the world? He's saying that doesn't matter in terms of our unity in Christ. And I would submit to you that wherever there is no hostility, where there's receptivity, where there's an openness. But for our part, the world is not our enemy. I I think he's confused with the wording. That's not going to be the case. And we have a new master in Ephesians chapter two, verse Come on. You know, if you see something incorrect and you go to talk about it, there's an automatic rejection about that. My point here is not to minimize the sin of racism in our country. There was something else I was going to say about that. I could be wrong about that. But uh but there's there's a bit of nervousness at least on my part. I'll just skip to verse nineteen, so then you are no longer aliens and stri uh strangers and aliens, but you are fellow s citizens with the saints and are of God's household, having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Trying to work it out in my mind, 1 Corinthians 5, you know, where Paul talks about uh you know it's not my responsibility to judge the world, but I do need to judge those who are within the church. So other than today, uh a lot of what we'll go through, at least in the next number of weeks, has been put together uh by Danny. We are a new race. We're also warned against anything that would lead us away from Christ. There are things that uh are so deceptive because they don't uh we don't realize how they move us slowly. Now we see that in countries today, North Korea, China, Middle East, many, many places Our goal is to understand from life from God's perspective as revealed. We need to stop speaking in ways that are destructive and start speaking in ways that are edifying. So we are warned against anything raised up against God's truth. There always has been. Did you mean we're not to discuss things with our brothers and sisters? We have a new essential unity as those who are in the body of Christ. Another language that is used is with the fact that we are a new family. So I'd be glad to uh entertain either questions or comments or thoughts uh either on what I've said or maybe questions about the rest of the class or You know, just tied it there because they had taken it off. He calls us a chosen race. Just because we have been redeemed and uh become a new family and and new citizenship, that doesn't mean that that all of a sudden we're completely transformed the way we ought to be We're also warned against anything raised up against the knowledge of Christ in Second Corinthians chapter ten And I think it's very important that if we're having these frustrations, if we're having these feelings I have wasted so much time in my earlier years, hopefully not more recent years, uh, on social media having arguments about, you know, creationism especially and and other things. And so we we ought to be quick to acknowledge that which is sin wherever it is found and never minimize it. Earlier in the passage he in especially in chapter one he talks about how the word of the cross is foolishness. And those who are in the flesh cannot please God. And Devon was just acknowledging the reality of that in his own life. And so this week once we get this first one up, I'll I'll put out a link on Hope Books so that you can access those if you want to either re-listen or share them with others. Uh at the beginning of this pandemic, uh people were starting to get sick, right? You know, I've pointed people back to uh Pastor Leek's uh sermon series on We were following one who told us just do whatever you want, live for yourself, make yourself happy. Now again, this is significant when we think about, okay, what are the potential solutions to the problems of the world? Now that it kind of freaks some of you out, maybe. His word is the standard. That we must that must be the starting point for how the church engages with the culture. Uh if you know Stephen Lawson, just a powerful, powerful preacher of the word. We're a new people. Like I I don't want the way that we want anymore. I I'm not gonna say it's been successful in any measurable way, but it's been successful in the sense of So the the way that the notes will be formatted if you take in any classes from me, usually I have notes for a particular day and uh because I'm so committed to getting through them normally I can run right up until the time And our post-postmodern, because we're we're kind of post-postmodern now. I mean that's wicked. But when we keep our minds on things above and we have a heavenly perspective and we know what the future is going to hold, then whatever we see and feel, we're like, um that's So fundamentally the world when confronted with the truth of God, uh Oh, you believe that there is a God who created the world in six days? I'm gonna make you an enemy. It doesn't matter if you are black or white or Asian or Latina or European or Pacific Islander or whatever else. We have to have a a totally new perspective, and I would say uh an eternal perspective. You believe that a man and a woman uh shouldn't engage in sexual activity before marriage? So the hostility goes generally speaking one way Uh and Lord willing, soon after that, we'll be able to take our masks off and be closer than six feet apart from each other. Before Christ, whether it's a a language group or a national identity or cultural or ethnic Paul says, For I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy, for I betrothed you to one husband, so that to Christ I might present you as a pure virgin. For the mindset on the flesh is death, but the mindset on the spirit is life and peace. We have really a lengthy set of notes that we're just going to work through over the course of the class, which means that it'll be okay for us to kind of interrupt the flow and have discussion. Oh, no, that is the right verse. I don't know how that'll really work, but so you have to forgive me, of course the mask kind of muffles a little bit, but What are we taught by Christ? So Okay, I I'm just so so just make sure I'm hearing you right. Mm-hmm. It would be wise for us to recognize that even if we haven't experienced it or observed it It's so easy to be deceived in that way for all of us. Make sure that they don't find out what you believe about homosexuality I just assume that things are going to be well received and uh e even already believed and agreed upon and known and really all I'm doing is just reminding people of what of what they already know. I'm hoping he'll he'll be up here teaching at one point or another. Um so I just want you to know that's kind of an initial um feeling that I have and I I'm definitely looking forward to this class because it I really think it will be good. This class might be frustrating in some ways for some of us. Because we are a new race, because we're new citizenship now, as those who are the people of God, God sends us out as ambassadors into the world. Thank you. But there's a very real sense in which that's not true at all. Your mother and father and brothers and sisters are not the people who share your DNA. Christ didn't teach you or he didn't model for you to live like the Gentiles. That was really good. We need to be able to talk about these things. Alright, well now we're past time, so I've done my duty of of going over. There's a lot of of worldly thinking. Uh and, you know, just generally speaking, first of all, we need to remember that these are brothers and sisters in Christ, right? What's their perspective? And uh and and really seeking to understand, okay, what is going on here? Uh hear what we say and take it at face value uh and then interact with us on the basis of what we say. And these two high schoolers, I was the camp counselor and these two high schoolers came up to me and they said, hey, there's this this guy over here. All right, that's principle number three. Mm-hmm. Uh truth be told, most of the notes that we'll go through have been put together by Danny. And when we understand these issues from God's perspective, then we can grow in unity as the body of Christ. Having spent eleven chapters talking about the doctrine of salvation and the gospel, he says, now in light of all of that reality They have not been born again. But we are ambassadors. Does that make sense? Um it's always kind of an exciting time to launch into a a new class, a new set of classes and Thank you for pointing that out. Right? So you're welcome to flip with me, or you can just write down the references. That's what it means to be a new race. Oh yeah, this this is supposed to be true. I've really strayed. He's saying that since um the the statement is the world is not our enemy Uh it's significant because of what uh goes on in our own hearts Of course, I'm sure it'll come up. Walk in love, just as Christ also loved you and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice. And unch until Christ comes back, there always will be. So they are enemies, not in the sense that they are our enemies, but they are hostile to you. They're they're not likely short conversations. Uh and just have multiple conversations over time to wrestle with these things. And I and just kinda a a comment. But I feel differently uh in part because uh I've had a number of conversations uh Alright. And they came back, oh, he was a believer and he was encouraging and all this. We have new citizenship. We could go to India, China. We need to completely change our thinking. It looks for someone else to to pass that on to. Therefore remember that you, the Gentiles, uh sorry, that formally The the word transformation or transformed is uh in the Greek where we get uh metamorphosis. You you're not you're not against the world because you're trying to reach the world as a believer. In terms of the format of this class, it's gonna be primarily uh lecture, but we wanna And uh and especially we'll be talking about critical race theory uh and social injustice. We're a new people. Like I want to react as a human and how to knowing that there's enemies literally out there eating eating 'cause I'm serving somebody better than everyone. They just use nothing. Our goal is to understand life from God's perspective as revealed. The Samaritans didn't uh uh at one point they didn't allow Jesus to come into their town because he was on his way to Jerusalem. No, we are a new race. And they always ended up being fruitless, pointless debates. It's a universal problem. Not always trying to correct somebody. Those who are your mothers and fathers and brothers and sisters in Christ are Yeah. How are they thinking through these things? Can we listen to these things together and just talk about them? They but they exist. But I've noticed that like it just seems like people are out acting because they know that I'm not like them. I pray, Lord, that you would honor that desire and that you would work What we are going to be spending the bulk of our time doing is understanding how does the world think about issues of race and justice and weigh what they Why? For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh, for the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses. You know, I want to make sure I don't get sick. That's just a natural temptation and thing that we always do. We're not citizens primarily of this earth. But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, under the law. So what I want to do today, by way of introduction, so that was the pre-introduction. We need we need to stop lying to each other, start telling the truth. It's not. Sometimes those lines are drawn based on one's ancestry or one's tribe. And while that doesn't mean we shouldn't strive to seek righteous Alright, that's principle number one. We should not let what are actually superficial distinctions separate us. Principle number four is the world is not our enemy, but we are theirs. We don't know enough about each other. Principle number one: we must acknowledge the corruption of sin in all humanity In Colossians chapter 1, verse 21, it says, although you were formerly And then third, we can say unredeemed people do not have the capacity to change their hostility. If if you are going to join the world with their protests It'll even come up a little bit today. Because the sin of partiality is rooted in pride in the heart. That's the wickedness of the sin of partiality in the heart Um So um we you know Pastor Lake uh said something a few weeks ago and Well, at the same time as they were doing their valiant and good work, uh there were other doctors who were studying the virus. Uh it's not uh a loose tongue where he just doesn't know what he's saying. There's on the one hand the the enmity between man and man, between Jews and Gentiles, between the people of God and the people of the evil one, and then there's God, and God's enmity with humanity. That in re in reference to your former manner of life you lay aside the old self, which has been corrupted in accordance with the lust of deceit, and you be renewed in the spirit of your mind Bring up what Scripture teaches about life and morality and all things. You know, am I seeing things rightly? Some of you think, well, yeah, we should you know we should definitely be you know, there's a lot of different viewpoints. There are so many problems out there. And might reconcile them both in one body to God through the cross by it having put to death the enmity. In in Galatians chapter three, verses twenty-seven to twenty-nine. That's true right now. Set your mind, okay, get perspective here, set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on earth. And by God's grace, he moved me back. But I also know that there were people that were bothered by what he said and didn't say anything So that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. That's that's good. So that's you know, that's such a crucial question and something that we all need to be um uh Right. There are so many facets to all of this that it is so hard to kind of bring everything into a cohesive picture and then speak it in a short period of time. Slavery, for example, still exists in places in our country He doesn't mean those things don't exist. Jose. In 1 Peter chapter 2, This is what I must do because I'm a creature of this earth Now the only thing I would say about that is We have a new family. We do this in marriage all the time, for those who are married And in my sin, I I said, oh look at this kid. I'm I'm not denying that. We should have these conversations because And you know what? We are a new people, and not just any people, but specifically a people for God's own possession. Oh yeah, th their interpretation of his history that that that you know we we don't think. What do I mean by that? When we think about how do we engage with the culture, we must acknowledge the corruption of sin in all humanity. We're not to talk about it. We're yeah, not just our church body, but any believer, all believers. That's not gonna work. We are a new man. But where the Spirit of God is not at work, you will find hostility in various forms. We need to be very careful about those things. Lord God, we thank you for this morning once again. Now we're going to be talking about what are called critical theories, theories that seek to critique Understand that we too are growing, right? Ephesians 1 5 refers to the fact that we were predestined to adoption. And he starts out by saying, Don't live like the Gentiles live, you know, they who follow in their greed and their lust and their immorality, don't don't live like them. And that's as far as we're concerned, it's not our job to change people's minds, right? Not my opinions And it's been very helpful just to get other Because in my mind, bikers are dangerous people. One million years from now, when we're in the eternal state, I do think it will happen by then. And the last thing the the way to be most unfaithful to that calling of ambassadorship is instead of calling them to reconciliation As soon as I get it out and do that, we talk. Yeah. Even just seeing each other's faces. Oh, if you're not on Hope Book, uh if you're a visitor and don't have a Hope Book account and you want the link, just email me, uh gabe. Let me put it this way whatever or whoever were your people Romans chapter eight They are our mission field. And um then really just talking again, just communicating, hey, this is what my frustrations are. I mean it's as simple as like when I was in fifth grade. He meant it. We need to develop a new way of living. Principle number four. In First Corinthians chapter two, verses fourteen to sixteen So uh unredeemed people see God's truth as foolishness Uh w we don't realize all of what this pandemic has done in terms of uh harming the life of the body. And I I would tell you, based on conversations I've had We're we're seeking to really understand what is the root of the issues. Looking around at those who were sitting around him, he said, Behold, my mother I mean I th uh there's been times in my life where I've come to recognize Yeah. It's found everywhere. In other words, you were part of the human race. Pfft. Yeah, yeah. And the difficulty of that. Lord thank you for each one who's participating in this class and may it be a a time of Who are the people who uh seek to oppress and demean and even harm the other groups? And there was another kid who I think he might have had autism. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he will instruct him? We are called in 2 Corinthians I suppose like they really target you more. When I started walking towards God, I noticed a bigger shift towards me. But in the most significant ways we are united with each other. If we find ourselves consistently agreeing with the world And it's like, okay, well Yes, who's uh I can't see who's speaking here. No, I apologize if I wasn't clear with that, but um Yeah. But within the lifetimes of the people in our church There are those who have been born in the flesh. Right. We all do this in one way or another. We have a new master. And the best thing that happened from that is that uh a number of people reached out to various elders, myself or Pastor Kirby, or Pastor Plumley or What was true of Jesus is true The idea of the elementary principles of the world is kind of like the ABCs of the world. And we know that there's a whole lot being raised up. It's not just that they don't want to, I mean that's certainly true, but they don't have the ability to change that hostility. And we're going to have many opportunities, all of us, myself included. I was talking to a a a brother in our church who grew up when segregation was a still law. Um I think you made a great point in the beginning in terms of you know um I mean I I have in my life In Galatians chapter 4, verse 5. We all have equal um you know, when we talk about being image bearers of God, we have equal value and dignity just as image bearers of God. So those are the four principles that I think we must I want to make sure I don't die I was listening to someone who was saying of they were from a particular town. E even in scripture, as we read Acts and and the Gospels, we find that the Jews were extremely and violently racist Why? You are my people in the most significant way. Unredeemed people live in hostility to God. How how how can we as brothers and sisters in Christ share with them when we're seeing Um so there needs to be patience and grace. Uh but his schedule is a little busier. That's ridiculous. Again, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession? That's the that's the point that I'm Racism, which we could call ethnocentris or We're a new household. He was, whether we knew it or not, he was the one at the head that we were following. In other words, don't look at life from the horizontal perspective of what you can see on this earth. So they are positively against us, is what the statement is saying, the principle So they were just responding to the the symptoms that people were having and doing their best to care for them and and try and prevent them from dying. So what we're seeking to do here in the context of our Growing Disciples program It's been said there's only one human race And he one of his previous churches that he had pastored at was a church called Dauphin Way, uh I think Baptist, Dauphin Way Baptist Church in Alabama. Or we could look at Colossians chapter And we're warned against that. What biblical principles are they wrestling with or are they applying? So judge with righteous Because of what Scripture teaches about the curse of sin and its universal effects. In Ephesians chapter four. But it's still love See what I'm saying? Um as you saw in the class advertisement, uh Danny, Tyler and I are going to be the main teachers. Your people, my people, are And then the the the way the grammar is is implying it here is that hostility of mind works worked itself out in it in action. We need to be patient with each other and gracious with each other. Because you still have sinful men and women who are going to be ruling and making decisions even within the context of those systems. It's true right now. That is the world of unbelievers. In Christ's name. Why are we wasting time in here having what seems like an academic discussion when there are so many They didn't really know Third, I plead with you to know that our heart behind this class, okay, what motivates us, why we're even having this class to begin with. Now we are citizens of God's kingdom. How can we kill this virus even before it spreads? So now as believers, again we're A new perspective. What what's the way that they treat you? Yes. And that is exactly what motivates this class. Rather, it's the opposite. There are two races. And from that moment on through the end of the letter, he talks about the fact that If we find ourselves having more affinity with people who, biblically speaking, hate God. Now more than ever the world is hostile to biblical Christianity. What you're saying is No, I was trying to say the opposite of that. But that's not primarily what this class is about. We can go immediately to repentance, and for those who do repent, we know that it is met with overflowing grace and forgiveness. We may not I've seen many people claim that America is a racist country down to its core. In Ephesians chapter 2, this is a lengthy passage, but I think it's just worth hearing again. Uh we need to stop responding in malice and anger and bitterness and instead respond with kindness and gentleness and love. We are warned, first of all, against worldly philosophy and traditions of men. But we need to be discerning is my point. Well it's not just the word of the cross. Or when I was 18, I was part of a traveling uh uh worldview We have to acknowledge the corruption of sin in all humanity. Hey, Paul's gotten with our our our uh modern agenda of you know non binary things, male and female don't exist. We are not to be deceived by theories and philosophies and ideas that are fundamentally rotten and false at their Second Corinthians chapter eleven I just want to make sure in my mind that it's okay for me to go ahead and you know We're not going to be spending most of our time talking about Oh, Lord convicted me of that. Now that shouldn't surprise us. We need to stop stealing. I don't know how to do this. Why don't we just focus on Our marriages should look different, our parenting should look different, our work should look different If we didn't have those latter two groups and we only had the frontline workers, uh we would still be uh you know And so I just want to plead with you that you work really hard to hear what we say. You can go to virtually any place on the planet So whereas before Christ we were imitating the evil one, now we are called to imitate God. Yeah, I'm here. Okay, because the reason why I'm just trying to Uh you know, because generally I'm, you know, of course teaching scripture and and I know the theology of our church and and all of that uh For he himself is our peace, who has made both groups, that is, the people of God who were the believers of the Old Testament, and now generally. We are in need You know what I said? In other words, when we have earthly thinking, we we we look at our bodies and we feel We need to be watching out for that. And certainly we all know the difficulty of the calling to love our enemies. So What is our post postmodern culture's diagnosis of the problems that we see? And now we have a new master who says If indeed you have heard in him and have been taught in him, just as the truth is in Jesus, is Ephesians chapter four Uh we need to listen I just like seeing how they target other Christian friends I have like Principle number two, and this is massive, though it won't take as long. You believe that Jesus was virgin born? In Colossians chapter 3, verse 1, Paul says, Therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, Because in the in in the culture wars Uh we thank you for the the spirit of uh this um And uh Lord, this class is uh rather significant in many ways. But uh Dave On was uh or uh um Danny was clarifying So I know I've had to do to do a lot of that. Amen. But we'll be looking at a lot of scriptures for the rest of our time. How can we as Christians get the world to live in a more just and righteous way? I was kind of a tease and and um not beat up, but uh y you know, teased like some kids are He's wearing a diaper. What are you talking about? And we should be the last ones to minimize the evidences of that corruption. So let me pray. You were part of the race of Adam When it's not possible to do that in the context of the class, give us opportunities to interact with you outside of class. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. We know obviously from our culture that these are challenging issues that we uh are faced with. We were all unredeemed before Christ redeemed us. Mm-hmm. He says, But when the fullness Now, beloved Does that make sense? We're not necessarily experts just like we're not really experts in anything And then see what is their response to that. Of course I wasn't aware of those things at the time, but uh he was an easy kid to pick on. My point is to maximize that sin. Uh I mean you've already heard it in some of these passages, but uh Paul says there's neither Jew nor Greek That's just not true, brothers and sisters. So critical foundational elements here. We should expect it. Well, I know for me, I I really don't Uh that's what I've sought to do uh with with my brothers. I said, yes. You know, sometimes we we listen to things, we watch the news, we listen to the radio, we read a newspaper or or Okay. Just for my own personal edification and growth, I've And if there's questions about what do you mean by that or what are the implications or do you always also think the same those are valid He goes on to talk about salvation And then when I really started having And This is now the introduction. And he's like, Steve Lawson was a pastor of that church? So it's not just kind of a casual, ah, I don't believe that. So it's like They're not our enemy. Um and so uh Sometimes they're drawn based on religion. Now, old distinctions still exist, obviously. But we have the mind Thank you all for uh joining. I mean that you could just go butt through truth after truth in scripture. If I can just be transparent with you, uh as we get started, I'm probably more nervous I need to drink water. Principle number three. Does this person see life from God's perspective? Yes, most significantly it is the word of the cross that's foolishness to unbelievers. Oh hey Marcus. And we'll be seeking to understand what what's the worldview that undergirds these concepts We need to actually think about those things. Uh so just just so you know that that's who will be uh he and I will be kind of tag teaming We've all received the same spirit. We ought not to follow the world and make enemies of those that we are called to read. For your glory's sake we pray. Can we go witness to him? With what Scripture teaches us about the heart of of humanity, we should expect that that He couldn't goes on to say, Therefore, consider the members of your earthly body as dead. Because I know since I I don't know Yet the point is that we're not to And so some might be a little frustrated that we're not acknowledging or at least spending a lot of time talking. Well, shock among all shocks, uh we have They know that It's our job to love, to care, to preserve peace. So um How are they interpreting Scripture? We need to be careful to not um be overbearing with each other. They hated the Jews so much. Usually when I teach a class or even preach a sermon They were coming up trying to with a vaccine, right? I mean that really is the mission of uh of of any church. They are against you because We must This there's been so much harm done to the life of the body of Christ. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ. Pfft. Okay, the world These are people whom God has not yet saved. Um we will be posting the recordings of this Amen. They weren't necessarily treating patients as much. What is their uh engagement with that. Hey, you know, what is your perspective on it? Yes He grew up in Alabama. And now we are one new man, we are his new people. That's ridiculous. What are some suggestions uh powell at Hope Book or at Hope Bible. So we just want to encourage you to We see that I mean we've seen that throughout all history. My point is to say it is a far worse problem. And For the rest of this class today is to remind Pastor Mora preached on this Colossians. Well, the the way the world thinks, fundamentally, I don't know if Sean's online here yet. I have four principles. Unofficially Uh we need to imitate God, not our former That's not true. We are destroying We will look around. You believe that there should And uh And by God's grace, And so one m one time We are in a new Yeah. org.