It's always a sweet time to come here. This is home for me in many ways. So I look around I see people that modeled the gospel for me, people that were patient with me, and for me is a privilege to be able to come today and be able to open the beautiful Word of God and do it in a language that I usually don't open the Word of God on in that's in English. So we're really excited to be able to speak in tongues today a little bit. Please join me in prayer. Father God, I'm just incredibly grateful for the opportunity to be here, Father. Lord, this whole week, this whole time in the US, I finished yesterday with a graduation. Even today, Lord, in your incredible Love for me. Allow me now to stand here behind this pulpit, from which I got to learn what expository preaching even was. To hear for the first time, to see my heart being transformed like water that slowly uh keeps drop by drop breaking a rock. And now getting the opportunity to share from here, Father God. Lord, but it's not about me. It's not about hope. It's about your word It's about the power of the gospel. So today, Father God, allow me to put you on display. We pray all these things in the name of Christ. Amen. A man in his 30s finished a day at work and went to a secondhand store and he spent around thirty dollars on a few things. One of them included a little picture of flowers When he got home he put the picture over a hole in the wall that has been that had been bugging him for a long, long time. Years passed and this man uh kept that picture there just he didn't want to see that hole. the wall until one day he's playing a game uh never played it but it's called Masterpiece. In this game different pieces of art are presented and the players bid prices trying to guess the price of the art. Guess what? He's playing a picture comes out by the artist and sorry if I don't say their name pro properly, Martin Johnson Heat. That was really similar to the picture covering the ugly hole in the wall. He mails the Kennedy Galleries in Manhattan who handles the work by this specific artist. He gets a reply in saying please bring the picture as soon as possible. A museum in Houston called an emergency meeting of its trustees once this the Kennedy galleries matched them together and this museum approved the purchase of this picture in less than an hour and a half and bought the painting for two or no sorry one point two five million dollars. Can you imagine what it would have been like to be this man? To have his eyes open, to realize that he had something of such high value and he was sleeping on it. He just used that to cover a uh uh something that didn't look good in his house. Today we're gonna be in 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 10 to 12, and I want you to please Well we should be there. I can't think enough of of what would it have been looked like for him to go there to this new Museum and show and and to see the face, his face, and the face of the experts that are coming in and saying like, Do you really know what this is? I have no idea. How about if we give you one point two five million dollars for it. Of course. Today we're going to spend the rest of our time in First Peter 1, 10 through 12, and four experts are going to come to us, dear whole Bible church. My own heart And remind me, remind us, hopefully, of the beauty of a gospel that many times we do not understand how beautiful it is, and we need to be reminded today of this. Why? We just finished a beautiful time in the word uh in first peter at La Fuente Church We preached through the whole book. And it's a beautiful part of scripture in which Peter, who I can relate with a lot, many times getting in trouble, many times just getting really passionate and not understanding what the specifically going on but this man is telling people how to suffer well Peter is writing this inspired by the Holy Spirit reminding Christians that we're the spirits, elect people, people that call themselves Christians, they're in the middle of persecution, to suffer well. That sounds a lot like what I hear now that the world is ha what's happening around the world for Christians. What was happening back then is that Rome was burned to the ground. And the people went to Nera and told them, You burned the city. And what did Nera do? I didn't do it. The Christians did. So just imagine living in a place in which people hate you. for being a Christian. And in the midst of that, I don't know for you guys, but for me, when there's pressure, when there's hard things going on, the first thing that I want to do is almost take a break. No, no, it's okay, it's too hard right now to live in a way that glorifies the Lord. And that this letter says incredible things. Rejoice. What? Rejoice in trials. Trials rejoice don't match. That's why he's calling us to be exiles. This is not our home. Make sense for someone that thinks this is home for him to rejoice. But if you think of this beautiful gospel, then it makes sense. The same letter says, you know what? You need to submit to authorities. You need to submit to to your boss even he's horrible you need to submit wives submit to your husbands even when they're unbelievers Then after that it talks about pastors loving well. How do you do those things? You go back to remembering the great That's what we're gonna do today. I'm gonna start reading in verse six. And did you rejoice? Though now, and I'm reading from the ESV, now for a little while, if necessary, you have grief by various trials so that the test the genuineness of your faith more precious than gold that perishes through it is tested by fire may be found to result in the praise and glory and honor of the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. But you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and fill with the glory of obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your soul and portion that we're gonna focus on verse ten. Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesy about the grace that was to be yours, search and inquire carefully. Inquire what person or time Time the Spirit of Christ in them was indicated when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories. Things that have now been announced to you through those who preach the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven. Things into which angels So now we're gonna see four experts. Four experts. They're gonna come and tell us like, do you know what you have, whole Bible church? Do you know this gospel? And again we might we might I will say yeah I I know it's there. It's covering something in my life right now But it's there and it's helping. I can't see that part anymore. No no no no. There's something way more valuable. The first the first one that we have is the prophet's anticipation. The word prophet etymologically is divided into pro, for, and Femi, talk. So the prophet is one that speaks for or is Speaks on behalf of God. We're seeing the credentials. Deuteronomy 1818. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers. And I will put my words in his remember that God's word is important. So much so that if someone says that they're a prophet and they're not, look what verse 20 says. But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in my name that I have not commanded him to speak, who speaks in the name of other gods, that improved shall die. So the prophets are at the center of the Old Testament. We can say that they're pretty good experts for us, right? They look at you and they look at me and say Do you know the gospel you have? And and I will ask him questions. I can think of this guy that had the picture and he's sitting there in front of these experts that are gonna they're looking at the picture. I will say, like w what is it again? From When who did it what explain this to me right? And this is beautiful because right now this passage of scripture is gonna do that for us. So look, the what? What is this that we Verse ten, the prophets would prophesy about the grace. We sang about the grace a minute ago. And sometimes as Christians we just talk about grace because it's But have you stopped and thought to how beautiful that grace is? And the prophets are telling you, slow down. Think about The prophets Exodus thirty-four six the Lord of the Lord, a God, merciful and gracious. Slow to anger and abound instead of us, love, and faithfulness. And other prophets spoke of God's grace as the basis for his dealings with people, the basis for Israel's hope and praise. survive grace. There's something interesting. They don't know yet to see the whole grace. I can even think of of of of of Jonah. He gets extended grace. Grace. But then the huge thing that grace fellers. So you can tell that there's this like we can't grace, but we just There's something there, something else, and that's where we keep going. The prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours. Search and inquire carefully. There's the how How do they think? How do they interact with this grace? Search and inquire carefully, diligently. In the Greek, it has the idea of putting great effort to discover or learn something. To do a careful search, to examine, to investigate, to consider something with great great attention to detail. They gave uh in other words, they gave their lives With this careful search, I'm seeking to understand that grace. Once again I'm just convicted of how many times I talk about grace this is in like something that is just part of our Christian lingo. The prophets look at me like, do you know that grace? And then they say, look then inquiring what person or time, the when and the who, you know. They're talking about the when, what is the time, the who, that person. We know that already. The spirit of Christ in them was indicating what he predicted. This is something really important for us to understand because now we have the whole picture. didn't have the whole picture. That's why in the road to Emmaus, please go with me to Luke 24. Wanna read verses twenty-five through twenty-seven, but remember what we just read. We heard Christ's sufferings, glory in First Peter, right? First Peter one. Now listen to Luke twenty four verses twenty-five to twenty seven say and you're gonna see how some of the same words are repeating themselves. And he said to them, Oh foolish ones And show it's low, sorry, of heart to believe all that the Thank you. Prophets Have spoken. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer same words? These things and enter into his glory. And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the script things concerning himself. When we come to the States, my family, uh Marissa's family, in Arizona, they usually put a puzzle on the table. And every time they make it harder. They put more pieces and more pieces. So the last time we were there we were able to get started in one and I didn't get to see it finished. There's other times in which I come in and other people, other people have been visiting, have worked on the puzzle to the point in which I get there and I get to put the last piece. It's like wow this looks great. But I can tell you that all their time in which I started the puzzle there was a part of me that said like I won't get to see how this is done. And I don't know about you guys, I'm a task kind of guy. I want to see things Done. And there was a part of me that's like, I just really want to see it. And they told my my my mother in law, Marlita, please tell me. Let's take a picture and I want to see how it looks. That's kind of the image that I we have here. The prophets put pieces, pieces, pieces, peace, pieces on you. Us get to see the whole picture It's incredible. I don't know, and this is where I want to share a little bit of what's going on in Ecuador, but in Ecuador, the idea of that whole picture is not there sometimes. People see the Old Testament and and I don't know, maybe You guys also can't relate with it. But many times we see the incredible things that happen in the Old Testament, you know? Can you imagine just being like in the corner of Mount Karma with Elijah. Just see what's happening there. Incredible. That'd be great. Imagine that that there's been even Even some ways it's getting to see like the pillar, fire, the clouds, the the manna coming from the sky, all those things, how great that would be, right? And many times we want to see those crazy experiences, and we will tell the prophets and say, can we switch places just for a little bit? How how great would it be to see a miracle of the prophet? How great would it be to hear a prophet say something and then for that thing to happen? Wow! And a prophet will look at you and will look at me and say, I want to switch places with you. You live in an age in which you can see Christ. You get to see that grace, you get to sing those songs. In which I diligently sought to see, but I didn't get to. What a beautiful gospel, what a beautiful grace. There's a song and I'll say it at the end that finishes with those words, and now all I know is race. Another song says Amazing grace. Grace, grace, grace, paid for my sin, brought me to life. Grace. We're people of grace in a world in which grace is not known. We have the true grace. And not just that grace that sometimes the other day we went to a little trade show little thing and there were signs, you know, and there's all sorts of signs everywhere that they're cool. and you put them in the wall and they're kind of DYI I think it's what you guys call 'em. Uh and you put 'em there and it says Grace, you know, and it's like, you know, great. That's such a cool word It kind of sounds like hope and love, and we like those terms, right? We throw them around. But this grace is the gospel of Jesus Christ, who died for me. Who didn't give me what I deserved, but imputed Christ's righteousness on my behalf. That's that grace. Dear brothers and sisters, today do we We understand what the prophets are telling us. What a beautiful grace you have. And look at verse twelve. Verse twelve Says that they weren't serving themselves but you. It was revealed to them that they were serving not themselves but you and the things that have now been announced to You, through those who preach the good news too? You, by the Holy Spirit, send from heaven things into in in which angels long to look. Those prophets were serving you and I. Thank you, prophets. Thank you. Second expert, the Holy Spirit. And I just want you to praise it, even in the one before, you know, like in Latin America, like I mentioned, many times everyone is trying to look for this, you know, crazy experiences. But but no like like and that's something that it just Talking to you. Everyone told me that my Christian walk needed to be this crazy mountaintop experience, you know, like kinda like the prophets come you see what they do and but for me honestly it was just Sitting on a chair under the preaching, the faithful preaching of my dear American dad, how I call him. Just seeing the word of God is slowly breaking and breaking and breaking and breaking because that grace It's beautiful. Second one. The Holy Spirit, his ministry reminds us of the great value of our salvation. Verse 11 says the Spirit of Christ, and this is key in Latin America. Why? Because somehow we've disconnected the work of the Spirit from the work of Christ. So the spir the Christ is kind of there, still hanging on the cross many times, and it's kind of this idea of like divine child abuse in which you feel sorry for Jesus. Because what he did and then you kind of hit him with a bunch of like supernatural things that the Holy Spirit is supposed to do so that gets the people's attention. But you try not to go too much into Christ You just bring people through those big things. But that but but here it says the spirit of Christ. Christ and the Holy Spirit work together. The Spirit is pointing all the time to that cross. Of Christ. It's empowering that work. In Latin America, we need that. Many times the Holy Spirit is competing with the work of Christ, competing for the spotlight. And it's tragic Hebrews 9 14 says, How much more will the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offer himself without blemish to God, purifying or conscious from dead works to serve the living God God. It's a huge issue in Ecuador, my friends. And and the reason why this um expert comes in and tells us the Holy Spirit is telling did you know that the second third person, sorry, or the Holy Spirit is here To validate that incredible gospel. The preaching of God's word at this moment, I'm an Ecuadorian that learned English way down in life. preach this word and and and even uh you can probably tell I'm uh sometimes I stumble with my words. But if I'm faithful to the text the Holy Spirit will work through that Because the Holy Spirit is the one that empowers or teaching of the word, or preaching of the war, or evangelism. Many of you guys are in really hard places where you Work. Trust in the Holy Spirit. He's the one that brings conviction of sin. He's the one that opens the eyes of our hearts. Just be faithful to talk be faithful to to do what the word tells you to be obedient and not only in that sense and Pastor League said something like be close to Jesus you will not be close to Jesus if you don't value the the the gospel And that's the second part in sanctification. The Holy Spirit is the one that empowers the grace-centered sanctification. The same Spirit who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you. He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through the Spirit who dwells in you. you so today I ask you I ask myself what stops us from sharing the gospel I thank you so much Because you you guys didn't know that, but uh you kind of sent me to Ecuador. Because I understood what the Holy Spirit was and that he can work in really fragile vessels like myself Special in me. There's everything special in this Holy Spirit and this gospel. And because of the Holy Spirit, you can go boldly to proclaim the word You know, because of the Holy Spirit, you can trust the promise that He will finish the work that He started in your life, regardless of the situation that you're in now. Because of the Holy Spirit, you have hope that the world doesn't have Thank you, Holy Spirit. The third one, the apostles, reminds us of Holy Spirit sent from heaven. The apostles are are people that God used to set the foundation to the church. Let me ask you something. Do you set two foundations? Just one, right? Another And if you have a if your church is connected to the apostle such and such, it's a real real church. They have the covering of that apostle. And many people are eating this up. Sadly. Those apostles obviously fly in crazy expensive jets Have incredible cars. Right for that. But uh I don't want to focus on that. I want to focus on the type of lifestyle that this apostles have Acts four, seventeen to twenty, but in order that it may spread no further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more to anyone in his name. people like and this is in different times. The disciples are doing what happened after the road of emails that we just read a minute ago, they're excited. They seen Jesus, they realize I need to share this. I can't keep it to myself. I'm gonna share it. People don't like that. So they call them and charge them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus, whether the disciples say. What do the apostles say? But Peter and John together writes this. The guy that the guy that the day of the death of Christ he denied the Lord three times. Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you must judge. For we cannot but speak or we have seen. Unheard. Acts 5 40. And when they had called in the apostles, they beat them and charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus and let them go. Then they left the presence of the council rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer this honor for the name. And every day in the temple they keep talking about Jesus, about this grace. And from house to house they did not cease teaching and preaching Preaching that the Christ is Jesus. Romans 1:16, I am not ashamed of the gospel. You you can see what someone values based on their actions. Some people would say, you know what, I value my family but I never see them. I would joke with Bruce wherever she is, but I say I love Brazilian jiu-jitsu, but I never go train But I love talking with him about him. But I never go. My my coach is like, really? But sometimes it's Same thing happens about the gospel. We say we love Jesus. We might even have a sticker in our car. We might, you know, have the app, you know, have our Bible. But does our life, has our life been like, I don't know, just shaped into a way in which the gospel is clearly seen as what is important in your life? And that's a scary thought. The last time I made that thought I ended up in Ecuador. I love the states I did. I had a great education from the Masters University. I was serving at a local church. I was doing great like the Lord the El is in a great place in my life. life. Then someone shares something like what I'm sharing today that's from the word and he said does your life make sense without the gospel? Yes. So so what makes You need to reorient your life so that people say, like, why would you live that way? Because I value the gospel so much. That's why I reoriented my life life that way. Before I known it I was on a plane to Ecuador and and in the words of Paul Trip like I shared yesterday with my class, you will take you where you not want to go to achieving you what you cannot achieve on your own But that can only happen when you value the gospel and open those things. And I know that's scary, but he will carry you through that. He will carry you through that. He's no fool, a man that died in my country. He's no fool who gives what he cannot keep, gain, what he cannot lose. See as Lewis said, whatever is not eternally useful is eternally useless. Paul said for me to live is Christ. To die is gain. Thank you, Apostles. Finally, the longing of the angels reminds us of the great value of our salvation. The angels, verse twelve, this verse is I don't know. I I love this verse. Things in into which angels long to look. The phrase comes here from epitome, to have a strong desire for something specific. could be positive or negative and the negative side that's the word that is used when you know someone is lusting over someone has strong desire for something you shouldn't have. But at the same time it could be used positively when Jesus has a strong desire to eat the Passover with his disciples. So this is a strong desire. And that's the word that Peter uses here for the angels. For what? The angels have this strong desire to understand what? Our salvation. Wait, wait, wait, wait, what? The angels. I think you guys had an angeology class a few weeks ago, so you guys probably think Correct me on this. But the angels. God is a holy God. Nothing that is unpure can even get close to him. And these angels are there. These corpse Singing to him. Those angels that are allowed to be around God long to see your salvation. The angels that are incredibly strong They're the ones that guard things, they're the ones that come down, that God sends them to bring judgment and nothing can stop them. They wrote the stone and so many other examples in the Bible. Those angels are so strong they look into your salvation. Those angels, I mean second Samuel fourteen twenty Says that they know a lot. Matthew 24, 36 says that not even the angels know when the day he returns will be. So they know a lot. They're way advanced than us in their mental abilities. Those angels look at your salvation, my salvation, say I wanna know more. I don't know wanna pick on you guys, but usually that row is always empty. Or we that some people say maybe the angels are in that one because they really want to learn. But it's true. In the sense that you know what, like the angels will be here in church I don't know the d the dynamics of the church, but we I have the privilege and I love Lef Winter. church, it's a young church and I love that. But you know what we struggle with things and I and I remember that 'cause I came here with a mahawk the first time I came to to hope And I remember that weekends will come around and be like, okay, is there any cool band playing anywhere between New York and Virginia? Yeah. And I'll just drive to the shows. But then when I see the angel saying like I long to see I long to sit on that chair and take notes and learn more about this beautiful grace your life It's molded by the gospel. You don't just add the gospel. You don't just use the gospel to cover something. The gospel is everything As I finish, it would be tragic for us to just leave with more pneumatology, the study of the Holy Spirit. Geology. We have an Old Testament survey to a degree. New Testament. We're the early church. But so what? What is this important for us today? Right now I need to hear this. My heart, my sinful heart, that's been redeemed by Christ. Yesterday I walked through a stage and someone gave me a diploma. And took pictures and people were like, this is so valuable. That's why we had the ceremony, right? And then I had the opportunity to stand behind a a pulpit and be able to speak to a lot of people. What an opportun what a valuable opportunity. Today I I look around and I see uh dear brother that married my my wife and I. It's here. What did they ask about being happening on my uh my pastor for many years and the last couple weeks I've been spending time with my family and I love that and I have a beautiful wife and a and an incredible little one. There's so many great things and I celebrate them all But my heart sometimes wants to get distracted and start to value things that are important above what the gospel is. And I can tell you something, dear brothers and sisters, now I'm an American citizen for the first time I got my citizenship last year. But this place is really dangerous. There's so much distractions. The other day I went to I think it's Costco and I bought an apple. And I bought an apple, alright? And I took the apple and I took a bite. And this apple tastes like a grape. And then I looked at the bag and they said, like infused with grapes or something like that. Or I go to Starbucks and I get so stressed because usually in Ecuador you just ask for one thing and that's it. Would you like milk with that? Yes please. They keep looking at me. I'm like Almond milk, coconut milk, milk from a cow, please. And praise God for all those options. But at the same time, dear friends, it's just a way to distract us from what is important. It's a way for us to just be enamored by thinking, you know what, I don't know you, but I know in my own heart, like if if he throws this huge temptation, I know that God has given me the tools and I understand how to navigate that. But the moment that he throws all these cool things around me. I'm just like, you know, like numb. I'm just like, oh this is cool, this is cool. When the gospel of Christ The gospel of grace is right in front of me and I'm not preaching it. I'm not sharing it, I'm not leaving it intentionally. I'm just kind of like, I hope I get an opportunity Share the gospel today. Are you pursuing those opportunities? Dear friends, that's what I saw here. It made no sense to me to end up my whole Bible church. I was a little punk rough kid that loved God, had no idea a lot about the Bible, but I knew I saw God working crazy ways in my life. And people from this congregation started to hang out with me, and I remember just seeing, thinking This is weird. You have a suit, I have a mohawk. Why are we hanging out together? Because of the gospel. Why are you opening your house to me and my family? Because of the gospel. Why are you inconveniencing yourself because of the gospel? The potential in this room to make a gospel impact is huge We would only remember the value of the gospel. Dear brothers and sisters, uh is one of the things that you don't say as a missionary, but we do have lots of needs in Ecuador. But you guys are in a rough place too The United States and these missionaries that are gonna come out from this place and go and live out the gospel practically in their work, their schools Young people, especially you, don't waste your life. Don't waste your life Second Corinthians 4 7. But we have this treasure. Treasure. Joseph Clay. To show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. That's the beauty. That the gospel is what is valuable, not me You can say, well, but this is so valuable. I know. I don't know what to do. No worry. Just be available. Trust God. Walk in faith. Let Him do the those things. I'm sitting there thinking, I'm preaching in this pulpit? Oh grace. All grace At the end, um after what we read in Luke chapter twenty-four, the man uh Jesus explains the word and at the I love that there's a part of there that says Didn't our hearts burn when he was opening the scriptures to us? That's someone that That understands the value of the gospel. Welcome dear brothers and sisters to the fellowship, the burning hearts for the gospel. And this heart and this gospel burns so deeply in our hearts that we'll do anything for him. He will empower it. Grace, grace, grace. Paid for my sin and brought me to life. All I know it's grace. But as I run my hillbound race, indifferent to your cost, you looked upon my hobbound race And led me to the cross. And I beheld God's love display. You suffer in my place. You bore the wrath reserved for me Now all I know is grace, Heavenly Father, thank you for your beautiful word Thank you for your beautiful gospel that you have entrusted us. Father God, thank you because you are the pastor. You're the chief pastor. Lord, let us just be faithful. Let us be found. To be faithful. Father, I don't know what that looks like and and and I don't Father God, I pray Pray that that that my dear brothers and sisters here will get to to see that the the the value of the gospel in their situation. So that it would be today being exhorted to do something or or maybe today just just realize How that grace speaks to their heart today, Father God. Maybe that's what they need. Re uh regardless, Father God, that the beauty of the gospel, the value of the gospel is what today needs to Thanks for this beautiful church, Father. Pray Lord that uh years from now it would be saved of hope, it would be saved of La Fuente, it would be saved of each one of us that we run faithful Holy Father God, looking for Christ to be put on display. We love you. In the name of Christ we pray. Amen