When you think about friendships that are actually portrayed in the Bible, whose name comes to mind? Isn't it Jonathan and David? Aren't they the ones that you think of? They are probably the best known friendship in the Bible and maybe in all of literature. David and Jonathan, what a special friendship that they had. 1 Samuel chapter 20 reveals the intense loyalty these two men of God had to each other Yet their friendship was an unlikely friendship if you think about it a little bit. Jonathan was the heir to the throne in Israel. That's a pretty important position. And David was God's choice to inherit the very throne that Jonathan was supposed to get. So how could they be best buddies? Theirs too was a friendship that flourished in the midst of difficult times. Things were not easy. Things were not always joyful. The land was ravished by war in their day, and Jonathan's father, the king, was in dismal condition. Really, the future of Israel, if you looked at it without the eyes of faith, was uncertain. In the midst of all of this, these two men stood by each other, even to their own hurt and sacrifice. Jonathan was willing to give up the crown for David. And David vowed a perpetual love and support that extended to Jonathan and his house and his descendants forever. Dr. R. Kent Hughes writes about their friendship with these words. The initial element in Jonathan and David's relationship was mutuality of soul. As the account so plainly states, Jonathan became one in spirit with David. Literally, the soul of Jonathan became bound to the soul of David. Jonathan saw that David viewed life from the same divine perspective. And when he saw this, his soul reflexively clung to David's. Here was a man whose heart beat with his. That's a beautiful and yet a rare relationship. Why don't we see more of this kind of a friendship in the churches today? For many people these days, have to say, especially for men, having close friendships is the exception rather than the rule. Why is this? What are the reasons for this? Well part of the problem, I guess, could be affixed to the uh me first kind of culture, the selfish culture that we have today, a lack of true friendship even within the church is uh rather predictable in a culture that becomes more and more preoccupied with things and with self. Wouldn't you say The more that we're into our gadgets and into our possessions, and the more we think about fulfilling our own plans and dreams, the less can we fit with those of others. Well, a decline in integrity and faithfulness and love certainly can be blamed as well. A selfish and individualistic culture dampens friendships. People can also get wrapped up in their work and spend so much time in work they really have no time for relationships. Or their family can become so important to them that they don't make time for friendships outside their family. Many people have been burned in previous attempts to have friends. They outreached, they tried, but things didn't work out well for them. Maybe they were criticized. Made fun of in some way, so now they've drawn back in and they're in the self protection mode rather than in the outreach mode They don't ever want to get burned like that again. They may even start to think, why bother with people? They're so complex and difficult. It's just not worth it to have relationships. Well, when you're disappointed with previous relationships, you tend to run away from others. You tend to want to hide. Or start blaming others and becoming critical and lashing out at other people. Or in other cases you sit there and become passive but envious towards others who have the kind of relationship that you would like to have. And then maybe you become manipulative to try to gain that back for yourself in some strange way. Others of you might just become resigned to the fact that, you know, life is hard and there are lots of broken relationships and that's just the way it's going to be. Others of you are trying to hold on to some relationship you have, and you tend to be controlling of them, trying to get them to do what you want, and that's your way of expressing the relationship. Others of you just may want to live in isolation and turn sour and even over time bitter. I guess on a surface level we might say that everybody has friends, someone to uh play with, someone to work with in the workplace, someone maybe that you go shopping with from time to time. People that you go to school with if you're still in school. But doesn't there have to be something more substantial than just shared common interests to keep a friendship strong through the ages? Those types of things make a weak bond, and they're easily torn apart over time and by distance and by changing circumstances. If you don't believe that, just think back to some people that you thought you were very close to 10, 15, 20, 30 years ago, 50 years ago for some of you, and you realize with time and changing circumstances Really that wasn't much of a friendship after all. Well we can all benefit from having good friendships, godly friendships, don't you think? It only makes sense then that we look into God's Word and figure out what does it say about having strong friendships. We have a growing church here. We also have a very diverse church here. And so it might be hard in this kind of a climate where people are new, people are different, they have different interests. And this is Maryland after all, and if there's a lot of traffic in the area, it's hard to spend time together, get together with one another. So as I was praying about what message should I bring to our church here at this time, this anniversary service My mind came to the topic of friendships and what God's Word says about it and why it's important to our church and to your lives as well. So let's look into God's Word. We're going to answer four questions about friendship from the book of Proverbs mostly, although we'll be in other places as well. And maybe the Lord will teach us something here and help us with this issue of friendship. You can open up to the book of Proverbs, but on your way there, let's actually go to the book of Ecclesiastes first. For the first question that we want to answer, and this is for all of the skeptics out there. Why do we really need friends? Why do I need friends? Now some of you are sitting there and saying, duh, I know why I need friends, but others of you, I need to answer this question for you. So the rest of you just have to be patient Turn to Ecclesiastes chapter 4 to get us started. It's easy to find Ecclesiastes. It comes right after Proverbs. It's Psalms, Proverbs, and Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes, like the book of Proverbs, is wisdom literature. It's a wisdom literature book. However, unlike Proverbs, Ecclesiastes saves the ultimate lesson you're supposed to learn from the book. at the very, very end, in chapter 12, verses 13 through 14. We're not going to be in that, but I want to read it to you so you understand where all of the truths that are taught in Ecclesiastes are leading. At the end of the book it says this, the conclusion, when all has been heard, so you could tell he's giving the punchline here, is fear God and keep his commandments. Well there's a good motto for life. Because this applies to every person. No one escapes this. For God will bring every act to judgment, everything which is hidden. whether it is good or evil. Well, we're not talking about judgment this morning, but that is where all of that was leading in the book of Ecclesiastes. But along the way, as you're reading, you read some very interesting and often helpful pieces of wisdom. One of those is found in Ecclesiastes chapter 4, verses 9 through 12. Ecclesiastes 4. Verses 9 through 12. I'll read it. It says, Two are better than one. About like that. Two are better than one. Because they have a good return for their labor. For if either of them falls, the one will lift up his companion, but woe to the one who falls when there is not another to lift him up. Furthermore, if two lie down together they keep warm, but how can one be warm alone And if one can overpower him who is alone, two can resist him, a cord of three strands is not quickly torn apart. Here is a simple yet helpful truth presented. Two are better than one. And three makes it that much stronger. Strength comes not from, all you cowboys out there, individualism. Strength comes from companionship. That's what God's word teaches. Two working together in some partnership get a better return for their labor. Their partnership advances both of them in a way that a single worker in the workplace just cannot achieve In business, it is far better to have a loyal partner than to work alone. Working alone is less stable and it's less productive and thus produces more stress and more uncertainty. Also, two provide better defense against an attack, they watch each other's back. And two who are out in the harsh weather can keep one another warm as they lay on mat next to each other with the biting cold, whereas one gets cold quickly What's more, three working together make things even stronger. A cord of one strand may be easy to snap. Put two together, that's more difficult. But a cord of three is not easily torn. And by the way, that word torn apart means snapped. It's the same word that's used in Judges chapter sixteen and verse nine When Samson with all of that divine given power snapped the chords that were attempting to hold him. The point is that these three chords twined together form something which is much stronger than one chord. Well the applications for that one illustration could be many Life is far better and stronger and productive with human companionship than without it. Well, that in a nutshell is why we need friends. But many of you already knew that. That is how it was with Jonathan and David. David needed Jonathan's protection and support before Saul's presence in the court. Indeed, Saul was trying to kill him. And Jonathan gained courage to act in faith because of David's example in warfare. Humanly speaking, if it were not for Jonathan, David would never have become king in Israel. God used Jonathan in that strategic role. God used that prince, Jonathan, to bring about his own purposes. And not only for David, but for David's future son, the Messiah, Jesus Christ. Well, so they had a tight relationship and they helped each other. Well, a simple brainstorming session could reveal many reasons and many ways in which having a close friend or two or three Could benefit you in your life. Right now, maybe you can start to list some and think of some that I'm not going to mention. Someone who cares enough to pray for you. They won't just say it, but you know they're really going to be praying for you They've thought about you, they know about you, and they're going to pray for you. Isn't that a comforting feeling to know? And the more you go through life, the more you you know how important that is. Someone that you can lean on when you're sick, when you're weak. So I'm going to help you keep your emotions under control. They know how you get anxious about something or upset about something. They kind of know how to talk to you and get you to get some perspective again. That's so valuable Someone to turn to to ask for advice. Yeah, they're not the most knowledgeable person on the subject, but they know you pretty well and they know the kinds of things that you need to hear. Someone to relax with and really enjoy something. You know, something great happens in your life or there's something funny. You want to grab that person that's close to you. You just want to say, hey, listen to this, you know, listen to this joke or hear about this thing that happened to me. It's just great to have somebody like that. And then on the opposite extreme, someone to grieve with when you have a loss. Someone who will urge you to live for God. You're getting complacent. You're kind of going through the motions. You're not full of the Spirit of God. You can tell you're not living for God, you're not speaking about God, your prayer life is getting weak, and they know how to come alongside you and say, Mm-mm. Let's uh let's get back in the word. Let's get strong again. Let's recognize what's happening to you. Someone to get adventurous with You know that you need uh to try some things and have courage and go beyond your comfort zone. And a friend doesn't let you always be comfortable. Come on, let's go do something. Let's go get that thing done. Let's volunteer for that. It's good to have a friend like that too I want to ask you honestly, do you have somebody like that in your life? Do you? And if it's your spouse, praise God, and have a best friend. As your spouse, that's how it is with me. But we're not promised that we're going to have our spouse with us all our lives. We need to have friends as well. If you don't have a friend like that, you're missing out. You're missing out on something that God wants you to have that would be a blessing in your life. Of course, it is true that our most intimate relationship should be with who? The Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord God. Someone out there knows that. He alone searches our hearts. He alone knows our deepest thoughts and our longings. He satisfies them. Psalm 63 teaches about that, how we hunger and thirst for God. It's always a mistake when we try to make a human relationship take the place of God, when we want that human being to be everything that we need, and then they fail us and we get all upset at them because, well, they're not God And they can't meet that need. And we try to get someone to be that way, that's so frustrating for the other person because they know no matter what they do, they can never live up to the expectations that you have So that's a mistake. Only God can fill the void in our lives that way. And while it is true that our most intimate human relationship should be with our spouse, for those of you that are married. who is our lifelong partner, our other half, as Ephesians 5 says, our very own body, there still is room for and need for intimacy of having a same-sex friendship as well. You know, God Himself has relationship with Himself. Might sound strange to you, but often when we think of God, we think of Him singularly. We think of of the eternal Godhead have perfect relationship and communion with one another, and they always have, and they are never lonely. God has relationship with himself. And so he models in himself the perfection of relationships. And guess what? He made us in his image. And he wants us, he created us to have relationships with other people. He didn't create us simply to have relationships with ourselves. We're not a Trinity. God is. And so he gave man a woman and then he gave men brothers and he gave us neighbors and he expects us to be in relationship with one another. So that's true, even if the relationships are difficult. You know, a man is not really Christ-like. A man really hasn't become like Jesus until he has close friends because Jesus had close friends. Christ had friends even when he knew his friends would desert him, his friends would abandon him, one would deny him three times, and it was one of his closest friends, right? They would fail him, and yet Christ opened his heart to them. He included them in his life. He showed them the plan that the Father had showed them. He included them in his work. He drew close to them. A man-to-man relationship provides something that a wife cannot provide. The same is true with a woman-to-woman relationship, although I can't speak from experience, but that's what they tell me. Those kind of friendships are so needed in the church, and they're so needed in your Christian lives It's important to have times where men with men alone share and talk about their responsibilities and their other relationships and have someone there to relate to. It is so needed for women in such a complex world for the what is the role of women and how am I supposed to act and then to relate on the level that they relate. To have those kinds of shared feelings and experiences where men are so slow to grasp what it is that they want to communicate. It's so important for ladies as well. And let us not forget our children and our youth. Sometimes we forget how much they need friends of their own age, someone that they can look to and say, you know, it's not just those old guys that are living for Christ. There's someone young too, about my age, and and they love Christ too, and and they're having their devotions and they speak up for Jesus in school. How important that is. That was true of Jonathan, as he gained courage, finally seeing someone else in his generation who trusted God with the kind of faith that he had. Remember what Jonathan did. We all know what David did. He went and and he and he told Goliath, you know, I'm gonna chop your head off. And he goes down there with this sling and slow stones and and he doesn't have a sword in his hand and and and there's this nine foot giant down there who calls him a dog and he he's not intimidated by David at all But Jonathan was the guy who went up and climbed up to the Philistine garrison, took on thirty men by himself and wiped them out all through the faith in God. Jonathan's looking at David, and David's looking at Jonathan and saying He believes God in God's power just like I do, and that excited their faith. It wasn't just some story that they were reading about in the scriptures about something that uh Moses had done way back before their time. This was a guy that was alive in his own time. And they enjoyed that kind of Christian believing friendship with one another. Well everyone in the church can benefit from a relationship like that. Okay? So there's the answer to question number one. Let's go on to question number two. What are some of the key qualities to look for in a friend? And of course you can think about these being these yourself. What are some key qualities to look for in a friend? Number one, faith in God. It goes without saying that believers in Jesus Christ are the only ones you can have the right kind of full and meaningful friendship with. What was at the center Of David and Jonathan's relationship. It was a desire to do the will of God. That's what it was. What got them excited? Acts of faith in God What did they admire most in one another? Zeal for the living God. Nothing is a stronger bond than the bond that we have as fellow believers today, the bond we have in the Holy Spirit of God. Second Corinthians chapter six and verse fifteen asks the question What does a believer have in common with an unbeliever? It's a great question. It happens to be answered in the same text It says the same thing that light has in common with darkness. Answer? Not much. Not much. Or the temple of God has in common with the temple of idols. Nothing. Nothing of real value, that is. Write it down. Fellowship in the Lord is the basis of Christian friendship. Fellowship in the Lord is the basis of Christian friendship. You can and should be a friend to an unbeliever. I'm not saying we shouldn't have any relationship at all with an unbeliever. You need to do good to them. You need to give them a listening ear. to show them compassion, to stand by them when they go through trouble as well. It's one of the ways we shine as a light in the world and we show good to all men. But you can never have the kind of intimate friendship with them They don't have Christ in their hearts. They don't have Christ in their minds. And if a believer does attempt to bond closely with someone who is not a Christian, to someone who does not have the life of God inside of them. Someone who's living opposed to the will of God, not truly thankful to the things of God, who is a disbeliever, an unbeliever in the Word of God, it only shows then how little that believer values Christ Himself. If you love Jesus Christ, you love to be around those who love Jesus Christ, who are most like him. Believers Share everything of value. And this should sink into our thinking. We have the same God, we have the same Lord, we have the same life, the same truth. We have the same mission in the world, the same love we share from the Holy Spirit, the same divine calling, the same enemy. The same future inheritance, the same destiny. The Holy Spirit lives inside each of us. He teaches all of us, He fills all of us, He comforts us. He grants us gifts to serve each other. It is among believers, and it is among believers alone, even with all of our faults. that you will find the quality kinds of friendships that you desire and that God wants for you. Hey, we're going to be spending all of eternity together. That's a long, long time. We might as well get comfortable with one another now. So here is a challenge. If you are someone who's been coming here to this church, or if you're visiting today and you've been going to another church, and it doesn't feel like you fit in, Kindly consider that the problem is with you, not with the church. That the people in the church are not perfect, but they love Jesus Christ. And so you have here people that you can make friends with. Now, second quality to look for in a friendship is loyalty. Loyalty. You can also write it down as faithful love. Turn to Proverbs 17:17. Proverbs chapter seventeen and verse seventeen. It says a friend loves at all times. I like that, don't you? A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. The thrust of this proverb is that a friend is always available. And then a brother will also always be there too when you have a greatest need. Both the friend and the brother are praised in this proverb. A true friend loves constantly, not when it suits him, not when it is easy, but at what? All times, right? So character matters in friendship. You know, many may uh laugh with you in your house and enjoy going out and doing some things along with you, but those shared experiences alone don't make friends. With youth, often it's the funny guy in class or the very beautiful gal or the amazing athlete who attracts the attention of everyone. Everyone wants to be their friend. It's a favorite pick. But you know, those kind of people, and I'm generalizing, this might be unfair to some, but those kind of people tend to be the least faithful in their friendships because they could pick from whoever they want to to be their friends, and they don't need you And so they're not that interested in being a friend with you. So don't pick shallow people. Really, shallow people are a dime a dozen. You can find them anywhere. It's hard to find loyal people. No, there's no question that loyalty was an attribute in Jonathan and David's friendship, if I can go back to them again and illustrate it. They even made a binding covenant with one another. 1 Samuel 20, verses 17 and 18, Jonathan made David vow again because of his love for him, because he loved him as he loved his own life. Wow, that was a friendship. Another attribute to look for in a friend is honesty. Turn to Proverbs twenty-seven and verse six. Proverbs 27 and verse 6 says, Faithful are the wounds of a friend. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but deceitful are the kisses of an enemy. Why would an enemy kiss you? And they want something from you. They're deceiving you in some way, right? Do we need to be reminded of Judas's kiss of the Son of Man? Yes, but why would a friend wound you? Does it sound like a friend? Because he knows you, and he knows what you need. And he wants to help you, and he's willing to put the friendship on a test to tell you what no one else really wants to tell you. Hey, you know what those last five people were trying to tell you? You've been acting parabled. You've been getting on everybody's nerves. And I care about you enough to tell you that face-to-face, stop it, you're gonna isolate yourself from everybody. You don't want to act that way And then risks having the wrath of the friend back and so they go back and pray and think about it. It's not that the friend needs to be insensitive or sneaky or overbearing or hypocritical in giving the wound. The wound comes with true concern. It comes in a kindly and a humble manner. When they do that, then that's faithfulness to the relationship. Listen, if something is going on that's going to hurt the relationship and you say, ah, and you say nothing about it, does that really help the relationship? No, it doesn't at all. There's a pretending going on because no one's saying anything to one another and we're just pretending to get along, but there's real hurt there. Or there's a real problem there of some kind that needs to be dealt with. A friend can help with that. A friend knows your strengths and your weaknesses, your likes and your dislikes, your sinful tendencies and your gifts of the Holy Spirit, and how you can use them. He can tell you when you're letting yourself be lured away off the right path. He cares. He's straightforward with you. He's honest. He talks to you. You know, if you're in a relationship with a friend where one friend is more dominant than the other and the weaker one is afraid to speak up, that's not going to help the friendship at all. Maybe the weaker one, the more quiet one, the shy one, doesn't want to say anything because is afraid, well, you know, I don't know, I don't know, I really don't want the conflict and all of that. Well that's not a good relationship. If you're like that, your weakness doesn't care for the person with the stronger personality, you have to risk it. You're not being faithful. You're being afraid. Afraid of the conflict. Friendship takes risks in pursuit of a greater relationship. Yes, sometimes the friendship will be lost when the wound comes, but sometimes it will get deeper. It's sad really when we see people going through very difficult times in the church and their reaction to that is to withdraw, to isolate, to say You know, nobody cares about me, and they just fade off into the distance. Those are signs of a lack of openness in the heart, but relationships have to be open and they have to be honest. Another quality to look for in a friend is wisdom. Wisdom. Turn to chapter 27, verse 17. Proverbs 27, verse 17. You guys know this one, right? Iron sharpens iron. So one man sharpens another. Iron, of course, was used to sharpen other iron weapons and iron tools, and so it became a w illustration. For how one person could make another person better, sharper, stronger. Constructive criticism and the exchange of ideas among men The challenge of one personal example, sometimes where no word is spoken at all, the friend just acted in a way you wouldn't have acted, and you're like Wow, that took courage. That showed a lot of care. That showed a lot of faith. And just that action sharpens you. That's the challenge of personal example. Between friends, it will sharpen literally in the proverb, the face of the other. The face refers to who they are, their character, or the wisdom of the other. In other words, no man should make an attempt to be an island unto himself, to go crazy on an island all by yourself. That's why we not only study the Bible at home, but we study the Bible together with other people to glean their insights and their skill and understanding. That's why, though we go home and have personal devotions, we also gather together with our friends and our our church to worship collectively. That's why we don't go out and evangelize alone all the time. We bring someone with us. We have a friend and we witness together. It's stronger. We were not designed to do these things alone continuously. The people who are good to have as friends are the people who will improve you, be alongside of you when you minister, when you do other things. They improve you. They don't improve your bank account by the way. They improve your character. They rub off those rough edges. You know, we're we're being shaped into what it is that God wants us to be, but there's still rough spots. We all have them, and it needs polishing. And God uses relationships to do that. There are imbalances in our lives. And we don't think they're an imbalance because that's just the way we think. That's the way we've that's where our character is. That's the way our our personality is, and someone else helps to see that's lopsided. You need a little more of this. And relationships help with that. It sharpens our effectiveness because we see more what we're supposed to be like. Well, we should be looking for those around us who can sharpen us. Think in your mind, who will not leave me dull? I want to be sharper and stronger and more Christ-like. Who will help me become more disciplined with my bad habits? Oh Lord, that person over there, I don't know if I can get along with that person. They're kind of tough. They're kind of demanding. Well, that might be someone you need to be friends with. Might be someone you need to be friends with. Who's going to set a great example of kindness and compassion? I don't like hanging around those people. They're always soft and crying all the time. Maybe you need to be around them. Maybe you need to be around them. Who will help you hunger and thirst for righteousness more? You're kind of limping along as a Christian. There's no passion in your life. Who's going to help you with that? If you just want people exactly like you, why'd you come to this church in the first place? You know? People that are going to make you comfortable all the time. I mean it's nice to be comfortable. I'm I I like being comfortable. But who makes you comfortable all the time, that's not going to help you. They like exactly the things that you like, they respond to life exactly the way you respond. They even like the same movies and the same humor as you. You're looking for someone with the same personality. You're not going to have friends who challenge your thinking then. You're not going to change. Proverbs chapter 13 and verse 20, you don't have to turn there, it instructs this He who walks with wise men will be wise, but the companion, the companion of fools will what? Suffer harm. You get hurt when you hang around fools. You want friends that will help you develop wisdom, not just have things in common. Young people, if you look around too, you say Well, I just want to have friends with those who wear the same kind of clothes that I wear, go to the same school that I go to. No, you're missing out on the relationships that will change you for the better. That's too easy. That's too comfortable. You settle in and you just become like a little clique rather than saying, look, I want the kinds of relationships and friendships that God has designed for me. I want to say if you've tried to develop a friendship with someone recently and it didn't work out too well and you're feeling kind of disappointed, you've got to think about this because maybe you're frustrated with the development of friendships because they're not really the friendships God in his sovereign goodness toward you has desired for you. He wants you to have friends with you mean that other person? Yeah, that other person. The one you've been running away from The one you've been trying to avoid, the one you don't get along with too well, might just might end up being the better friend for you in the long run. This is how God works. It's how he deals with us. God may want you to spend more time with that other person that you have less in common with because it will help you with your wisdom. Now another quality to look for is sensitivity. Turn to Proverbs 25 and verse 17. Proverbs 25 and verse 17. This one's kind of funny. Let your foot rarely be in your neighbor's house, or he will become weary of you and hate you. Be sensitive to your neighbor's need. You know some people aren't gonna be like me. When I get tired of you in my home I say it's time for you to leave. Yeah, I just tell you. We've had too many people in our home, sorry. I can't sit around and wait for you to figure this out. Many people won't say it's time for you to leave. You have to know. You have to be sensitive. How much time, how many things, you have to have a way of finding out. And you need to be sensitive to that. A principle you can learn from this is don't force yourself into a friendship. I'm going to be friends with that person because I like that person. You hang around and talk to them and you're always button in in the conversations and After a while, the person just kind of feels like this person's just hounding me. And it doesn't work well for a friendship. Insensitivity is when friends Well, here's some ways we can be insensitive. We forget to rejoice with those who have had a joyful experience. Someone comes in and says, Guess what happened to me? And like you're you want to talk about what happened to you instead of rejoicing with them When someone wins something, gets an award or a degree, graduates, kind of people ought to be happy for them. They ought to rejoice with them, you know. Don't let the insensitivity of a friend you currently have, however, ruin your friendship, for we all fail and we're all insensitive. Henry Ward Beecher once said, keep a fair-sized cemetery in your backyard in which to bury the faults of your friends. Sensitivity is so valuable in developing friendships, yet so is forgiveness. In fact, without forgiveness, how many friendships will actually last? I want to ask you, do you have a former friend that your mind is going back to and you remember those days and you had that friendship? What happened to that friendship? What happened to it? Where did it go? Was there something that happened between you and now it's gone because there's no forgiveness? Maybe you need to pick up the phone today and call her up, if it's a her, and say, you know A preacher was getting under my skin today about friendships, and I remembered the one that we had, and it kind of kind of reminded me, we haven't talked in a long time, and I used to really enjoy time with you. Pick up that phone and call them today, would you Another attribute to look for is encouragement. Turn to Proverbs 12 and verse 25. You want someone to keep you encouraged. Proverbs twelve and verse twenty-five. Anxiety in a man's heart weighs it down, but a good word, a good word makes it glad. Dabar pohov, a good word, something you say that's beneficial and blessing. Your words of encouragement are so important for your friendship. Sometimes friendships don't develop like you hang around someone and you say I've been hanging around someone but we don't seem to be really developing as a friend. Why not? Maybe not speaking enough. Maybe you're not entering into the relationship enough, saying words that encourage the other person. And you need that. Paul was in prison often, and he'd write things like this in 2 Timothy 1:16: The Lord grant mercy to the household of Ono Cyprus, for he often refreshed me. And was not ashamed of my chains. There's some encouraging words at a tough time. Friends should refresh the spirit of friends. When you see your friends, you're like, oh, I'm so glad to see you because you know they're not going to start with, well, some criticism about something you said or did. They're going to try to encourage you and refresh you. Well, those are some qualities. I'm sure there are more. But we need to move on. Question number three: Who are the wrong people to have as friends? Well, I'm going to take just a couple of minutes here. A few warnings to help you avoid the minefields associated with relationships. Proverbs chapter 14 and verse 20 We mentioned it before, Proverbs 14, 20. He who walks with wise men will be wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm. Well, that just kind of speaks for itself. You don't want to hang around fools, you'll suffer harm. I think also many of the Proverbs will warn about those that are rich and those that are poor. Turn to Proverbs 19 and verse 4. Proverbs 19. In verse 4, wealth adds many friends, but a poor man is separated from his friend. Why is that? It goes on to say A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who tells lies will not escape. And then look down to verse six. Many will seek the favor of a generous man, and every man is a friend to him who gives gifts. All the brothers of a poor man hate him. How much more do his friends abandon him? See, the poor, poor man, he has very poor friends. People like to be friends with the rich because the rich throw the parties and people swarm around them because they can give away and give away, and everyone wants to be friends with someone who's giving something. Offer something to others and see how many people are your friends this week. Need something from others and see how few even answer the phone. Who is there for you when you are sick or down, when you lose your job? Those are your friends. Not the rich, not the famous. You know, if you're a poor person and don't have as much to offer, you might say, that's that works against me and my friendships, but actually not. The ones that you get as a friend you know are your two friends. And then, of course, there are those who will show up and they will act like your friend, and they will say something nice to the likes of James 2, verse 16: Go in peace, be warmed, and be filled. Beautiful words make you feel good until you realize they're not giving you anything. Or they'd say they're going to help you out and they help out the way they would like to help out, not the way you really need. Proverbs 22 also gives us another warning. Verses 24 and 25. Proverbs 22 24 and 25. Do not associate with a man given anger, or go with a hot-tempered man, or you will learn his ways and find a snare for yourself. Some people you just can't develop a friendship with, or their anger in violent ways will rub off on you. And so there might be things you like about them, they may want to be a friend with you, but don't pursue that one. They're hard to speak with. They take offense very easily. They snap at others who approach them. So others see them and naturally avoid them because they don't want to become like them and they don't want to get into conflict with them. And so we have to as well. Enough time with someone who's angry and you begin to take on his characteristics. Same thing we could say if you're around someone who complains all the time, well you'll be a complainer also. rather than being around people who give thanks. And sometimes we don't want to be appearing like we're a snob and so we uncomfortable with that advice that says don't be a friend with someone but it's so needed for your character. You'll really be a better friend for them if you take keep a little bit of a distance and tell them once in a while some things they need to hear. Look back all the way to chapter 1 of Proverbs for a minute. Look at one other warning here. Because it talks about associations, and this is for the young people, but it applies to all of us. Chapter 1, verses 10 through 16, an extended section. Let me read it for you. My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. If they say, Come with us, see they want companions. Let us lie and wait for blood, let us ambush the innocent without cause, let us swallow them alive like Sheol, even whole as those who go down to the pit. We will find all kinds of precious wealth, we will fill our houses with spoil. Throw in your lot with us. We shall all have one purse. That's probably a lie. My son, do not walk in the way with them. Keep your feet from their path, for their feet run to evil and they hasten to shed blood. And it goes on. The key advice there, keep your feet from their path. Do not walk in the way with them. You can't be friends with them. You can't be companions with them. You know, if if you don't hang out with some people, they may start to turn on you. That's true. But the alternative is far worse. You'll become like them. The believer will often feel out of place in this world because he looks and he just doesn't see a lot of people that he thinks he could become close friends with. And that's probably true, and that's why we need teaching on it and to look for it. Okay. The last question we want to answer today is uh how do I develop and protect my friendships? And this will be a bit sketchy. You'll have to Follow up this sermon, kind of go home and think through what what can I do with this advice and how do I fill this in? Maybe you can let this be a study for yourself. I'm going to go quickly. Besides the obvious things that I want to spend time talking about, how do I develop friends? How do I protect my friends? You might say, well, we need to pray for friends. I hope you understand that is true. I need to spend some time searching for them. Of course, I'm not going to talk about that I need to make time for people. That's a no-brainer. If there's no time, there's no friendship. I need to love other people. Certainly if you're gonna hate them, you're not gonna have friends. But here's some other wise guidance from the scriptures. Turn to Proverbs 18 and verse 24. Proverbs 18 and verse 24. This might surprise you. A man of too many friends comes to ruin. But there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. A man of too many friends, or a man literally of many friends, comes to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. The wisdom here for you in searching for friends and developing friends and maybe protecting friends that you have already is focus on one or two or three, not too many more. You can spread yourself too thin like butter and toast that you can't taste because it's too thin. Should have put more on there And you're going to disappoint yourself because you're not going to really develop close relationships with 20. And you're going to frustrate them because they're going to be like, you know, I call you, and like, you know, you never, yeah, you just never have any time I texted you. Didn't get a text back. Well, I was texting the other thirty-seven people I text. Right? Conversely, one good friend that you would gain in the year 2010 would make it a bright, shining, wonderful year for you. Yet so often the sinful heart pursues more. It's like me in front of a chocolate cake. You know, one slice is not enough. You've got to have two or three or four. Why? Because look at all that chocolate cake Look at all those people I could have as my friends. Pick one, pick two. Go slow. Make it deep. Actually the word friend there is neighbor and you al you sometimes it's translated friend, sometimes it's translated neighbor, the context. uh is how you're supposed to determine. It's not trying to say a man of many neighbors comes to ruin. It's not it's not an argument for living in the country versus living in the city. That's not the point. A man of many friends or so-called friends, a popular man, comes to ruin. Why? Because in desiring to have many friends, he didn't calculate what kind of friends they would be and how much time it would take them to keep up with all of it and all of that. The many will simply use the popular one for their own purposes, and in the long run he will come to ruin. But there is one friend A friend that is better than the many so-called ones, he's the kind of friend that sticks closer to you even than a blood relative. There's a kind of friendship that grows so strong it can grow into something that's better than the normal relationships with siblings. And not that siblings can't be close, they can, but the friendship can become so very close. Sometimes there's a friend outside the family that can be that close. closer than a brother. That was certainly true of David. David had a number of older brothers. They mocked his desire to fight Goliath. Jonathan looked at it and said, Man, that's a guy I'd like to be friends with. Obviously, Jesus is going to be the closest and most faithful friend that we have, but this proverb is not referring to Jesus or to God. It's talking about a human friend. Our Lord had human friends. He had the twelve who were his closest, and among the twelve he had how many? Three in the inner circle. Peter, James, and John, and some argue that John was his closest friend because it was to John he committed the care of his mother. When he was dying on the cross. It was John who leaned on the breast of the Lord at the upper supper at the upper room at the Last Supper. Even he had just a few close friends. Not even Jonathan and David had the joy and luxury of being together with themselves for most of their lives. Jonathan was killed in battle, and David most of the time was running and hiding in caves from Jonathan's father Saul. So thank God for each friendship you have. Understand the purpose that God has for the friendship and willingly submit to that purpose. It's not the accumulation of friends, but the quality of friends we should seek. Now Indulge me a couple more minutes here. Proverbs 16 and verse 28. Proverbs 16 and verse 28. A perverse man spreads strife and a slanderer separates intimate friends. Here's some advice about how to keep friends. Don't let hearsay or bad communication cause a rift in your friendships. And notice these are not just friends that are separated, but intimate friends. Even the closest of friends can be separated by slander. That means slander is very, very dangerous. People can become jealous of a friendship that you have. You have a close friendship with someone. You're bosom buddies And they see that and they want in on that and they try and they just can't crack in there with you and so they start talking to each of you individually. Well, you know, so-and-so said. Well, when I heard them do such and such, I think they like that other person more than you Well then you make sure you talk with your friend directly after that. Mark it down when people stop talking to each other the friendship Falls into trouble. Another way to deepen your friendships is to prove your commitment to your friend in tough times. Look at Proverbs 20 and verse 6. Proverbs 20 and verse 6. Many a man proclaims his own loyalty, but who can find a trustworthy man? In other words, lots of people out there say, I'll be your friend. I'll be there for you. I'm a nice guy. You can count on me Sure, I'll do that for you. Many a man proclaims his own loyalty. That's what we kind of do. We have a uh a very high view of ourselves, unfortunately. I'm a good guy. I'm the kind of guy you want to have as your friend. Anybody says that, right? But who can find a trustworthy man? It's hard to find. But how do you know if he's trustworthy? Through trial and testing, you go through the tough time. You're like, why am I going through the tough time? I'll give you one reason. It's probably not the main reason, but it is one reason you're going through a tough time now. So you can know who your two friends are, who stands by you. That's valuable to know. Who runs and who comes. Who flees and who sticks by you during the tough time? See, during the tough time, you don't have much to offer. You're sucking up all the time. You're sucking up all the energy. But who's there for you? That's your friend. Ah and there's more, I don't have time for it. But I'd like there's so much wisdom in the proverbs about choosing friends, just not I just gotta mention don't be a a prickly cactus. Don't be a stubborn mule. Those are the kinds of things that push friends away. Look at yourself and do an evaluation of self and ask yourself, are you the kind of person that Makes statements that makes it hard for people to want to be around you. Evaluate yourself. Spend a little time listening to the things that actually come out of your mouth. You may be so familiar with it, you're not thinking, you know, that's turning people off You know, that discourages people. You know, it's hard for someone to say something to you next because you just you just kind of soured everything. You're you're sharp, you're a you're a prickly cactus, and people try to get close and ouch. Well stay away from that. I don't want to be near that. Evaluate yourself and ask yourself about that. And um one other piece of advice, be patient with development of friends. Friends are like a good wine, they get better with time. One other one I'll just throw in this. Don't be a spiritual policeman. Nobody likes to be friends with Mr. Discernment, you know. You know what's wrong with that is And and Mrs. Know It All, who points out everything wrong with your last comment. Get the beam of a critical spirit out of your own eyes and edify your friends, and you'll let friends. So let's pray. Let's pray for one another. Let's pray for our church to develop friends. Let's pray some of these friends would be unlikely friendships. That some of these friendships will grow deep. That each person in here will have a true friend. That you will not uh fearfully cower back into isolation, but you will reach out with the love that the Spirit of God has put in your hearts We'll remove excuses, let our Christ-likeness be with one another, make time for friends as we make time for family, shared experiences And really care for one another. Let's uh bow our heads, and when I'm done praying, uh Steve's gonna come up, he's gonna give us some instruction here for the for the next hour. Oh Lord, thank you for the wisdom of your word Just pray with a sermon like this where there's many bits and pieces of information that we would take them, we would organize them in our heart think about them. Father, that in each way, each one of us would learn the wisdom that you want us to learn, for none of us are perfect and we all need to grow to be better friends. We ask that you would deepen that in our church if you would be so pleased. Help particularly those who are lonely to understand themselves and understand their need. And Lord, to respond in faith to your word and obedience to these truths. We ask it in Jesus' blessed name. Amen.