Believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness And he was called the friend of God. James two twenty three Did you not, O our God, drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people, Israel, and give it to the descendants of Abraham, your friend forever? Second Chronicles 20, verse 7. But you, Israel, my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, descendants. Of Abraham, my friend. Isaiah forty one eight Three times Abraham is called the friend of God. What an amazing title to carry. Out of all the men on earth. You know, here's this feller and that feller and this guy knows this guy and that guy knows and here's Abraham. Abraham is the friend of God. What a thing to have said about your life. What a legacy. What makes somebody a friend of God or Jesus? Can we be friends of God? Are we? What would that entail? What is a life like that's not hostile towards God, but is a true friend of God? I think some people these days are considered lucky because they have a friend in high places, you know. But if you're going to have God as your friend, there's not really a higher place than that. And uh it won't be because of luck that you have God as your friend. Let's read about friendship with Jesus Christ, what he said about friends. Let's learn what this entails, what the attributes are, and see if we can apply this to our lifesome. We're still in John's Gospel, chapter 15. We're looking at verses 14 to 17 today. If you would follow along, you'll get so much more out of the message. Jesus still speaking in this great upper room discourse, although by now they're probably on their way up and out off the table towards uh the Mount of Olives. He says to his eleven there, because Judas is gone, you are my friends if you do what I command you. No longer do I call you slaves. The slave does not know what his master is doing. But I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard from my father I have made known to you. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you that you would go bear fruit, that your fruit would remain, so that whatever you ask of the Father in my name he may give to you. This I command you that you love one another. Sound familiar? So Christians here are said to be, at least these eleven disciples are said to be, friends with Christ, therefore friends of God. We as believers in Jesus Christ should know and count it as a great privilege to be called A friend of God in Christ. And then to respond to that friendship correctly in love and obedience We're going to go through four attributes of what it means to be a friend of Christ in God here, how we can please Him. The first one is in verse 14, and that is that a friend of God obeys Christ. That's what he says In verse 15, we see a second attribute. A friend of God is told God's secrets. All things that could be told are told. Verse 16, the third attribute, a friend of God was chosen by Christ and chosen particularly to bear fruit. And then lastly, a friend of God loves all the other friends of God, right? Because that's who we are, and we're going to learn about that. Look back at verse 14, let's look at it carefully and consider what it would say to us today You are my friends if you do what I command you. So friends of God, obey Christ. Jesus just declares this here to the eleven. You are my friends. The you in the Greek sentence is actually forward, and that means that it's placed there for emphasis. You and you in particular, he's saying, are my friends. Friends is the common term for friend, philosop, the same word that is used in verse 13 that we covered last Lord's day. We get uh Philadelphia comes from that, the city of brotherly love, supposedly anyways. Uh that uh it is a friendly place, a friendly uh person So it means someone is a close companion, a brotherly like companionship, Philos, a friend. That's what he calls them. Well, Jesus just finished revealing to them, if you look back in verse 13, that he was going to go to the cross. To lay down his life for his friends. In fact, he's saying, that's who I am going to die for. I'm going to go die for my friends. And who's that? You. You are my friends. The fact that he had so specifically cared for them is meant to show the greatest love is being demonstrated towards them. It continues this whole theme of the special love that Christ had for his own disciples, for his chosen ones. In this context of this last evening that he has with them, where he's about to depart from them, it's clear that the theme of the Jesus just wanting to flood his disciples with assurance, reassurance of his love, care, and all of that just continues He's showering them with his blessings and the relationship that he has with them so they will not doubt it as he is removed from their presence. Remember As we kind of think back to this discourse in chapter 14 and verse 18, he said, I am not going to leave you as orphans. I'm going to come to you. He came to them after the resurrection. He sent the Spirit of God to live within their hearts. He said, I'm even going to come back at the time of rapture and take you to heaven, which shows it has to be before the tribulation time, because he's going to take them straight to heaven. And all of these things to reassure them in chapter 14, verses 1, 2, 3, and following, and all of that, he continues that here. He's saying, You are my friends, you're close to me. Before he said, Don't let your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. I'll prepare a place for you in heaven. I'm going to come again. I'm sending the Spirit. The Father and I will make our abode living in you I I love you, I'm going to lay down my life for you, and you are my friend. What a wonderful thing. They were beloved, they were cared for, they were not abandoned. The truth is most of this wonderful love communication that Jesus gave this evening, they didn't receive too well. They didn't really get it. You could tell from what happened the rest of the evening and their fear in the the days to come, then most of the truth that was meant to reassure them, it didn't at this point in time reassure them all that much because their minds weren't really with him And their faith wasn't really there. They didn't have insight. But Jesus is working hard at it, and he's giving them reassurance. And so being the friend of Christ elevates Their title. It elevates their self-identity. You see? You're a disciple of Jesus. If you're a believer, I believe this text is saying that we are all friends of Jesus Christ and thus friends of God. Scripture teaches quite a bit about friendship. It has many examples of friendship, but some of the statements that are made, particularly in Proverbs, Proverbs 17, 17 says, A friend loves at all times. Well, isn't that true of how Jesus loves us at all times? Proverbs 1824, a man of too many friends comes to ruin. Those of you that are trying to be extra popular out there, realize that God doesn't want that for you, that'll lead you to ruin. But then it says there's a friend who sticks closer than a brother. That's good to have that kind of a friend, and we do in Christ. Proverbs twenty seven six says, Faithful are the wounds of a friend. If a friend can't tell you the truth, Even when it hurts, what kind of a friend really is that, right? You ought to cherish friends who love you enough to put their friendship on the line and tell you the truth about yourself. Proverbs 27:10 says, Do not forsake your own friend or your father's friend. Loyalty is needed in friendship, right? Jonathan and David were friends. They were so committed to each other, even to the point of death. Well, friendship with the Lord Jesus is a wonderful privilege. But listen, beloved, we are not to think of friendship with God the same way we think of friendship with each other. This is not like two buddies sitting in a bar somewhere and sharing light. Me and Jesus, my buddy. The modern concept of friendship lowers God so much. This is Jesus is not to be so familiar to you that you disrespect him, that you dishonor him, you see. These are not like two neighbors chatting over the fence casually. To think of Jesus as something like that, you hear say Jesus is my homeboy, that is so dishonoring to Christ. He is not a homeboy, he is not a co-pilot. Get out of the seat, he's the pilot He's the one that's supposed to be leading it. He's not a best buddy. All of that is to take Christ in his heavenly, majestic, infinite glory and lower him down To understand friendship as a human friendship among us where we're equals. That is not what he means. Did you know that after this wonderful pronouncement, the apostles never called Jesus friend? You know what they called them? Lord, God, King, Master, Savior, Deliverer, Holy One. They understood. The friendship was a wonderful privilege, but he was not their equal. Yes, Jesus counts us as his friends, but our response should be honor and servanthood He is still your Savior. Your eternity still is in His hands. What He pronounces about you will be where you spend trillions of years. He controls your destiny and that of every single person on this planet. What he decides is where you'll go. That's the fear and reverence and honor we should have towards him. Notice Jesus spells out the attribute of this friendship. You are my friends if And there's an if there, do you see it? Spot it, look at it. If you what? Do do what I command you. Pretty clear. Obedience. Did Abraham obey God? Yes. He stumbled sometimes, but his life overall, he obeyed God while all of the other peoples were moving away from God and not doing what he told them in the Noah Covenant Abraham obeyed God, and so he was called the friend of God. He believed God, and then he obeyed God, and the obedience proved that his faith was genuine. Now, friendship is always conditional, and I want you to see that this there is an if clause here. There is a real condition if you do what I command you. In other words, if you do not do what Christ commands, you would not be counted as his friends. It's pretty clear. A disobedient servant in the house of a master could hardly be elevated to the status of friendship. You know this. You wouldn't do that If there was someone that you counted as your friend, it would be because you could trust that friend, share secrets with that friend, know that you had the same heart, but they were always working against you, if they were always talking behind your back, if they weren't faithful when you needed it, would you really count them as a friend? Of course not. So also, friendship with God is not unconditional. There are conditions. Friendship requires trust, and the condition here is obedience. Otherwise, the friendship is a lie. Remember, Jesus is not explaining to them right now how to get saved. If you're here today and you want to know how can I have my sins forgiven and get saved, the answer is you need to put your full confidence and trust in Christ. He died on a cross for sins. He was raised from the dead bodily and historically. He promises you eternal life. You have to believe him and believe his promises. When you believe, because he's merciful, without you doing anything, he saves you He forgives all of your sins, because Christ paid for your sins, you see. This is not either talking about God's love that He has in general for all of mankind, that love that He has and He gives To people that blaspheme his name is obviously unconditional. He continues to care for them. He continues to provide them life. The sun still rises on them. The rain falls on their crops And they worship false gods and they blaspheme his name and they laugh at his commandments and they persecute God's people and God still loves them. There's an unconditional love there. This is talking about the love of relationship that we've been mentioning over and over here as we've been going through John 13, 14, and 15. It's the love involved in friendship, in a close, intimate relationship with Christ. For us to claim to be a friend of Jesus and then not do what he says, not pay close attention to his words in the Bible, well it makes a mockery of the whole concept of friendship. How could we be counted his friends when we're working contrary to what he's told us to do? It's not possible. The word commands, by the way, means exactly that. Entole is the verb. It means one who issues order. He's someone who ha has authority and he gives an order. It's not a suggestion. If it's not obeyed, there's consequences We are those that are under that authority. We recognize that authority, and we quickly go and happily obey the things he tells us to do. So there is human responsibility here Christ is placing on them alongside what we're going to see with divine election in this passage The disciples, and thus you and I, are to exercise our wills, we're to make real choices, to obey, and to continue to obey what He has told us to do. How do I know what Jesus tells me? I go to the Bible. Even in this very discourse we've been seeing him give commandments. We've been seeing him give exhortations. Remember some of these already. Back in chapter 14, verse 1, if you glance back there, it says that you are to believe in him and believe in God. Put your faith in Jesus Christ. That's a commandment. Love one another. That was in John 13, 34 and 35. Abide in him. We saw that in John 15, verse 4. Don't depart and go back to some other false teaching or to love your life in the world. Don't turn back into the world. People all the time want to go pursue what it is they want in life. They feel they're not being false They go back into sin and they pretend they're believers, but you're not a believer if you don't abide. We've learned that. That's a command. And there are many other commandments, not only in this text, but in the broader context of Jesus' teachings and the four Gospels, you can read about them, and then the apostles as they write the epistles on to the book of Revelation expresses the will of Christ. This is what he wants us to do: to ignore the Bible and ignore the teaching of the New Testament is to disobey Christ and is to prove oneself not to be a friend of God. We are to obey his commandments. And we are not to go beyond his commandments either. We are not to invent our own commandments, our own restrictions We're not to write what we think the Christian life is about. We are to stick with what is said, and thus we obey him. Again, Abraham was a friend because he obeyed the reveal will of God. He didn't invent a bunch of rules that God had not said and then prove himself faithful to those rules and pretend that faithfulness to those rules is faithfulness to God. It's not. Stick with what's written. Moses too was mentioned as a friend of God, by the way, in Exodus 33 and verse 11. It says there that the Lord used to speak to Moses face to face, just as a man speaks to his friend. That was the intimacy that he had. Of course, Moses was very reverent towards God. Friendship with God then does what God tells the person to do. Those who don't do what Christ commands can't be his friends I think of James 4 that says, friendship with the world is what? Do you remember? Hostility towards God. So if you really want to fit in with the world and have the world like you I'm talking about the world of unbelievers. If that's really your goal in life, you'll never be a friend of God. You have to take a stand and be unliked By the world ever to be a friend of God. Okay? So that's the first attribute. Now we go to the second, and that is that a friend of Christ is told God's secrets. This is exciting. Verse 15. We're told God's secrets. No longer do I call you slaves, for the slave does not know what his master is doing, but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard from my father I have made known to you Well, this verse is indicating growth in the relationship with Christ by these disciples. They were once called slaves. Now they're graduating, so to say. They're no longer going to be called slaves, they're going to be called friends And so this is beautiful. This again shows trust. This shows relationship. This shows intimacy. That term slaves. In Greek, doulos is the very ordinary, customary term for slave, owned like a piece of property by a master. Back in chapter 13, Jesus referenced their relationship as disciples and slaves, sort of looking back on what they had been calling him. He said You know, you call me teacher and lord, and then it goes on to verse sixteen of chapter thirteen. Truly, truly I say to you, a slave is not greater than his master, and that's the term that is used there. Paul, the Apostle Paul, knowing full well that he was a friend of God, still maintained when he wrote his letters that he was a slave of God. In Romans 1:1, it says Paul, many of the translations Smooth that out a little bit, says a servant or a bondservant. The word is slave. Paul, a slave of Jesus Christ. He took that title and he put it in a very first verse of his epistles and he understood that's who he was. Look at Galatians 1 10 as well. He called himself a slave of Jesus Christ So we continue to be his servants, we continue to be his slaves, but more than slaves, we add to that designation now something more intimate, and the way we're supposed to look at our relationship with him, too, is that we are his friends. Slavery has a very negative connotation in our society due to its inherent racism and the way it was practiced in our country's history. But slavery did not have as bad of a connotation in Bible times. It wasn't necessarily a great thing, but it wasn't thought of as poorly. In fact Most of the great men of God in the Old Testament were called slaves of God. That was their title. Moses was called a friend of God, but he was also called an ebed, a slave, the typical word for slave in Numbers 12, 7. Caleb Great man of faith in Numbers 14:24 was called a slave of God. Joshua is called, says servant of the Lord, it means slave of the Lord. Joshua 24, 29. Job is a slave of God. Job 1 8. David, 2 Samuel 7, verse 5. In the New Testament, Paul, as we said, called himself a slave of God. John the apostle also Jude as well, a dulas corresponding to the one who they are slaves to, the master, the one who owns us and has the right of ownership and the right of authority. But now they are being given a higher designation along with this, and we might ask why. Because they are being told what the master was doing. You know, you could picture a master's house, right? And uh the slaves hustle and bustle around, maybe in the basement bringing up food to the kitchen, you know, however that works And uh then the master has his chamber, he has his room, he has his special place. Slaves don't go in there. Slaves don't get called in there and sit down to chat. They don't go in there. But that's kind of like what he's saying. The master of the house is saying, You have been such a faithful slave. You've been such a faithful servant. I'm going to promote you. You're now going to be my friend. I want you to come on in and I'm going to let you know What's going on in the master's house? I'm going to tell you the whole design. Because slaves aren't told that. Slaves are told go there and fetch that and come over here and do this And stop this and do that. And they don't ask why, master, what's the plan? They just what? Just run around and do it. There's no reason for the master to tell a slave what's going on. But you and I are elevated. We're brought into the household of God in the sense that we're elevated to the status of being a friend of God. And how do we know that? Because God has decided through Jesus Christ to tell us his secrets. To tell us his plan, to tell us what is going on in the world, what's going on in our lives, what the church is all about, where it's all heading. to give us the inside scoop. And you might say, well the world could have it too. They could pick it up and read it also, right? But they do, and their eyes are blind and they can't understand But you have been given eyes to see, along with a book that reveals, because you are a friend of God, you see. Again, masters just don't feel compelled to confide something with a slave. Jesus is telling them everything. Notice all things I've heard from my Father, I tell you. By the way, in chapter 16, verse 12, it seems to contradict this because he says, I have many more things to tell you, but you cannot bear them now I think what he's saying is I I am in the process of revealing everything to you as my friends this evening. You're so distraught he knew they weren't even really receiving what he was teaching them, and there was more to teach them, but he would have to wait for him to go to the cross Be buried, be raised, have the Spirit come. And then they would begin to understand all of this, and he would continue to teach them through the Holy Spirit as he promised he would do them. And so they, and by extension, we have the very real inside scoop with the things of God. You ought to study the Bible, be excited about studying the Bible, excited about these classes, the books that we have, and the resource center. You can learn as much as possible because you're the privileged few. You're the ones that get the inside scoops. Study. Sometimes it takes hard work. Learn It's all there. Christ has told us about the future, what's going on in uh in our lives, what's going on in the unseen worlds around us. Dr. Flumley's gonna bring a two-part series on spiritual warfare and there's a lot of unseen things. We can know about that because we have the inside scoop with that as well. And so we need to be studying the Bible and learning about this We know his plan. Often the New Testament calls these things mysteries, but they're not mysteries to us. They were they were covered Up before they weren't known, but now that the New Testament revelation has come, it's been laid out. We understand the church and the rapture and all the things that He's going to do. And so now to us, they're secrets that have been revealed. They're no longer mysterious to us And we have that, all this teaching. So we should be grateful. We should commit ourselves to know as much as possible. I know when you leave here your minds get drawn away by 101 forms of entertainment, and you've got to watch that You know, you have only one life to live for God. You know, pour your mind into learning these things here. You know, there's so many, some of you are probably playing with your little gadgets right now. You know? Shame on you No, but I mean it what an opportunity you have to learn, and there's all these things you're trying to keep up with, and your mind gets taken away from study, deep, rich, careful study. He's telling you these things, so learn. Okay? Now we come to our third attribute. Third attribute of a friend of God. And that is that we're chosen to bear fruit. Chosen to bear fruit. Look at verse 16. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you, that you would go and bear fruit, that your fruit would remain, so that whatever you ask of the Father in my name he may give to you Why was Jesus saying this right here? It's because their relationship, their friendship, and even their ministry was not really initiated by the disciples, you see. But by who? By Jesus, you did not choose me, I chose you, Christ says. That's the basic way to understand the friendship. How did it come about? Christ chose it. And that really is 180 degrees opposite of what most Christians think these days. Most believers mistakenly think today that they chose Jesus at some point in time. And that's not true. That's not really true. The choice was made by Christ first. Any choice that we have of Christ, he says, is because he first chooses us. Look again at the clear negation. You did not choose me. Pretty pretty clear statement, isn't it? You did not choose me. And so who's the initiator? Not them. They didn't initiate the relationship. Who determined that the relationship would happen? Not them. And then he gives the clear contrast. But, that's a strong contrast in the Greek. But I chose you. And that's the way they were in him. That's the way they got to be serving him and be his friends. Now we know that friends usually choose one another, right? You want a friend, you go out, you choose one, and hopefully the friend chooses you and you choose each other and everything's fine like that. That's usually the way it goes. But he's saying, no, that's not the case here. I chose you, you did not choose me And usually disciples in the first century they would find a rabbi they would want to learn from, and they'd run and they'd choose their rabbi and they'd say, Rabbi, can I be here and can I learn? Indeed, you see that to some extent with the disciples coming to him and wanting to follow him, but he says, No, you you did not choose me, I chose you. Ultimately my choice is the one that mattered The word to choose there is a verb, a very common verb, ek lego. It means to choose or to elect or to select. We might even say, I'm going to pick something for myself. That's the same idea. We get our doctrine of election from this verb and from other verbs like it. Ek Lego. If you were to choose uh in a catalog, you know, go on Amazon. com and do your little search and you see a bunch of things and you pick one. And not another, that would be the verb that would be used. You selected this and you did not select the others. It was a very specific selection. That's the verb that is used. It's used in a common kind of way in Luke 14. 7 where it talks about the invited guests who had picked out the places of honor at the table. They weren't supposed to do that, but they went and picked out a place of honor for themselves. Same verb. They chose it for themselves And um that's the same idea. Well back then, just as today, people have a will And they have a mind and they are able to survey information and choices and then with their will exercise their will and make a choice. That was true back then. It's true today. The process that you go through is the same process they went through. So everyone understands what this means to pick and to choose. For some reason, when it comes to God, many in the church today don't think it's a very good idea that God should pick and choose people. They think it's a very bad idea, in fact, even though he clearly says he does. God's elective choices are all over the Bible. You would have to go out of your way to miss it. God makes his choices and his selections based on whatever his own criteria are We heard about Abraham being the friend of God. Did you know that God elected Abraham? Says so in Nehemiah 9:7. You are the Lord God who chose Abram. And brought him out from Ur of the Chaldeans and gave him the name Abraham. Or, we saw that Moses was a friend of God. How about this? Psalm 106, verse 23. He calls Moses his chosen one. Jesus was also selected by God. Luke 9:35. A voice came out of the cloud saying, This is during the transfiguration, this is my son, my chosen one. Listen to him. The chosen and beloved are very similar concepts. God also picked one nation out of all the nations of the world. Would have been nice if the nation that he picked was the United States of America, right? But uh it's not the case, even though the Lord has used this nation in a great way to spread his church throughout the world. Deuteronomy seven seven and eight It's God talking to the Israelites, you know, saying, yes, he chose you as a nation. He didn't choose the hundreds of others that are out there. How is Israel supposed to think about it? They're told in Deuteronomy seven, the Lord did not set his love on you, nor choose you, because you were more in number than any of the peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples But because the Lord loved you and kept the oath which he swore to your forefathers, the Lord brought you out by a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. You were one of the dinkiest nations. You had nothing to offer me, God says. And you know what? That's exactly why I picked you. You were a nation of slaves. You had no credentials. So I just set my love on you, you weak, pathetic nation, to call you mine, and my name would resound as I show my power to a very weak vessel. God selected David to be his own king. We know that. Did you know God elected Jeremiah, the prophet? He even writes about that. Jeremiah 1:5, he says, God saying, Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you. And before before he's even conceived, he is known in a relationship by God. And before you were born, I consecrated you, I have appointed you a prophet to the nations. He was selected and chosen as a prophet before he was even born. Now guess what? You can't be selected and chosen as a prophet of God before you're born unless you're already selected and chosen to be saved before you're born. Do you understand that Because you can't be a prophet speaking the word of God and have the Spirit of God and you're not saved. So he was obviously chosen and selected to be saved before he was even born. And that choice he chose later for himself, but God's choice is the one that determined it. This is so clear in God's treatment of Jacob and Esau. It's clear in the Old Testament text. It's also clear in the New Testament commentary of the Old Testament text in Romans 9, verses 10 and following. It says Rebecca is a mother. Also, when she had conceived twins by one man, our father Isaac, for though the twins were not yet born and had not done anything good or bad, So that God's purpose, according to his choice, would stand not because of works, but because of him who calls, he who makes the choice. It was said to Rebecca, the older one will serve the younger one. That was God's selection. Does God have the right to do that? Most theology today says no. That would be wrong of God to do that, if that's exactly what it says. The older will serve the younger. Just as it is written, Jacob I love, but Esau I hated. I rejected him. The hatred is a hatred of rejection. Many today object so strongly to Jesus or God choosing some to be his children who inherit the promises over others, but they need to read on in Romans 9. That objection is voiced in Romans 9 in verse 14, when Paul, in his typical style, says, What shall we say then? When you hear that, what shall we say then? How do you respond to this doctrine, to this teaching? There is no injustice with God, is there? Many people would say, yeah, God's not fair. There is injustice with God. But Paul answers it this way, may it never be. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on Whom I have mercy. No one tells me who I must have mercy on and who I must not have mercy on I will make my own choice. My will is sovereign. Folks, if you don't understand God that way, you haven't come to understand God the way the Bible teaches it. I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, I will have compassion, on whom I have compassion. So then, Paul concludes, it does not depend on the man who wills or on the man who runs. but on God who has mercy. Do you know that God even has elect angels? He has chosen angels. 1 Timothy 5. 21. Those angels were chosen not to fall in the rebellion with the devil. So, not to see God's election in the Bible is to put blinders on as you read it. For God's will reigns. We're told this over and over: Psalm 115, 3. Our God is in the heavens, he does whatever he pleases. Ephesians 1:11, He predestined us according to His own purpose. He works all things after the counsel of his own will. You and I have to turn to other people, get counsel, what should I do with my life? He just turns to himself. He turns to his own will and says, Will, what do you want to do? The will informs him. He takes that counsel and then he does and works out everything in the universe according to that will. He doesn't need outside influence, he doesn't need a counselor, no other will matters. His will is sovereign Does that refer to salvation as well? Well, it has to. Of course it does. How do we know that? Because God's choice of us was before the world was even made. Ephesians 1:4. Just as God chose us in Christ Before the foundation of the world. What does that mean? Before the world was even made. Not only before we were born, but before the world was even made. He knew us and he had selected us. That's what's called electing grace or sovereign grace. People think that they go looking for God, but God is the one who went looking for you, found you, and saved you. Remember what we learned already in this book? Jesus said in John 6. 44, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. That's a strong term, draws him to myself. and I will raise him up on the last day. Everyone drawn gets saved and raised up to glory. Second Thessalonians chapter 2 and verse 13 says, We should always give thanks to God for you, brethren, beloved by the Lord, because God has chosen you from the beginning for salvation Acts 13, 48, when the Gentiles heard this, that was Paul's message, they began rejoicing and glorifying the Word of God, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life. believed. Why did they believe? Why did those believe? Because they had already been appointed to eternal life. God's choice. The appointment by God happened first. Romans 830. And these whom God predestines, he also called, and these whom he called, he also justified. That means saved, declared innocent. declared righteous, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. Predestined, called Saved, brought into heaven. Exactly what Jesus said would happen. First Peter chapter one verses one and two. We are chosen according to God's foreknowledge. foreknowledge mean. Prognosis. In scripture, it does not mean that God is looking into the future to see who would choose him. That's not a choice, people. When it says that God makes a choice, it's a genuine choice If all he does is look into the future and see who chooses him, that's not even a choice. You've taken the whole choice away from God Titus 1. 1 says that we are chosen of God. Prognosis, foreknowledge, means that He set His heart on us. He knew us in a saving relationship before we were even born. That's foreknowledge. It's a knowing of relationship, not just a knowing about. 2 Timothy 2 and verse 10 says, and Paul's about to die, and he says, For this reason I endure all things, all the persecution that he had suffered, for the sake of those who are chosen. Paul, why are you doing all this suffering as an apostle? I'm doing it for the sake of all those that God has chosen. Why? So that they, the chosen ones, also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus and with it eternal glory. I am suffering. In evangelism for the sake of those whom God chose, far be it from it discouraging evangelism. The doctrine of the election of God was the only reason Paul did evangelize There was no reason to go out and share the gospel with anyone if God hadn't selected some. His suffering would be in vain. No one would believe. They're all dead in their trespasses and sins. No one would even respond to God And he understood the doctrine of election, inspired him and motivated him to evangelism. So election is not a controversial subject in the Bible It is only controversial among those uncomfortable with the doctrine, who really, in the end, want to give to man the final say in who is saved and who is not saved. This strong resistance to this wonderful doctrine is frankly puzzling since it is all over the Bible and explains a fantastic love that God has for his chosen ones. Election is just as clear in the Bible as justification or redemption or the new birth. It is also immensely reassuring people And thoroughly humbling, for it removes the last vestiges of human pride that not even my choice of God was mustered from my own will. I have decided to follow Jesus needs to be sung with a little more humility And with full understanding that before you decided to follow Jesus, Jesus chose you for himself. Now some have voiced objections to using this particular verse to teach the sovereign choices of God. They say that Jesus only said that he had chosen these apostles right here, not the other Christians. But as you know, most of the other statements that Christ makes in this discourse apply to all of the disciples and not just these eleven. All believers are told to love one another, even though the disciples here were told to love one another. All are promised their prayers would be answered, even though the apostles were told here specifically. that their prayers would be answered, and on and on. All bear fruit, all are to abide, all are beloved by the Father in Christ, all have a home in heaven prepared for them, all will be raptured, etc. Since the rest of Scripture affirms that God chooses all believers, it's better to see this statement as a statement for all believers and not just the 11. We too did not choose him, but he chose us. Others have tried to limit this choice to just the apostolic ministry or service that these men were to give and not a choice to salvation. They would grant that God could choose a person to serve him in the church. That is, after they're saved, God would say, Okay, I'm going to let you do this, and I'm going to let you do that. You'll be an apostle, you'll be a prophet, and all of that But they don't believe that God would choose someone to be saved. Of course, it is true that the same verb to choose is used of the selecting and choosing of the twelve to be the twelve, that is, to be the twelve apostles. It is also true that back in John chapter 6, when Jesus uses the same verb, the choice he references there seems to be, I'm not positive about this, but seems to be a selection of them as apostles to serve him. But here in John chapter 15, particularly clear in verses 18 and 19, the context is different. And Jesus is making it clear what his choice means. Look down there at verse 18. If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. Verse 19: if you were of the world, the world would love itsone. But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world because of this the world hates you. It is because you were elected out of the world. What's the world? The world is the lost, unbelieving, blind, dark world, and it's just filled with a mass of humanity. And out of that, he says, I chose you out of the world. That is for salvation. And so, of course, when he chose them for salvation, he also went on to choose them for their ministry and service, just as we saw with Jeremiah and with Paul. Both Jeremiah and Paul understand that they were chosen to be apostles and prophets before they were born, and that entailed also the choice of their salvation. Furthermore, if you look back at our text, it differentiates between choosing and appointment. Did you notice that Jesus tells them, I chose you and appointed you? That word appointed is tithami. It means to put or to place, and in official way it means to set aside or appoint or listen, ordain For a special purpose. This is referencing being placed into an office of ministry. This same verb is used in Acts 13, 47 for Paul being placed into his apostolic work. It is used in 1 Timothy 1 and verse 12 for that as well. It's used in 2 Timothy 1 and verse 11, where he says, I was appointed, that's the same word, a preacher, an apostle, and a teacher. It's used of pastors in Acts chapter 20 and verse 28. It says, Be on guard for yourselves, he's talking to the pastors here, and for all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has ordained you overseers. put you, placed you as overseeing elders. Now no one could possibly be appointed to the office if they were not saved, so salvation comes prior to appointment And that is why these apostles were both chosen to salvation and appointed to the office that they were to go into. So clearly this From the context and the word usage, Jesus is referring to choosing them out of the world for salvation and appointing them that they would go as apostles. In fact, you know what the word apostle means? It means someone that is sent out on behalf of another. And so when he says here, I appointed you to go, he's talking about their apostolic appointment. I am sending you. I've appointed you to go, so you will bear fruit, and the fruit that you produce will remain. It will stick It will last. Not one church has been made at this point in time. The history of the Christian church has hardly been written. Jesus is with a little band of followers. He's about to be executed, and he's making this fantastic prediction that I'm going to work in you, I'm appointing you, and I'm appointing you to go, and I want you to go, and as you go into the world, remember what he said in Acts 1. 8, right? You will be my witnesses both in Jerusalem, in Judea, in Samaria, and even in the remotest parts of the world. He sent them out as apostles and now says, I want your fruit to remain. And so they're being appointed. They're chosen unto salvation, they're appointed unto ministry. It's a little harder to tell from the translations here, but there are really two main purposes for which they were appointed. They are both expressed by a purpose clause. And the first purpose is, as I said, to go and bear fruit, and that fruit would remain. Most likely this refers to all of their witnessing and their mission and their ministry of planning churches and bringing the gospel to the ends of the world. In other words, the fruit that he's speaking of here, though previously also included the concept of loving one another. and uh all the other aspects of obedience to Christ. Here, as he's speaking to them as apostles and going out and bearing fruit, he's talking about evangelism. He's talking about new converts. He's talking about the start of new churches. He's talking about how God ordained them to be successful in their apostolic ministry so they would bear that kind of fruit also There were going to be converts and there were going to be churches. That was God's will. That was Christ's will. That's what they were appointed for. The world would hate them. He's going to get to that. But they were going to be fruitful And some of their fruit would be converts and disciples and new churches and the spreading of the gospel. So all of this is related to church work. The work of starting and building churches, this is our Lord's priority for today. Every job that you do and that you're employed in, you can sanctify and set apart for God. And you can be holy in that work and do that. But never forget the priority for this age. And that is getting out evangelists, starting churches, making disciples, multiplying the church, then building those churches up so they learn to obey God. That is our commission. Our Lord Jesus did not leave his disciples in their fishing business. He pulled them out and said, I've got a greater work for you to do, and it's fishing for what? For men. And he said, I want you to do that full-time and get busy with that. Our young people need to know that it is an excellent and a high calling to be raised up and to feel the call of God upon the heart to serve God in full-time ministry. That is scriptural. That shows the high priority of evangelism, church building, church extension, the work of the pastorate in building churches up, extending churches. We have to avoid the uh nicety of coming in huddling together and enjoying our time on Sunday. Listen, the church is for believers. It's not for unbelievers. That's where a lot of churches are going wrong today as they try to turn the church for unbelievers and all the believers go like, Well, where's my spot? Where do I get built up and fed? What about my problems? The church is for gathering together to be built up and discipled, but then we scatter and go out there so we can shine as five hundred lights, right? Shine the light and speak the gospel. Let your good works be seen so that the Father can be glorified as people see your good works and glorify the Father, Jesus said. MacArthur says the Christian life is not a spectator sport. Jesus did not choose believers to stand idly by while the world continues on its way to hell. The second purpose of the appointing, and this is a little harder to see, is in order that whatever they asked in prayer in Jesus' name would be given to them. That's the last part of verse 16. We were appointed also to pray. They were appointed to pray. You know, a large portion of the apostolic ministry was in prayer. Leaders were told they have two basic jobs. They are to teach the word of God, preach the word of God, and then pray, and then set a genuine example of the Christian life. Please keep that in mind when the church calls you to times of prayer, too. The prayer is a very important part of the work of the church. If we want to see God open up for us avenues of the gospel and new churches started and missionaries sent out. and programs here at this church that reach other people in our community. If we want to see those kinds of things happen, we have to beseech God. And sometimes it's won hard through prayer, long, concentrated corporate prayer But we are to ask and we'll see God work. Schools can be started, discipleship programs commenced, cooperation and ministry increased, missionary supported. Last, and we don't have much time for this, and we've emphasized it so much before, the last attribute of a friend of God is that he loves the other friends of God. Verse 17: This I command you that you love one another. Love again is bracketing the section showing its emphasis. Fruit is also not just converts, but loving and the acts of love. We are to keep his commandments, and his commandment is love one another. I can only love you, and you can only love me, and we can only love each other as we bask in the love Jesus has for us, and we understand we were chosen by him. We're loved by him, protected by him, showered with blessings by him. We absorb that love. We understand that love. We're humbled by that love. That love causes us to grow in our faith, to reject all the things in the world that people want you to do, to put your own agenda second, and then you start looking around saying, you know what I delight in helping other people. I delight in building up the brethren. I want to sacrifice and give. Some of you are going to uh give your money a little bit easier than other people. Some of you are going to give your time a little bit more easier than other people. But We all need to learn from one another, love one another, and be a community of love. And so you see again his emphasis Your election to salvation, your appointment in the ministry, in whatever way that God has gifted you, is to be carried out in fruit-bearing and love as we pray together. We need to be obedient to our Lord, and his command is love one another. If you don't love one another, if you don't sacrifice for one another, you're not obeying Christ. So I ask you as we close, are you being obedient to the command of Christ? This is his commandment. We want you to love. Are you loving the other people here? Or are you still in the excuse-making time? Men are you teaching your family that your family is not there for your family? Your family's there for the kingdom of God and lead them into what it means not to turn the family into an idol, but to turn the family into worshipers of God in Christ, doing his will, carrying out his will. This I command you, Jesus said, love one another. It's not a mere suggestion. It is our marching orders. It is how we bear fruit. It is how we respond to our election. It is how we love Jesus Christ. It's how we reach the world. It's such a crucial commandment. I will uh preach it and preach it and preach it. Until we uh love one another more. Thank you for those of you who are good examples of this, of caring and giving. May God increase the love in the congregation and may it just continue to flow. stronger and stronger. It's a tremendous blessing to be involved in people who don't just talk love but do love, enjoy one another, work hard at caring for one another. May God so teach us to do that. Let's close our our service in some prayer Take these words of yours, Lord, and impress them upon our heart. These words are yours, they're not ours. We have heard you now, Lord. As part of our worship service, we have heard your word May we in worship respond obediently and rejoice in what we have heard. Amen.