So last Sunday, Pastor Mike brings the word, and he's reminding us of the believers' confession of Christ. He mentioned that Though Antichrists existed back then and exists even to this day, they cannot truly confess Christ as Lord of their life That the true believer is one who continually agrees with God's testimony, that Jesus Christ is God incarnate, and he emphasized that it isn't merely a verbal claim. But a fundamental alignment with the truth of Scripture regarding Christ's nature. So as the newest staff pastor here at Hope Bible Church, my name is Antonio Weary. If you don't know, good morning. on the heels of Pastor Mike's sermon, I feel compelled to make plain to you, dear saints, that Jesus is God incarnate and Lord of my life. That said, I would like to invite you to please open your Bibles to the Old Testament. We're going to be in 2 Samuel, 2 Samuel chapter 12. I want you to follow along with me beginning at verse 1 of Nathan's juridical parable. Yep, that's a word. Connect with me afterwards if you got a question about it. Juridical parable. Beginning at verse 1 of 2 Samuel chapter 12. And the word of the Lord reads, And the Lord sent Nathan to David. He came to him and said to him, There were two men in a certain city, the one rich and the other poor. The rich man had very many flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing but one little ew lamb, which he had bought. And he brought it up, and it grew up with him and with his children. It used to eat of his morsel and drink from his cup and lie in his arms. And it was like a daughter to him. Now there came a traveller to the rich man, and he was unwilling to take of his own flock, or herd, to prepare for the guest who would come to him. But he took the poor man's lamb, and prepared it for the man who had come to him Then David's anger was greatly kindled against the man. And he said to Nathan, As the Lord lives, the man who has done this deserves to die. And he shall restore the lamb fourfold because he did this thing, and because he had no pity. Nathan said to David, You are the man No, in the Lord's providence, He's called us to focus our hearts and minds on a different aspect of confession this morning. You see, we concluded 2025 with a reminder of the believers' true and whole life confession of Christ to others And today, the scripture reminds us of the believer's true and whole life confession of sin to Christ. The Bible tells us that in Christ there is no condemnation in that we can overcome the temptations of this fallen world and the power of sin and death. For he has made us overcomers, right? More than conquerors, the scripture says. And greater is he in us than he that's in the world, as we were reminded last week Those of us that are in Christ know that this is true, but in practice, in practice we struggle with sin, don't we? Or maybe I'm the only one here. So how? How do we live as new creations in this fallen tent when we struggle with sin? Once we've laid hold of the precious gift of salvation through faith in Christ, how then do we go on to walk in the power of the Holy Spirit to overcome sin and temptation in our lives? Bottom line up front, where my service members, fire service, hands up. Bottom line up front, here we go. Answer repentance. Answer repentance Repentance. True repentance. Trust in God's character for cleansing and renewal, restoring us to joyfully worship Him and declare His grace. If you get anything from this morning, get that. Snap a picture. It's coming off. I'm sorry. I knew this was going to happen. Snap a picture. Take a note. This is the main point. Bottom line up front. True repentance, trust in God's character for cleansing and renewal, restoring us to joyfully worship Him and declare His grace. And so I'm giving you the answer and the main point now And we're gonna work to unpack this, but we need to do some context work. Maybe not as much as last week. But we're gonna be in Psalm 51. And if you haven't already turned there, now would be the time to do that. We're going to see four movements in this text, four movements of true repentance. That restore us to a right relationship with the Lord, who alone is worthy of our worship movement. Number one, reach for mercy. Number two, reckon with Sin, number three, request renewal and four, respond in worship. Now because repentance isn't static. Let's walk through David's hurt journey from guilt to grace in hopes that as Martin Luther declared in the first of his 95 Theses, the whole life of believers should be Repentance. But before we jump into verses one and two of our English Bibles Our bibliology demands that we first consider verses 1 and 2 of our Hebrew Bibles. So if you would open up your Hebrew Bibles and pull out your Old Testament grammar, we got the Hebrew text up there. So if you follow along that's a joke. That's a joke. Um but in all seriousness that is the Hebrew chapter 1 and 2 of what we have in our Bibles. This superscription, this superscription here, is just as inspired as the text that follows. And it provides some context for David's writing of Psalm 51. And so, given the superscription we have here in Psalm 51, we need to answer the question. For David to pen this psalm, Psalm 51. After Nathan the prophet came to him, what in the world did Nathan say to David? And who's Bathsheba? And what Does she have to do with any of this? The superscription reads, as you follow along your Bible, to the choir master, to the choir master, a psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet went to him after he had gone into Bathsheba. So the answers to these questions can be found in 2 Samuel 11 through 12. Man, I cut so much from this, you guys. This is so hard to do Um, so I'm gonna fly through this in a nutshell, okay? But if you want to go deeper, we absolutely can after this. But in a nutshell, 2 Samuel 11 through David had been reigning as king of Israel for about 20 years by time we're dealing with the events recorded in 2 Samuel 11 and 12. Uh he's likely in his forties, right? He committed adultery with Bathsheba, who was the wife of Uriah the Hittite. If you recall, Uriah the Hittite was one of David's mighty men And Bathsheba was also the granddaughter of one of David's most trusted counselors, Ahithopel. And Bathsheba was also the daughter of another one of David's mighty men, Eliam. And so David attempted to cover up his sin by manipulation, and then when that fell through, he attempted to cover a sin of adultery with murder. And so he has Bathsheba's husband Uri killed in battle. The penalty, by the way, for adultery was death. So that would have been death for David, death for Bathsheba, and death likely for also the unborn baby in Bathsheba. But David kept this secret This unrepentant sin, private, for about a year. And scholars go on to suggest that David likely composed Psalm 32 with that period, that year-long unrepentant period of David's life in mind. So the murder of Uriah, adultery with Bathsheba, the forsaking of the word of God, and the love of his sin was all known and seen by God. And rather than leave David in the state he describes in Psalm thirty-two, specifically verses three through four, God confronted David about his sin through the prophet Nathan. We saw that earlier in 2 Samuel chapter 12 So question for you, Christian. Okay, you heard all that context. What's that gotta do with me sitting here Sunday morning 2026? Do you like Adam Shirk responsibility for your sin and blame those around you, or maybe justify your sin because of your circumstances when you are confronted about your sin? How Christian, how do you respond when you are confronted about your sin? Perhaps like Eve, you play the victim. Or you belittle your sin and culpability by justifying your sin as a logical response to someone else's sin against you Perhaps like the father of lies himself, you got no shame. No shame, no remorse over your sin. You've convinced yourself that silent acceptance of God's judgment is your only option. I want you to stick with me this morning because God is going to show us how He wants every person here to respond when confronted in their sin. Look with me beginning at verse 1 of our text, where we'll see that true repentance turns to Christ for mercy. Psalm fifty one verse one. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy. Blot out my transgressions And notice right away where David starts, he doesn't start with his promise to God. He doesn't start with God, I'll never do it again. He doesn't start with an excuse, I was only lonely, and she was on the roof. He starts with God's character. David's appeal for God's grace, and I do think grace is the superior translation there. You see that in the NESB, the CSB, and the LSB. But mercy there is what the ESP does. I think grace is the superior translation. Uh so David's appeal for God's grace here. That is, he's asking God to give him what he doesn't deserve. It's on the basis of two traits of God. Look at the first one. According to your steadfast love. That word there in the Hebrew is Hesid. It's a special Hebrew word. It's hard to translate into English, but it basically means loyal love, covenant love, love that sticks like super glue. Baked into this word is the presupposition of action. This love always results in corresponding action, and it's based on God's faithfulness, not the recipient's performance. Did you catch that Think of the difference between a contract and a covenant is the idea here. Right? The contract says, uh I will pay you if you do this. Right? So if you don't do this, guess what? I'm not paying you. Something something we're tracking, thank you. The covenant Covenantal love is a Hesed love in view here. Hesed is covenantal. It's like a parent's love, right? There's no amount of disobedience to any number of my children could ever engage in that'll ever change the fundamental relationship and love they have with me. I'm their dad. That's what it's gonna be. I'm gonna love them And no sin is going to fundamentally change that. And so here, understand this: David is saying, God, treat me not based on what I did. Right? Murder and adultery. But based on who you are, loyal and faithful. God is simply God is simple and He's immutable, right? That's a theological word for unchanging. He's identical to His attributes. And every action he takes is a flawless outworking of his unchangeable nature. And so David's appeal to God's character Is an appeal to God to act in accordance with his character. David's saying, Deal with me in a manner that I don't deserve because of your commitment to glorify yourself by giving love and mercy to those who don't deserve it. Notice also that David's appeal isn't to an impersonal and distant God. David moves from appealing to God's character to his heart. Look at the latter part here. According to your abundant mercy, he says at the end there of verse one. That word there, better translated compassion. The word here invokes personal feeling and emotion. It comes from a Hebrew word meaning womb. The idea here is It's gut level compassion and can include the idea even of deep pity sometimes. Yeah, I I wonder if there if there's some that might be here that view God like a police officer Like a uh like a i i if you do this, here's the consequence. And that's your view of God. Uh like the police officer maybe, uh there there's no feel for you, it's just a strict enforcement of the law. Nothing personal. David views God like a father. This is parental love, relational love that David's appealing to here. He knows, David knows that he broke the law, but he appeals to the father's heart. He says, God, look at my mess and let your stomach churn with compassion for me. David's appeal was to the personal and covenantal God of Israel, who not only felt compassion towards his people, but demonstrated his compassion in giving grace and place of judgment. Look with me at the end of verse 1. David says, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. David uses three specific verbs here to describe what he needs God to do. David uses blot out. It's bookkeeping language, right? Imagine a scroll, uh it's got a list of uh debts on one side, and David's essentially saying, take the ink and wipe it off the page so it can't be read anymore. Right. We see Paul brings it up in Colossians two, thirteen and fourteen, and you who were dead and your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses by what? By canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. David says, wash me. This is this is laundry language? I mean he means to trample or or beat clothes against a rock to get the dirt out. David feels dirty. Uh sin makes us feel gross. You might have that temporary uh good ceiling, but then afterward that there's a grossness that follows. And David is saying, Wash me clean. Uh he says, cleanse me. That's actual Ritual language? That's not literal, like he ease it's not the literal like wash me, the cleanse me, that last phrase that uh uh David uses here, it it it refers back to the old testament, right? If you touch something uh dead or if you had like a disease You were ceremonially unclean. And you couldn't go to the temple. David here is saying, I want to be back in a right relationship with you. So David doesn't call his actions mistakes. These aren't slip-ups. These are three heavy words He says transgressions, which means rebellion, right? It's crossing the line that God clearly has delineated. It's mutiny. He uses iniquity. This means twisted or bent. It refers to a character that has been warped. And he uses sin. How do you know that when he's missing the mark? David saying, I rebelled, I'm twisted, and I missed the target, please wipe the record clean, wash the dirt and make me ceremonially clean and right with you Christian, what do we do with this? What do we do with this? When we sin, isn't our instinct to minimize it? Maybe those around us when they sin. Isn't our instinct to minimize their sin Maybe the best of intentions to make them feel better, or for ourselves to make us feel better. We say it wasn't that bad. Everyone cheats. Everyone does it. We're all sinners. I only look for a second. David teaches us a better way. Don't minimize the sin. Maximize the Savior. The only way you can be honest about how bad your sin is, is if you're confident in how good God is So we find a helpful reminder in Proverbs 28, 13: Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy. Mercy. And so true repentance turns to Christ, the leper cleanser, the good shepherd, and merciful and faithful high priest who saves undeserving sinners from the ultimate Consequence of sin, not because of works done in us or by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy By the washing of regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Spirit. True repentance turns to Christ for mercy. And it also Confess his sin honestly. Look with me beginning in verse 3. We see David reckon with his sin starting in verse 3. For I know my transgressions and my sin is ever before me. You want to circle, underline that phrase, I know. Underline it, bold it, do something to it. That Hebrew there, he's not just writing, I know. That's not what David's writing there. He he Literally wrote, I, I know. He's essentially saying the prophet Nathan knows, God knows, and I myself acknowledge my transgressions The word order David uses here places an emphasis on the transgression and the unique way he uses the verb there denotes incomplete, continuous, or frequentive action. The idea here is David isn't saying, I see and agree that I transgressed at one time. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, I am continually knowing. I am painfully aware of my transgressions. David's sin wasn't a past historical footnote for him. It was a present active reality in his life. Recall David's immediate response to Nathan when confronted about his sin. Look back at 2 Samuel chapter 12, 13. 2 Samuel 12, 13. David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. David's confession of sin wasn't merely an acknowledgement that he did something bad. Psalm 51 shows us that David's confession wasn't passive. It was an active and ongoing reckoning with his guilt. An accounting reckoning is a settlement of a bill or a debt. Right? And so David tallied up the cost of his sin against Bathsheba, against Uriah, and ultimately against God, and after looking at the ledger of his life, he agrees with God that he is spiritually bankrupt without God's intervention. He says, my sin is ever before me. Christian, don't miss this. You may be here today walking in unconfessed sin, thinking to yourself, I got away with it. But if you are indwelled by the Holy Spirit, like David, your sin will be ever before you Make no mistake. The scriptures say the Lord will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness, and will disclose the purposes of the heart, then each one will receive his commendation from God. For God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. David immediately confessed his sin in response to being confronted, and then wrote a song about the very sin he previously attempted to hide, to be sung and contemplated by God's people during worship. Do you think David was ever able to look at Bathsheba or her growing belly during that unrepentant year and not think of Uriah? Do you suppose the rooftop strolls during that unrepentant year still provided David the relief they once did? Let me ask you something. Uh have you ever had a guilt that haunts you? Repent, confess, entrust your sin to the God of mercy. Look with me in verse 4. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Is David really saying against you only? Like uh he murdered Uriah, right? He affected families. And then if you read the text, actually, it wasn't just Uriah that died. There were other soldiers that died Lives were lost because of David's sin. So how can David here say that he only sinned against God? Didn't he sin against other people What would be clear David isn't denying that he hurt other people, rather, he's acknowledging that the ultimate offense of sin is treason against the king of the universe. That's what he's getting at here. We used to have a dog, Morgan. Had her since she was like six weeks old. She died in twenty twenty three. She was what thirteen. Um got really sickly near the the near the end of her life. And The picture I want to paint for you is this, this sickly old dog who is just loving us as a family and and we love her. You come over to my house and you kick my dog. You kick her. Now, you sin against the dog, yes. But the real offense is against me. Against my wife, against my family. When we lie to our loved ones, we hurt them and damage our relationship with them. But ultimately we are disobeying the God who commands us to not lie, but to speak the truth in love. When we gossip about people we know, we hurt their reputation. But ultimately we are rebelling against the God in whose image that person was made. By bearing false witness and falling and failing to love them as we love ourselves. And so if you only think about the horizontal consequences, you'll just try to be more careful next time. But you need to realize that your sin fundamentally is a personal attack on the God who loves undeserving sinners This is the fundamental difference between I'm sorry I got caught and God, I'm sorry I rebelled against you. Look with me the second half of this verse. Why does David admit that he sinned against God? Verse 4. So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment, he says. David's honest confession serves to vindicate God. Think of a courtroom, right? If you're guilty, uh, but you make excuses, like, ah, I didn't mean it, or it wasn't my fault. You're essentially accusing the judge of being too harsh or unfair if he punishes you. You're saying I'm not that bad. So your judgment is wrong. David is saying, God, I am pleading guilty without excuse so that you judge me. And whatever you decide to do, everyone will know you're right. If God strips the kingdom from David, God's right. If God takes David's life, God's right. When you stop making excuses, you're saying, God, you are the standard. Your law is perfect. I'm the one who moved. You stayed the same. And so true confession isn't about feeling better about our guilt. It's about affirming the righteous judgment of God. And David goes on to explain the root cause of his sin there in verse 5. He says, Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity in my sin, did my mother conceive me? What's David doing here? Is he is he doing the the blaming his mom, right? Nurture over nature thing? Is that what he's doing? Is he suggesting that his upbringing is the reason he committed adultery and murder Nah, that's not what he's doing. He's talking about original sin. That's what David's getting at here. He's saying, God, I didn't just sin. He's saying, apart from your grace and my life, I am by nature a sinner. If we're being honest with ourselves this morning, I think sometimes we tend to think I'm a good person. I just occasionally, you know, do bad things. There may be some here today or hearing this that might be You know wondering. I see David saying I'm a sinner by nature. And that's why I do sinful things, but but I'm a Christian. I've been born again. Right? Doesn't the Bible say I'm a new creation? Why does David say he's sinful by nature? Do I still have a sinful nature Well, I hope this helps. When God saves a sinner, he gives them a new heart. This isn't a new physical heart, right? You're a new person. But you still live in your flesh. Think of it like this. Think of your old sinful nature like a zombie Legally, it's dead. Paul says in Romans 6 that our old self was crucified with Christ. But experientially, that old nature still tries to walk around and drag you back to the grave. And so David is admitting that his natural default setting, his natural default setting is sin. That's the zombie. The new setting that God gives his people in the Holy Spirit is righteousness So the Christian life is war. You have the Holy Spirit, you have the armor of God to help you fight against your zombie flesh David's point is, God, left to myself, I'm a sinner. I need you to overcome my nature. I want us to see that this is actually good news. That's actually good news. Because if the problem's just behavioral, if it's just things that David just needs to do less of that and more of that, and just do better. If it's just purely behavioral We can fix it with willpower. But if the problem of my sin is my very nature, I need a savior I need a heart transplant. I need God to do something supernatural. And the good news of the gospel is that God has and will perform the much-needed heart surgery in the lives of every sinner who by faith turns from their sin to the Savior for forgiveness and eternal life. God promised to do this. Recall Ezekiel 36, 26, and 27 about the new heart, about removing the heart of stone from your flesh and the giving of a heart of flesh. In Deuteronomy 30, verse 6 where the Lord your God, Moses says, will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring. He not only promised these things, But then he went on to fulfill his promises through the accomplished work of Christ and the ministry of the Holy Spirit. Look at Colossians two, eleven. In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision Made without hands. Are putting off the body of flesh by the circumcision of Christ This heart surgery made without hands, this spiritual regeneration, cuts away the dominion of the flesh in the life of every true believer. In verse 6, David says, Behold, you delight in truth and the inward being, and you teach me wisdom and the secret heart. You see, God doesn't want your religious performance. He doesn't want your Sundays best only. He desires truth. And the inward being literally there. The Hebrew refers to the seat of emotion and conscience within a person. This means God wants you to stop lying to yourself. But look at the second half. And you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. The secret heart refers to the hidden, closed-off part of you that no one else sees. That's where your real motives lie. David is acknowledging that he can't fix himself. He can admit the truth, that's confession. But he needs God to download wisdom into his deepest parts to keep him from doing it again. Truth admits the fact. I sinned. Wisdom understands the fear of the Lord so you don't repeat it As one commentator put it, only divine wisdom can bring a remedy to the sinful condition of the heart Humans are sinful through and through. They cannot help themselves or justify their sinfulness, but are in need of God's wisdom from on high. Only by receiving revelation from the outside can the inside become whole The god they cry out for God, confess their sins readily, and receive assurance of God's forgiveness. Are you here today? And have you ever asked God to teach you in the secret heart how to hate sin and love him and others more than yourself Confession is like surgery. If you have a flesh-eating disease, you go to the surgeon, the surgeon says, I gotta cut the infection out to prevent it from spreading. It's painful, it's scary, but not going under the knife will almost certainly result in death. Confession is the scalpel. Confession is the scalpel. It hurts to say I sinned. It was my fault. I'm broken. But it's the only way to get the infection out. And once the good physician gets the infection out, he begins to stitch wisdom into the wound. So you can heal stronger than before. God doesn't want our religious performance. He doesn't want us to put on a mask and act like everything is fine when it's not. He delights in truth. He wants you to get real with him about your sin. He wants truth in the inward being. That means agreeing with God and being honest with yourself. With him. About who you are, what you've done, and what you thought. True repentance turns to Christ for mercy. True confession confesses sin honestly and seeks his renewing work. Look with me now at verse 7, where we will see David's request. for renewal renewal and I gotta fly. Mm. Verse seven Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean, wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. David uses strong imagery here to describe how dirty he feels. In verse 7, David desires that God purge him with hissup. Here's our key word. His up refers to a small bushy plant that it was used like a paintbrush for sprinkling, right? It was used to apply the Passover lamb's blood to the doorposts. Recall that in Exodus And it was later used by Levitical priests to cleanse the unclean, such as lepers or those who touch something dead, right, by sprinkling them with blood or water. David here is essentially admitting that his sin has made him like a leper. Spiritually contagious and dead. He needs spiritual cleansing In verse 8, David isn't talking to or isn't asking God to to miraculously heal literal broken bones. That's not what he's doing here. Rather, the weight of God's hand on his conscience was so heavy it felt physical. Sin can cause anxiety, stress, spiritual depression. David wants God to heal the pain that God Himself inflicted to bring David to repentance. If you're unfamiliar with this, think of 2 Corinthians 7. This is similar to the godly sorrow versus worldly sorrow and grief that we see there in 2 Corinthians 7, verse 10. For godly grief produces a repentance. That leads to salvation without regret, Rasworld grief produces death Look at verse 9 of Psalm 51. Hide your face from my sins, David says, and blot out all my iniquities. Now usually we want God's face toward us. Right? That's why Moses prayed in Numbers 6, 24, 26 Uh make his uh Yahweh make his face shine upon you, may and be gracious to you, the Lord lift up his countenance upon you, and give you peace Asking for the Lord's face to be upon us as asking for blessing. But notice in verse nine, David is asking God to hide his face Hide his face from his sins. It's like David saying, look at me, but don't look at my record of wrongdoing. The emphasis here is God's supernatural subtraction. Purge me, wash me, blot out. David's asking God to subtract the sin, subtract the guilt, and subtract the shame. And the good news is God does it. God delights in forgiving repentant sinners, and he's not only promised that he would, think Isaiah 118, right, though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as what? Snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. God not only says he's going to do it, but he actually does. He actually does, through the Lamb of God who came to take away the sins of the world by giving his life a ransom. Revelation seven fourteen, we read how those who have come out of the Great Tribulation have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Back to our point about God's supernatural subtraction. The problem with subtraction is it leaves you empty. If God takes away your lust, if God takes away your anger, if God takes away your pride, but doesn't put anything else in its place, you're just a clean, empty shell. And eventually that old sin is going to creep right back in to fill the void. David knows that being clean isn't enough, because a clean heart that is still weak will just get dirty again. David was a believer when he sinned. He knew God. He loved God. But his heart became unstable, and he drifted away from the path of righteousness. He knew all too well. So if God removes the sin but doesn't strengthen David's heart, David's just going to crumble the next time temptation comes. And here we have now arrived at verse 10. Create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me. To be clear, David's not asking to be saved for the first time here. He's asking God to repair the damage sin did to his spiritual stability. He doesn't just want to be clean. He wants to be strong. He needs God to create a new unshakable firmness in him that wasn't there when he was on that rooftop. David's previous request dealt with his past sin. This request deals with David's future sin. Now we might miss it in English, but that word there for create is the Hebrew word bara, bara It's a special word only God ever baras in the Old Testament, right? Humans can make things, right? We can fashion things, we can assemble things, but only God can barah things. And so it's the same word we see in Genesis 1-1. In the beginning, God barod the heavens and the earth. So why does David here use Genesis 1? Well David here realizes his heart is so messed up it can't be fixed By human means. It needs to be recreated. It needs to be renewed. And so he's saying, God help, he's not saying, God, help me try harder next time. That's not what he's saying. He's not saying, God Take my heart and polish it up a bit. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, God, my heart is ruined. Do a Genesis 1 on me. Miracle a new heart in me. When David asked God to renew a right spirit within me, that word translated as right actually means steadfast. It's firm. He's not saying, God, I need a spirit. He's not asking for something he doesn't have. He knows he's been unstable and inconsistent. He wants a spirit that's locked into God's ways, not his own. It's like your car went out of alignment. Or for kids who aren't driving, it's like your your video game controller, stick drift. Right? You can clean that thing up or you can put air in your tires. You do all this stuff to try to to account for even try to counter steer the other way or maybe just hold the control in a certain way. Wisdom, the worldly wisdom you can try to apply to fix the solution isn't going to resolve the underlying issue. There's an internal problem that needs to be fixed Your car is out of alignment. Your controller needs to be replaced or fixed. This is the point David's making. There's an internal problem that needs to be fixed. He's spiritually out of alignment with God. He wants to walk straight with God, but his heart keeps drifting toward lust, anger, pride. And so when he prays, renew a right spirit, he's saying, God, I am spiritually drifting. Give me a spirit that locks onto you and doesn't drift. Christian, are you spiritually drifting from God? Are you trying to fix your spirit drift with willpower Maybe you've promised God, I'll do better next time, but you haven't asked him to change your wants and your desires. The next time you're tempted, don't just grit your teeth. Stop and pray, God, I am too weak to say no to this. I need you to create a steadfast heart in me right now, because mine is broken. Now we know the human heart needs oxygen to survive, and for the Christian, the oxygen for the new heart received from God is his presence. And David undoubtedly remembered how God's special anointing left his predecessor Saul because of Saul's sin. And so. I'm thinking verses 11 and 12 here reflect David's concern of ending up like Saul. Look at verse 11. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation and uphold me with a willing spirit. To be clear, David wasn't afraid that he'd lose his salvation. That's not what this is. He's realizing that the worst consequence of sin wasn't getting caught. It was losing the closeness of God. He knew that he couldn't be king without God's anointing and intimacy. And so he pleaded that God would not distance himself nor remove his Holy Spirit from him. David wasn't asking God to restore his salvation, but the joy of his salvation Repentance is what brings the joy back into the life of the believer when sin functions as a killjoy in their life Verse 12 ends with, uphold me with a willing spirit. David's admitting God, frankly, I don't always want to obey you. Give me a spirit that wants to obey. He's asking God to change his wants and desires. Does anyone else here have that same prayer True repentance turns to Christ for mercy, confesses sin honestly, seeks his renewing work, and responds with joyful worship. I'm gonna try to land this plane as quick as I can. Look with me beginning verse 13 Then I will teach transgressors your ways and sinners will return to you. That first word marks a chronological shift in our text. You can't lead until you've been led. You can't teach until you have been taught. And after David's appeal to God for mercy after David's confession and after the internal renewal, then comes the external impact David's spiritual renewal results in four distinct types of spiritual fruit. We're going to quickly go through. Spiritual fruit after renewal. There it is. Instruction, adoration, contrition, and intercession. Verse 13, David saying, I'm not going to keep my experience of God's grace a secret. I'm going to teach others of God's grace that I've received. He promises to be a teacher. And notice his classroom isn't full of people who have it all together. No, they're transgressors. Takes one to no one, right? David's heart here is echoed in the famous opening verses of the song we sang earlier, Amazing Grace. How sweet the sound that saves a wretch like me. I once was lost, but now am found, was blind, but now I see. From one sinner to another. He's desiring to help serve transgressors, to teach them of the grace of God. Look at his motive at the end of the verse. And sinners will return to you. That's the why David's motive for teaching of God's grace in the life in his life was that other sinners would likewise turn from their sin towards God in faith David was fully convinced that if God could save a wretch like him, God could save anyone. We see Paul's testimony to this in 1 Timothy 1, 15-16. That Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the foremost. Right? Is there a believer in this room right now fully convinced that they deserved to be saved? Who here has been born again yet thinks your sin disqualifies you from ever being used by God to teach others of God's grace? The pattern we see echoed even in Luke twenty-two, verse thirty-two, Jesus telling Peter to strengthen your brothers after Peter repents is that God restores his people so that they can turn around and help others True repentance kills the desire to hide your past and birth a desire to use your past to help others. You stop asking what people think of me and start asking, how can my story point people to Christ's mercy? So the first fruit is speaking to people about God, that's instruction. The second fruit is speaking to God about God, that's adoration Look at verses fourteen and fifteen. Deliver me from blood guiltness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. O Lord, open my lips and my mouth will declare your praise. The idea here, 'cause I gotta rush David singing aloud of God's righteousness is his natural response to the God who delivered him from his blood guiltness. How, if at all, Christian, has your repentance affected your adoration of God? David prays, Lord, open my lips. He knows that once the guilt is gone, the praise will flow. But why does David offer a song? Well why doesn't he just a offer a bunch of guilt and sin offerings, right? W wouldn't God appreciate that? Well we see the answer to that in verses sixteen and seventeen. For you will not delight in sacrifice, David says. Or I will give it. You will not be pleased with the burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit and a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise. In David's day, the Levitical system provided a clearly defined means of walking in a right relationship with God. You sin, offer lamb. You sin, here's a sacrifice. Here is your means of being made right with God. Psalm 5010 tells us that God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. God can't be bought off with external acts of religion while your heart is far from him The sacrifice God cherishes is a broken and contrite heart. The prophet Isaiah would later affirm this truth, Isaiah 66, 2. All these things my hand has made, and so all these things came to be, declares the Lord. But this is the one on whom I will look, he who is humble and contrite in spirit, and trembles at my word. True repentance demands humility We see in verses eighteen and nineteen, Do good to Zion in your good pleasure, build up the walls of Jerusalem, then you will delight in right sacrifices and burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings, then bulls will be offered on your altar. David knew that his private sin had public consequences. By neglecting his duty as king and killing his own warriors, he weakened his nation. And so David closes his prayer by looking outward. He prays for the restoration of God's people. He asked God to build up the walls that his sin helped to tear down. So we might think our sin is my business, but sin always impacts those around us. We have walked through as quickly as I can. David's prayer to see what true repentance looks like and how we should respond when confronted with our sin. David's hope wasn't in his own promise to do better, but in God's character. His steadfast love and abundant mercy. David models for us what radical honesty looks like before the Lord. He didn't blame Shift. He owned his sin fully to vindicate God. David asked for a supernatural renewal. He didn't just want his record clean. He asked the Creator to give him a steadfast heart. And David's repentance bore fruit. It didn't stop with him feeling better It overflowed into worship and a desire to serve others. The implications of this song for us today is that our lives would be one of continuous repentance and renewal. As one author put it, finding expression. This repentance and renewal finding expression in our personal prayers and in our Sunday worship. David wrote this psalm a thousand years before Jesus was born. David asked for hyssop. He asked to be washed. He asked for a clean heart. But how can a holy God just wash away murder? Justice has to be paid. Someone has to pay for the crime. David looks forward in faith. We look backward in truth. We know how God makes us whiter than snow. It wasn't Hithha, it was a cross. It wasn't the blood of sheep or goats. It was the blood of the Son of God. Jesus was broken so we could be fixed. Jesus took our filth so we could have his righteousness. Jesus experienced the silence of God on the cross when he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? So that we would never be cast away from his presence. Going from ruin to renewal is only possible because Jesus paid it all. And all to him I owe Sin had left a crimson stain, and what did he do? He washed it white as snow. This psalm began with a cry from the pit. of guilt and ended with a declaration of God's praise and prayer for Zion. I want to conclude with Psalm 150 Praise the Lord. You know what that is in Hebrew, right? It's hallelujah. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord, praise God in his sanctuary, praise him in his mighty heavens, praise him for his mighty deeds, praise him according to his excellent greatness Praise him with trumpets now, praise him with lute and harp, praise him with tambourine and dance, praise him with strings and pipe Praise him with sounding symbols. Praise him with loud, crashing symbols. Let everything that has breath, praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. And so if you're sitting here in 2026 with breath in your lungs, your mouth shut. . . And unstirred by the merciful grace of God in your life, I want to remind you of a few things that you are here, that we are here right now, and we are not wailing and gnashing our teeth in hell without any perception of God's grace. Hallelujah I want to remind you that God predetermined in love, before the laying of the foundation of this world, to send his son. To suffer and receive the just wrath reserved for undeserving sinners like us. Hallelujah! That God only sent one Begotten Son, that sinners like us would be reconciled to him by his shed blood, that he would be raised from the grave on the third day, according to the scriptures. Hallelujah. Christ Jesus has ascended to the right hand of the Father, sent the Holy Spirit to indwell and keep every sheep for whom Jesus died. And that Jesus would welcome any of us into his family and call us to turn from our sin. Trust him with our lives and follow him Is caused to cry out Hallelujah. Jesus promised he would build and keep his church, and that the very gates of hell would not prevail against it. Hallelujah. And so as we prepare to partake the Lord's table, I want to consider one last thing. As one commentator put it, we call one another to repentance out of a deep assurance that the God of all grace, mercy, and love is the one who urges us to turn from our sin. The call to repentance is distorted when it is not rooted in the context of the love and acceptance of God. We do not repent in order to make Things right with God. Rather, the act of confession arises out of the confidence that we are loved and accepted. We are right with God. That is why we confess our sins We come to the Lord's table as those who live under the mercy of God. We are loved and accepted at the Holy Meal, and our confession is part of our renewed commitment to walk in love. Christian, true repentance, trust in God's character for cleansing and renewal, restoring us to joyfully worship Him and declare His grace The prayer of a penitent heart reaches for Christ's mercy, reckons with sin, requests God's renewal, and then responds in worship Let us in likewise manna pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you so grateful that we have a faithful high priest Who is ever interceding on behalf of your people? Lord, we thank you for your rich mercy and love. We thank you that our sin has been nailed to the cross of Christ and confess to you that you alone are Lord and King of all. Lord, we pray that you would stir in us a desire to know you and faithfully follow you, grow our love for you, and help us to respond to this miraculous work in our lives in worship, that Christ might get the glory. It's in whose name we pray. Amen.