Well, it is a great joy to uh be with you all this weekend. We had a wonderful uh time yesterday and and uh Friday evening with some of your children's workers. Uh just grateful for the opportunity. Christy and I certainly bring greetings from Countryside Bible Church in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, uh a sister church. And I was reminded of that even as Gabe was praying for Steve and Leslie Schneider. They are missionaries that Countryside supports as well. We know their grandkids well. Their daughter Allie lives in Texas and is a part of our church and our girls babysit for them a lot. So it's uh there's a kindredness to our hearts knit together as churches, and uh it's a great joy to be with you. Well as Gabe mentioned, the the primary focus yesterday of the conference that I was invited to speak at was children's ministry, and it was a delight to see those who are committed and passionate about serving the next generation But the Bible is clear that ministry to the next generation is not simply a responsibility for those serving in those ministries. It's a responsibility that is a collective one for all of us as God's people. And so this morning we're going to focus primarily on verse 4 of Psalm 145 that reminds us of our responsibility to the next generation. See, whether you are a parent or a grandparent, whether you are an aunt or an uncle, whether you serve in children's ministry or youth ministry. If you are a Christian, if you are a part of the people of God, you are part of a multi-generational body of Christ and community in which you live And as such, you are called to care about and to play a role in impacting that next generation. You know, unfortunately, this is not how many, even in the church, think about the next generation. You you may be sitting here today and you might feel intimidated by the next generation as you see kids and youth and and you don't understand some of their vocabulary or their choice of style or different preferences that they might have You may not feel particularly gifted for interacting with them. There's an an uncomfortableness that you feel as you think of that Uh at times we might be tempted even just to ignore them, to be thankful for the fact that they have parents who are investing in them, and to be glad for that investment, but you know, just kind of out of sight, out of mind. Or at times you might even be tempted to complain about them. You know, the the messes that they make. You know, I saw some wall repairs over in your children's ministry area, probably from uh a game the kids were playing or something in that regard. You know, to some degree, that was Jesus' disciples in Mark 10, 13. It says they were bringing children to him so that they might touch them, but the disciples rebuked them. Parents were bringing their children to Christ and the disciples rebuked them. Maybe they were concerned that it would be a distraction to something else that was more important for Christ to do. Or that it was not important, not worth their time. You know, I'm not sure the disciples would have come to the children's ministry conference yesterday. or that they would have served and volunteered for VBS. But that was not Jesus' response. Verse 14 says, when Jesus saw this, he was indignant. What a strong statement. And he said to them, Permit the children to come to me, do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. You see, all of us in this room, all of us who are in Christ are to have Jesus heart, not that demonstrated by the disciples. While various stages and seasons of life certainly look different Each of us have a God-given responsibility to care about and to actively play a role in shaping the next generation. That's what I want us to see this morning, that responsibility in Psalm 145, verse 4. I invite you to turn there with me this morning. We will focus on verse 4, but also look at some of the surrounding context that shapes our understanding of this responsibility. But note verse 4. He says, one generation shall praise or commend or law, your versions might say, your works to another. One generation shall praise your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts. This verse highlights really what is clear throughout all of Scripture that we have a responsibility to the coming generations. God's truth is to be passed from one generation to another. You know, the Bible makes it clear that Parents have the primary responsibility and opportunity to do this. Verses like Ephesians 6. 4, that fathers are not to provoke their children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Familiar passages like Deuteronomy 6 or the book of Proverbs is filled with instruction to fathers and mothers related to that instruction of their children. But this is not simply a responsibility entrusted to parents alone. It is given to all of us. And so I want us to note as we consider this text and and the verses surrounding it four aspects of our responsibility to the next generation this morning. Before we get into the specifics of that, note how the psalm begins with the foundation of our responsibility to the next generation. the foundation of our responsibility to the next generation. You see, it's so important that we recognize that our ministry to the next generation is not primarily centered on them. It's not just because you love the kids that are a part of this church. It's not just that you are concerned for what might happen decades from now with that generation. Rather, our concern, our focus on ministry to the next generation is centered on God. If you care about God, you ought to care about the next generation. Notice how David begins. He says, I will extol you, my God, O King. And I will bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you, and I will praise your name forever and ever. David clearly had a personal commitment to praise God. That is the heart that fueled his desire for the next generation. It's really that heart that fueled the writing of this psalm. Psalm 145, if we had time to look in detail at at all of it you would find it's an alphabetical or an acrostic psalm of praise. One verse devoted to each letter of the Hebrew alphabet, except one. You can ask David in heaven why he skipped one. But the uh whatever reason he he gives two themes in this psalm that he weaves together, the the two themes of God's greatness and God's goodness. Note verse 3, that theme of God's greatness, he says, Great is the Lord, and highly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. Verse 5 continues, On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on your wonderful works I will meditate. Men shall speak of the power of your awesome acts, and I will tell of your greatness. He comes back to that theme of God's greatness in verses 11 to 13 as well. But the second theme is God's goodness Note verse seven. He says they shall eagerly utter the memory of your abundant goodness And will shout joyfully of your righteousness. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and great in loving kindness. The Lord is good to all. And his mercies are over all his works. And David comes back to that theme again of God's goodness in verses 14 to 20. He highlights that goodness is abundant. It is uh expansive and and it is reflected in the fact that God is gracious and merciful to us, that he is slow to anger, that he is great in his steadfast love. Covenant-keeping love to us. He is good to all. You know, I hope that as you sit here today, that is your heart. You long to praise the Lord every day, now and forever, because he is great and because he is good. But David understands it's not enough for just him to praise. God is worthy of all praise. And so this psalm really moves from David's personal commitment to praise, to his desire for others to praise. You see this in in verse six, he says, Men shall speak of these things. And Verse 10, all your work shall give thanks to you. And verse 10, your godly ones shall bless you. And verse 21, all flesh will bless his holy name forever and ever. You see, a true heart of worship will be eager to see others worship him because we understand that is what he is due. And such a heart will recognize its responsibility to stimulate others to that end. And that's the context for verse 4 here. David's focus is on the next generation, on that generation becoming those who would worship God because we praise his works to them. We declare his mighty acts to them. You see, God has given us, those who know the true God through his Son Jesus Christ, who are worshipers of the true God. He's given us the responsibility of passing that along to the next generation. And this is not just a fleeting thought for David here in the midst of this Psalm. This is a a theme we see throughout scripture. Turn back to Psalm 78. This is developed a little more fully in Psalm 78. You'll notice in verse four, the psalmist Asaf puts it this way: He says, We will not conceal them from our children, from from the instruction of God, the commands of God, the word of God. We won't conceal that from their children, but tell to the generation to come the praises of the Lord. And his strength and his wondrous works that he has done, for he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers that they should teach them to their children That the generation to come might know even the children yet to be born, that they may arise and tell them to their children that they should put their confidence in God and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments and not be like their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation that did not prepare its heart and whose spirit was not faithful to God. He says it's our role not to conceal these things, not to hide the truth of God, either either intentionally or just by our own apathy or neglect, but rather we've been commanded to tell these things to the generations to come to our children, but with a view for subsequent generations as well. If you look at these verses, he he says we've commanded our fathers to tell their children that the generation to come might know, even the children yet to be born, that they may arise and tell to their children You track that. How many generations did he just talk about? Multiple ones. We're focused on our children and their children so that they can tell their children and and their children Do we think that far into the future? You know, obviously we we hope for and long for the return of Christ, but should he tarry, we should be thinking about the generations to come down the road. those who have yet to be born and their children, and we should be doing all we can to faithfully pass the baton of God's truth to those coming after us, so that by God's grace those future generations can receive that baton and be worshipers as well. And this is our responsibility. Obviously, this is not limited to just the next generation. It's not only them, as we see back in Psalm 145, it's that that all people, that all of God's works would would praise him. Other psalms speak specifically of categories like the nations. In Psalm 96, 1 it says, Sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth. And And that heart of praise is focused on all the peoples of the world. He continues, saying to the Lord, bless his name, proclaim good tidings of his salvation from day to day Tell of his glory among the nations, his wonderful deeds among all the peoples, for great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised, he's to be feared above all gods. So we should have a passion for all people everywhere to be worshipers of the true God. That should be our heart, if we have a heart of praise for the Lord. But here in our text, in verse 4 of Psalm 145, David's specific focus is that the next generation, the generation to come, would praise God. So the foundation for our responsibility to the next generation is the glory of God. It's because of his greatness and his goodness and the resulting praise that he rightly deserves. And if we do not embrace that responsibility, if we do not actively give ourselves to working to see the next generation know the Lord and know the works of the Lord and and praise the Lord, it is highly likely that the next generation will not follow us in worshiping the Lord. We see that in the generation of Joshua. Turn back to Judges chapter 2. Judges chapter 2. You remember at the end of Joshua As they were pre uh as as Joshua was preparing to to transition uh with the people and he He had declared that he himself would serve the Lord, and he had called the people to make that same commitment, and they affirmed that commitment. All the people said, Yes, the Lord is God, and we will serve him. But Judges chapter 2 recounts how the people served the Lord in verse 7. The people served the Lord all the days of Joshua. and all the days of the elders who survived Joshua, who had seen all the great work of the Lord which he had done for Israel. But then Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died at the age of one hundred and ten. And verse 10 describes how all that generation also were gathered to their fathers, and there arose another generation after them. who did not know the Lord, nor yet the work which he had done for Israel. Then the sons of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served the Baals What a sobering reminder. A generation, Joshua's generation, who had seen the Lord's hand in the conquest of the promised land, and in the very next generation arising, not being focused on those works of the Lord and instead going after idolatry, worshiping and serving the Baals. What happened? Was it a a failure of Joshua's generation to pass those things along? Did they just assume they would sort of know all that God had done and and that they too would worship the true God? Or or was this a particularly stubborn and and uh rebellious generation. The scripture doesn't tell us all those details, perhaps some of both, but a sobering reminder of the importance of passing the baton of not assuming the next generation will know and worship the Lord You know, there are countless churches, both here in America and even more clearly seen throughout Europe where this has happened, where there was a once vibrant church A church that was exalting Christ and the Lord, that was singing to him, even as we have done together this morning, and now that church is essentially empty or spiritually lifeless. Where that transition to the current generation, that bataan, was not past. This church is not simply here for the current generation. This church law should long to see future generations should Christ tarry exalting the Lord together. This psalm reminds us that we have a responsibility to the next generation, a responsibility built on that foundation of God's glory, of his greatness and goodness. On the foundation of worship, which leads us to a second aspect of our responsibility to the next generation, which is the nature of our responsibility. The nature of our responsibility What is our responsibility to the next generation? What are we specifically called to do? Notice again verse 4: one generation shall commend or praise your works to another. and shall declare your mighty acts. I love how this verse doesn't just say, one generation shall teach your works to another. That is certainly part of what the Scripture exhorts us to do. Psalm one forty five four, the second half It says, We shall declare your mighty acts. We saw in Psalm 78 that we should teach them to their children, that the generation to come might know. In passages like 2 Timothy 3, we see how Timothy had known the sacred writings from childhood. So certainly our responsibility to the next generation is not less than teaching them. We are to teach them, to tell them certain truths, certain realities about God and his work and the gospel But this verse reminds us that our responsibility is more than just that. It is to commend or to praise his works to another To extol, to sing, to worship. Does that mean that we should live like a musical or that every children's lesson should actually be sung to the next generation? I I I don't think that's what he is saying, and I'm thankful for that. Singing is not my primary gift, although I'm happy to sing out. But I think his point is broader than that. I think it has more to do with our heart and the passion with which we desire to and do communicate the truth about God. I want you to think back to maybe a time when you were in school and you ever take a class in school where the instructor was so bored with the material that he could make even the most excited of students come to hate that class or that subject. I I I remember eighth grade, I think it was a history class or civics class where the boys basketball coach was my teacher. And he was far more excited to get to basketball practice than he was to teach that class. And and he did just enough. I mean he talked about what he was supposed to talk about and he gave us a handful of assignments related to those things. But there was no zeal or passion for that content. I remember a college statistics class that had a similar impact on me as the professor was not particularly engaging or excited about the material. But on the other hand, did you ever have a class where you didn't really care about it going in, but the professor was so excited, so passionate about what they were teaching, that you couldn't help but be drawn in I remember Christy and I took a political science class together in college, and it was during one of the presidential election cycles that fall. And the professor was so excited about everything that was going on. And so we couldn't help but be drawn in to care about and to think about the things that we were being taught You know, the reality is some parents and some churches are more like that first instructor. They talk periodically about God, but they do so and they live in such a way that communicates nothing of his glory, and so they almost do more harm than good. If your kids come to church with you and they watch you, if if they see you stand apathetically during the singing and barely making an effort to sing or sitting distractedly during the sermon and barely making an effort to pay attention, what are you teaching them about God? Or they watch you come to church, but but they don't see you care about the Lord or or have any impact from His Word from Monday through Saturday. Or they hear you talk about him in his word, maybe during some formal 10 or 15-minute family devotion time, but they never hear you speak of him in the course of everyday life. This psalm says, no, we are to commend, to praise the Lord. We ourselves are to be impacted by this truth, and we are to declare that to the next generation. No, Christy and I as as was mentioned have five daughters. Our our oldest is twenty-three and was recently married, our youngest is sixteen, but Uh all of the girls have enjoyed playing basketball throughout high school. We still play some in our church uh there they play in our church women's league along with Christy and I in our men's league. You know, growing up, I I enjoyed basketball and Christy enjoyed basketball, and and so one of the reasons why they enjoy it is because we have interacted with them about basketball You know, if if all I had ever done though was tell them that basketball's great and you should like it, but they never saw me touch a basketball or play it, they never watched a game with me, they never heard me talk about it again. You think basketball would have become their favorite sport? No, it wouldn't. But because they Saw us play, and they came and watched Minsley games at church with shirts that said dad's biggest fan and things like that. Because we could practice outside on a goal and and because I could coach them and be engaged with them, their passion for that game grew. It was caught more than it was just taught You see, we can't just teach the next generation. We must praise him to the next generation. They need to see us responding to the truth that we teach. Why is this the nature of our responsibility? Well, it's because it's not simply about communicating the truth, but seeing them captivated by the truth and responding to the truth. It's not just simply about their education, it's about their exaltation of God. It's not just about their heads, but about their hearts. This is what we saw in Psalm 78, 7, that the goal is to tell the generation to come, the praises of the Lord, that they should put their confidence in God and not forget his works, but keep his commandments. That's the goal. It's not just that the next generation can pass a multiple choice or true-false test, but that they should put their confidence in God and not forget the works of God. That's what Paul exhorted uh Timothy in a text we walked through yesterday with the children's workers, 2 Timothy 3 14, where he He said that uh Timothy was to continue in the things he had learned and become convinced of. We want the next generation to learn truth. to know it in their heads, but also to be convinced of it, to place their faith and confidence in the reality of those truths and to continue in those things. The goal is not simply that the next generation be knowledgeable of him, but that the next generation would be worshipers of him. to believe in him and treasure him above all else. I love how John Piper puts it. He he says this, what we want from the next generation is not just heads full of right facts about the works of God. We want heads full of right facts and hearts that burn with the fire of love for the God of those facts, hearts that will sell everything to follow Jesus into the hardest places of the world. And he continues, God makes hearts like that. He is sovereign. He can make such a heart in a dysfunctional family and a failing church. But that is not his ordinary way, and it is not the way he commands. His ordinary way is to breed hearts like that. in God-exalting families and in churches where one generation shall praise your works to another. May that be true of us So we've seen the foundation of our responsibility and the nature of our responsibility. Let's thirdly, and more practically note the fulfillment of our responsibility to the next generation. How do we do this? You say, yes, I have a heart that longs to praise God, and I long to see the next generation. have a heart to praise God, to know him and love him and worship him, but I struggle to engage with them in a way that promotes and fosters that. How do we do that? Well, as we've already seen, it starts with personal exaltation of God, as we saw in verses 1 to 3. We have to have David's heart of worship. A heart that is in awe of God and longs to exalt Him. If we are not personally devoted to praising the Lord, we will not praise Him to others. But such a hard and commitment really flows from and fuels, secondly, consistent meditation on God. Notice verse 5, again, it says, On the glorious splendor of your majesty and on your wonderful works, I will meditate. You see, because David had a heart of worship, he was committed to meditating on the character and work of God. And it was really that meditation on the character and work of God that fueled his heart of worship And so we must be meditating continually on the greatness and goodness of God, to long to know more of Him, to increasingly be amazed at His character and work to be consistently contemplating, thinking about those realities. Beloved, if the only time you think about the greatness and goodness of God is when you gather in settings like this. you will struggle to praise his works to the next generation as you are. We're to be meditating on these things, reading and studying about them in Scripture individually through our week. Corporately as we gather, using those opportunities to fuel our thoughts of God. The Bible is is God's revelation of Himself to us. And so as we read and study the Bible, it is fueling our meditation on Him. We can read other good books that help us to think about the attributes of God and the character of God that elevate our view of Him. God's also revealed Himself in creation, so as we appreciate the world around us and And the things that God has made, and we connect that to God, our Creator, it causes us to meditate and it fuels our worship. You know, back in Texas there's a a little roadrunner that lives somewhere near our campus, and so driving through the parking lot after hours you often will see a little road runner with something in its mouth running by and And you know, we can stop and and look at that bird, but we can we can sometimes stop just thinking, what an amazing little bird that is, and not connect that to what an amazing God. who has made this amazing creature to function in that way. We're to think deeply about God, our Creator, His majesty and works. Listening to good music that exalts him and what he's done for us in Christ can fuel our meditation of him, praising him in our prayers and as we come before him, not just focusing on ourselves and our needs, but on him, on the one whose name is to be hallowed, the one who is exalted in the heavens. Connecting our circumstances and the details of life to the character and work of God as you go through your day and your week and various things happen and unfold in your life. Do you think about God's character, his sovereignty, his providence in your life, his faithfulness in the midst of the trials of life? If we're going to meditate on him consistently, we also must be careful what else we allow to consume our thinking or really to numb our thinking. The time that we can spend on mindless entertainment, on social media, on the things that that keep us from thinking deeply and from meditating intentionally on the character and works of God. We must build habits of thinking such that we are consistently meditating on God's majesty and on his wonderful works. For the reality is we can't take the next generation farther down that path than we ourselves have gone. Such meditation fuels our praising Him to others. It really gives the motivation for Praising Him. It deepens our own heart of worship. As we meditate on God and we love Him more and desire to praise Him more. It motivates us to speak of him, to declare his praises, to praise him to the next generation. It also gives us the content to praise him to others As we have deep thoughts of God, as we think carefully about his character and his works, it it's the overflow of those things that we can communicate to the next generation. It helps us to recognize and take opportunities to praise him to others. Now why do we so often miss opportunities? to speak of him with our kids or grandkids or or just others in our world. I think it's so often because we simply aren't thinking about him. The reality is we speak freely about the things that we think often about. Think often about God and his works, and you will talk often about God and His works, not in a way that is forced, that you have to, but in a way that is natural because you are consumed with and focusing on those things. There's a lot of ways that we can intentionally connect our own meditation on and our own uh as we as we think rightly about our life and world. with God as we see things in creation, the the amazing things that He has made, even as we see sin in the world, our own sin or others, it reminds us of God's holiness and of of his grace and mercy All these can fuel our thinking about God and overflow, thirdly, an intentional declaration of God. You see, a life of personal exaltation of God, which flows from and is fueled by consistent meditation on God, will lead lastly to a life of intentional declaration of Him As our verse says, one generation shall praise your works to another and shall declare your mighty acts. We must speak of him, declaring him. Again, this emphasis is all throughout this psalm, both personally and corporately. Verse 6, men shall speak of the power of your awesome acts, and I will tell of your greatness. Verse 7, they shall eagerly utter the memory of your abundant goodness and will shout joyfully of your righteousness Verse 11, they shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and talk of your power to make known to the sons of men your mighty acts. There's to be an intentional declaration of God. What does this declaration involve? Again, the Psalm highlights two categories, declaring his greatness and declaring his goodness. We should talk about, we should declare the greatness of God and the great things that He has done. Things that are seen in creation all around us, things that are seen in Scripture and in our own lives. We should talk about the rule and reign of God the King. How his sovereignty rules over all, and how his providence is at work in our lives and through eternity. But don't just talk about the greatness of God. We should also live lives that demonstrate that we believe that God is in fact great. Living in obedience to him, in humble trust of him, and in a way that is fueled by and focused on living for his glory. But it's not just talking about his greatness, but his goodness. Again, I love the wording of verse 7. It says, They shall eagerly utter the memory of your abundant goodness. What a great phrase, an eagerness to utter, to communicate the memory of your goodness, to recall to mind the expressions of God's goodness and to share those with others. We should talk about, we should declare the goodness of God and the good things that he has done. Again, seen in Scripture and and seen in the details of our lives, talking about the good that God has shown us, about how all He does is righteous and good, how he is gracious and merciful. And obviously chief among that is his work in our lives through the gospel. The fact that God loved us and sent his son for us, that his son lived the life we could not live and died the death that we deserve. That chief expression of His mercy and grace, we should speak of that goodness to the next generation, how God has saved us and how He offers salvation to all who will call on His name and faith. You know, one of the chief ways we speak of his goodness is by consistently giving thanks. That's what verse 10 highlights. All your works shall give thanks to you, O Lord. And your godly ones shall bless you. Do you consistently give thanks, expressing gratitude for the blessings that God has given you in Christ and in this life, do you speak of those things to to the next generation? Do your kids or your grandkids or others know you as a a grateful person who is just humbled and amazed by the kindness of God in their life. Do they see you living out a life of gratitude, of contentment in the midst of the the circumstances of life, regardless of what the Lord brings. That's how we fulfill our responsibility to the next generation. It's not about checking a box by volunteering once a month or once a year at BBS. It's by having a heart of personal exaltation of God that flows from and fuels consistent meditation on God, which leads to the intentional declaration about God to the next generation and beyond. But where does this happen? I want us to think practically as we apply these truths to our own hearts about about where this discipleship of the next generation is to take place. And so note finally the spheres of our responsibility to the next generation. Where are we to do this? Obviously, first we are to do this in the context of the church. As the generation who is a part of this church or or any church or the Lord move you elsewhere, you have a responsibility to praise his works to another. How can you do that in the context of the church? Well, one way is simply by actively participating in the congregational gathering as we have done this morning. You see, as you are engaged in the corporate gathering and life of the church, there are opportunities to do this that you don't even probably think about. Deuteronomy 31, 11 and 12 speaks of the corporate assembly of Israel, and it says, When all Israel comes to appear before the Lord your God at the place which he will choose, you shall read his law in front of all Israel in their hearing. Assemble the people, the men and the women and children, and the alien who is in your town, so that they may hear and learn And fear the Lord your God, and be careful to observe all the words of this law. You see, as you gather corporately Exalting the Lord, exalting his word, exalting Christ, and kids come and are a part of that, sitting in here with you. They are seeing that God matters and his word matters and these people are exalting him and they can learn and fear the Lord. That's one reason why it's a blessing to have children come and be a part of the the corporate worship service. Yeah, sometimes they may be a little bit of a distraction, but it what a joy for them to be seeing and learning that this is what we do. We worship God together. This is particularly true of our congregational singing as Colossians 3. 16 says, let the word of Christ richly dwell within you, with all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another, with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with thankfulness in your hearts to God. Certainly, when we sing, our primary audience is the Lord. We are exalting him. But this verse reminds us that we also sing to one another And we are declaring the greatness of God to one another. And so if you sing out, and there's some other kids sitting on the other side of the room, you are praising God's works to them So we do that through our congregational gathering as we faithfully participate in the life and worship of the church, but also you can do it through your informal interaction. As you have opportunity in various contexts to rub shoulders with the kids and youth of this church and community You can share what God has done. You can speak of what He's done. You can display that gratitude and exalting of Him. And you can do this through formal ministry as you're able. You can consider serving in the nursery or in children's Sunday school or adventure club or or youth ministry. You see these ministries are not simply Child care, they're not just to take care of kids while their parents or adults are doing other things. This is an opportunity to disciple the next generation to declare his praises to them This is to happen in the church, but it's also to happen in the family. As I mentioned earlier, parents have a unique opportunity and responsibility to do this. Ephesians 6. 4 says, Fathers, don't provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. This is not to be a cold transfer of information. It's to be fathers praising him to their children and mothers as well. Proverbs 1. 8 speaks of a father's instruction and a mother's teaching. Deuteronomy 6, 4 through 7 speaks of of how the Lord is one and we should love the Lord with all our heart and and these words should be on our heart and then you shall teach them diligently to your sons and talk of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way and when you lie down and rise up. We are to praise his works to the coming generation as parents. throughout our life, spending time formally instructing in the truth of God and His Word, but also in our everyday conversations and interactions. As we are thinking about God throughout the day, allowing that to overflow in our interactions with our children, speaking of Him and declaring His praises to them. But it's not just parents, it's grandparents and others. I love Deuteronomy 4. 9, which speaks of making them known to your sons and your grandsons. This is an emphasis in the scriptures as well Uh as grandparents or great grandparents, whether you have kids and grandkids that live close or or whether that's done through periodic visits or cards or FaceTime calls. you have the opportunity to declare his praises to the coming generation, as aunts and uncles with extended family as well. But it's not just in the church and in the family, it's also to be done in the world. You know, the reality is there are those of the next generation who are not being raised in godly families and churches. We need eyes to see them and a willingness to engage with them. Maybe as a a neighbor in your neighborhood, those kids that ride their bikes down the street or that you interact with very little but could intentionally cultivate more of a relationship with, maybe inviting them to BBS or just intentionally engaging with them and their family. Maybe it's as a a sports coach or volunteering in some other way or or with your your kids or grandkids' friends being hospitable and willing to have others come over and and engaging with them. We all have a responsibility to the next generation and not just to our own kids. And as parents, we're so grateful for that, aren't we? We're so thankful for the corporate influence of others in our own children. I mentioned yesterday to the children's workers that I had the joy of officiating my oldest daughter's wedding back in May and And obviously there's a lot of layers of emotion that go with that, but one of the things that was was most uh uh you know That got me the most was when I was just welcoming people and I looked out and could see all the people who had loved her well from our church. Who had played a role in investing in her and and her husband also was raised in our church. And so just the layers of impact of our congregation investing in them See, it's not just our own kids, it's all of us investing faithfully in the next generation. We all have a responsibility to praise his works and declare his mighty acts to them. For some, that's a formal part of your life. Maybe you're in a season now where you are a parent and and this is what you do so often and such a focus of your life, or maybe you're a grandparent and you have that opportunity Maybe you serve in children's ministry or as a youth leader or your sports coach or teacher. For others it may be more informal, just in your in your neighborhood and as a part of of this body as a faithful member, the the informal and corporate opportunities for that. But regardless, may God give us the grace individually and corporately to fulfill this responsibility. As we consistently meditate on the greatness and goodness of God fueling our own personal exaltation of God, but overflowing to our intentional declaration of Him that the generation to come might surpass us really in the knowledge of him and their zeal for him in their worship of him. May this church be characterized by one generation praising your works to another and declaring your mighty acts. With the result that Hope Bible Church was would be a faithful pillar and support of the truth and light to the nations for generations to come. Let's pray to that end. Our Father, we thank you for this psalm, for this reminder of your greatness and goodness. And Lord, I I thank you that as we know you and as we worship you, you also give us a heart to see others worship you. And Lord, I pray that this morning we would all be reminded of the importance of declaring your praises, of praising your works to the coming generation. Thank you for those in this church who do that faithfully in more formal ways in children's or youth ministry. I pray you'd continue to raise up those to serve in those vital ministries. And Lord, I pray for the parents and grandparents in this church that they would be faithful to do this day after day in their interactions. And Lord, for each one, may this church be a church that cares about the next generation, that intentionally invests, and that every member is faithful to to do their part in praising your works to the coming generation, that you would be exalted. Lord, do this for the sake of your great name, we pray. In Christ's name. Amen.