Now, I want to bring out my teacher's hat and say we are now almost finished with the fruits of the spirit. And it's time that we memorized the fruits of the spirit. But it's very easy. It's as easy as one, two, three. I'm telling you, if you think of syllables, now we know there's a line, fruits of the spirit And they divide themselves very nicely into three groups of three. The first group each have one syllable. The second group each have two syllables. syllables. And the third group each have three syllables. So it's very easy. One, two, three. Now the first group, you probably already know. Love, joy, peace. That's the first three fruits of the Spirit. Everybody say it. Love, joy, peace. Perfect. Now, the last one. Here's the trick. This is the trick is going to help you. The last one piece starts with the letter P, while the first one of the two syllables also starts with a P. So we have patience, kindness And goodness. So now we have everybody say love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness Patience, calmness, goodness. Two syllables. Now, the last one of the two syllables Gurdness starts with a tree. So now we think of a three-syllable word that starts with a jury. And we have two tones. Four for us. Self-control. And that's the fruits of the spirit. Isn't it all easy? Very good. Gentleness Faithfulness, self-control. Now let's sing them all when my fingers go up. We are gonna sing. Okay? Ready? Love, joy Peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. Now, I know a couple of neuralists are going to come to me and say But now Anne, for last three, do not gentleness kind. I mean, gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. In the Bible, it says faithfulness gentleness self-control. But you know what? I think the Holy Spirit doesn't really care exactly the order that we say them in. Especially if my money does care then this group we are in big trouble. Let me tell you why. Way back last Fall when Chim taught us the first fruit of the Spirit. She taught us Self control. That's the last one, my dearest. And next month, when we have our last breakfast One of them is going to teach on love. That was the first one. So the first shall be last, the last shall be first, and aye yay. So you're all mixed up. So I don't think we all remember. That much if this little trick helps you to remember. Do I have talked long enough? Tell us safe and remember. We're gonna try one more. Ready? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness Faithfulness, self control. Very good. Very good. You know they say if you say you're trying to memorize something Especially as we get older it's harder. Let me just tell you. If you say it three times a day, three days in a row, you've got it. But three times a day sh could be spread out, could be meals, that's an easy way to remember. breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Or you could do it first thing in the morning summertime during the day and last thing at night before you go to bed. Three days in a row. But if you mess up or you have to look something up or you forgot, you gotta start all over again. with your three days. That's if you really want to memorize something. But I think it's important we learn these three fruits of the spirit. And in the spirit of the last three, being gentleness first, then Faithfulness, no self control. That's how I'm going to teach them this home. So turn to the side that says gentleness. I put the definition gentleness is an active trait. where we seek to deal sensitively and mildly with others, especially concerning their feelings and reactions to our actions. This is an active verb. Gentleness is often and I put these in parentheses because we're not teaching on meekness this morning, but so many people tend to confuse Meekness and gentleness, and they think it's the same thing, and it's they're actually almost opposites. Because whereas gentleness is an active trait Meekness is a passive trait, and that describes our response to others. And the proper Christian response, I'll just tell you this, we're not teaching on meekness, but this you get for Extra this morning. The real pinnacle, I'll say, of meekness is accepting God's dealings with you as good and offering no resistance or disputing or complaining. We can accept God's dealings with us. as good because he is good and he does good. Therefore, we will not offer any resistance Or disputing. That's the quality of meekness. But gentleness is active, and meekness is passive or reactive When we're active, we are initiating this and we should be gentle with people. How they react to us Could be meek or it could not be, but me meekness is a reaction, non-action. Now sometimes it's easy easier to learn about a trait or quality by looking at what the opposite The opposite of gentleness would be domination, intimidation, or threatening If you know anyone like that, you know very well that they're not a meek person, or if you see any of those traits developing in yourself or anyone tells you that, you know that's something that you need t to work on to be gentle. So just put that in there. I think that helps. Now I want to look at three things. Number one, God That God the Father is gentle. And Isaiah 4011 tells us, like a shepherd He will tend his flock. In his arm he will gather the lambs and carry them in his bosom. He will gently lead. the nursing use. When I think of gentle, being gentle with somebody, and God is here very gentle with the lambs, think of like exquisite fine crystal gold. goblets that you have, stemware, and maybe you're packing them, you're going to move. You're going to be very careful and put a bubble wrap around them, maybe how you pack them, how you handle that package, that box. You're very gentle with it. You are careful how you treat it. This is how God was. Careful how he treated his lambs His flock. We're his flock. He's careful with how he treats us. No matter how we perceive it, he is careful. Second, Jesus himself was gentle. 2 Corinthians 10, 1 says, Now I, Paul myself, urge you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. There you have them both. was actively gentle and passively meek when others treat treated or mistreated him. And and I thought that was very interesting that that verse had them both and it got me to thinking and I looked up that the Greek word sometimes is translated meek and sometimes gentle. And you know, back in the um Beatitudes where it says, I think it's uh Matthew 5, 5, the meek will inherit the earth. Well I tell you what, I'm old. You probably know that just by looking at me. So when I was a child The only thing we had was the King James version. I was friend of King James. You know himself he was there. But all the memory verses from my childhood are are in King James. That's all it was. And King James says, the weak shall inherit the earth. Fine. Well I grew up and I got saved and I was introduced to priest of Bible studies Wow, I got the Nasby version, an American standard, moving the whole world for me. It's it's one of the standards Don't gave. Don't you but we don't have it as long as me and it's all marked up yet? It's too much to give up. But anyway, the last be version says The gentle shall inherit the earth. I thought that is interesting, right? Same record Different translation. But then I know Tom Leek was an Aspie man, so he was he preached in Aspie. Now we got a Gabe has an E S D man and we have officially switched to the E S D. I do put it on my phone. so I can look at the ESB. Guess what? ESD, Matthew 55. The meek shall inherit the earth. It's full circle. We're back to the meek It started with the meek and then we went to the gentle and now we're back to the meek. I just thought that's interesting. Threw that in there for your thought. Right. Okay, if God is gentle. And Jesus is gentle, then surely we should be gentle. Something we should be striving to be. We want to be more Christ-like, we say Or we want to be more godly. Godly means God like, godly, ali like, godlike. There's a verse in Philippians that even tells us that, Philippians four or five, let your gentle spirit be known to all men, not just to your brothers and sisters here at Hope Bible. To our men, your neighbors, people you work with Monday through Friday. Do they see your gentle spirit? Something to think about. Now we're not going to have um table discussion this morning because these ten traits that we are discussing this morning I think are more personal Something that we each know sort of where we are on the continuum of how gentle we are in this case. So I would like to do something a little different instead. And I would like you all to close your eyes And I'm going to be thinking about these questions. I'm going to ask them of you while your eyes are closed, because even if you just think about it, that's fine. But maybe you're thinking thoughts will drift into prayer and you will talk to God about them in your own life. So I would like you to think of do I actively, actively seek to others feel at ease. When I'm in the presence of others, am I actively trying to make them feel at ease, not necessarily myself. Am I not thinking of myself? Am I thinking of others and how they will react to the way I'm acting towards them? Do I demonstrate a respect for the dignity of others? In other words, am I thinking more of the others that I'm interacting with than I think of myself. Am I sensitive to others' opinions? Especially those people with whom I disagree. We may have a disagreement on strongly held opinions But am I still sensitive to their opinion? And finally, when I'm with others, do I show consideration to all people To the long Christians as well as my brothers and sisters in Christ. Lord Jesus, help us to be more gentle and read our gentle spirit be known to all men. Amen. Okay, now turn your paper over and we're gonna talk about faithfulness. Who remembers the three Syllables, by the way. Gentleness, faithfulness, self-control. Good. Very good. Okay. Faithfulness is being firm in our adherence to promises. that we've made or in observance of a duty, something that we've agreed to do. A duty is what we do. So we have to be firm in our adherence to that. That we are going to really keep that promise or do what we said we were going to do. I think about uh people that have kids. I don't I don't have kids, but I taught And I don't know the special room. There's one opinion can get on it something like a Dog or the bone and let go and keep asking you for something, for something, or can we go to this place? Can we go? Can we and finally say, Yeah, yeah, yes You know, like leave me alone, yeah. But then whenever go. Well I would do what you told me we would do. That does not don't destroy faithfulness to your kids. Be Lord Culture with what you promise them you will do or where you will go and take them. Just just don't say it in English really well. Okay, the opposite of faithfulness is obviously unfaithfulness. When we use that term, someone's unfaithful We think of marriage often, you know. They're they're unfaithful to their wedding vows, which means they've gone out with another person. They've hooked up elsewhere. And that's that's important too. You want to be faithful to your loving your I shouldn't be happy to even tell you that this up here, but that's what we think of when we think of unfaithfulness. But there's other obsta opposites. We can be negligent in our duties You can just be plain undependable. People know that oh I can't depend on her and you can ask her to do whatever. because she's disindependable or disloyal. Just because we know it ha it could be in your marriage you're disloyal to your spouse or your kids, but it's also like in your job You're disloyal to your boss, to to whatever, wherever you work. All of these traits are very big. We we don't want any of those to be characteristics of uh of ourselves. But we all know people who are like like that. And this is not just a a black and white thing almost because there's some people who will do some things But they won't do others. You know what I'm saying? They're dependable maybe in some phases of their life, but not dependable always. But we need to always be faithful because God was always faithful. You know, when you think of the story of the Bible, from Old Testament to New Testament, what it just reeks of is God's faithfulness. God is always He's faithful in everything. He promised or his covenants. You think of the Old Testament. And God was so faithful to the land of Israel. Even though they were very unfaithful to him, they were like an adulterer's wife to him. They disobeyed all the time, and yet steadfastly he was faithful. Who was always faithful. It's al almost to me, that's the to the whole story of the Old Testament. So I don't look in the Old Testament for verses, but just to let you know that God is Well, faithful. Even in the New Testament we have a lot of examples of that. First of all, he's faithful for the forgiveness of our sins, and I know most of you probably have memorized first John one nine. If we confess our sins, that's on us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful God is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Oh, I forgot to say I should tell you. All the verses on my nose are a wheel space, they're naughty as though, but it's okay. It's okay. But God is faithful. We know even now when we sin he is going to forgive if we confess to him he's faithful. But he was faithful way back the very first time we confessed when we became a Christian To forgive us all of our sins. So he's faithful for our salvation. That's the next thing. God is oh, this is 1 Corinthians 1. God is faithful through whom, God, whom we're called into faith. Fellowship with his son, Jesus Christ our Lord. That's when you became saved, when you were called into fellowship. always been. He always will be. Can't emphasize that enough. He is faithful for the deliverance, for our deliverance from temptation. First Corinthians 2 13. God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted above beyond what you are able. So many times we think, oh, this is just terrible what I'm going through right now. I just don't know how I can do it. I I just can't. I can't. You can. God tells you. He will never let you be tempted by all but your people. You may be able to take more than you think you can take. You know, we're each different, we each have a different level of what we can stand, if you will, or allow to happen to us, but God knows that what that is And he is very faithful to not give you a more honor plate or more when you keep saying the waves keep crashing, they keep coming, and keep coming. No, he's not gonna let it more than you can handle. And you can count on that because your God is faithful. He's faithful for our ultimate sanctification. This is when we see him face to face. First Thessalonians 5 24. This is the end of that book, 1 Thessalonians, and it had been just talking about our sanctification, our ultimate sanctification, when we see the Lord Jesus, and it says Faithful is he who calls you, and he also will bring it to pass. He's gonna do what he said he's gonna do. No other way to put it. It's black and white. It's in our Bibles in black and white. It should be in our hearts in black and white. He faithful is he. He's going to do what he said he was gonna do. And finally, he's faithful for the fulfillment of our hope of eternal life. Hebrews 10, 13, let us hold fast the confession of our hope. without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. God is ultimately faithful. It should be one of his names, maybe it is, I don't know. But faithfulness is such a characteristic of God. This is a characteristic that we as ladies, every Christian really should have. So let's do the same thing. go to prayer or just thinking about it with your eyes closed. Basically we're thinking about how faithful am I. Lord Woman, am I utterly dependable? When I tell someone That I'm going to do something. Do I really do it? Do I do it in a timely manner? in which I told them I would do it? Or do I sort of put it out of my mind and then forget it? And never get to it? And then they ask, Oh, I'm sorry, I forgot. That's not the independable. A faithful person is dependable. Am I absolutely honest In my dealings with others? Absolutely. Do I do what I say I will do? Better not to say anything than to say something and then not follow through. Do I display unswerving loyalty to others, to my family, to my friends? To my job? To my church? Can others always count on me? Am I known as a person who can be always counted? Father, one day we're going to draw our final breath on this earth I stand before you. May we all hear you say to us Well done, my good and faithful servant. Amen