Um just by way of introduction you all I was thinking that um Yeah, it's it's the there's like an outline. Yeah, there you go. Okay. Um so just by way of introduction I just wanted to mention that whenever I or anyone is up here speaking, we're not really sharing anything new. Um the best thing that we can do for one another is to remind ourselves of what the Lord has already given to us, which is why we say How firm a foundation this morning. I wanted to emphasize that. And I love that home for that very reason. Um so today we're talking about because he first loved us we can love. And it's important for us to know that we've been loved but And to know his character and to know who he is better. And when we know that, and when the Holy Spirit is working in us, we're able to love other people. So because God is love, first John four eight says the Holy Sp Holy Spirit produces the love of Christ in us as we follow Christ and as the Spirit of God dwells in us. So today we'll be reviewing the importance of loving the Lord and growing in loving one another as he has loved us. Um and we know that loving one another is part of the greatest commandment. We're told in Matthew 22, verse 37 through 40 And he said to them, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment, and the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments And it's similar um in Deuteronomy chapter six, verse five through seven, where it says, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might. And these words that I command you today. Shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk to them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way. and when you lie down and when you rise. Leviticus nineteen eighteen gives us a standard of how we are to treat our neighbour or our friend or our coworker or those we come into contact with. Um, from the law given to the nation of Israel. Which says, You shall not take vengeance or bear grudge against the sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. So we know that we don't have this standard of love within ourselves. We need Holy Spirit or it just it doesn't happen. All the way back in Genesis chapter 6, verse 5 to 8, it already said every thought and intention of the thoughts of man's heart was only evil. continually. And we know from scripture that there is no righteous person on earth except for Christ who came, who imputed his righteousness to us. Um so I love listening to my daughter. My daughter Jessica works with little people. And um I know Pastor Gabe even alluded to this in one of his um one of his sermons recently. But she comes home and she tells these really colorful stories about her her little kids who are They're toddlers, they're not even quite two years old yet. And so it goes something like, Mom, my kids are so cute. I mean they are so cute, but they're such little sinners. I mean they they do terrible things all day long. I mean if you think about it, they're like, you know, after mommy and Daddy, what do they say? Mine, mine, mine, you know, you tell them to do something and they say no. Um and that doesn't change. You know, when we get older, without Christ, it becomes more sophisticated, but we have the same heart within us. Um Galatians five, fifteen through twenty six twenty-six tells us that we need to walk by the power of the Holy Spirit. So verse fifteen it says, But if you bite and devour one another Watch out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. And then all this year we've been focusing in on the fruit of the Spirit. That says but the fruit of the Spirit is Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. And the Word of God tells us that against such there is no law And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. So we have the Spirit of Christ in us. We are able And we know this because Christ first loved us. So what does that mean that Christ first loved us? Um first, a great deal of God's love for us is linked to the forgiveness that we receive in Christ. He came that we might live through him. He took our sin away by dying on the cross for us taking on the penalty of our sin and paying for it. Christ loved us to the point of giving up his life and dying a painful, excruciating death on the cross and then raising on the third day for us. So um Christ loved us That's the point of that. And that's what we need to remember. He took away our sins, past, present, and future. In his book, The Fruitful Life, which was one of my references for this um talk. Jerry Bridges points out in 1 John four, nine to eleven, stating that God gave in order that he might forgive. He reminds us that we are to forgive as Christ forgave. Forgiveness is directly tied to Love in Christ and is fully sacrificial and very costly. However, we can look at his example and see again that there's no room for holding a grudge or loving with constraint. John First John four, seven to eleven says, Beloved, let us love one another For love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God because God is love. And this is the love of God has made sorry. In this the love of God was made manifest among us That God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him. And this is love, not that we have loved God. But that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. Think of the example that Jesus gave in the parable of prodigal son. Which shows us the character of God. I think Pastor Dave, or another pastor, recently expounded on this too. The fact that the father, when he saw his son coming, ran to him, and we all know that Now that that was not something that they did in that culture. If you're older you didn't run, it was undignified. Um but he ran to the sun. But what I didn't realize until I heard that sermon was that the son would have entered the village and and he would have been an object of scorn. And so the father ran to meet him and would have brought him in so that he would not have been an object of scorn. And so I'm thinking, do we love other people that way? When we forgive them, sometimes we're like, Oh sure, we forgive you, sure you know, but sometimes in our hearts you might be thinking, Well, it'd be nice if they suffered a little bit you know. But the son didn't do that. I mean the father didn't do that to the to the son in this in this prodigal story. Um instead he made sure that he didn't even feel ashamed. He went out and loved him and received him. So we ought to forgive in those ways also. So what example What example did Jesus set for us while he was here? How did he love others? We're going to take a look at that for a moment. First of all, he prayed for people. He prayed first to the Father in the midst of of people suffering. He prayed while he was by himself. It says in Luke five or sixteen. And then he prays prayed in the presence of other people while they were suffering, um, during during the account of of the raising of Lazarus. And he wept with people. You know, even he knew that he could raise Lazarus, but he still wept for their sorrow and he identified with them. Um and then he tenderly loved other people. Um, again in the Lazarus account and then how even when he was dying on the cross he made sure his mom was taken care of and he was tenderly loving his mother. So as we also follow Christ, we should pray first for others and seek the Lord in our interactions with others. other people. Um every everyday interactions and we come alongside people as they're suffering, that we take time and we listen to them. And we enter into their pain. Um John chapter fifteen tells us that we need to abide in Christ. We can't love people. very well if we're not abiding in Christ. Um Jesus also bore with the disciples patiently. I was looking up these accounts and I thought, oh my goodness, God is really, really, really patient with us. But in Matthew chapter Chapter sixteen, you know, we see Jesus out on the boat. They had just fed the five thousand and the four thousand, and you know, Jesus said to them, Beware the leaven of the Pharisees, and he's trying to teach them something, and they're looking around Oh, we forgot to bring bread, you know. And Jesus could have said, you know, really, really, guys, that's not what I'm talking about. But he didn't do that. He just he did kind of rebuke them, but he was still very gentle about it. Or, you know, when you look at the mother of James and John coming to Jesus and saying, Well, I know Lord, what about, you know, you can have you can have James on one side, one hand and John on the other well what was going on there was Jesus had just said, We are going up to Jerusalem and I am going to be, you know, given over. to be killed. I mean I'm I'm going to die. And it's kinda like didn't hear it. And it's like, well, you know, when you come into your kingdom, you know, here's J and here are my two sons and you know, Jesus again was very patient with them. And then there was another time around the time of that they were at the Lord's Supper in Luke chapter twenty two when they were still arguing over things like who's greatest in the kingdom and Jesus was still patient with them and he could have been upset, you know. So we need to also be very patient with people and we can think about who do we have in our lives that we need to be patient. You know, we have some of us have children and sometimes our children are less than kind or obedient, you know. We have parents We have elderly parents who just need love and tender care and patience. We have some of us have spouses and we need to be patient with our spouses and learning how to communicate with them And co-workers. You know, sometimes we work with people and we just have to learn how to work with one another. And we need to remember in all of our interactions we are being um an example of Christ to them. And, you know, sometimes, you know, we do that well, sometimes we don't do that well. I can think of an instance recently when I was at Hope Academy when I didn't do that well because I don't know what it was. It may have been like a one of those spirit days that we have here and our kids I'm looking at some of our tutors, our kids get really riled up on those days. We just had a tie I date the other day. But I think it was fifties day when they were dressed up like the fifties and the kids were just kind of all riled up. And my third and fourth grader says I was trying to get them together for my course. It's like, let's sing, guys, let's pay attention. Let's focus. You know, focus, focus. And they just they weren't focusing. And I gave I gave the kids like two different sheets of paper that had different things on them. to be singing and I asked one of them I mean I asked for one of them back and one of my kids gave me the wrong one. And he did it on purpose. Because you know how kids do something and then they look at you like And they wait for that reaction. So I went back, you know, and I was not kind. I went and I went and I thought, Well, there are a myriad of things I could have done better there instead of s you know, grabbing it out of his hands, you know, if I needed So we need to remember wherever we are, whoever we're interacting with You know, we need to make sure that Christ comes out first. And again, you can't do that unless you're abiding in divine John chapter fifteen. So Colossians three thirteen through fifteen says, bearing with one another, and if anyone has a complaint against another Forgiving each other as the Lord has forgiven you. So you also must forgive. And above all these above all these, put on love which binds everything together in perfect harmony, and let the peace of Christ rule in your heart, to which indeed you are called in one body. and be thankful. Going back to Christ's examples, um, Jesus often ministered to people when it wasn't convenient. And we all know what that's like, right? He was awakened in a boat when he was tired, you know. Lord, don't you care for perishing? Wake up, Lord, wake up, you know. And if you think about that What a thing to say to Jesus. Don't you care that we're perishing? I'm thinking, that's why he came, because we were perishing. You know, but we a we act like that. But Jesus was patient. He did rebuke them because they didn't have faith. But notice he didn't rebuke them for waking him up. He didn't rebuke them because it was inconvenient. He was concerned about their heart. And that's how we need to be with one another Keep the main thing the main thing. Um and be patient. Um and then he also, you know, when he was in a quiet place resting, you know, where it says in Luke four verse forty-two to forty-four, he was off, you know, praying by himself. But people found him, you know, the disciples found him and dragged him off. You know, there are people waiting for you. And so we also have times in our lives when we need to love when it's not convenient. Sometimes there's a sick child at two AM in the morning, or there's a friend who needs our care and our help um that we need to reach out to. But remember in those times God can give us what we need Um Proverbs eleven twenty-five says, Whoever brings blessing will be enriched, and one who waters will himself be watered. And in some versions Um some translations it says refreshed, which I like 'cause sometimes we can be really tired and not feel like serving, honestly. And our flesh can be yelling at us, No, go to bed, you know. But if we allow the Lord to work to us, we can love and God will give us. And then Christ loved without expecting anything in return. There was no nothing that we could have offered him. Ephesians 2, 4 through 5 tells us that we were dead. Dead in our trespassions and sins. And there's nothing that a dead person can offer you, right? But God loved us anyway. On verse 4 it says, But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved, for we are his workmanship created in Christ, this is verse ten, for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. So he not only saved us, but then he gave us work to do and he gave us the ability to be involved in reconciliation, pointing people to Christ. And that's like love upon love Right. First John four nine to eleven says, In this is love. Sorry, in this the love of God was made manifest among us that God sent his only son into the world so that we might live to him And this is love, not that we loved have loved God, but that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us Here it is again, we also ought to love one another. That's a theme that keeps coming back in the Bible. So we see Christ set an example for us. By praying first for others, tenderly showing love for others, bearing patiently with people, ministering when it was inconvenient. and um hold and not expecting anything in return. So how does it make a difference knowing that Christ first loved us when we are struggling to love other people? How does Christ's love motivate us? to love. Well it says, we love because he loved us. It's about him, not us. He is love, and we cannot be in Christ and be afraid to love others due to rejection or tiredness or fear or past wrongs that we've suffered at the hands of others. And when we are secure and the love that God has for us. Fear goes away. Which is why, um, verse sixteen in in John chapter four, sixteen through nineteen and twenty-one says, So we have come to know and to believe the love that God has for us. God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the jail Day of Judgment, because as he is, so also are we in the world. There is no fear in love, but love per perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment, and whoever fears has not been perfected in love. And we love because he first loved us. And this commandment we have from him, whoever loves God must also love his brother. So, you know, this is this is freeing and this is really the the clincher for me. and something that the Lord showed me recently. Um, I found out that when you're a biblical counselor, and those of you guys who are in the room who also counsel will realize you cannot be a biblical counselor without coming face to face with what's going on in your own heart. And it can be kind of interesting sometimes when things pop up and you know it shows you. But I have a counsel a counselee who, um, she doesn't go to this church and I won't mention her name But we are talking about the love of God recently and the love that God has for her. And we are looking at different passages in the in God's word that Tell us that. And I looked at her face and she was back here and I said, Let's turn to such and such passions. I don't remember what it was. And I looked at her face and she was going And I thought, she doesn't believe me. And more importantly, she doesn't believe what God has said. And then I stopped and I said Do you believe it? And I thought, oh, that's interesting. I'm not sure I do. And so I asked the Lord, this was Easter Eve, Easter Eve, great re great understanding. came to me from the Lord. Um that he actually showed me it's like, Margo, you don't see me the way that I've said that I am. You don't you don't believe me because you're focusing in on your earthly father. Now, my earthly father was was okay. He was a good man. My mom loved him Um, but I did not grow up with my dad. They were divorced when I was young. And so I was about two when they were divorced, and he passed away when I was about eight And so there was no no relationship there. So when you take your earthly example and you throw that on God, and I don't care what your earthly example was, you may even have a really, really, really good dad, but he's still a human being. Um so when you take that example And you throw it on the Lord instead of looking at what the Lord says about Himself. Um, that can really mess up your thinking. And so recently I've begun to really look at who God really is. You know, first Psalm chapter one tells us the love that He has for us. Ephesians one speaks of the riches of His grace which He's lavished on us. I mean lavished on us. And then it's lavished on each one of us. So it's not I lavished it over here on your sister over there or your brother over there. No. It's he lavished it on each one of us. Um so when we see Christ in the light of the gospel too and we see how much we've been forgiven and cleansed and what he did for us personally, um, and how he's reconciled us to him. by no merit of our own. Loving others sacrificially becomes a whole lot easier. It becomes easier because we're no longer worried about anything having to do with ourselves. We're not trying to gain God's favor. We're not thinking that God doesn't really love Us, we're not feeling like we've missed out on anything. None of that goes through our mind. Jealousy goes out the window because you have everything you have in Christ. Comparison goes out the window. because you have everything that you need in Christ if I keep talking about cry. But um that is a beautiful saying and that is the root of how we love other people. When you can really grasp that and abide in God's truth for what He's done and who He isn't. for us. Um so he gives us the power to love. Second Corinthians five fourteen through fifteen says For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this: that one has died for all, therefore all have died, and he died for all. That those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. So again it's not about us It's about him. Okay? We are Christ's hands and feet on earth. Loving us he did. And so what does that mean? It means that we have two groups of people who we love while we're here for as many years as the Lord gives us. We have people who don't yet know the Lord, who we are to love and show Christ to. You know, we share the gospel with them. We live it out before them. You have to do both actually. You have to actually give people the word, but you also have to live it out, like the little boy who I snatched the paper from. Um so just remember that you are you know, an example of Christ to them. We're called in Matthew 28, 19 to 20 to share the gospel with other people. And then towards other believers, we are called to be forgiving and tender hearted towards other people. Okay. So Ephesians four twenty-five through thirty-two says, I'm not going to read the whole thing, but says there well I might therefore having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak truth to his neighbor For we are members of one another. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger, and give no opportunity for the devil. And then it goes on and it talks about not having corrupting talk, building one another up in Christ, um making sure that your words give grace to those who hear, not grieving the Holy Spirit letting go of all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, slander, um, and then we're told to be kind, tenderhearted, and forgiving as God forgave us in Christ. Um I actually did a word study on on Ephesians four and I'm not gonna go into all this, but when it talks about the different kinds of things that we're supposed to let go of, bitterness is actually extreme wickedness. You know. Wrath is boiling anger. Slander is injurious speech. Um, so we're supposed to be kind. Kind is fit for use, virtuous. good and pleasant. And that's how we want to treat one another. Tenderhearted means strong vows, deeply felt from the heart. So when we love one another, it's to be deep. It's not supposed to be surfacey Okay. So we must be very careful with our words, because that's kind of how we love one another too. Our actions and our words. Not only will this glorify Christ when we're careful with our words And when we are gracious, um not only glorify Christ because we will be acting like him, but we will also show the watching world our love for one another. which reflects Christ. In John chapter 13, 34 through 35 says, A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another just as I have loved you. You also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for none for for one another. And um now I was thinking about this the other day Um, because I thought there's some of you guys might know Ron Aachenbach, he's this tall guy here, this sweet little boy named Lynn, who goes to our church. But I teach his fun violin here at Hope Academy all all these Hope Academy examples today. But anyway, um at the end of the day one day we were talking about his instrument and some things I needed to change on it and I told him to go to the store and, you know, fix this, fix that, and they did. And so he was trying to show me, see, I got this done And I didn't have time that day and I was rushing out the door because I leave Hope Academy, I run home, and as soon as I get home I have music students waiting for me. And it's traffic is anyway It's interesting. So I thought, Mm, uh huh, yeah. Mm-hmm. And I kinda got my stuff and I left and I thought, Wow, that wasn't very kind, Margot. So I did apologize and he said, What? I don't even remember. But that's not the point. The point is um that he was saying he was researching. recently listening to a sermon by Pastor Leek um and I've forgotten the title, but it had something to do with overcoming courage with love. I think that was the name of it. But he was saying within that sermon, you know, if you don't want others to hurt you, don't don't join this church because you know, you're gonna get hurt. That's just the way it is. And we need to be quick to forgive one another. And Ron was. He was like, I you know, I th that was fine. I forgive me whatever, it's fine. Um, but we need to make sure that we're not Not holding on to grudges. So verse 22 of um 1 Peter 122 says, having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth Obedience to the truth. For a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart. So in conclusion, we have discussed the love the Lord has for us The example of Christ, the fact that we have been given the ability to love in Christ by the indwelling Spirit, Holy Spirit in each one of us. We have talked about how we need to be abiding in Christ, to be walking in the Spirit. We talked briefly about how to love one another, especially as we guard our tongues. And so now we're going to pray and reflect on these things. I'm going to pray first, um, and then we're going to take a few minutes to um discuss the questions that are in here. I'm going to read them first. There are some discussion questions here. But it says, how has the love of Christ affected you specifically this past week in terms of your relationship with the Lord? How has the fact that Christ has forgiven you of all your sins and indwelt you Will the Holy Spirit affected your relationship with one other person in this past month specifically? And what is an application from the scriptures today that you can take with you for this week? Let's pray first, and then I'll hand it back over to Elsie. Heavenly Father, I thank you, Lord, for your Holy Spirit. I thank you, Lord, for your word. Thank you, Lord, that you have made it possible for us to know you. Thank you that you've redeemed us, Lord, that you've given us life in Christ. Thanks, Lord, that you've loved us deeply, and that you've shown us how to love one another, and that you give us the ability to do that Help us to remember, Lord, who you are, and to really believe what your word says. In Jesus' precious name, Amen