All right, ladies, um I h I hope I you can hear me okay because I don't I have a soft voice and a lot of ladies say speak up, speak up so so hopefully you can all hear me right. I got the thumbs up so we're good to go. Okay. Okay, the backbone, all right. That might have came in if I was teaching on love. But I will tell you that the journey of teaching on self-control really um convicts the heart. It really makes you think and ponder and pray and ponder again and keep praying and saying, Lord, you know, I need this. So I'm praying that as I share this journey with all of you, that you too will ponder and pray and know how much we need to understand what it means to produce the fruit of self control. So, throughout the season we are going to be teaching on the fruit of the spirit. And when we read the list of the fruit of the spirit, it's enjoyable to hear love, peace, joy, patience, kindness, goodness. faithfulness, gentleness. Don't we love those words? But then at the end here comes self control. You know? And then that kind of starts stirring up something, doesn't it? You know, so 'cause it definitely did in me. So we start asking ourselves, okay, I like the love and the peace, but how can I have self control? I do try, I do pray to God for help, but I keep struggling with blank filling the filling the dot fill in the blanks, excuse me. And don't we all have a list? Can't we all say something that we struggle with in one season or in another season? You know? But I'm here to tell you, ladies, that in the book of Galatians, Paul clearly tells them what the key is to producing the fruit of the spirit, which includes self-control. So, before Paul tells them to walk by the Spirit in chapter five. He reminds them of his identity in Christ in chapter two. If you can open up your your Bibles or your devices to Galatians Galatians chapter two I want you to listen to this message that Paul gives them. Galatians two twenty, Paul says, I have been crucified with Christ It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. In the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself up for me. Paul goes right to the source. He starts with who you are in Christ. So this morning We are going to look at the fruit of self-control. We are going to review and be reminded of a few things. One is the battle between our will and God's will while we are in the flesh. Christ's instruc instructions to producing good fruit defining the fruit of self-control, the work of the Holy Spirit, our helper, and we as active participants practicing His righteousness. So starting with a short review from from September that Pastor Gay gave us in Galatians 5, 16 and 17 This so five sixteen and seventeen. But I say walk by the spirit and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. For the flesh is a for the flesh sets his desire against the spirit and the spirit against the flesh, for these are in opposition to one another so that you may not do the things that you please. Pastor Gay reminded us in September that there's a battle, two wills in competition with two different sets of desires. Your will With deeply held beliefs shaped and molded by life experiences and the temptations of the world. In God's will for you to walk by the Spirit and bear much fruit, which is good and acceptable and pleasing to God Pastor Gay continued to tell us then, if your flesh sets its desire against the spirit, then we must be an active participant. By submitting and living our life according to the spirit, by sowing into your life good fruit that glorifies God. This means putting off fleshy thoughts and desires and putting on God's thoughts and desires. He shared Ephesians 4, 22 through 24 that says that in reference to your former manner of life you lay aside the old self which is being corrupted in accordance with the lusts of deceit, and that you be renewed in the spirit of your mind and put on the new self which is in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. So going back to Galatians chapter two It's about who our new self identifies with. Again, I tell you, it says, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. Which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. Therefore The secret, the secret to producing the fruit of the Spirit, including self-control, is abiding in Christ. is clear instructions. I'm sorry I don't have a pill for you. So again I say the secret is abiding in Christ. God doesn't does God does not Give us truth to make it difficult for us. He tells us straight what we need to do. It's our flesh that gets in the way. So, lady, turn your Bibles and devices to John fifteen. We let's take a look at Christ's clear instructions. John 15 in verse 1, Jesus says, I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. I'm going to jump around. So in verse four, he says, Abide in me and I in you, as a branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine, you know. You are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him bears much fruit. For apart from me, for apart from Jesus, you can do nothing. If you abide in me. In my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you My Father is glorified by this that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. Just as the Father has loved me, I have loved you. Abide in my Love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love. Just as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love. These things I have spoken to you so that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be made full. Unpacking John fifteen starts off that we're not alone, are we? Because as the branch, we have Jesus, the vine, as our source of nourishment. For the branch cannot bear fruit by itself. All our gardeners understand that. And we have the will of God the Father pruning us to bear more fruit. So what does abiding mean then? The Greek word nino, to remain and to stay Where are you remaining? You're remaining in Christ. How do you remain in Christ? Jesus tells us that also. He says, by remaining in his word and in his love. They are connected. Remaining in His Word is remaining in His love, and remaining in His love is remaining in His Word. Who did Jesus give us to help us remain in His Word? And in his love. When you go back to chap John fourteen, Jesus tells us that he gave us a helper, the Holy Spirit of truth. How did Jesus describe the Holy Spirit again in John 14, Spirit of Truth in our Helper? It also tells He also tells us that God is for us. He says it is the Father's will through Jesus that we bear much fruit. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish and it will be done for you. So again, ladies, the secret to producing the fruit of the Spirit, including self-control, is abiding in Christ's clear instructions. We are commanded to obey. abide in Christ and Christ has given us clear instructions on how to do this even with the flesh in opposition. So what does it look like in our lives to walk by the Spirit producing the fruit of self control? So let's take a look at the definition of self control. Let's start with the world dictionary dictionary. They use the word restraint, exercise over one's impulses, emotions, or desires. Some of the synonyms they use is self-command, self-containment, self-containment. Discipline, self-government, self-mastery, self-possession, self-restraint, willpower. So what's missing in that diff definition? God. Yes. It is missing God for truth, for direction, for strength. It is centered around self, not God. So let's take a look at the biblical definition of Self control. And I have that on your paper too. Self control is the exercise of inner strength under the direction of sound judgment that enables us to do, think, say the things that are. pleasing to God. The exercise of inner strength under the direction of sound judgment that enables us to do, think, and say the things that are pleasing to God. Spiritual control of thinking, physical control of actions. So let's take a closer look and let's start with um sound judgment How do we get sound judgment? Jesus said to live by the word of God. We hear this um scripture all the time, Matthew four. It is written, men should not live by bread alone, but every Peter said for us to be sober-minded in 1 Peter 4. The Apostle Paul says to renew our minds, to take our thoughts, our thoughts captive to the Word of God in Romans 12. twelve and second Corinthians ten. Jerry Bridges, The Fruitful Life, says only as we study both the scriptures In ourselves will we be able to exercise sound judgment? Proverbs two that we've also read very much when it talks about wisdom when King Solomon said, My son, if you receive my words and treasure my commandments within you, make your ear attentive to wisdom, incline your heart to understand. And he talks about Christ For discernment, if you seek her as silver and search for her as hidden for treasures, then you will discern the fear of the Lord and discover Knowing the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom, from his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He's a shield to those who walk in integrity, guarding the path of That's Proverbs two, one through twelve. So knowledge, again, self-control, the exercise of inner strength under the direction of sound judgment that enables us to do, think, and say the things that are pleasing to us. So we seek and ask God through prayer and supplication. We read God's Word. We believe the sound knowledge of the Word of God. We gather awareness as we compare and we are enlightened to what it looks like biblically, allowing to compare it to the flesh. Most of the time, ladies We c we we know when the flesh is kicking in. Surely we know when we're jealous and anger or disputes or envy and or immoral or strife. So what do we do is we lear have to learn to go to the Word of God and believe and seek and pray and trust. And we ask ourselves, are you in the flesh or are you in the spirit? The Bible tells us about that too. It tells us how we grieve God. Ephesians 4. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God. For whom you were sealed for the day of redemption, it talks about let bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, slander, and malice be put away from you. But be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. Talks about us quenching the Spirit. First Thessalonians five Do not quench the spirit, do not despise prophetic utterances, but examine everything carefully, hold fast to that which is good, abstain from every form of evil So we obtain sound direction by using the knowledge given to you through God's Word. With required knowledge comes wisdom on how to apply God's knowledge to any situation. So we talked about sound judgment. judgment. But where we want everyone looking to is in our stress. Sound judgment Tells us to seek the truth on what to do and God's wisdom. But now the inner strength comes under the direction of sound judgment. Jerry Burgess again, the fruitful life. Next, he says, we must face the inner So looking at the work of the Holy Spirit of truth, when we are not grieving or quenching God's commandments, And we are Holy Spirit inspired by the truth. When you are truly seeking God with all your heart, James 1 tells us how we humbly go before God, asking in faith without doubting. We feel the love of God and want to walk in the fear of the Lord. We are encouraged to react rightly as we listen and do according to God's Word. James 1 again, but prove yourselves doers of the the word and not merely hearers who delude yourselves. We strengthen we are strengthened as we do what is right or recognize what we did wrong with a repented heart and receiving the cleansing and peace and assurance from God. Jerry Bridges says again, we must realize that the battle for self control was fought prim primarily within our own minds. It is a battle with our own passions, thoughts, and desires Fellowshipping with the Holy Spirit, Paul says in Romans 14: For the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. For he who in this way serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by man Another quote, Jerry Bridges says, from the Puritan writer John Owen, vigorously insisted that the fruit of the Spirit is the work of the Spirit and not of human origin. These godly qualities are not something we can manufacture, take pride in, or lay claim as self-generated. Rather, they are the work of God and their source is God alone. However, we have a crucial role to play, ladies. We must actively put them on. As Owen explains, we are responsible for acts of obedience by which This fruit is preserved, increased, strengthened, and improved. So therefore we must practice his righteousness. Again, the Bible continues in Scripture to tell us about that and we hear So let's take a look at that. As we are active participant, we have habitually fleshy practices that are easily triggered through the world system and our life experiences. By the will of God, with our Lord and Savior and Mediator Jesus and the Holy Spirit, we have the power to not do the things our flesh wants to do. With God in us, we are no longer a slave to sin. And you can always read Romans six to be reminded. So because we have, as Apostle Paul closes in his letter In Second Corinthians he s closes it saying, The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all And that's a beautiful closing. And it shows you the relationship that you have with God. So let's look at Second Peter that we also read a lot of in this beautiful truth. And Peter also reminds us, he says, Grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord, seeing that his divine power has granted to us everything pertaining to life and godliness through the true knowledge of him who called us by his own glory and excellence. And then he goes on as you read farther down, he says, for this very reason now applying all diligence in your faith supply moral excellence, knowledge, self control, persevere perseverance, godliness, brotherly kindness, love. And then he says that these qualities are yours and are increased and they render you need Neither useless nor unfruitful in the true knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then he further down in verse ten he says, Therefore, brethren, be all the more diligent to make certain about his calling and choosing you, for as long as you Practice these things, you will never stumble. As long as you practice these things, you will never stumble. And he says, in this way, the entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ will be abundantly supplied to you. In Hebrews the writer hits it a little bit harder. He says to the to the to the ones he's writing to, the Jews he says, Concerning him We have much to say and it is hard to explain since you have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you have need again for someone to teach you the elementary principles of the oracles of God. And you have come to need milk and not solid food. For everyone who partakes only in milk is not accustomed to the word of righteousness, for he is an infant. But solid food is for the mature who because of practice have their senses trained to discern good and evil Because of practice in the Word of God has our senses trained to discern good and evil Do you believe that God has given us everything we need to live a life pleasing to Him? Are you applying diligence in your faith? Are you forgetting your purification from your former sins? Are you partaking in milk or the meat of the Word of God? Have you become dull in hearing the Word of God? How much are you practicing? All these questions hit my heart too. And I hope that they make us also think. Galatians five, sixteen, but I say walk by the spirit and you will not carry out the deeds of the flesh. Jerry Bridges, the fruitful Life quote. God gives us a new heart and moves us to obey Him. He gives us singleness of heart and inspires us to fear him. He pours out his love into our heart so that we begin to comprehend his love for us. All of this is bound up in the blessings of the new birth, so we may Safely say that all Christians possess a basic devotion to God. It is impossible to be a Christian and not have it. The work of the Holy Spirit at regeneration assures this. God has given us everything we need for life and godliness. Jerry Burgess to Fruitful Life. So every trial is a temptation to turn away from the Lord And every temptation is a trial testing one's faithfulness to the Lord. And that's quoted from our dear senior pastor, Gay Powell. So in summary I leave you with to remind you, because we are in Christ, again we know that there is a battle between our will and God's will while in this flesh. But Christ has given us key instructions on how to produce good fruit by abiding in him. He has given us a helper, the Holy Spirit of truth, and it is by God's will. And we know that we are to be active participants We must practice his righteousness, producing the fruit of self control by exercising inner strength under the direction of sound judgment to enable us to do, to think and say the things that are pleasing to God. So I take you back to Galatians two twenty and remind us again our identity in Christ. We have been crucified with Christ and it is no longer we who live. But Christ lives in us In the life which we now live in the flesh, we live by faith in the Son of God who loved us and gave himself up for us. So there's so many scriptures. scriptures in the Bible, in the Word of God, when we go through trials and challenges. So we so if we're not able to have self-control, it's not God, is it? It's us. And it's the battle with our flesh. And we're not always going to do it right. But the Bible even tells us how to handle that And then we need to be obedient to that too. We need to be obedient to confessing and repenting and receiving God's cleansing. as he continues to prune us and guide us in his world. So I'm sorry I don't have a magic pill that I was going to put on the table for each of you, you know, that you take every time you feel that way. But The word practice is in here and that's what we have to do. We are an active participant in the relationship with our God. And we are in this fellowship with the Holy Spirit. And that's where we can fall into different challenges in different seasons of our life. We can battle with some bad habits, but at the end of the day we have to be honest with ourselves. It really is us. It really is us. Because it's not God, because God has given us everything we need. And it wasn't say about the Holy Spirit, He was in us is greater than He was in the world. God is in us But in different seasons of our life and in this nation, we can get caught up in contentment. We can if we take a look at our schedules, you can see just how much time you've really given God And how much time we're really giving the world. If we take a look at some of our old bad habits, you know I mean, Jesus tells us to take up our cross and deny ourselves and live for him. So we have to t always s um examine ourselves to see where we are and why we're struggling in different seasons of our life. And there are different seasons. Some of them w you know, some of Some of them are longer struggles and some of them are we we get through. But again, Jesus has told us, Abide in me. And then you will bear much fruit 'cause you can do nothing. He didn't say a little bit. He says you can do nothing without him. And that's why it's so important that we get to enjoy the time of learning how to walk in this in the spirit. And we can use this whole women of hope. season to continue to look at what does the fruit of the spirit look like when we produce it. Not when we feel it, oh I feel love. You know, it's when we produce it, when we produce the love because we are abiding in Christ. So Ladies, thank you so much for listening to this and may this ma ponder on your heart. Um course I always got something to do at the table. And what I put together here is um One of the challenges again is what Pastor Gabe was kind of teaching us a little bit in September about putting off, renewing our mind. and putting on. And s and to create that to have that sound judgment you've got to see God's word, you know. And you have to stay in God's word. Um so I kind of did a little worksheet on some basic things and and in the chart starts with a situation. You can put anything in that situation that's gonna create the flushy response and um that's on the put off. For example, um for anger. You know I mean there's so many things that can p pull you know, that can pull anger out of us. You know. But then we have to fall back on renewing our mind with sound judgment and that's the next column and then um putting on in you know, and gives you more directions on how to handle that. So I I picked some basic things like bitterness, So you know, self decisions, being wise in your own eyes, m um speech, anger, um, being complacent. I these are just a few by the way, I hate to say that. You know. Lust, you know, for food. I call all these things fear, anxiety, worry. Depression caused by circumstances and also depression caused by sin And um prayerlessness. So I just picked a few of these and then that and the very last page is personal transformation worksheet. Something that you can kinda take. 'Cause like I said we all have our challenges and and really this sheet was help you um document where your challenge is and what do you do? You know I mean, you learn and you memorize God's word, you pray God's word back to Him and you continue to practice His righteousness. So I know that One of the questions we're all gonna say is, But it's so hard and I keep doing it and I know the scriptures and I know God's word. But I will give you this 'cause one thing I told God with some of my own struggles, said God, I never want to have peace in my struggle. And and I think about what p w what Peter when they had a hard time with what Jesus says and Jesus um and they all deserted Christ and Christ asked the disciples, Did you want to lead to? And what did Peter say? He says, Where will we go? You have the words of eternal life. So in your struggles, where would you go? Back to yourself? Or you stay in Christ who has the words of eternal life? To him be the glory