America has been called the home of the brave and the land of the free, the land of pleasant living, the land of plentiful, the land of opportunity. The land where our fathers died, the land of adversity, the land of high-tech convenience, where ATMs, iPods, iPads, iPhones abound. Where fine cuisines and restaurants are just around the country. And trendy design of clothes are all over over all year round. He got Spring, summer, fall, and winter of clothes, the lore. So you might you might ask me the question. Pastor Tony, your message this morning is Psalm 23. What has Psalm 23 got to do with me? You see? Psalm 23 perhaps is the most well-known and beloved Psalms in the Old Testament. In this great country, the green meadow with his shepherd tending his flock is not a f familiar scene or sight, especially in Maryland. I don't know if any any uh Sheep herders in Maryland. I've been so in years. In the suburbs, in the cities, in Baltimore City, I don't I don't even see one sheep. Have you? Therefore, suburbanized like you and me cannot relate to Psalm 23, geographically, that is But spiritually, like David, if you think seriously about it, we can relate to that, to this great psalm written by David. It is more than applicable in my Study, my estimation, it is practical, it is relevant, it is land of blessing living. Did you ever think that as a Christian, if you are a believer, you have received Jesus as your Lord and Savior, that in the midst of all this abundance and the muddening crowd that you and the office that you work with? Wherever you are, whether you're you're sleeping enjoying your tong mocha fracuccino Or whether you're in the presence of you ungodly workers, you mean employer, you see. Consider this. Think yourself as a sea. And the separate is with you. You see. Think Psalm 23, if you will. Collectively, we can say, Come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker, for He is our God. And we are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand. Now, individually, wherever you are, that's just in charge. You can say the Lord is my as personal, my shepherd, you see, my Lord, my God. My shepherd is my personal infinite God. Francis Schaeffer said The God who is there, according to the scriptures, is the personal infinite God. There's no other God like the God of the Scriptures. He goes on to say it is ridiculous to say that all religions teach the same thing when they disagree at a fundamental point as to what God is like. The gods of the E's, that's small g, are infinite by their definition, which is God is all that is. This is pantheism. This is what we call the pan everything is in. Okay? The gods of the West The Greeks and Romans tended to be personal but limited. But the God, our God, my God, my shepherd, your God, the God of the scripture, is personal and infinite. There's no one like him. So you to say this wherever you are, whether whether you're shocking in the mall looking for a new tie. Okay? Looking for a new pair of shoes that you don't really need. You see? The Lord is my shah. I'm a ship. You see? The thing about C is uh these animals are actually what? They're weak, they're prone to wonder, they're dumb. We tend to be dumb many times as a sheep. That's why we need we need to be under what The admonition of God's words. That's why we have Sunday school. That's why you have personal devotion, you see. We need God every time. As your shepherd, as my shepherd. You know, as I look in Psalm 23 and search some of the former great theologians like Calvin and Spurgeon. Even John MacArthur. There's no agreement. You go to Psalm 23. There's no consensus in it in a way in terms of historical historical setting. That is Was Psalm 23 written before or after the death of Saul? Was it written when David was fleeing from Saul? Remember the story? Was it written when he was seated in the throne, reigning victoriously over his enemies? Let's see let's see what John Captain says about Psalm twenty-three. Remember this is uh Sixteenth century English, if you will, okay. Calvin said Psalm 23 is neither intermingled with prayer. Nor does it complain of miseries for the purpose of obtaining relief. But it contains simply a thanksgiving from which it appears that it was composed when David had obtained peaceful possession of the kingdom. And live in prosperity and in enjoyment of all the good he could desire, that he might not, therefore, in the time of his great prosperity be like worldly men Who when they seem to themselves to be fortunate, leaving God in forgetfulness and luxuriously plunge themselves into their pleasures He delights himself in God, the author of all the blessings which he enjoyed. You know, that is exactly where we are right now in America, isn't it? Like David Prosperous. We have to keep it in proper perspective. What John Calbin is telling us here, he goes on to say And David not only acknowledges that the state of tranquility in which he now lived and his exemption from all inconveniences. And troubles is owing to the goodness of God. But he also trusts that through his providence he will continue to be happy even to even to the close of his life. And put this and put his hand and employ himself in his pure worship of his shepherd, my shepherd, our shepherd. Calvin is saying, in effect, that in times of peace, prosperity, pleasantness, and plentiful living, watch out. Watch out. We need to keep everything in proper perspective like David. Of course I'm I'm sure you have heard of people saying we have to be like David. Yeah? Well we have to be like Joseph. I don't think so. There's only one David. You're unique There's only one Alan Pham Lee. There's only one Tom Lee. You see? There's only one Laura Zinder. There's no one like her. Have you noticed that? We're unique in God's eye. As a Sikh, God knows you. He knows his Sip. And his Sikh, hear he what? Hear his voice. See, that's the difference between Christianity and other religions. The personal if he got knows you. If you got a BNA, he knows the number you hear, he knows your thoughts. Wow. Well the Noah from God we have. Hmm? And he's our friend. He's on our side. Think about that. You and I are unique in God's eye. It's amazing how some people, some scientists believe we are Just from primeval slime. That is really irrational. I think David, in his uniqueness, as a man after man's God's own heart, is unique in that we can relate to him in some in many ways, especially men. But he's unique because God made him unique, you see. How about church virgins? Another great preacher It says about Psalm 23. The position of Psalm 23 is worthy of notice. It follows the 22nd, which is peculiarly that's that 10 teaching words, eh? Peculiarly I don't think I ever say that. The Psalm of the Cross. Psalm 23, you have noticed the Psalm of the Cross. Immediately follows what? Psalm 23. He says, It is only after we have read, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That we come to the Lord is my shepherd. We must, by experience, know the value of bloodshedding and see the sword awakened against the shepherd before we shall ever truly know the sweetness of the shepherd's care. Macar to believe. But this is an ongoing process in in in David's life, just in one event. Nevertheless, in my reading Psalm 23, according to the Hebrew Greek World Study Bible by the Lakman Foundation, was written by David during a time when he was fleeing from Saul. He had been wandering from place to place. He was in exile from his own people and constantly leaving among strangers, even enemies His life was continually being threatened. It is an outpouring of David's confidence in the Lord and trust in his care for him in every moment of his life, even to the point of death. With God's loving care and concern, there could be no reason to fear, even before his enemies. And we can well imagine From the image tree that David's thoughts had returned to the secure time of his of his boyhood. When he himself was a shepherd with totally care for his sheep, and in whom his sheep had complete trust. What a vivid, comforting thought for him to conceive of the Lord as a shepherd. And then to sum up the whole thought for him with the words, I shall not want. Friends, beloved friends, the thought is just as vivid today, comforting to you, fellowship, S-H-E-E-T fellowship. And in the midst of turmoil and frustrations of life, fully understands that the Lord is their shepherd, and therefore they shall not want. You have your Bible, would you please turn your Bible to Psalm twenty-three to read the text? The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me lie down in great pastures. He leads me beside quiet waters. He restores my soul. He guides me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walk to the valley of the shadow of death, I fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You have anointed my head with oil. My cup overflows. Surely goodness and loving kindness will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. David considered God as his personal shepherd. That's why in the in the in the bulletin in the bulletin if you have it, I emphasize my shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd as a personal intimate shepherd that you have and I have. The shepherd demish trees common in the Old Testament. When it says loaded, look at Psalm Psalm 832. But he let forth his own people like sheep and guided them in the wilderness like a flock. Psalm 81, O Give here, shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock. Prophet Isaiah said, 4011, like a shepherd, he will tend his flock. in his arms he will gather the lambs and carry them in his bosom. He will gently lead the nursing youths. Same thing in the Old Testament. Very familiar. John 10 11, the apostle Paul John says, I am the good shepherd. Quoting Jesus, I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the seed. 1 Peter 2. 25, for you were continually straying like sheep, but now you have returned to the shepherd and gurgeon, gurgeon of your souls. Then in the next sentence it says, I shall not want. For you Hebrew students and seminarians, you know what it means exactly. In Hebrew, literally it means I lock nothing. The word one here means L-A-C-K lock. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not lock. How would you explain this? Well, scriptures explain scripture, right? Let's look at Psalm 34910. Do you have it? Open your Bible there. Psalm 34, 910. It should give us some light here. It says, Oh fear the Lord, you his saints, for those who fear him, there is no want. The young lions do lock and suffer hunger, but those who seek the Lord shall not be in want of any good things. Did you hear that? Lot what? Any good thing. So we can say this this way: the Lord is my shepherd, us are not like no good thing. Of being stressed or what? Or first point. For you for you who are taking notes. This is the first point that we have here. I just discussed that. I have full confidence in my shepherd's provision, therefore I shall lack no good thing. Make sense? I shall lack no good thing. And then in verse three it continues to say, He makes me lie down in green pastures. He lives me besides quiet waters. Green pastures and quiet waters is a picture of what? Rest and peace, isn't it? He makes me lie down in green pastures. That verse, together with verse one, It's a picture of contentment to the sea. Imagine yourself again as a seed in the midst of the madding crowd, and your shepherd is there. Imagine the imagery. And then in verse 3, David continues: He restores my soul, he guides me in the paths of righteousness. For his name's sake. In other words, David is saying, I had full confidence in my shepherd's preservation. Therefore I shall not know restful security. Spare three I have full confidence in my shepherd's preservation, therefore I shall lack no restful security. In fact, this is the issue today in our great country net security. Security in your barns, in your retirement, the borders. What we're seeing today actually is also happening in our lives. We don't know to we didn't have to go beyond Mexico to see the problem. We didn't have to go beyond Arizona. We have we do not have to go overseas to see our own personal problem. Like David, you can say in your heart I have full confidence in my shepherd's preservation, therefore I shall not know restful security. The word restore can be retranslated, He revitalizes my soul, my life. You see. Think of this as this you are sick physically And you feel sometimes you're in a dry land, in a dry thirsty land, pick up your Bible and you read it, you're encouraged, and you're revitalized by the Word of God. The third point is this and uh this is probably my one of my one of my favorite verse Rather, Rather verse four. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I fear no evil. For you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You know, during the time of uh Jesus and in the Old Testament, in the near Middle East In Asia Minor. It is familiar to see mountains and valleys with shadows and crevices and uh You know, diggings and uh it's just a tortuous rugged road, not like the highways of Maryland that we have here. There's no comparison. That's why the shepherd the shepherd when he walks to this valley of shadow death It means that they're walking through a perilous, what? Perilous land. And so David says, I fear no evil. The evil Hebrew warju is not necessarily wicked evil that we know. It is It is calamity, it is disaster, it is harm of personal injury. David is saying when he's with the Lord, he's not afraid of this. And his rod and his staff, it comforts him. Now, if you look at the uh staff of a shepherd about this height. The hook is for retrieving lambs that fell fall on crevices or holes And needs help. The shepherd would just kind of gently pick him up and put him in his arms. That's the truth. And the stuff Most swallows believe were to drive away wolves and beat up, you know, beat up any intuitors who would still use it. But in my thinking, sometimes simply rod is the rod of discipline. There are always what you call Of course, we don't have it it's pr it's probably not scriptural, a black seat in the family. You need that kind of rod, you see? We need that sometimes, don't we? But you see, David knows his shepherd. He knows the shepherd. He fears no evil. One of the best uh my my one of my favorite stories uh when David faced Goliath Nuggoliat was uh was about nine feet six inches nine feet nine feet nine inches tall. That is that is some tall dude, isn't it? Intimidating. Imagine when David went to visit his brothers to bring some bread and food Something to drink. He heard this giant defy and curse God. He taunted the army of Israel. And so when David saw him, he said, Who is this uncircumcised Philistines who defied the army of the living God? He was angry. I love that sentence. You know that? Who is this with the emphasis on uncircumcised David knows the Abrahamic covenant on scripture, doesn't he? The fact that the peacans are not unsized, you know. But nevertheless, David was angry. Who would defy the army of the living God? Is it that? My shepherd. David David can relate to that as a young boy. He killed Lion and Burris. And I think And I think David is a special, special boy, in the sense that he was anointed, he was picked up and chosen by God among his brothers of eight. In fact, his brother Eliah was so jealous of him when he was there that he threw him out from the sin. Almost he did. But David was empowered by the spirit of the time. The Finnish spirit of the spirit of the time is different from the New Testament age, by the way. The spirit who came upon David is an empowering spirit to perform his task as a king, as a shepherd, you see. It is not regenerative, if you will. And one of the things I learned about David Is that when when he composed the Psalm 23, I believe he was fleeing from Saul. He was coming, you know, he's that's his comfort. He was full of thanksgiving. He was full of hope. To add more blessings to all the blessings that I just mentioned. By the way, these are all blessings. Five or six blessings then. The scenery switch form the green meadows perhaps to a mansion Because he says, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You have anointed my head with oil. My cup overflows. Some suggest that David Has a long table prepared for his friends after a great conquest, say the Philistines And during those days this is almost like a victory celebration. Imagine a long table presented here and the enemies And not too far away from them, encaged or in chain. In plain sight, they were celebrating God's bountiful blessings. Isn't it? That's what you are, even today. We have such a long table of bondful blessing in this country. That we should indeed be thankful. But then again, to keep everything in proper perspective. David goes on to say, He anointed my head with oil. What's that? In the Old Testament, anointing is a special blessing to serve for service. For you know, for a particular task. Task. And so David is is not new to this. He was anointed by Samuel when God chose him to replace King Saul. My cop overflows My cup is brimming. No one of my favorite coffee is actually uh I'm not I'm not I don't have any stockholes or any Starbucks by the way. My favorite coffee is I is is the is a tall Americana. And sometimes I don't like any room. I like it to overflow, enjoy it In fact I have treated some of my friends uh back home in the Philippines and uh who have not tasted any any any any expensive coffee like this. But the the the the point I'm trying to try is this When God bless you, the picture of a cop that overflows is the picture of blessing. We are blessed to bless others. Isn't it? My cop overflows. David has that in his mind. So am I, and so are you And to crown this blessing with more blessing, David concludes, surely goodness and loving kindness. Will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. That brings us to the fourth and final point. I have full confidence in my shepherds, generosity and kindness shall pursue me all the days. Literally all the length of my days, all my life, all the life. What a tremendous praises and thanksgiving from David. I trust that this morning you would reflect on this word of God. You would think yourself as a seat. Whether you're in your green pasture, whether you're walking in the valley of the shadow death, where you are in the presence of your enemy, you see. God is with you. Emmanuel, God is with us. The great shepherd, Jesus Christ, the author and finisher of our faith, is with us. In fact, in the Great Commission, I'll be with you to the ends of the earth. You see that? It's with you. Thinks Psalm 23, whatever you are. Think of yourself as a sheep. Think of the shepherd who loves you and cares for you. Let's pray. Father, indeed, we thank you for your word that is so pure and so true. Thank you for restoring our souls and our revitalizing our spirit. So we heard your word from David. The words that restores our soul, revitalizes our spirit, words that are comforting Father, you are so good to us. May we be careful, Lord, as we Come out from this great assembly of believers, this great edifice, to be mindful that you are indeed our great shepherd, Lord Jesus. And be careful to give you all the praises. In Jesus' name, Amen.