So we're on lesson two of our study of Galatians lured from the gospel. So we're gonna actually get into the text here today. We had our our overview background last week and we're gonna see what uh right from the beginning see how important this this uh book is So I'm going to go ahead and start reading here and then we can discuss that first section. Paul, an apostle, not sent from men nor through the agency of man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. And all the brethren who are with me to the churches of Calatia. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. who gave himself for our sins, so that he might rescue us from this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father, to whom be the glory forever. more. Amen. So as is usually the case in Paul's epistles, he um identifies himself and in many cases others who are with him, here he's just referring to the others with him uh generally without naming them And makes it specific who he's writing to. We covered that last week. But it's interesting in introducing himself He emphasizes his authority right off the bat. So he identifies himself as an apostle sent directly by the risen Christ. And um he's not the only one who um communicating this message. It's not just him spouting off. There are others who are of like mind who are with him. All the brethren who are with him, he says. So in verses three through five, turns out he gives a rather um Somewhat detailed but um application-oriented actually, overview of what's at stake, why he's writing. So he says grace and peace are from God And he doesn't say it, but in the context of this letter, that contrasts very much with the idea that grace and peace could come through the law. Following the law, uh living a life of works. And then he says, um reminds the Galatian churches that Christ sacrificed himself for our sins, which of course was in fulfillment of all the law was picturing And something the law itself couldn't do. There was a lot of sacrifices, of course, in the law, right? But as we learn uh later in Galatians and elsewhere in places like Hebrews Those sacrifices, in and of themselves, didn't cut it. There was a purpose for them, but they didn't take away any sins whatsoever. They were picturing what would ultimately come as the ultimate uh sacrifice, and so Paul is um acknowledging That ultimate sacrifice right at the beginning. And he goes on to say that that sacrifice ri rescues us from the world and here by the world he's speaking not just of the globe, the earth, but the world system, world values. And uh things that that unbelievers are uh especially caught up in, but even believers can be tripped by. And that's something that, again, the law couldn't do, couldn't rescue us from the fallen world system. And then he says, um, according to the will. the plan and will of the Father. So this is not a plan B, this is not um an accident, this is all according to God's plan that God would provide for us salvation in Christ. And uh the law uh pictured elements of that and was to prepare people for the ultimate uh sacrifice of Christ. But the law itself couldn't do that. Uh and then lastly in verse five that just brings us all the head to a head that the one of the the the main outcome of all this is not just our salvation but the glory of God. That's all for the glory of God. And um the contrast there is, you know, aiming to keep the law, you know, if if if If we thought we could keep the law and uh prove ourselves to be worthy of God's favor, who does that glorify? Us. It's all about glorifying us, not about glorifying God. And the way God has um provided salvation, its purpose along with saving us, but ultimately it's to glorify him. And so that's That's unique. So he's kind of giving an overview of w what are some of the things that are issue at issue here. And when you really think about um Adherence to works and the law. They just run counter to everything that God has provided for us. And so that's a bit of an introduction that that he's not as explicit in the comparison with the law as I just was But everything he was saying would not have been possible if salvation was by the law and works. So, some questions here. How did Paul's apostleship differ from the other apostles? So he was a latecomer. Yeah, the other apostles were were with Christ for three plus years. and uh saw him do his miracles, were under his teaching and so on. Um Paul wasn't Uh but he was under Christ's direct teaching after he had that encounter with him and um uh not only on the road to Damascus, he was didn't get a whole lot of instruction at that point. But you know, he went away he he sat here in in Arabia and w touch on that a little bit later. Um where he kind of went to seminary directly with Christ. And he got his gospel directly from Christ and his marching orders and so on. Uh so that was somewhat unique. Um what was the significance of this letter that it was also from all the brethren who are with him. He mentions all these brethren generally, not specifically. It could have been his traveling companions, it could have been whatever church he was at uh when he wrote this and we don't know where it was. Um so what significance would that have had Well I kinda touched on it earlier that um the pretty strong message he's about to give them and uh the content really of the rest of the book is not just something he made up and not just something that's his Yeah, his his own personal ideas and opinions and philosophy. Uh but it's something that is widely held by uh Christians at the time. And we saw last week and we'll get to into it um uh soon here even in Galatians, that the whole Jerusalem council got together to settle this issue and were of one mind as a result of that. So it's important for him to s to to say this to defend his own apostleship and his getting his his gospel straight directly from Christ, but also that he's not alone enough That's important for them to to know. Um in verse four Says Christ gave himself for our sins that he might rescue us from this present evil age. Does that mean that he might not do that? No. What it means is in order to, uh he had to do that in order to rescue us. And of course that's what he did So don't think the word might there that he might rescue us as being um conditional Um all it's saying is that in order for him to rescue us, he had to do that. So it made that possible. I don't know if you noticed, but as I read through those first several verses, uh Paul Several times makes reference to God the Father, God our Father, and our God and Father multiple times there Uh why might that be? I think it's more so here than any of those other letters. So he mentions Christ, of course. He mentions God the Father. And uh there's uh uh an element here to which people need to know that the whole triune God uh was involved in this plan and the execution of the plan. Um and it's all for God's glory. Okay. So verses six through nine of chapter one, false teachings, that is false gospels, lure people from the true gospel of grace. That's the theme here. So Paul writes, I am amazed that you are so quickly deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ. For a different gospel. Which is really not another, only there are some who are disturbing you and wanting to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to what we have preached to you, he is to be accursed. As we have said before, so I say again now: if any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you received, he is to be accursed. So Paul gets through his introduction and then bang. Really heavy, right? Really serious. Hopefully getting their attention. This is um important. It's crucial to get this straight. And he's concerned obviously about the nature of the gospel message. Is it accurate? Or is it um deceiving? Is it incorrect? And So what was the the nature of the error that the Galatian churches were stumbling over? Well, we introduced it last week this this concept that was discussed at the first Jerusalem Council, whereby um A significant number of Jewish believers, some of them were actually believers, um, some of them may have been false believers, it's hard to tell. But they m made the rather logical human assumption that in order to become a Christian you had to become a Jew So Gentiles needed to be subject to um the requirements of the law. Um a i it was not uncommon for Gentiles to become Jews. They were called proselytes. at that time. And so is that the the idea was that these these Gentiles, in order to become Christians had to become Jews, essentially, be subject to the law. And the implication of that is what? Even the Jews need to be subject to the law in order to become Christians But certainly the Gentiles need to be like us. You know, we're God's chosen people, and that's what it's all about. And so, um Yes, Christ is is important. He died for our sins, but um they were very uh hanging on very tightly to the idea that the law was necessary for salvation And here in Galatians, Paul says, No way, no way. You've got that all wrong. And so we're going to see how he unfolds that here. But he starts very dramatically, right? That term accursed couldn't be any stronger. That means people who are seeking God's favor, right standing with God, salvation, eternal life are going to get what? The opposite if they're conveying the wrong message, if they believe and are practicing the wrong gospel. That's the stakes. Eternal life or not, right? So point B, there's the seriousness of the problem. He says it's a universal problem that or a fact that anyone who is promulgating the wrong gospel in this respect Is to be accursed. Why is that? Well, a couple of reasons come to mind. One is when someone misrepresents the truth to others, what impact does that directly have? It misleads other people, right? And of course, Jesus said, whoever causes one of these little ones to believe, uh these little ones who believe, to stumble It would be better for him if with a heavy millstone hung around his neck he had been cast into the sea. So Jesus used some pretty strong language, too. That misleading others with respect to the very core of the essence of salvation Uh carries a huge penalty. It has huge consequences because it's not just the um the impact on the person who is m misleading and misled, but if he's impacting others to to get on that bandwagon and to to um approach salvation from a a human logic perspective, um they're gonna miss the point entirely. And so misrepresenting the truth to others has an impact. But then secondly Because in doing that, they deny the character and work of God in salvation, which does what? It takes away from his glory. So if they're promulgating the idea that we need to keep the law in order to be acceptable before God, They're they're um taking away from God's glory because salvation is all about the glory of God. It's what God does, it's not what we do And misleading other people is bad enough, but trying to take away the glory of God and claim basically trying to claim our own glory by living according to a law we can't keep, that's um Again, working at direct cross-purposes to the gospel. And it's undermining God's glory A couple of examples here from the epistles, 2 Peter 2. 1. But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will also be false teachers among you who will securely or secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the master who bought them, bringing swift destruction upon themselves And then Jude 4, for certain persons have crept in unnoticed, those who were long beforehand marked out for this condemnation. Ungodly peop persons who turn the grace of our God into licentiousness and deny our only Master and Lord. Jesus Christ. So again the stakes are high. And it's not surprising that uh both Jesus earlier and Paul now were very forceful. Uh very um uh using very stark language to get their attention. Yeah, good point. Yeah, so you know, he he he makes a point of his authority, it's directly from Christ, but it's not about him. And even if he were to at some point change his message, don't listen to him. Don't listen to me. Get the gospel right. Yeah, you're not just deserting the truth, but you're deserting him who is the author of all of this. Yeah, good point. Okay. Any other thoughts? Questions here? I still wonder though if there's a difference between these these two passages that we just read and that's it's interesting that you know he's talking about something that's very um surreptitious of these cases. So it's secret or it's unnoticed where in this case like it's a line where he says they're teaching a different gospel, but it's not really another, but that they're distorting it and that's there's maybe a distinction there between that maybe there was a there wasn't a bad intention there. There was confusion about you know that by grace alone and didn't need work, but not necessarily that there was like an intentionality to sort. Right. If if you turn to page twenty-one in uh next week's lesson So Galatians 2, if you look at verse 4, he's talking about, well let me start with verse 1. Then after an interval of 14 years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus also It was because of a revelation that I went up, and I was submitted to them the gospel which I preached among the Gentiles, but I did so in private to those who were of reputation for fear that I might be running, or had run, in vain But not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised. But then verse 4. But it was because of the false brethren secretly brought in Who had sneaked in to spy out our liberty, which we have in Christ Jesus, in order to bring us into bondage. So, um It seems to be a fairly common problem that false doctrine sneaks in. It sounds good. Uh if if all you're thinking about is is logic, human logic Um it's easy to fall for it. Um but Paul here is saying Th that's not the basis. Human logic would never have funk funked this up. What's a human logic uh typically do. It it is it assumes, I mean every religion out there except biblical Christianity is based on works. doing certain things in order to become acceptable to God or to reach some kind of state. Um And that's what these Judaizers are trying to convince. Um uhr young gentile Christians who are sort of unaware that um that's the case of Christianity as well. And it's not. It's a huge error So okay, back to page seventeen. Let's think about a few other questions here Verse 6, I am amazed that you were so quickly deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel. Does that indicate that they lost their salvation? Well, if you look at the rest of the book, it's clear that he addresses them as believers. Look back, we just read it earlier in verses two through five. To the churches of Galatia, grace, due and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins so that he might rescue us from this present evil age. and and so on. So he's referring to them as Christian churches. And then later in chapter three he again refers to them as brethren and so on. So he appears not to be concerned that they're deserting um Christ in a in a unchangeable, kind of a permanent way. But that they're slipping into false doctrine that has big consequences. Um So, therefore the need to correct them, and therefore the need for the letter, to draw their attention to the danger and some of the subtleties that could easily be missed by um just applying human logic and saying, oh yeah Right, keep the law, uh make ourselves acceptable before God and all that. Um it's the mistaken Jewish mindset, the mistaken mindset of every other religion then being laid over on top of biblical Christianity and what you get is not salvation is by faith alone, but it's by faith plus works And if salvation is by faith plus works, it is salvation by works. Pure and simple. So he's seeking to correct them. And um chide them, uh challenge them, plead with them to get their heads screwed on straight. And that's gonna require a bit of um some nuances that he works through in the next few chapters to help them to come to grips with the issues. Okay, so he uses um in that same verse, verse six deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel. So the question is how do the words called in grace contrast with the false teaching that was spreading among the Galatians? Well, the false teaching was you have to become Jews in order to become Christians, meaning you had to follow all the requirements of the law in order to come to Christ. Following all the requirements of the law is not about grace. And it it bypasses the whole need to be called by God. So what do we see in in Scripture that we're gonna get to this maybe in a minute, but What is our condition without Christ? What is our capacity to uh choose God to understand God. Zero. Right? Because the effect of sin not only separates us from God, but it gives us a fallen everything about us is fallen. Apart from God's intervention. And so Romans 3 says, no one seeks after Him. Not on their own, they don't. Um What did Jesus say was necessary? God had to draw them. No one comes to me except the Father draws Yeah, me, right? Um and so um reminding them that God had called them, God had drawn them and placed his claim on them by his grace, not their merit, but by his grace That's just in complete contrast with his false teaching that he's dealing with, right? You're so quickly deserting him who called you by the grace of Christ for a different gospel. Okay, third, why would someone want to distort the gospel of Christ? Well, I've kind of already mentioned that human nature uh shows up in all religions that are not biblical Christianity. And the human nature, the presumption, the inclination is that we need to uh do things in order to have right standing with God or whatever their na their their characterization of God is. And what underlies that presumption that's so prevalent that we need to work our way to eternal life. What what under what's the underlying thought there or the motive? Pride. It's about us. We can pull ourselves up by our bootstraps and we just need to work harder and and so on. Um And the truth is, that doesn't work. We can't do it. We're incapable of doing it And even if we try, we're working toward a false God, a a false uh a false hope. So why would someone want to distort that? It's just so common. It's it's human nature. It's it's um Everyone just has this if they have any concept of God whatsoever, they are Inevitably, apart from biblical Christianity, inevitably they're um boiling it down to a system of works. And of course, God revealed the law and much of himself to the nation of Israel. And that included a lot of things to do, and how does that get interpreted by them? You've got to do all these things in order to be saved. You know, it's interesting that The and Paul's going to bring this out big time in Galatians, that the covenant that God entered into with Abraham Was that uh something the two of them negotiated together? Or was it unilateral? God said, Unilateral. God said, This is what's gonna happen, this is what I'm gonna do. Was it conditional or unconditional? It was unconditional. God said to Abraham, this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to give you, I'm going to bless the socks off you. I'm gonna give you uh uh you don't have any any children now? You're not gonna be able to count all your descendants. And I'm gonna give you this land. Three things. There was no if in there at all. God says, this is what I'm going to do. In fact, some of the times when God repeated that to Abraham, he says, I've already done this I've already given you this land, for example. Um every covenant That God entered into with man. You think about the Noahic covenant from with Noah? Also unconditional. unilaterally said I I will never flood the world again. Um and here's my promise of that in the sky. But there's one exception. The one covenant that God entered into with man that was conditional was the Mosaic Law, the Mosaic Covenant. And um That very explicitly was laid down as if you keep these things, I will bless you. And if you don't, you're going to be cursed. And Paul refers here in Galatians to the curse of the law, because it's impossible to keep that law. So, yeah. Why would someone want to distort it? It's because of they're relying on human logic, essentially. human uh pride, human um inclinations, just wanting to show ourselves good enough And it's it's everywhere. Any religion you see, it's based on some kind of works like that, except for biblical Christianity. So uh in in some ways you can't you you can't be too surprised that there were Jews at the time of the early church who made the assumption that there was a continuation of the law, that that was necessary in order to come to Christ. Uh from a human logic perspective You can see how they put all that together, and you can't really blame them for thinking that. Except that it's not what Christ taught. That's not what the apostles taught It's not the gospel. Is there a lesson there for us, you think? We need to be careful that we're We're um embracing a gospel, embracing truth generally Um based on what God has said, not what we have figured out in our minds. Because we're our minds are fallen. They're subject to the effects of sin. Um but only what God has revealed is truth And so it's incumbent on us to to study. That's why we're here. What has God revealed to us? Let's get that straight and let's not m modify it or corrupt it with um our own philosophies and thinking. Let's keep it pure from the Word of God. That is often the case, people wanting to have it both ways. To uh do enough to show that they're worthy of God's approval Or like the Pharisees, adding on all sorts of things. So I'm I've gone above and beyond. So I'm I'm clearly um eligible for God's approval. but neglecting the change of heart that's needed to actually please God. And that change of heart is not something that we manufacture even. It's something that God brings about. That's key. Alright, what about verse seven? What did Paul mean when he said it's not really another gospel? Because there's really only one gospel, good news. The gospel, quote unquote, that they were hearing wasn't really good news. You've got to be Perfect in order to be acceptable before God, that just denies God's grace. It's it's unattainable. It's not good news. So it may be characterized as a gospel, but if it's if it's all about works, it's not good news because we can't do that. We're not able. Okay, let's think through some applications here. Uh we maybe introduced that a little bit But can you think of some ways in which the following modern teachings are false gospels? Some of these are very related. But the first one is, well, a person becomes a Christian by faith alone. That is, you don't have to embrace Christ as Lord in order to receive him as Savior. Anybody hear something like that before? Um As is typical, it starts with something that is true, is biblical. A person becomes a Christian by faith alone. That's biblical. The problem is drawing inferences from it that are inconsistent with Scripture That is, you don't have to embrace Christ as Lord in order to receive Him as Savior. The idea here, and people have been very explicit about the the um application of this. If salvation is by faith alone, and there's a point in time when a person has Genuine faith in Christ for salvation, that justification, that salvation that happens immediately. happens because of that faith, even if later on um there's no change in their lives at all There's no surrender to Christ as Lord and no fruit that comes from it. But they had that faith at that moment And they may have lived like devils since. Salvation is by faith alone. If you add any requirement for their later life, it becomes a gospel of works, right? Wrong. That's the error. And the way to expose that error is to ask someone who points that out Yes, salvation is by faith alone. Where does that faith come from? If what they say is, well, the person has faith in God and his message and they place that faith in Christ. So you mean that faith comes from the person, right? That's not biblical Where does faith come from? It comes from God. Why? Because we're incapable in our fallen state of even wanting to seek God. Um I referred earlier to uh Romans three. Uh I guess it's verse eleven. It says there's just no one who in their own power in their own um thinking seeks after God. And Jesus said unless someone Is drawn by the Father to me, they won't come. And that's because of our condition in our unsaved state And so we can't generate faith, self-saving faith in Christ. In fact, to say that That uh that faith is generated by us is really to say that's a work, that's something that we do. And so, ironically, people who say that you can have just a little bit of faith and God saves you If that if they really believe that faith comes from them, that's they're saying that that's the salvation of works, where the work, the only required work, is faith And that just isn't the case. So I wanted to look up some verses here. You guys got Bibles with you? Let me uh go around and give you each a verse or two, and we can read through these quickly. They're actually related to number four for the most part. We'll work on those. We need to choose to be saved as if that faith comes from us, right? So can we start with Sean Acts thirteen forty-eight and go to Romans eight twenty-nine? Uh Sabrina? We're we're down in number four, looking at the second uh verse, Romans eight twenty-nine. And then um Raymond first Thessalonians one four and five. Um yeah, John six forty four Ephesians two eight and nine and uh Patrice, uh Romans twelve three And then um Rose, you have your Bible? Acts eleven eighteen That's number it's under number four there. It's the next to last passage. In James, Acts 16, 14. Okay. Acts 13, 48. You got that strong? Um when the gentles heard this they began rejoicing in glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as have been appointed to eternity As many as who've been appointed to eternal life believed, not as many people who generated faith, right Romans 829. For those who he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. Yeah, so that passage in in Romans eight just clearly shows the basically from our perspective the sequence of things that God did in order to bring us to Him. It was all his initiative, not ours, right? Those whom he uh foreknew he predestined, he called, he justified, he sanctified, and so on It's all about God's action to bring into effect uh his plan of salvation. Um First Thessalonians one. Knowing brother beloved by God is choice of you, for our gospel did not come to you with word only, but also with power of the Holy Spirit and with full conviction because you know what kind of men you need to be among you for yourself. Exactly. And John six forty-four, Gwen. Uh no one can come to me unless the Father has sent me draw on him and I will raise him up on the last Yeah. So that drawing is uh connected with what we saw in in Romans eight that God's taking the initiative to bring us to Him, we're not taking the initiative to reach out to Him. It's uh we love him because he first loved us, kind of thing. We we seek him because he first sought us. The exact same thing. And then Ephesians two, eight and nine. Yes, so familiar passage. What is it that's um um It is not of yourselves. What is the it there? What's the antecedent? But salvation isn't a noun in that passage. Yeah, it's faith. Yeah. The combination of grace and faith. They go together. How about uh where are we at? Romans twelve three. I say to everyone among you not to think of yourself Who assigns the face? God. Yeah. That's kind of humbling, isn't it? And then um where we at Acts eleven eighteen? Rose, you got that? When they had these things they felt by and they glorified God, saying and Okay. Jessal also called health granted repentance. Yeah, so the the context here is when some of the first Gentiles came to Christ The Jews were surprised. They they weren't really prepared for that. You remember the story of Peter, right? God had to prepare him in order to send him to Cornelius. And the conclusion after Paul's test or uh Peter's testimony, did I say Paul? It's Peter. Um after Peter's testimony and uh about their um their coming to the Gentiles coming to Christ He said, well then, God must have given the gift of repentance even to Gentiles. And just emphasizing that repentance and faith, both, are just two sides of the same coin. They're gifts of God, not something that we in our own strength and logic and willpower generate ourselves We have a responsibility to act on those, but their ultimate source is from God, both faith and repentance. What is repentance? Okay. We we usually think of it in terms of of uh turning, right, from what? Sin to Christ, God. And that's a good way to think about it. The term itself, metanoia, means a change of mind What is the change of mind? It's a forsaking of the sin, turning our back to it, right? Because we've we've concluded in our mind that that's wrong and we need to embrace Christ. So we're forsaking sin and embracing Christ. That's something that we wouldn't do in our own logic and strength and willpower. God gives us that as a gift. But we have to do the action that comes from it. We have to do the turning, the forsaking, right? So it it may have visual um manifestations, you see evidence of that forsaking But where does it start? It starts in the mind of God to change the mind of us, to forsake that sin and embrace Christ. And that's a gift. Sure. Yeah. Yeah, hating forsaking. Um The point is that when we truly, genuinely express faith in Christ for salvation Our mind is not thinking, this is a get out of hell free card. Instead, what is our mind thinking? Those sins that I committed and probably will continue to commit are heinous in God's sight. They did me no good, they did nobody else any good. My thinking is I need to forsake that. And the changed life happens after that, but I need to have the frame of mind to forsake By God's enablement, both to come to that conclusion and to actually do the turning. Um Because it's not just a get out of hell free card. So you can get put that card in your pocket and go live any way you want. That's not genuine repentance. That's not a forsaking of the sin. Now have any of us A hundred percent completely forsaken all sin? No. We're a work in process, right? But There's an initial repentance and then there's ongoing repentance from sin. And If we're genuinely saved, that process will continue. If we're not, it'll be pretty obvious that there's just no difference between us and the world. So, uh I think we have one more. Do we act sixteen, fourteen? Have we gotten that one yet? Yes. A woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshipper of God, was listening, and the Lord opened her heart to respond to the things spoken by Paul. opened her heart. You see God's initiative there? There was visible manifestation of it. She was paying attention. She was broken. She was responsive. But where did it start? God opened her heart. And had He not opened her heart, what would her response have been? Not interested. Good. Any thoughts here? Any questions? This is important. It's kind of where most of the people we run into today are at trying to make the gospel faith plus works. Or define faith in such a way that it actually is a work. It's something that we generate. And that's equally um harmful because people who are taught that Oh well I remember back when I was in um seventh grade, I went up and I had this this experience of faith and I trusted Christ. But you look at their life and there's no evidence of genuine repentance. Like John the Baptist said, bring forth fruit in keeping with repentance, right? Um and people go through life thinking they're saved, even though they're living like the devil. And it's a shame. And the people who have introduced that false gospel to them are going to be held accountable. It's serious stuff, Paul says. Um so that's that's a subtle That's one example anyway of a subtle modern-day example of this we need to be alert to. Look at number two. We need to attract people to the church By showing them that Christ and the Bible are the only way to meet their felt needs. That'll bring people in. Sounds good? Right? Anything wrong with that? Focus. Sorry? What is the focus? Yeah, so so it uh the goal is not to just fill the church with a lot of people. Um ultimately God God's in charge of that And you certainly don't want to bring people in with the wrong pretenses and the wrong focus, whether it's it's this Gotta be careful here because uh the gospel is for their benefit, but it's about eternal issues, not about their felt needs. I I You know, I've I've got low self-esteem or whatever it is, right? It's not people focused in that way, it's people focused in terms of eternal destinations, for sure James, you have a thought there as well? Yeah, just I it popped into my head I can't get away from this. Feels like they're treating God like a vending machine in the foyer. The reason to bring people in. read a little thing but not actually anything about him and not there's not a really truth. You know what I mean? Yeah. Trying to be attractive to the world in some way, meet their felt needs. There's nothing wrong with meeting people's direct needs. Jesus did it all the time. What's at issue is the gospel. And then also being that it's worse based, to continue with the analogy, yeah, you put something in and you get And that's not how it works. that are helpful for my family. I have a bunch of kids, they have a lot of children's programs. The program fit. And it's never about the teaching or you know, that's not it's like this is a nice social service Yeah. And it's not that those things are inherently wrong, but if that's the focus, and it's not an eternal issue, um it can very easily become a a um well the wrong focus and misleading people with regard to salvation. I think right that that point you're making is is really important in terms of like a reproduction of the good thing because at the end of the day in understanding the true gospel and believing in the Lord our needs are fulfilled. In in present day and in eternal day And our identities are made new and what we focus on are wrong, but it but it all stems out of the true gospel and not the other way around. Yeah. Because I guess in the other way I don't we also don't want to limit the joy that is available to us. in this like now. Right. It's just that that's not like quote unquote del choice quoting. Yeah, and also and that's true And often what we find is the way that we're blessed wasn't the way we initially thought we wanted to be blessed. Right? Um And so yeah, that's a good point. Just to go back then to the foundational things about how we are lured away is that Um I remember as a teenager we were talking about this with the Billy Grant Crusades, is that when there's a focus on evangelism there's not a a um uh equivalent focus on discipleship on the other side comes to kind of what we alluded to um before where where people are um saved into a social group rather than understanding what salvation is from. You know, sometimes when you ask some Christians, what are you s you're saved, what does that mean? What are you saved from They really don't know. You know, so salvation and faith is some of those foundational things about what they did was it an emotional response of being with a group of people that are nice and kind And everything to them, or was it truly an attraction to God? You know, and I know that's a part thing, but that's why evangelism should be paired up with discipleship. So the doctrine is Because sometimes later these people with emotional foundation become leadership of churches that end up departing from that foundational doctrine. It's a slippery slope, right? Yeah. And um Well, yeah, we're gonna have to close here. Number three is an easy one. You might hear this quite a lot, maybe not among Christians. Jesus is just one way to God, right? Well, that's a direct affront to the gospel, the exclusiveness of Christ as Savior Anyway, there there are probably others as well. In Galatians, we're going to delve deeply into what they were dealing with in their time. But it does have implications for some of the things we deal with as well. Let's pray