Welcome to lesson seven. From page 37, lesson seven, finally getting to this very obvious question we've been asking that Paul knows is an obvious question Um he's been covering the The fact that living by the law is can never be a basis for salvation, living by work of any kind of works. And so the obvious question is, well why then did God give the law? Right? And so he begins this latter part of chapter three by asking that question that I'm sure was already on his readers' minds. Why the law then? So I'll go ahead and read. It was added because of transgressions, having been ordained through angels by the agency of a mediator. until the seed would come to whom the promise had been made. Now a mediator is not for one party only, whereas God is only one Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? May it never be. For if a law had been given which was able to impart life, Then righteousness would indeed have been based on the law. But the Scripture has shut up everyone under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. But before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law, being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed. Therefore, the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ so that we may be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. For all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you belong to Christ. Then you are Abraham's descendants, heirs, according to promise. So let's Dig into that a little bit. I think most of it is pretty straightforward, but maybe there's some nuances here that would help us. As we work through it. So he says in verse 19 it was added very clearly. The law came after Abraham, the 430 years he was talking about, uh, the law came after the promise to Abraham. So it was added because of transgressions. So I've written here on the bottom of page thirty-seven a couple of passages here. Hebrews 10, for example, 1 through 3. For the law, since it has only a shadow of the good things to come, and not the very form of things Can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually, year by year, make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered? Because the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have had any consciousness of sins. But in those sacrifices, there is a reminder of sins year by year. Not only year by year, but there were sacrifices throughout the year And if the the the practice of the law in the Old Testament um didn't convince the Hebrews of the the Israelites of the um heinousness, is that a word? Of sin? The the how How much our sins separate us from a holy God, you know, ye y uh they couldn't have Um you know think of the Israelites wandering the wilderness, they've got um this uh cloud o hovering over the the um the well the arc Mercy Seat and so on as they travel throughout the day and a pillar of fire at night and um uh they're Th there's just various restrictions and qualifications dealing with uh purity approaching God, not casually, but with great uh separation from any Um uh uncleanness, sin. And so it just driving home the holiness of God And quite the opposite, the the sinfulness of all of us as people. And there's this reminder that there is a a uh consequence of sin. the the sacrifices of animals, other kinds of sacrifices as well, um and over and over and over again. So the writer of Hebrews is saying That was to be a reminder that our sins are an ongoing problem between us and God. that it's because he's holy and we're sinful and the fact that those sacrifices had to be repeated over and over and over again It should have been evidence that those animal sacrifices and those various other kinds of offerings didn't solve the problem. They merely cover over it temporarily. Right? In fact that's what the word atonement means, to cover over. Um and so there's this reminder, reminder, he's saying. And then Romans 7, verse 7. What shall we say then? Is the lost sin? May it never be. May it never be, is one of those phrases you you always hear Paul saying, right? May it never no way On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin except through the law. For I would not have known about coveting if the law had not said, you shall not covet. And um that's true of of everything. If if there's not an explicit expression of the law, what the standard is Then it's kind of uh anything goes, right? So the purpose of the law is to set that standard and to establish appropriate consequences when the standard's broken. But setting that standard identifies what is right versus what is wrong. And so that's another purpose of the law. So it's because of transgressions But then he says it was ordained through angels, and now it may have surprised you a little bit, ordained through angels. What's up there? Well, I think he's referring to the account in Exodus three where Moses where where God appeared to Moses the burning bush. And it says, the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a blazing fire from the midst of a bush. And he looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire, yet the bush was not consumed. Some of these passages in Genesis and Exodus sometimes refer to angels as men, sometimes as angels. Here, in that context, I don't have it all for you here, but in Exodus 3, it also characterizes this as the Lord speaking to him directly from the fire. So whether this was an angel as a messenger from God, uh, it may have actually been um The uh pre-incarnate Christ speaking directly to him from the fire. Anyway, it's characterized there as an angel of the Lord initially. In Acts 7 It says, you who received the law as ordained by angels and yet did not keep it. This is, I think, Stephen in his testimony and kind of challenging his accusers, you who received the law as ordained by angels. So it was um Um pretty well understood that it it was God was was um using his messengers as part of the whole receipt of the law. And then earlier in Hebrews, for if the word spoken through angels proved unalterable, and every transgression and disobedience received a just penalty, then you know whatever So uh there is this well understood role well w not well understood, um I think it was pretty unclear exactly what the role of the angels was, but the fact that uh there was an angelic role in the giving of the law was pretty well understood But he says he qualifies that. He says it was by the agency of a mediator. And who is a mediator in this case of the law? Moses. So Moses would receive the law and communicate it to all the Israelites. And so in Exodus 20, The people said to Moses, Speak to us yourself and we will listen, but let not God speak to us or we will die. That's not a bad reaction on their part. And then later in Exodus, they took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people, and they said, All that the Lord has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient. And later in verse twelve of that chapter, now the Lord said to Moses, Come up to me on the mountain and remain there, and I will give you the stone tablets with the law and the commandments which I have written for their instructions. And as John recounts in the Gospel of John, the law was given through Moses. Right? Um so he was the mediator, uh the the channel through whom God communicated the law then to the Israelites. So it was ordained through angels by the agency of a mediator until the seed would come to whom the promise had been made. And this is referring back to what he was already saying in the previous chapter, identifying the seed as who? Christ. Right? And There are various references that are related here in Genesis 49, for example, when Jacob is giving his final blessing to his sons before he dies. He said prophetically, The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet, until Shiloh comes. And to him shall be the obedience of the people. And that word Shiloh, as I recall, literally means um uh him to whom it belongs. And it's referring to this this uh this role as Messiah, of course, was through Judah, right. Matthew five. Jesus said, Do you not think that I came to abolish the law of the prophets? I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. So he he was affirming that his role was to uh fulfill what had been promised about the Messiah, uh not only about him, but what he would do, and so on, fulfilling the law And then here in Galatians, we haven't gotten there yet, but we look ahead to the next chapter, verse 4 to 5, it says, But when the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, so that he might redeem those who are under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. So uh the promise was made to Abraham. Uh it it um It became clearer as more prophecy unfolded in in uh the life of Israel that there would be a Messiah who would come to fulfill that role. And um From our perspective, it seems like God was dragging his feet. Why, Lord? You know, and there's that long period between the close of the Old Testament and the coming of Christ when I'm sure the Jews were just aching, waiting for that Messiah to come. And um It seemed like God was slow about his promises, as 2 Peter 3 says, but in fact, his timing was perfect. So in verse 20, It says, now a mediator is not for one party only, whereas God is only one. So um The promise to Abraham was unilateral. Remember? God said, this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to bless you in these ways. It was not conditional. It was unconditional. The law was also unilateral, but it was conditional. If you do this, I will bless you. If you don't do this, you'll experience these curses. And um So it was between the two parties. It was conditional. God said, here are the rules. And so it was given, received through a mediator, Moses. Whereas the Abrahamic covenant, the promise, didn't need to be. It was just God announcing this is the way it's going to be. So then in verse twenty, I'm sorry, twenty One, is the law contrary to the promises of God? It may never be, for if a law had been given which was able to impart life, Then righteousness would indeed have been based on the law. So given that the law was never able to impart life, Um or generate righteousness. What is righteousness again? Doing the right thing. Righteousness is about doing. Holiness is about being. God is inherently holy, therefore he does things that are righteous. And likewise we are to be holy, like he is holy, and our d what we do uh should be right. should be just, those two were interchangeable. The law couldn't produce that You know, the the presumption on most of the Israelites, and you know it would have been true of us as well had we been in that situation because it's just so human like for us to think in terms of a uh to do list and a don't do list. And if you check up all the boxes correctly You've got right standing before God, you know? Um that's just so intuitive for us, given our sinful natures. Um but what's the reality We couldn't do that. The law couldn't produce that um that righteousness. And instead the law was revealing how unrighteous we really are. So um It serves the purpose of convincing us of the hopelessness and inescapability of our predicament. It should have driven them to Okay, Lord, uh you've convinced me. Um I need to trust that you're going to provide the solution here because I can't produce it And to the long for the day of the Messiah, who would become the ultimate sacrifice and solution for that problem. So it it has this he's using the the the term here In verse 22, the scripture has shut up everyone under sin, kind of put this boundary around us, shackles on us, if you will. of hopelessness. That we're we're in this predicament. Um there's no way we can escape from it. We don't have the ability to escape from it. There's no hope there in ourselves. That should have been everyone's response to the law. Um And had it been, it would have led to um A response like Abraham's of faith. Lord, I know this doesn't depend on my good works because they're like filthy rags before you. I'm going to have to depend on your provision Just like Abraham was depending on God's provision when he was obeying God to sacrifice Isaac, the Lord will provide the land. Um That should have been the response of all the Israelites. And frankly, it should be the response of people today who understand that We don't inherently and and can't inherently have good standing before our Creator who holds us accountable. I think if we're honest, we'd say we don't even meet our own standards, let alone his. And that ought to drive us to faith in Him alone as the basis for our salvation. Um but that should have been true of the Israelites as well. And fortunately it was for some. Not just Abraham. But um you see evidence of of others throughout the history of of um Israel as God unfolded his his plan. Uh many who Well, some we know about for sure, who trusted in the Lord like David and and uh various prophets and so on. Uh but even by the time of Christ Um you know when Christ was brought to the temple um shortly after his birth and uh Mary and Joseph were met by two people, right? You remember um Simeon and Anna and they were very clearly waiting for this Messiah to come and God had revealed uh particularly to to um uh to them that this was he and they rejoiced. Um so there were some. They were living by faith, they were living under the law, but um it had driven them to to rely solely on God's provision for sin rather than their religious keeping of the law and the do's and the don'ts and and everything Um okay, any thoughts, questions so far? Okay. So in verse uh twenty three Again, he says, before faith came we were kept under custody, kept in custody under the law, being shut up to the faith which was later to be revealed. So um in custody. You know that has that brings images of someone in handcuffs, right, being let off to jail and and so on. But the point is uh bondage, bondage to sin. And seeing no way out. In fact there is no way out in our own effort uh in custody And so his point is that only faith in God's solution, which is Christ, can break those bonds. But then he says in in verse twenty-four, Therefore the law has become our tutor to lead us to Christ. So that we may be justified by faith. So what does a tutor do? Teaches, instructs, with the goal of preparing the student, the pupil for You know, his position in life, whatever. You know, that's sort of the the natural role of of a tutor. Uh in Paul's time and even before I guess, uh those tutors particularly for wealthy families would be assigned, you know, not just for this school year if i if you will, uh, but they were sort of a long term uh mentor, particularly for these sons, and they um it was not just academic training they were giving, it was the whole the whole deal, um um helping them understand their role in life and uh it's not just what they have in their head but also um um all the social responsibilities and so on that would be facing them. All all that kind of training would go on over the years. Yeah. Guardian. So there there's not just an instruction role, yes. It's it's a it's a um or it was at that time Kind of the the whole picture. And in this context here in Galatians, Paul's talking about this bondage. So You can just picture yourself under one of these uh tutors, one of these mentors. Uh and you had no choice in the matter. And it was a long range thing. You you couldn't just wait out the year and hope you get a better one next year. No, we're in this for the long haul And so what are the most of these, mostly boys, probably thinking at this point. This is not fun. Get me out. It it's gonna feel like bondage. They have no choice in the matter. Um there may be some Okay experiences and things learning that are okay, but the overall bent of a boy's heart is independence. And um so it would have been natural for them to to kind of kick a bit and and um So when he r speaks of these bonds and and a a tutor in the in the context of being in bondage like that It was a picture that was pretty familiar to to people, particularly at the time. So in what sense then did the law serve as a tutor? tell people how to relate to each other and how to relate to God. Uh I think it's later in Galatians that Paul says the law is summed up in loving your neighbor as yourself. Something that we fail miserably at, but um is a very you know, good thing to strive for. Yeah, so the law sets out the standard, or at least the the minimum standard, that none of us can actually attain. Um And to the extent that it's preparing us for something else, like a tutor would prepare these young boys for productive life and whatever role they have The law is preparing us for what? The gospel. The fulfillment of the gospel, that is Christ. So that if If they finally get to the point where they realize this this sin in my life is something I can't shake, I can't make it right, I can't Even if I wanted to, I couldn't check all those boxes and have right standing before God feeling hopeless. The law should be teaching us then not only those things, but there is hope. In God's solution to the problem. That the Messiah who would be coming in fulfillment of the promise to Abraham Is what we should be longing for and working toward, and so on. So um In that sense, the Tudor, the law, should have been preparing Israel, and in fact, for some indeed did prepare them for the coming of the Messiah. Most Jews, unfortunately though, or like probably most of us, thought that the whole point of the law was checking off these boxes. And the Pharisees, of course, by the time of Christ, were not only checking off those boxes, but other boxes they created to build on top of the actual law. thinking that uh they would go even beyond the law. But as we've already noted, God was not interested in those checking off the boxes because where was their heart? It wasn't coming from the heart. It wasn't by faith. It was by um works which Jesus denounced, of course, when he spoke directly to the Pharisees, referring to them as hypocrites, and um Like whitewashed tombs, look great on the outside, but are full of dead man's bones on the inside. And uh unfortunately that was just a common response to the law rather than the response, Lord. I see no solution here. I'm placing my faith in your solution, which is the Messiah. And uh may he come soon. Uh then verse twenty-five. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. So those tutors were temporary, those are typically more than a year But you can imagine those those boys longing for graduation as it were, right? And so Paul's saying now that the the um That faith has come, that is, the fulfillment of the promise to Abraham has been accomplished in Christ. And it's clear that appropriating that is a matter of faith, not a matter of works, then we're no longer under the tutelage. of the law. Um we're gonna get to it later I guess. He he touches on it already in verse 21, but um the point is that The law was not a bad thing. It's just not the ultimate thing. The law could not produce in us righteousness. It could not um cause us to overcome our sin It couldn't compensate for our sin. It could cover over our sin if by faith we're looking ahead to the ultimate sacrifice. Um but in and of itself it could produce none of that. Maybe I'll pause here. Any other thoughts, questions? Something we didn't cover. What was the age of adulthood? Yeah, I don't know for sure, but it would have been actually in In Israel, among the Jews, um the bar mitzvah would have happened what at thirteen? sort of as their entrance into manhood. Bar Mitzvah means son of the law. Um and I'm not entirely sure how much freedom people have, but there is a age of accountability essentially happening at that point. Among The non-Jews, the Gentiles, um much of whom he's he's in this this This tutor idea is mostly among I think the the non-Jews, I think, at that time. Uh what their age would have been and how long they would have been under this. I'm not sure if it was strictly AIDS dependent or they reached a point where it seems like he's mastered everything he needs to. I don't know. But um Uh clearly it took time. Okay, so in verse twenty-six It says, For you are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. For all of you were baptized into Christ, all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. If you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's descendant, heirs according to promise. So The point here is that the inheritance, the the promise, the righteousness that we have in Christ is not based on the law. It was always based on faith in what God would provide. Um It's interesting here that um uh before Christ Believers looked forward to that Messiah, that provision, that sacrifice. But ever since believers have looked back in faith Which do you think is easier, looking forward in faith or looking backward in faith? It's a lot easier to look backward. We have a lot more information about the fulfillment of those promises than the Jews had. And yet all too often we point our finger to them. What what's the matter with you guys? Right? But it's a lot easier for us. We've got a lot more revealed to us. And yet still many refuse to So he says to a basically Gentile audience You are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. For all of you who were baptized into Christ, that's not referring to water baptism. Being placed into the body of Christ. When does that happen? That's the moment of salvation We're placed into Christ. We're the New Testament uh all the way through refers to us as being in Christ, that is in the body of Christ. Um and being placed into the body of Christ happens to us at the moment of salvation. And so it says, for you are all sons of God through faith in Christ, for you have all been baptized into Christ, have clothed yourselves with Christ. Um interesting that he uses this word clothed with Christ. What do you think that means? Very much. Covered. Okay. Um very much so. As a image, I guess. Establishes identity. Establishes identity, so we're we're Christians. We are in Christ. Clothed with Christ. As opposed to what? Clothed in unrighteousness. Right? Filthy rags. So in verse 28, he says, There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female, for you're all one in Christ Jesus. What is he saying? There are no distinctions in what respect. A standing is equal? Yeah. Um preference No preference. Which would have been probably hard for the Jews to stomach. Yeah, we're God's chosen people. Right? And here he's saying there's there's neither Jew nor Greek. There's neither Jew nor Greek in Christ. Right? And it's not that those differences are uh gone in all respects, but but what is the key respect he's talking about here? Our standing before God. Right? So um it doesn't matter if you're a Jew or Gentile, you have right standing before God the same way. And you're equal before God together. It doesn't matter if you are slave or free. You enter into this relationship with Christ, you're clothed with Christ, you're in Christ, the same way, by grace through faith. Doesn't matter if you're male or female. And there were distinctions under the law, right? But in Christ We're all the same. We come to Christ, we have right standing before God the same way. And we're equally children of God. Now um and then it says of course you you're all one in Christ Jesus, so we're all part of that that um Family of God, those who are in Christ. People have used this verse, though to particularly where it says there's neither male nor female to say that well there there shouldn't be any distinctions of roles even within the church And yet we know that there are very clear biblical passages that define different roles for male and female. That's not what it's talking about here though, right? He's talking about our right standing before God. What is it that we we rely on to have right standing before God, and for all of us it's exactly the same thing. The righteousness of Christ. Not our own. And it's by God's grace through faith. And he says here in the last verse, if that's true of you, then you're Abraham's descendants. Because uh physical lineage is not the issue. It's basically a spiritual lineage. And what was true of Abraham, that is, he believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness, is true also of us. And that's good news. That's good news. So any um thoughts at this point? Questions? Nowadays there's a lot of interest in sort of erasing the lines between And um uh I think Paul believes in differences, you know, like his other writings talk a lot about that, like in a few But I think he also sort of transforms, say, the role of husband and says, um, you know, love your wife as Christ love the church Be even care for your wife as you care for your own body. So it's not saying we're just gonna throw out, there's no such thing as a husband, there's no such thing as a wife Um but it's uh it's sort of reimagining being a husband in a very loving and caring way. Right. So that hopefully it's not this this onerous thing that would make people say Let's just let's just get rid of of maleness because it's so unbearable. Yeah. Yeah, as if people were interchangeable. Yeah. Right. Um but yeah, it it it actually um elevates the uh the design of God. And in that particular case, elevating the example of Christ. When I think about identity in Christ, I also think that our identity as Christians should supersede however else we identify ourselves. Yes. Yeah. So if we're in Christ, that's the key indicator. It doesn't obliterate natural differences and experiences and nationalities and this kind of thing, but what's preeminent? You know, y y uh some of you may have um had extended contact or even incidental contact with believers from other nations. You know, some many of them come here. And you can still have an immediate bond when it's clear that we're all in Christ. Right? Lots of differences, but those things sort of fade away in terms of importance if um we understand that we're all in Christ. And that's a beautiful thing. Okay, so I'll ask some questions. Page 40. If the law was given to convince men of the hopelessness of their sin. then why do so many still rely on works to be justified before God? Sort of the same as asking why the Israelites didn't get it. For the most part, some did But many didn't. Yeah, it's easier at least in princi uh in thought it's e it comes easier to us. Why do you think it comes easier to us to think that? Particularly our pride. Um And so a number of examples here uh in John three for example It says, um, this is the judgment that the light has come into the world, and men love the darkness rather than the light. Why is that? Because their deeds are evil. What does light do? Shines light on that evil, right? For everyone who does evil hates the light, and does not come to the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. But he who practices the truth comes to the light, so that his deeds may be manifested as having been wrought. In God. John 12. But though he had performed many signs before them, yet they were not believing in him Yeah, how many times did they say, Show us a sign? And he would eventually say, You're not ready for it. You know, um uh because your heart's not right. But anyway it says here, uh this was to fulfill the word of Isaiah, the prophet who spoke Lord, who has believed our report, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For this reason, they could not believe For Isaiah said again, he has blinded their eyes and he has hardened their heart, so that they would not see with their eyes, but perceive with their heart and be converted in a healing. 2 Corinthians 4 goes on to say that if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In whose case the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving, so that they might not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Um First Corinthians two fourteen, a natural man, that is someone just an unbeliever, just uh um a natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God for their foolishness foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them. Why? Because they're spiritually appraised. He has to have his his heart softened, his his eyes opened, if you will, to the truth. And um that takes God's intervention for us to become aware of that But in Romans 1, beginning in 18, it says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. So there's some action active suppression. The truth is convicting, so I suppress it, basically, is the picture. Because that which is known about God is evident within them, for God made it evident to them, for since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, his divine nature have been clearly seen being understood through what has been made. So they are without excuse. And that's even without the law. They're without excuse. For even though they knew God, they did not honor him as God or his thanks But they became futile in their speculations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing to be wise, they became foolish. You see the pride in here, right? And verse 25 that they exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. Make sense? Actually it doesn't make sense. Why would people do that? But um There are lots of reasons, uh both um the effect of sin on people and pride. the effect of Satan in trying to blind people, but ultimately the effect of God needing to sovereignly open people's eyes in order for them to see the truth. Okay, uh second question. If everyone was shut up under sin and kept under custody, kept in custody under the law until faith came Does that mean that no one before Christ inherited the promise given to Abraham? Well, the short answer is no. It doesn't mean that. We know for sure that Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. Right? And he's the example that God holds out to us there in Scripture. But you know, you read Hebrews eleven And you get these testimonies of what people went through by faith. For example, in verse 13, after giving lots of examples, it says, All these died in faith without receiving the promises. But having seen them and having welcomed them from a distance, in other words they're looking ahead that eventually they will be fulfilled, whether it's in my lifetime or not Looking at them from a distance and having confessed that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. Um so They had a faith, these Old Testament believers given credit here in Hebrews 11, they had a faith that I I think you could argue it's a harder faith than ours. We have a lot more information. We're looking back on the events rather than looking forward. And um So they're actually uh praised here in Hebrews eleven, those who had that faith. Later on in that chapter it says, and all these, having gained approval through their faith, did not receive what was promised, because God had provided something better for us. So that apart from us, they would not be made perfect. Uh in other words, the fulfillment would come, and we're the beneficiaries of it, uh, and that's what they were um hoping for even though it wouldn't happen in their lifetime. So they were living by that faith, doing their best, of course, to obey the law, but realizing that wasn't the answer. And so they were looking ahead to the answer by faith. Very commendable. Well, uh that kind of raises the other obvious question, what value then does the law have for the believer today? We don't need that tutor. We're out of the shackles and so on. What value does the law have today? Well Several things I wanted to point out here. Second Timothy three, of course, all scripture that's not referring just to the New Testament. It's that all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, reproof, correction, training and righteousness. so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. Right? Psalm 19 still applies today. The second part of Psalm 19 speaks of the um uh the the role, the value, the uh well yeah the value of of scripture uh often referred to as the law or the precepts of the Lord and so on. Um but it's Beyond comparison, the law of the Lord is perfect, restoring the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true. They are righteous altogether. More desirable than gold, even fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the drippings of the honeycomb. Moreover, by them your servant is warned. In keeping them there is great reward. And then, by the way, you know, there there are three psalms that focus on the Word of God. One of them is Psalm 1. Um, you know, blessed is the man who who uh keeps the law and all that. Another one is Psalm 19, we just read from there. And the third is Psalm 119. So it's 119 and 119, focused particularly on the Word of God. And so in Psalm 119, right near the beginning It says, Your word I have treasured in my heart that I might not sin against you. Give me understanding that I may observe your law and keep it with all my heart. So uh the commandments of God are are good. They motivate us to um Submit to God, to obey God as best we can. It doesn't take away the need for faith, but just like the Old Testament believers uh it was helpful for them to be reminded of the heinousness of sin, uh the need for a a um savior. And um uh a motivator to do what's right. Uh but then Jesus in the Sermon on the Mouth, Matthew 5 He said, do not think that I came to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. For truly I say to you, until all heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass away from the law until all is accomplished. And of course, all being accomplished is what Christ did in fulfilling the law by his perfect life and his substitutionary death. Now, when uh particularly the New Testament speaks of the law in this way, uh in our our Keeping the law, it's referring generally to the moral aspects of the law. not the ceremonial aspects of the law. So there's no need for sacrifices that would foreshadow the coming of the uh ultimate sacrifice because that's already been accomplished. But the moral aspects of the law say the Ten Commandments or at least nine of them. Um and various aspects throughout the law that are about character and about um treating one another well, loving your neighbor as yourself and all those kind of things They're fulfilled in Christ and they're still operative. And uh being in Christ, we're enabled to actually fulfill them in ways we couldn't have apart from um Christ's righteousness in us. So hope that helps. Any um any other questions, thoughts at this point? Yeah. Just a um comment and Um John Calvin writes about the purpose of the law. He identified three distinct purposes, and two of them we've talked about a lot. He he talks about how it the law exposes our sin and drives us to Christ. And we and he also talked about how the law demonstrates the heart of God and shows us what pleases him. And that's what a lot of these passages in the songs are talking about. The the third thing he talks about I think is interesting. He He writes about how the law of God acts as a bridle or a restraint. And it's it's almost an aspect of God's common grace. Especially when societies implement laws that are based on right God's word, that the the moral aspect, kind of what you were just talking about, even the the moral aspect, there's a benefit for society, even for unbelievers, because it acts as a as a bridal and prevents mankind from displaying the worst evil that we're actually capable of to the fullest extent. Right. Yeah, for sure. Yeah, and to the extent that civil laws that that people pass are consistent with that Um it has that that uh restraining effect, for sure. All right. So the law is good, but it's not the basis for salvation. It's a tutor to lead us to Christ. Let's go ahead and pray.