Well welcome. We are on lesson eleven. We're we just Stepped into chapter five of Galatians last week, verse one. So we're picking up now in verses two through twelve. And we've mentioned circumcision a bit as we've been going through Galatians, and now Paul is focusing very directly at uh the role of circumcision and so on. So I'll go ahead and read our passage. Verse two. Paul, uh behold, I, Paul, say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. And I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. You have been severed from Christ, you who are seeking to be justified by law. You have fallen from grace. For we, through the Spirit, by faith, are waiting for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything, but faith working through love. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion did not come from him who calls you A little leaven leavens the whole lump of dough. I have confidence in you, in the Lord, that you will adopt no other view. But The one who is deserving you will bear his judgment whoever he is. But I, brethren, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross has been abolished. I wish that those who are troubling you would even mutilate themselves. Well, like Paul, um uh often through the book of Galatians, um says some fairly provocative things. This is no exception. So let's dig in here. Remember The context, uh even the reason for Paul's letter to the Galatian churches, was that there were um people, uh Jews particularly, who um were teaching that in order to be a Christian you had to become a Jew So that the way to Christ is through Judaism. And uh And that the practical outworking of that is that in order to be saved, you have to do certain things, one of which is circumcision. And so Paul is has been, as you know, addressing this from lots of different angles so far in the book of Galatians. Um and today he's focusing particularly on circumcision because that was kind of the major hang up. for uh for these Judaizers as we call them. People who would have people become Jews in order to be saved. So um when he says in verse two um That if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. What do you think he means by receive circumcision? That would be our initial presumption. Anyone who gets circumcised. But given the context of the book, do you think that's all he's saying? Basically, he's saying, if you receive circumcision so that you can be saved You're missing the point, is what he's saying. Right? And if if you receive circumcision as a condition to your salvation Salvation is by works, and so as he says, Christ will be of no benefit to you. Right? Christ is no benefit because salvation is not Christ plus works. It's Christ alone. Right? And to the extent that salvation is based on works, it's based on not our works, but the works of Christ, both his life and his death. So if you And verse three, every man who receives circumcision is under obligation to keep the whole law So he's saying that if you receive circumcision in order to be saved, well, that puts you on the track of needing to keep the entire law perfectly to be a perfect person And again, if you're a perfect person, there's no need for Christ. But who is a perfect person? Only Christ, right? So um If you set out on the track, he's saying, if you're setting out to prove yourself worthy to God and to keep the law, to be perfect and everything, circumcision being a big part of that. Um You gotta keep the whole law. Similar to what James said. You remember what James said in his book? That if you keep the whole law except on one point, then what? you're you're guilty of all. I mean if if you're guilty of anything you're you're still guilty. Right? And so the same punishment is there. Because you've fallen short of the standard of perfection. It would help us here, before going much farther, to Think about this background on circumcision, how it got started. Um and it's rather ironic that Judaizers and those who are are seeking to keep the law are so hung up on circumcision because circumcision didn't originate with the law. In fact it's hard to even mention. in the law. Where did it originate? Well in back in Genesis seventeen, this is with Abraham. Right? When Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty, walk before me. And be blameless, I will establish my covenant between me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly. This is God's unilateral, unconditional promise, right, to Abraham Abram fell on his face and talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, um God said to him, As for me, behold, my covenant is with you, and you will be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but you shall be called Abraham, for I will make you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, make nations of you, and kings will come forth from you. I will establish my covenant between me and you, and your descendants after you throughout all the generations for an everlasting covenant Um so again, God is this is not the first time, this is at least the third time I think God has given him this very clear uh promise with these various a uh attributes to the promise. Just unconditional. This is what I'm gonna do, God says. Right Um but then in verse nine he says to Abraham Abraham, yeah Now as for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your descendants after you, throughout all the generations. This is my covenant which you shall keep between me and you and your descendants after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised. And you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin. It shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. So each covenant has its own sign. Right. What was the sign of the covenant God had with Noah? The rainbow. As a reminder, right? A reminder. The sign. So likewise here the sign is the sign of circumcision. Every male among you who is eight days old shall be circumcised throughout your generations uh a servant who was born in your house, who was bought with money from any foreigner, who is not of your descendants, everybody. A servant who is born in your house or who is bought with money surely shall be circumcised. Thus shall my covenant be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant So it's it's a reminder, a reminder, if and other things as well, but certainly a reminder Uh but any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that person shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. Then God said to Abraham, As for Sarah, your wife, you shall not call her Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name. I will bless her, indeed I will give a s son, give you a son by her, then I will bless her, and she'll be she shall be a mother of nations. Na kings of peoples will come from her Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed. Why did he laugh? Same reason Sarah laughed a little earlier. Um how can this be? She's beyond childbearing years, right? And he said in his heart, Will a child be born to a man one hundred years old? You know what's interesting about that? Not only was a child Isaac born to Abraham when he was a hundred years old, but he had lots of other children after Sarah died with his other his next wife, Keturah. Um anyway, and will Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child? And Abraham said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you. So at this point, Ishmael was his only son, but the son not of Sarah, but of who? Hagar. by their trying to do what they can to fulfill what God had promised. And the point was not what they could do to fulfill what God would promise, but what God would do to fulfill what God had promised. Anyway, oh that Ishmael might live before you. But God said, No, but Sarah, your wife, will bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. And I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant for his descendants after him. As for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I will bless him. and will make him fruitful and multiply him exceedingly. He shall become a father of twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation. But my covenant I will establish with Isaac whom Sarah will bear to you at this season next year. When he finished talking with him, God went up from Abraham. Then Abraham took Ishmael, his son And all the servants who were born in his house, and all who were born with it um bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's household, and circumcised the flesh with their foreskin in the very same day As God had said to him. So Abraham clearly was obedient at that point Now, Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, and Ishmael, his son, was thirteen years old when he was circumcised. In the very same day, Abraham circumcised, was circumcised, and Ishmael his son as well. All the men of his household, all who were born, and so on, were circumcised with him So, God instituted it with Abraham long before the law. Right, that's Paul's point here. Uh and why did God institute it? Well, there are a number of reasons. But um what what was God trying to do through Abraham? Trying to raise up a people who would be called out separate for God, who would eventually become the nation of Israel, right? And was Abraham saved because he got circumcised? No. We saw much earlier where it says very explicitly, Abraham believed God, took God at his word. And God reckoned it to him as righteousness. And Paul makes that point here in Galatians, but also in Romans. Remember, Galatians is sort of the little Romans. Um it's not quite as big a volume, but it covers many of the same topics. And so here on page 54 of the notes, there's this excerpt from Romans 4 that would probably be helpful to us at this point. Where Paul writes, How then was accredited? So he's he's just re- rehearsed the the uh experience of Abraham, that he believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. But how was it credited? While he was circumcised or while he was uncircumcised Well, he was uncircumcised because he'd never heard of circumcision until chapter 17, and we're back in chapter 15, right, with Abraham. So not while circumcised, but while uncircumcised. And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith, which he had while uncircumcised. So that he might be the father of all who believe without being circumcised, that righteousness might be credited to them. And that he would be the father of circumcision to those who not only are of the circumcision, that is Jews, but also follow in the steps of the faith of Abraham, our father, which he had while being uncircumcised. So Abraham is the Well, as Paul said earlier in Galatians, he's the father of those who believe. Right? In God's take God of his word. And Act accordingly. Then verse thirteen here in Romans four. For the promise to Abraham or to his descendants that he would be heir of the world was not through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. So the the righteousness that comes from faith, not the righteousness that produces faith. Okay. There's a couple of things I want to do here Let's continue a little bit and then come back. So in point four, on the bottom of page fifty-four. Abraham, as we read, circumcised everybody that was in his household. uh which was a lot of people. Can you imagine being one of those people? And what would what would you be thinking if you were one of those people? You gotta be kidding. Yeah, you have to tag it down. Um so Certainly the faith of Abraham was strong. Uh it was strong. He he was able to take God at his word, even though Um he initially laughed. No way. Are you kidding? Right? Um But with regard to this, his his faith was in God, not in his own logic or his own convenience. He was Treating God as God. And that's the right response. Right? And I gotta think that A lot, maybe not everybody, in his household, all his servants and and so on, um respected, at the very least, they respected Abraham's faith in God. And may have had sort of like the servant who went out to find a um a wife for Isaac later Um he was praying to the God of Abraham and um uh the God of Abraham didn't let him down. Um and I I I imagine he wasn't alone among those servants who um at the very least uh respected, honored uh the God of Abraham because they respected Abraham himself. Um also, you know, I mean what great faith and um I just these men just you know, follow Abraham because it's like this like this procedure was ongoing other tribes. This is brand new. It's not like what are what are the What's the outcome? It's not like a knee replacement nowadays. You're like, oh yeah you know, it's there's recovery for this, it's kinda like, ooh, anything goes, right? Yeah. So um They must have realized that this is, as Abraham described it to them. God said this is a sign of his covenant. What is his covenant that he's going to be blessing the world through me, Abraham? That he's going to do that in part by giving me lots of descendants. Through somebody who hasn't even been born yet. He's been promised to be born a year from now, Isaac. And he also has promised to do what? Give me this land, all the land that we can see here, this promised land. Um and so It was unconditional. He God said, This is just what I'm going to do. And um Abraham must have been explaining this to people. And to some extent uh they either believed or at least submitted to that. Um but I'm I'm pretty confident that some of them had faith that if they didn't have faith in Abraham's God they had faith in Abraham. That he was because they did God didn't appear to them He appeared to wh which faith do you think was harder? Abraham's faith or their faith? Their faith was probably harder because God didn't appear to them directly. They didn't have the open scriptures. They didn't have any scriptures to look at, right? But they trusted Abraham. He was a good man. And they trusted in Abraham's God. By this point, they'd probably also seen evidence of God's faithfulness to Abraham, so that it wasn't just a a blind faith. But anyway, it's just interesting to kind of put yourself in their shoes. Um well anyway, on the top of page fifty five, I make note here of Every verse where there's some reference in the Old Testament, every verse that has a reference to uh either circumcision or uncircumcision, circumcised, uncircumcised, every form of that that word. And I find that it's interesting that it occurs far more times in Genesis, like what we just read. Than it does in the rest of the law combined. Exodus, Oblivicus, numbers, Deuteronomy. In fact, it appears there only seven times. Four of which have to do with physical circumcision, and three having to do with circumcision of the heart And that theme gets carried over uh to some of the prophets as well, particularly Jeremiah and Ezekiel. You know, it's kind of easy for us Uh looking back at the sacrifice of Christ and kind of see the fulfillment of God's um uh plan of salvation being being played out, it's kind of easier for us to say to to to understand the term circumcision of the heart. Right? Because God's focused on the heart. But that's not just a New Testament concept. I mean this is directly from uh Uh the law, the prophets, spoke of the need for a circumcised heart So that what is really at stake here is not outward conformity to God's law. but that our obedience is coming from the heart. And of course that was the main issue that Christ had with the Pharisees, right? It was all external. Their hearts were far from him And um and yet that's that's a concept that's that's uh highlighted several times in the Old Testament. Okay, so I wanted to go back on page fifty-four to verse fourteen. Just to make sure we're not confused here. So verse 14, we're on the top of page 54 Uh but an uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that person shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. So What does that suggest about the role of circumcision in our relationship or their relationship with God? It kind of gives the impression that that covenant is conditional, doesn't it? Okay. You can picture somebody using that part of that passage there to say, Look what it says here, you don't belong. What's it saying? I I think it's talking about uh people's horizontal relationships with each other. And the the circumcision was kind of the badge that you're in the covenant and you're part of the group Um and it it may not be quite so much about our vertical relationship with God, because it's saying it's not saying you're cut off from God, it's saying, you know, you're cut off from uh this this family of Abraham's children. Exactly. But it says two things. Yeah, go ahead. Right. It says they're cut off from his people he has broken my covenant. Covenant. I think the covenant is a matter of I think they had to get circumcised to stay in the covenant. covenant and then to to inherit the land uh and and be the light to the other nations and things like that. I think that's a big sort of communal aspect of of this So let's go back to the question, what was God doing here through Abraham? Right? He was um in the early stages of preparing a people who would be set apart for him, right, who would eventually be the nation of Israel And he makes this covenant with Abraham, which is clearly unconditional. He just says, this is what I'm going to do. It's unlike the law, which was very conditional, if you do this, then that, if you don't do it, better watch out, right? The covenant with Abraham was very unconditional. That's clear. That's clear even from these verses. But God was preparing a people who would be set apart from Him, right? A holy nation set apart for God to put on display to the rest of the world. About the nature of the true God. Right? And what was the role of circumcision in that? To be a sign. to uh a not so visible sign as it turns out, right? But a uh sign of who's in this people set apart versus who is not. And that's how the nation of Israel applied it over the years. Oh, those uncircumcised people, right? I mean they're just they're different from us. They're set apart. We are set apart from them. um a holy people to the Lord. And so it was important to know who was in, who was out, basically. And It did require obedience, but think about our context. Um Are there any commands placed on those who come to Christ by grace through faith Not for salvation, but are there any commands? Yeah. Baptism, you know, well lots of points of obedience, right? But just look at baptism. Does baptism save anybody? Does being commanded that we're b need to be baptized mean that our salvation is a salvation of works? That our salvation is conditional on our obedience. No. Baptism is commanded, um, but It's not commanded for the purpose of getting saved, it's commanded for the purpose of showing that we are saved, right And I think there's a parallel here in circumcision. Now um it wasn't that people who were circumcised were circumcised because they were saved and in that sense it's not parallel to to baptism. Um But there were a people who submitted to that because they bought into that covenant. That they believed that God was going to do this. They were agreeing to be set apart from all the other people around them. And if someone didn't, then they were outside that covenant group of people. And so they've cut themselves off from the chosen people. And I think what he means when he says that broken the covenant, they just haven't bought into it, that it's by grace through faith And um for whatever reason just disassociated themselves from what God is doing. I think that's what's going on. It's not a whole lot different from um well, even in the New Testament There are multiple places where it refers to people needing to obey the gospel Now, what is the gospel? It's a free gift. Salvation is a free gift. In what sense do people obey the gospel? They obey because it's the Word of God. They should anyway, right? they were they agree with what God, you know, so they're agreeing with what he's saying what he's saying is true w what he's saying we need to do, what is he saying we need to do as part of the gospel message? Repent, right? We're commanded to repent. Not everybody repents, but um the gospel carries with it a command. There's a promise, but there's also a command. The command is not a work, because where does that repentance come from? It comes from God. Our faith comes from God. Our repentance comes from God. We see that clearly in the New Testament. But it involves us. We have a response. And we need to um participate as God has set it up. Does that help? Any other questions? Because that's a place where people could easily get tripped up. Well, let's go through the verses here and the time we have left. Um where we start on page fifty-five. And um let me go ahead and read The passages here from Jeremiah and Romans. So the point is, Paul is uh focusing on people who are like the Judaizers, who are depending on the works of the law like circumcision. At least in their mind, circumcision is part of the law. When really it was established long before the law for a different purpose. Anyway, um depending on the law in order to be saved is is the the problem he's uh addressing here. And so Jeremiah, for example, says, Behold the days are coming, declares the Lord, that I will punish all who are circumcised And yet uncircumcised. What's he mean? Maybe circumcised In the flesh, but not in the heart. Right? Egypt, Judah Edom, the sons of Ammon and Moab and all those uh inhabiting in the desert who clipped the hair in the temples and so on. Um For all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised of heart. Um and so at that level there's no distinction. Right? The issue is whether they're circumcised in the heart And then Paul picks up on this in Romans 2, where he says, For indeed circumcision is of value if you practice the law. That is perfectly. But if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision, which is uncircumcision of the heart has been displayed in your disobedience. Right? Um so if the uncircumcised man keeps the requirements of the law, which It's impossible, but let's say hypothetically, if someone could do that, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? So he's if he's able to keep the law, it doesn't matter whether he's circumcised or not. But of course, he can't keep the law. And so Why I mean that that's true whether you're circumcised or not, is what he's saying. Um So in verse 2 he says that if you receive circumcision, that is, if you're depending on it for salvation, Christ will be of no benefit to you. And then in verse four, it says, You have been severed from Christ, you who are seeking to be justified by the law You have fallen from grace. And so, as I mentioned here, anyone who was exposed to and had some interest in the gospel of grace but who opted instead for keeping the good works to justify himself, reveals that he had never been saved to begin with. The two are really mutually exclusive. And so a parallel or illustration of that, I think, is in the parable of the four soils that Jesus gave. And you remember what those were, right? The first there was the the hard path and whatever where the soil where the seeds fell. And it didn't even sink in, right? It was like on the road and the birds came along and snapped it away. It just the the word had no effect at all on those kind of people The second kind was rocky soil, uh shallow. There's bedrock down below. There wasn't much room for growth to happen, but the seed did sprout in the rocky soil initially. And what he's saying is that there are some people who appear to respond to the good news. But he says It didn't last. It wasn't there's no death there to them. And so it dried up and um There was nothing to show for it. The point is that they weren't really genuinely responding to the word. Uh there is just a superficial initial response that wasn't genuine and you know over time whether it's a genuine response or not and in their case It wasn't. Likewise the third soil was what? The the thorns and thistles and so on in the soil. And um Those thorns and thistles may not have been very pronounced when the seed was sown, and so they the the seed sprouts up a little bit initially again, but these other influences, the what he calls the the cares of the world and and whatever, uh crowd out the the genuine seed and it's not fruitful. There's no fruit coming out of the seed. And so again, uh there's some initial response, but you see over time it's not genuine faith. But the fourth soil, seed was planted and it did bear fruit 30, 60, 100fold. And what's the difference between those soils? Are they fruitful or not? And the first three, they were not. Number two and three gave an initial appearance that maybe there would be some fruitfulness, but it didn't pan out It just didn't um it wasn't genuine transformation. And so that's very similar to somebody who Is trying to keep the law, but it's depending on it for salvation, and there's no genuine heart transformation that's going on um they bear no fruit because of it. Okay. Uh yes. Well the question is is um how do we how do we know that faith and repentance come from God whether it rather than being something that we generate. Right? Um and therefore what are the implications of that? Well You begin with the understanding from Scripture of our condition apart from Christ. And how does Scripture define that or describe that? We're dead. Right? We're dead in our trespasses and sins, Ephesians 2. Um how responsive is a dead person? Not at all. Right? So it shouldn't surprise us that people are not um responsive to the gospel in their own efforts in their own uh power. Romans three quotes all those verses from the Old Testament that says it's just there's no one who seeks after God And several passages including um First Corinthians first Corinthians chapter two, verse fourteen A natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him, and he cannot understand them because they are spiritually examined, spiritually appraised. Um dead people are not responsive because um they're dead in their sin. And it's not that they will not respond, it's that they cannot respond in that state. And so how is it that anybody responds to God? It's because God takes the initiative. Sort of like the the vision that God gave to Ezekiel of those dry bones. And coming together and having flesh put on them, it's God's initiative to raise up people from that dead state, that's state of being separated from Him To even comprehend the state that they're in, Jesus said, No one can come to me except what? The Father draws him. God has to take the initiative to draw us to himself. Right? Then in in Acts, we see those early accounts of people, particularly non-Jews, coming to Christ And um uh I forget the actual reference in X. But what it says is is um When Peter, I think it's the context, when Peter describes to them what happened when he went to Cornelius. And how God God prepared him in advance to kind of expand his thinking that the gospel was also for Gentiles who he was considering to be unclean, right? when he described how they received the message and uh their their um praising God and and um being devoted to God even as Gentiles. Peter describes that to the Jews back home and what's their conclusion? Oh. Well God has also granted re repentance to the Gentiles also. That's what they said. And that has to be the case because apart from God drawing people and giving them the faith and repentance that is needed to respond to his gospel. They wouldn't not only they wouldn't, but they couldn't. Um so There are other passages I can send you that speak about faith in that same way, that faith is something that well, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. By grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves Is a gift of God, not a result of works. Lest anyone should goes. Yeah. I feel like we often think of the parable of the sower and we think of like the soil. That it's put in as the condition of the human heart that hears the Word of God. And so it makes it sound like it's the condition of the human heart that determines whether or not not there to use the word of God well. So is there a better way to like to use the soil or like how does God role in our faith and repentance Well that's that's an excellent question, a good observation, and I would agree that it has everything to do with the condition of the heart. However, when you think of those four soils, which of those four soils was prepared by the farmer? Only the fourth one. But as he was sowing seed, where was the seed intended for the fourth soil As he was selling some seeds, some fell, you know, you scatter widely, right? Some of it falls on the path, some of it falls on the adjacent ground that's rocky, not prepared by the farmer Some of it falls on soil that's given to thorns and weeds and whatever. But for the most part he's aiming this scattering of seeds on the soil he's prepared Right? So God prepares those to receive the seed. That's part of drawing us to himself. Sorry, so but that makes me think that there's an opportunity for the other three soils. Like there's a chance. Well, there there's no chance on their own initiative But if the farmer decides to prepare any of them so that they can receive the the seed and it bear fruit and whatever, that's the farmer's prerogative. It's not from our perspective, it ought not to be hopeless because we don't know what God's doing. Right. Yeah. Was there another yeah? Yeah. Just someone that would bear the fruit because there's somewhere like you can tell. Like I'm thinking of my children, right? Like I want to be able to Like it's just part being prepared to Oh, how how can we tell whether someone is is prepared? Yes. I I don't know how good you are at reading people's hearts. I'm not very good. But what what can we tell? I mean what does that parable of the four soils tell us? You tell by the fruit. You know, you you know them by their fruits, right? And so we shouldn't We shouldn't conclude that someone hasn't been prepared by God, therefore I'm not going to share the gospel with them. We don't know what God's doing in our heart. We should share the the gospel widely, like in the parable, and um if it falls on ground that has not been fully or at all prepared by God, it's not going to bear any fruit, and that's not on us, it's on God. He's the one who can the only one who can draw them to himself. If it falls on soil that has been prepared by God, then it'll bear the fruit that God intended. That's all good. So from our perspective, not being able to read people's hearts, we should sow the word broadly. And let God Deal with it. Sometimes that seed is there and it it um bears fruit much, much later as God continues the preparation process. And it's not necessarily gone or forgotten. Um so yeah, whether it's our children or our neighbor or co-worker, God can use the seed that we're planting uh uh ten years later in his own timetable if that's what he's choosing to do. Or they may end up showing that they never were prepared, they never did respond. But that's up to God. Yeah. What what do you think about what it says in First Timothy that that God wants all people to be saved? It's not exactly what it says He sa it says well no it it it's that and, right? Let's go to isn't it second Peter three? I was thinking first Timothy Alright, let's go there. This is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the full knowledge of the truth. Right. Well if that's the only verse in the Bible, you would pretty easily conclude that God is just hoping that as many as possible will get saved and and um he's kind of hopeless or uh he he's helpless in the process. It's all dependent on people. If that's the only verse in the Bible, that's probably the conclusion you'd come to. Problem is that's not the only verse in the Bible that touches on this. And and so given everything we do understand from Scripture about God, no one can come to me unless the Father draws him. And people in that unsafe state are dead, unresponsive, and unable, not just unwilling, but unable even to understand Then how how do we understand this passage in light of the rest of the teaching of Scripture? God desires all men. It's it's a it's a genuine call to repentance to everyone. However It's also clear that not everybody is even able to respond to it. And that God is the one who has to draw them. I've I've read that um like in like in Exodus, I think sometimes it says Pharaoh hardened his heart. And then it says other times it says God hardened Pharaoh's heart. As a finite human being, which is it? Um I don't know. But but I've heard it said that um a human being can so utterly and stubbornly reject God that God can honor their wish and say I'm gonna I'm gonna let I'm gonna uh I'm gonna let you go your own way. Kind of like Romans 1, God gave them over, right, to be all those things. But it is it's almost incomprehensible It is when you try to reconcile different verses. It is. But one thing I will say, and I I think I touched on it um a few weeks ago. And that is if we get so focused on uh solafide, by faith alone. Um we can you know the we can come to the conclusion that someone can Have faith even if momentarily in Christ's provision for them on the cross and they could be saved. Um and then and then just go off living the way they want because they think it's a get out of hell free card. Um But quite apart from how they might uh live out the rest of their life, um Someone who who would say that it's by faith alone, we can't add anything to that requirement. faith alone. And so adding things like repentance to it is inconsistent with faith alone. That's the argument that many people make And so my my question to them is where does that faith come from? If that faith is generated by the unsaved person That's a work. So salvation is by works. If salvation if faith comes from God It's by grace. Which I think is what we see in Scripture. Because God's doing the work, there will be fruit. Well, we probably ought to close it off here. I hope that's been helpful. Let's let's try