Well welcome to our study of Galatians. We're on chapter six, not chapter six of Galatians, lesson six in our outline. Last week we covered what I call the section justification through faith alone, and today we're picking up on that theme, justification By grace alone. Uh so does everybody have a copy of the notes now? We're on page 32. So I'll go ahead and read from Galatians 3, verses 8, uh 10 to 18 For as many as are of the works of the law, that is, as many people are of the works of the law, are under a curse For it is written, and here in the New American Standard translation which we're using here, uh it's in all caps, it's a direct quote from the Old Testament So, for it is written, cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them Now that no one is justified by the law before God is evident, for the righteous man shall live by faith. However, the law is not of faith. On the contrary, he who practices them, that is, the provisions of the law, shall live by them. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. In order that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we would receive the promises, the promise of the Spirit through faith. Brethren, I speak in terms of human relations, even though it is only uh a man's con covenant, in other words, in the example of a human covenant. When it has been ratified, no one sets it aside or adds conditions to it. Now, the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say and to seeds, referring to many, but rather to one, and to your seed, that is, Christ. What I'm saying is this. The law, which came 430 years later, did not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God so as to nullify the promise. For if the inheritance is based on law, it is no longer based on a promise. But God has granted it to Abraham by means of a promise. And so that promise is a um uh an example of God's grace, for sure. So what we have here in this section is two main thoughts And I've got these as capital A and B here in the notes. The first thought in verses 10 through 13 is What the law and the prophets say about keeping the law. So Paul is saying we should already know this. Uh the the what is the viewpoint of the law and the prophets concerning relying on the law And the second part is what God's covenant with Abraham says about keeping the law. So let's look first of all at the law and the prophets. So in verse 10, he says that attempting to live by the law places a person under a curse. So no one can abide by or obey all of the law continually, and therefore Trying to gain our salvation that way, it's impossible. We've all sinned, we all have a sinful nature, uh we all are unable to keep all of God's law perfectly. And so what the law does is it condemns us. It it brings a curse. Now, um this might be an interesting or a useful point. At which to make a very interesting observation. Often I hear people refer to uh God's curse on Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. But neither Genesis 3 tells about that, nor anywhere else in Scripture refers to Adam and Eve being cursed. What it does say is there are definitely consequences. Um there was some cursing going on. By God at that point in Genesis 3, what was cursed? The land was cursed because of Adam, it says. What else? The word curse is not mentioned there. It's a consequence. But there is another curse referred to the serpent was cursed, right? Adam and Eve bore the consequences, but actually Genesis 3 is all about God's grace. Because God, what was his restriction in the previous chapter? From any of the trees of the garden you may eat except the one in the center, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, because in the in the day that you eat of it, what? You will surely die Now, God didn't define what he meant by you will surely die, and Adam and Eve had no experience with death yet. Usually we We interpret that to mean you will die spiritually because they were separated from God. And that's certainly true. But physical death resulted from that sin also. It's just that they didn't experience that physical death until much later. 900 years later in the case of 900 plus years in the case of Adam. But a substitute did die on that day It was an animal, probably more than one animal, to provide the skins to cover the shame of Adam and Eve. So in the day that they ate of it A substitute met God's condition that they would die. So someone died in their place. God's picturing in advance what? The ultimate substitute for our sin, right? And even in the curse of Satan In Genesis three fifteen, he said that the seed of the woman would um crush the head of the seed of of the serpent. Again, picturing the uh the role of Christ in overcoming the consequences of sin. taking them upon himself. So even in those sentences that God gives to Adam and Eve, they're they're under the umbrella of his grace Picturing the substitutionary sacrifice of Christ to pay for that very sin that they committed. So what's interesting here, and it's here in Galatians, it's throughout Scripture, the curse. comes from the law. Adam and Eve, there's nowhere in Scripture that actually says Adam and Eve were cursed. They bore the consequence of sin. They were separated from Christ. That may seem like a curse, but there's hope in there too. There's the gospel that God was uh beginning to unveil even on that very day, Genesis three. Um but Very explicitly, Scripture says, the law, not keeping the law, brings a curse. It was very clear to the nation of Israel Uh and particularly in um uh was it Deuteronomy twenty-eight, I think, where it says, if you do all these things to keep my law, you'll have all these blessings. But if you disobey them, what? Curses on you. And which did they do? The disobedience, and therefore the curse came upon them. But that's not just the nation of Israel, that's really all of us. Um why does the law Bring a curse. Yeah, it exposes our sins so that really it's our sins that are um testifying against us. We have no standing before God because it's clear. Um and We're going to talk a lot more about that next week because he in Galatians he moves to that question, what's the purpose of the law? Right? That's our topic next week. But The law brings a curse because we're found by our own words, actions, whatever, to fall short. And we basically uh condemn ourselves, but the law makes that clear, it makes it evident, it brings out the reality. Um Paul said, I wouldn't have known that I was a coveter unless the law had said you shall not covet. And so on. That's just one example. What's the definition of curse? Well, I I think it's used in several ways. There are people who place curses on people, but what we're really talking about here is God's placing a curse on someone. And or or the in this case the law for placing a curse on someone. Um it basically is the the the um Proclamation is not quite the right word. Um it's it's announce pronouncement, it's it's the making it clear in the case of the law that someone has fallen short of God's standards, someone is um Would justly fall under God's curse, um, that they have no righteousness to stand before God, uh they're without hope. Yes, that's a good word. There's a when someone is cursed, someone is condemned. For sure. Yeah. This is actually like one of the reasons that the Jewish people don't see converts. And they're holding responsible to that. So why would we put someone under the law who is not born under the law? Which was really interesting to me. Very interesting. Understanding like the mentality behind Yeah, and that's actually very similar to some of Christ's uh own um Concern. I mean you you look at um his use of parables and his disciples would ask him, Well, why why do you always speak in parables? Well, it's it's so that you who have ears to hear can understand it and apply it. But um if others don't really understand it, it's not clear to them, they're not he doesn't say it in quite this way, but they're not held to that if they're not aware of the the the truth, they're not as convicted by it. But he also says that um People like in in Matthew thirteen, people have some have ears to hear and others don't. And the ones who don't, um They're they're judged, they they're without excuse, but there's more clear condemnation the clearer that weighs on them I guess. Yeah it's it's but it's very similar to thinking of of the rabbis apparently. Yeah. Which I don't think it's right thinking. Well it and actually in in some ways it is, but it'd be interest it'd be it'd be interesting for them to think about the impact of that on them. If that's true, shouldn't we be held to a higher standard in terms of of God's law? Yeah. Anyway So in verse 11 he says, now that no one is justified by the law. And again, justified means what? Declared righteous by God. Um basically he uses the term justified here in Romans and elsewhere, basically synonymous with what we would call saved. Right? Someone who is actually genuinely saved. Um but it's the the starting point of that salvation, the declaration of God that he has right standing before God And that begins that process then of sanctification where our experience matches up with, progressively matches up with our position. But that no one is justified. That is, no one is saved by the law before God is evident. For here, uh quoting from Habakkuk 2 four, the righteous man shall live by faith. Um, and so it's it's clear that God has um By His grace provided salvation to some, and by faith, faith actually that God uh gives them, by faith they respond to that. Salvation uh has always been by grace through faith. And last week we followed Paul's logic concerning the um uh the faith response And uh here he's talking about how it all starts by God's grace. So um That should be obvious to us. I mean we just see uh Paul is saying, we we we see this throughout that um uh God is uh not concerned about the rituals of the law, but rather The change of heart, the heart toward God, right? So to obey is better than sacrifice. You know, you see that repeatedly in the Old Testament. And here it says the righteous one should live by faith. So that's that's actually got two dimensions to it. The uh the righteous man should live by faith Here he's using it in the sense of justification, which is true. that it's i it's our justification, our salvation, is by gra by God's grace through faith, not by works of the law. That doesn't achieve salvation, the works of the law And it was that point that Martin Luther had that aha moment about, although he was reading where this was cited in Romans 1. when it occurred to him. Um so faith the works of the law are not the basis of salvation, but Um God's grace, God's substitution through Christ, and our response to that by faith. It's by faith alone. But there's another dimension to that. That same promise, I think. It's partly a truism, partly a promise. The righteous man should live by faith, that is, it's not just becoming a Christian that's by faith, but what? It's living the Christian life is also a matter of faith, not of keeping the law. So the the keeping the law doesn't give us right standing before God, and it doesn't make us Christ-like Because we fail at it. And it just proves that we're we're sinners. Okay. Any questions so far? Other thoughts? Yes. So in verse 10, cursed is everyone who does not abide by all things written in the books of the law, to perform them. That's true of everyone except Christ. Well, it's true of Christ, too, because he meets the exception. Right? So, because he did abide by all things written in the book of the law to perform them, and Um you remember what he said in the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew five sixteen, unless you're Your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and Pharisees. You will not see the kingdom of God. Um That probably, I'm sure, that astonished his hearers, the disciples, and so on, because who could be more righteous Than the Pharisees. Righteousness is all about what you do. You're doing the right things. It's works And they got that down so good externally. Right? I mean in terms of righteousness before men, practicing the righteousness before men, they couldn't be accused of breaking any part of the law or any of the traditions that were piled on top of the law. And like Paul said, I was found blameless in the eyes of men. How does our righteousness exceed that of the Pharisees? to obey the law from the heart, which is where the Pharisees tripped up. And Jesus had a big time with them. uh castigating them about their hypocrisy. You know, you're you're like Whitewash Tombs, you're you're You're uh nice and white and and clean and everything on the outside where people can see you, but on the inside you're full of what? Dead men's bones. Um that and that's what counts. So um how is our righteousness any better than theirs? The answer is really it's not any. Except what? If we're in Christ, we have the righteousness of Christ. And so his perfect life applies to our account. And Our lack of perfection, our sin, is placed on his account. Well, it was when he took it upon himself. It became the curse for us, right? Um okay. So uh first Twelve. The law is not of faith. I mean that's just a it's a Polar opposites. Contradiction of terms, right? If you're living by the law, you're not living by faith. You're living by works, by our human effort to fulfill the letter of the law. Well, fulfilling the letter of the law is not the objective. It's fulfilling the letter and the spirit of the law from the heart. Okay. They affirmed that that was their intent to obey. But of course they didn't. And remember, um, well we're going to talk about Abraham in a second here. I'll get to that then. Okay, so um The law is not of faith. On the contrary, he who practices them shall live by them. So um one is living by works, living by human effort, if one's seeking for the law to become the basis for their salvation. And it's just the polar opposite of a life of faith. The point you're making red is that relying on being justified by the law Yes. Not the law of the police. Right. So the law itself is is great. Right. It's per it's it's it's good. Right. But if we're relying on our our um living it out as the basis of our salvation, we're committed to doing it perfectly. And that's where it says, um, he who practices them shall live by them. That is perfectly. And in verse 10, curses everyone who does not abide by all things written in the law. Doesn't it because here then it's you don't get to pick and choose when you're not even in faith following God and then out of obedience trying to follow the law and saying, Well look, I'm so good at the law that That's that's that's inconsistent. Yeah. Point three, I say relying on living by the law to be justified before God is not living by faith, which the previous verse indicated is required. And then in verse 13, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. What does it mean that Christ redeemed us? He paid the price to free us from that bondage to sin. And um the cost of that was its own life as a substitute for us. And then in verse fourteen He says the result of that is in order that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles. So that we would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. So what does he mean by the blessing of Abraham? Well, Abraham very specifically received blessing from God. As part of the covenant God made with him. And uh here in um Paul doesn't quote it here in Galatians three. Um, but I did on the top of page thirty-three God's promise to him that all the nations will be blessed in you. So God's covenant with Abraham had three components. Do you remember what they were? One of them is just blessing generally. I'm going to bless the socks off you, Abraham. He said, I'm going to bless you And bless those who bless you, right? But then he got even more specific. I will also do two other things. One is I will give you many descendants. That's part of the blessing Um in fact so many that you can't count them, like the stars in the heavens or the sand on the seashore. And the third thing is the land, the promised land. And that's just all part of that covenant with Abraham, those three those three aspects of the blessing. Uh but in uh Genesis twelve, when he first gave this promise to and he repeated it several times as we're gonna see, um He says, I will bless all the nations in you. And The the the main fulfillment of that is is what Salvation through Christ, who is a descendant, is humanity a descendant of Abraham. Okay, so um Paul is saying here in verse 14, in order that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles. So that we, really that's we, Jews, Gentiles, everybody, would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. And so part of that blessing is salvation in Christ. Um, the the the the promise of Abraham. And then the other part is um the promise of the Spirit. So that's not specifically referenced in Genesis when God's giving this promise to Abraham. But we see throughout the Old Testament that the giving of the Holy Spirit to those who are saved is a part of the blessing. So for example, I've got here in Ezekiel 36, I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes, and here this U is plural. And you will be careful to observe my ordinances. And so uh we'll have The Holy Spirit, and of course that's all already true, right, of all believers in Christ, they have the Holy Spirit to um enable them, enable us to uh live out the Christian life, to allow Christ's life to be lived out through us. In order for that that sanctifying work of God, the the process of making us more Christ-like, more holy in our experience and character, even though it's already true of us positionally in Christ, it um becomes true of our experience as well as we yield to Him and uh allow him to empower us to live the Christian life by faith That's a blessing. God promised it. And it's happening. And so Paul says here In order that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles so that we would receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. He had already asked about that earlier in those those rhetorical questions. You know, did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by faith, right? Well here's an example. This is the promise by faith. Okay. Any questions about his points here about what the view of the law and the prophets was concerning the the law itself So Paul is basically saying this is not nothing new. We should have already known this. We should have been anticipating this. And you Gentiles I'm writing to ought not to be confused about it, because some of our Jewish brethren are confused about it. It's it's always been clear, um, even though people have obscured it. Okay. Well he makes another main point here in the remaining verses, beginning in verse 15. Brethren, I speak in terms of human relations, even though it is only a covenant, only a man's covenant, in other words, even in the case of a human covenant, just between two people Um when it is ratified, even in that case, if it's ratified, signed, sealed, notarized, whatever You don't just go willy-nilly and changing the wording, right? You don't nullify it because, well, I changed my mind. It's still in force. Right? When it has been ratified, no one sets it aside or adds conditions to it. Now, there may be provisions where both parties can agree, okay, we're going to add an amendment. Or whatever, right? But they have to agree on that together because the covenants are mutual covenants between people. And something he doesn't rely on here in in this context is that the covenant we're talking about with God is not a mutual con contract. We didn't negotiate this with God It's unconditional and unilateral, right? And he's not changing the conditions So we can't either, because we never had a any say on what the conditions were. Right? But even the his point is that even in a a regular human contract, it's it's valid until all the parties concerned um agree to change it or or um do away with it or whatever. But you don't just willy-nilly change the terms Okay. And then verse 16. Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say and to seeds, referring to many, but rather to one. and to your seed that is Christ. And so um I've printed here, beginning on page thirty-three the various times beginning in Genesis 12 where God progressively revealed his covenant with Abraham. And so written at the very beginning in Genesis 12, verse 3, he said, I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you, I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. And then later in chapter 12, the Lord appeared to Abraham and said, To your descendants I will give this land. So he built an altar there, and so on. Very next chapter, the Lord said to Abraham, after Lot had separated from him, Now lift up your eyes. And look from the place where you are, northward and southward, eastward and westward. All the land which you see I will give to you, and to your descendants forever. I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth, so that if anyone can number the dust of the earth, then your descendants also can be numbered. Arise, walk about the land through its length and breadth, for I will give it to you. Then in Genesis 15, he repeats it again to Abraham. Behold, by the word of the Lord, the word of the Lord came to him saying, This man will not be your heir. This is now Um Abraham explaining to God that he you know, you've promised all these descendants, but I don't have any. There's zero right now. Right now My heir is my my longest living or or oldest and most responsible servant. Who's not really a member of my family? Um so uh God says This man will not be your heir, but one who come will come forth from your own body, he shall be your heir. And he took him outside and said, Now look at the heavens, count the stars, if you're able to count them. And he said to him, So shall your descendants be. Then he believed the Lord and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. So Abraham had no other evidence than the Word of God. And he he took him at his word. And uh later there in Genesis fifteen, to your descendants I have given this land, he just repeats it and gets more specific about the people who are currently occupying the land. In Genesis 17, again, he repeats all three of those components. I will multiply you exceedingly You will be the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you the father of a multitude of nations, make you exceedingly fruitful, and um I will give you the get to you and the descendants after you the land of your sojournings. So he just again reinforces it, repeats it, states it different ways, so there's no misunderstanding. And then lastly, Genesis 22, after he uh obeys God and and prepares to sacrifice his son Isaac. God says, I will greatly bless you, I will greatly multiply your seed, and your seed shall possess the gate of their enemies. In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed. So God's covenant with Abraham was unilateral. God just says, this is what I'm going to do. You don't have a choice. And it was unconditional because God said, I'm gonna do it regardless of your response. In fact, every covenant God has made, like with Noah and with David and the new covenant, they're all unconditional. But there's one exception to that That's the law of Moses. That was conditional. The law. If you do it, you're blessed. If you don't do it, you're cursed. Deuteronomy 28 Every other covenant is unconditional. And Paul's point here is that the covenant with Abraham was before, how much earlier? Four hundred and thirty years before the covenant, the Mosaic Covenant, the law. And when this new covenant came along, it did not destroy or set aside the earlier covenant because it was unconditional. God said, this is what I'm going to do. Right? Um that does raise the question, well then what was the purpose of this conditional law? And we're going to get to that next week. Paul gets to that in the next section. But the point here is that the covenant with Abraham has never been lifted It's never been um changed or or whatever. It's still the case. And a feature of it that we benefit from is his blessing to the entire world through Abraham. And Abraham's seed, primarily Christ, it's referring to. Paul uses Abraham as a great example, both here in Galatians and in Romans Um because he is a good example. It's a good example because he's not really a lot different from us. You know, you you read through Genesis and you see Abraham and you see some good things and you see some not so good things, just like us. Um but God's covenant with him was based on the goodness and consistency of God, not on the goodness and consistency of Abraham. And that's the way it is with us. Well, we see here, and I'm on page 34, if you continue in Genesis, you see that God repeated that same covenant to Abraham's um descendants, the promised descendants, Isaac and then Jacob. And so He wanted to reassure them that it was still in force. This is what I'm going to do, God said. Okay. And then thirdly, in verse 16, it says, Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his seed. He does not say the seeds plural, but singular, referring to Christ. And so I've written here on the bottom of page 34 the texts from Genesis 12 and 13 uh where he talks about descendants or seed. And the point here is that that word seed uh is used just normally and is used even in the Old Testament to mean either singular or plural. So how do you get how do you tell? Um it's kinda like there are other words like that, like deer. What's the plural of deer? And so in the Hebrew, in order to know whether in context it's being referred to as singular or plural, you need to know from the context. And um so Paul's saying that God's promise to Abraham was to be fulfilled by Christ, who would come from among Abraham's descendants. So that makes sense, right? Because he says, in you all all the world will be blessed. So the world is not completely blessed by having a lot of descendants, physical descendants of Abraham. Now there may be some benefit to that. But the only way the world can be fulfilled is by the one seed who would fulfill the the need for a substitute And that of course is the Messiah, Christ. And so Paul just makes that clear. that ultimately what we're referring to here is the blessing comes to the Gentiles through the Messiah, Christ. He's not just for the Jews, he's for the whole world. And it was promised to Abraham that that would be the case. Okay, and then verse seventeen, Paul's writing us his own commentary on his own words here. He says, What I'm saying is this The law, which came 430 years later, that is after the Abrahamic covenant, the law does not invalidate a covenant previously ratified by God so as to nullify the promise. Right. So there are actually many um Christians today. Who believe that the church has become a replacement for Israel? And they base that assumption on various passages in scripture, but mostly on logic. But there's a problem with that. Um the Abrahamic covenant wasn't conditional. God said, This is what I'm gonna do. It's not based on your faithfulness, Abraham. This is what I'm going to do. In fact, in one place he said, this is what I have done. I've given you this land. Uh now that may not be your experience at the moment, but it's a done deal. But also this blessing to the world Um having the law not fulfilled, which was a conditional covenant for a purpose, and we'll get to that The fact that they didn't fulfill that doesn't mean that the Abrahamic covenant was affected at all. It's still in place. God said, I'm going to do it, and I am doing it Um the church doesn't replace Israel. Uh the church is grafted in according to Romans. Uh we're brought into a family of God, um coming from different directions, you might think But God's promise from the beginning was that the whole world would be blessed through Abraham's seed, Christ. And so the church is not plan B. God's still on plan A, and there is no plan B. And salvation has always been by grace through faith. And Verse 18, for if the inheritance, that is the blessing through Abraham, is based on law It is no longer based on a promise. He's coming back to his earlier point. But God has granted it to Abraham by means of a promise. So promise Our response to that is faith. And if you're basing your salvation on works, then our response to that is what? Obedience, or at least trying to be obedient. Um but faith um faith can Um by God's design, our faith in him, our reliance on him brings about the obedience that he's looking for. But that's the result of our salvation, not the cause of our salvation. And these Judaizers who uh Paul is is refuting for the benefit of the Galatian people uh thought that those good works, the keeping of the law, were a basis for salvation. Um and that's just diametrically opposed to the whole idea of grace and faith. That's his point. So the law is incompatible with a promise. The law is conditional. It requires works in order to receive a blessing. And that's true. It it was conditional. But the promise is unconditional. It requires faith that God would keep his promise, his promise. And since God gave Abraham the inheritance through a promise, it can't be obtained by keeping the law. They're just mutually exclusive possibilities. And so earlier you remember Paul said, well, you foolish Galatians, having begun by faith, are you now throwing that away to Live according to the law. So he makes two main points here. One is that The law and the prophets themselves give us a clearer picture of the purpose of the law or the lack of adequacy of the law to to uh save us. And then also the example of Abraham, which is before the law and has direct application to us as well. Well, I have some questions here on page thirty-five. Why do you think the Jews and the Judaizers particularly viewed keeping the law as necessary in order to have right standing before God. We've talked about this a bit. Do you think it was logical of them to have that position? I think so. Yeah, in some sense it was logical. Human nature we all seek to be justified by our our own efforts to show ourselves to be worthy of being saved and being accepted by God. There's no hope in that We'll never know well actually we will. But in implicitly you you you'll never know if you've done enough, except that the more you know God's holiness, you know that it's impossible to do enough. And so there's no hope there. Um it's also logi it's also logical for them as Jews That was their mindset. They're unfortunately misunderstood their mindset that revealed their misunderstanding of the purpose of the law. Because they figure, well, you know, we're God's chosen people. He's given us this law to to separate us from the others in the world. Um Forgetting of course that they'd blown it and you know they were um uh uh exiled from the land for a period because of their disobedience. Uh but it it You know, by the time of Christ, the the Jewish leaders could say proudly, you know, we're we're children of Abraham. You know, that's a badge we're wearing here. And um they just missed the point. It was logical, given that mindset But it was wrong. It was flawed. And that's why Paul's having to work through this. Um, I think the convert uh experience also. So they for instance that's the uh consequence Yeah, and so the Pharisees were in that sense kind of logically saying, let's not let that not be true of us. They were missing that it had to come from the heart, but I think they're they were genuinely saying, let that not be true of us. We don't want to drop the ball on our watch. Right? That was logical from a human perspective. But still they missed the main point. Um they were like dead men's bones on the inside. And that's what God was really concerned about. And he wasn't concerned about it only by the time of Christ, it was all throughout the Old Testament. They should have known better. Um Good. So, number two, if the law did not invalidate the covenant promise then why were we under the curse of the law to begin with? But um yeah the the law um exposed exposes sin It's like you know any human law. Um violators are basically um objectively uh revealed because there's an objective standard that's been broken Um and usually that standard and the law carries with it consequences. Uh if there were no law, then they couldn't be accused of breaking that law Right? And it's the same way here. I bring uh I write here in in Romans seven, what shall we say then, is the law of sin May it never be. On the contrary, I would not have come to know sin except through the law, for I would not have known about coveting if the law had said, You shall not covet. But sin, taking opportunity through the commandment, produced in me coveting of every kind. For apart from the law, sin is dead. I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin became alive and I died. So the sinfulness was um Put on display because the law made it clear. Um Okay, third question, page 36. If the Abrahamic covenant was unconditional, that is, it's by grace. Then why did God say to Abraham, Because you have done this thing and have not withheld your son, your only son, indeed I will greatly bless you. And later to Isaac, said, because Abraham obeyed me and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. So does that mean that God's blessing was because of Adam or Abraham's obedience? Well, yes and no. And so we see some commentary on this in in James. I'll go ahead and read this from James too. What use is it, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but has no works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is without clothing and in need of daily food, and one says to him, Go in peace, be warmed, and be filled, and yet do not give him what is necessary for their body, what use is that? Even so, faith, if it has no works, is dead. Being by itself, it's just words. But someone may well say, you have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith without works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well. The demons also believe and shudder. But are you willing to recognize, you foolish fellow, that faith without works is useless? Was not Abraham our father justified by works? That sounds like heresy, right? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up Isaac, his son, on the altar? You see We can observe that faith was working with his works. And as a result of the works, faith was perfected. And the scripture was fulfilled, which says, and Abraham believed God and was reckoned to him as righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. So you see that a man is justified by works and not by faith alone. In the same way, was not Rahab the harlot also justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out another way. For just as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith also without works is dead. So you see how often he uses the word see here as opposed to say What is the point of works? Not that the works save us, but they demonstrate that the salvation is there. That the faith is there. And so faith without works is faith without any evidence that there's faith there. Um Now, if you're Christ and you can read the heart of someone, like the thief on the cross. Um you can know that the faith is genuine. But the rest of us can't see that. We can see evidence of saving faith, but we can't see the faith itself. And if there is no evidence of saving faith, then what's our conclusion? There is no saving faith. So in Abraham's case, was there evidence that he believed God? You bet And it was that belief in God, that faith in God, that was confirmed by his actions, but it was the faith itself, taking God at his word, that was the point. Uh had Abraham believed God but not obeyed him, what would be our conclusion? He didn't really believe him. Right. Abraham didn't understand why God was having him go all of that trouble to get to the point where he was willing to sacrifice a son in obedience to God. He didn't understand that, I don't think, much. Nowhere near as much as we can understand it today looking backward and seeing how it pictured the sacrifice of God's only begotten Son at that very same location Um and that that would be coming as part of the promise. So what James is saying is not that the works save us, but the works give evidence that the saving faith is there, therefore there's genuine salvation. Um same with Abraham. Make sense? Pretty neat, huh? It's actually pretty simple, but easy to get tripped up on Okay. Well next week we're finally going to get to that question, what's the purpose of the law then, if all that's true? And that's where Paul knew it had the head, and so he's gonna deal with it head on uh in the rest of chapter three. Let's pray.