Well welcome to our Galatians class. We're on lesson three today. Last week we began looking at the actual text. And two weeks ago we had a bit of uh an overview and context setting and so on. But today we're at uh chapter one, verse ten. Okay, so we're on page eighteen. Paul's credentials were without equal. So he's continuing to kind of set the stage for his his main point in uh the book of Galatians. Um so I'll go ahead and read the text and we can talk a bit about that. So verse 10, for am I now seeking the favor of men or of God? Or am I striving to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a bondservant of Christ. For I would have you know, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man. For I neither received it from man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. For have you heard of my former manner of life in Judaism? How I used to persecute the Church of God beyond measure and try to destroy it. And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries among my countrymen, being more extremely zealous for my ancestral traditions. But when God, who had set me apart even from my mother's womb, and called me through his grace was pleased to reveal his son in me, so that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with flesh and blood. Nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me. But I went away to Arabia and returned once more to Damascus. Then three years later I went up to Jerusalem to become acquainted with Cephas, that is Peter, and stayed with him fifteen days. But I did not see any other of the apostles except James, the Lord's brother. Now, in what I am writing to you, I assure you before God that I'm not lying. Then I went up to the regions of Syria and Cilicia. I was still unknown by sight to the churches of Judea which were in Christ, but only they kept hearing. He who once persecuted us is now preaching the faith which he once tried to destroy. And they were glorifying God because of me. So indeed that is quite a testimony that that very dramatic change. um that God brought about. So why did he cover that ground? This this is um Galatians is somewhat unique in the extent of his providing a bit of his bio, right, to his readers in in uh great depth. And as we're going to see, starting with later today, this was an important bit of groundwork to lay. uh in the context of the heresy actually he was seeking to uh um expose and uh um train them against. And so first of all he um He said he was a servant of Christ, of course, no longer trying to please men. And uh I think that probably was where well, even as a Pharisee, before you came to Christ Uh to a large extent he was trying to please God the best he knew But when it really came down to it, uh and he evaluated his heart, I think he probably realizes There was an extent to which he was trying to also show himself to be superior to other people, even amongst the Pharisees. But um Why would he make a point that he's not trying to please men in his message? He's he's getting ready to say something very controversial, but uh before he does he wants to show that he's actually an insider. You know what I mean Okay. So he says things like, you know, I I didn't get this from men. What's the implication? This teaching he's going to be speaking against is just the logic of men, not the revelation of God. And so uh his point is he knew Christianity as well as anybody because he got this message directly from Christ. But then he talks about his background as a Pharisee, uh, as he said in Philippians, you know, a Pharisee of Pharisees. And uh here he says um uh advancing in Jerusalem or in Judaism uh far beyond uh my contemporaries and more zealous for the ancestral traditions, why would he also need to talk about that background Given the focus of the book. Not only did he know Christianity as well as anybody, He understood where they're coming from in Judaism. He understood Judaism far better than most of the people he's writing to. Um and so he he was eminently qualified to speak to this error. Even though this error seemed and particularly because this error seemed completely natural to people. Um the idea that Gentiles would need to become Jews in order to become Christians. If you're a Jew Back then? Yeah, of course. You know, that that wasn't controversial Uh the Jews were God's chosen people. Uh the Messiah the salvation is through the Jews. I mean the Messiah came through the Jews in fulfillment of God's plan announced even through um Abraham and so on. Um and so, you know, as we read through the book of Acts You you see how God had to change their thinking. The even the early apostles changed their thinking about Gentiles. That this is not just for the Jews. It's it's for first Samaritans. uh chronologically um in as you walk to the book of acts, uh it was uh confirmed that yes, even Samaritans could come to Christ Uh but then later, Gentiles. And that was an even harder stretch for um the Christians in the early church. Um And so it was natural. And that's part of the problem with heresies. It seems natural to think in a certain way. Right? Um And so anyway, he's he's laying out here um uh Basically, what he's saying is, I know Christianity as well as anybody. I got it directly from the source. I knew Judaism as well as anybody Um I was so invested in it and and so on. Um so he had he was the unique person to address this issue. Yeah. Yeah. Th there's another potential thing here, and this is something that I just you kind of draw my attention to. And that is sort of kind of like in here and where we're gonna come back to is the idea of Persecution. And Paul's describing his life here as a persecutor, uh and later on in in Galatians five he's gonna say, Look, I'm speaking the truth because I'm being persecuted. Yeah. And that fits in with the idea if I'm seeking the paper of men too because if he was seeking the paper of men he wouldn't be persecuted. Right. Good point. Yeah, yeah, th evidence of the fact that he's not seeking to to please men is the persecution he's receiving. In fact, God promised that would happen to Paul at the point of his salvation. And um indeed it did. Good. Okay, so um In verse 15, it says, God who had set me apart even from my mother's womb and called me through his grace. Is that unique to Paul? No, if if anyone comes to Christ, it's because God called them by his grace. Uh now there is something very unique about Paul and God set him apart and and so on, but that calling here, uh more more uh Broadly refers to any Christian whom God calls. And so on page nineteen So God sovereignly calls to salvation each person whom he chooses to save, by his grace rather than by any merit of the one who is saved. And so look at the contrast here between Paul's former life and what God has called him to. And in Romans 8, starting verse 28, it says, We know that God causes all things to work together for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. This is now referring to every believer. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. Here firstborn Um that's a common Jewish term because what's significant about the firstborn? Preeminent among all the siblings. And um So that he would be the firstborn among many brethren, it's referring to the preeminence of Christ in his um headship over the church and and and so on. Anyway, um and these whom he predestined he also called. And these whom he called he also justified. And these whom he justified he also glorified. Each of those is referred to in the past tense, even though it's referring to even people in the future like us. It's a done deal. God did it And then at 1 Peter 2, verse 9. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a low a holy nation. a people for God's own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who has called you out of darkness into His marvelous light So every believer is called to salvation, called to repentance, called to the life in Christ. Paul's calling was that way, but also it included God's hand picking him for that specific mission. Uh here in Acts nine fifteen, just before this, on the page. Um uh God is speaking to Ananias, who was chosen to go to Paul. to uh help him regain his sight and and get him established and so on. The Lord said to Ananias Go to him, for he is a chosen instrument of mine to bear my name before the Gentiles and the kings and the sons of Israel. And in that context, God said Um and to know what uh mission I have for him in that and what persecutions he must face and all these things Um how would you have liked to have been Ananias in that case? You know, the reputation of Paul, he's coming here to to persecute and even kill Christians and you want me to go to him, Lord? Um there's a a good example to us of Uh even when we don't understand it, still in still obeying God and being blessed because of it Okay. So he mentions that his influence was hi his doctrine was not influenced by others even at the outset. And that's really at the crux of any heresy that we're using the logic of men rather than the declared word of God, what it actually means. And so if we take what God has said and we layer it on top on top of it, our own human thinking or traditions or logic or whatever, it seems like it fits. sort of on icing on the cake, as it were. It starts with scripture but we put a little icing on it to make it seem understandable or logical or uh consistent with tradition or whatever, if we layer those things on top, all too often we're gonna end up with heresy. or at least ineffective doctrine if we're if we're covering that cake with icing, it may look sweet, may taste sweet But the cake itself is being covered. And um that may not be a fairly good analogy, but um the point is that when we mix the truth of God with what we think will make it more understandable perhaps, and we try to to to use our own logic and context and traditions. We read into the text something that's not there, we're inevitably going to Get heresy. So in the early church, uh there were a number of heresies that had to be addressed head-on. This was the first major one. And it shows up in the book of Acts, right? But there are others. A lot of them had to do with um the the nature of Christ. And so one heresy was this was a um a man who God used to accomplish his purposes. And the other was that this is not really a human being in the flesh, but a spirit. God came down in spiritual form, kind of looked like the appearance of of a man Kind of like, you know, those various angels who appeared in the Old Testament and they're actually referred to as men, uh, like with Abraham and so on. And so why why would some people want to view him as only a man and not God, or only as God and not a man? What would tempt either of those to have that kind of thinking? Because it makes more sense to us. How could this person be both man and God At the same time. Yeah, but they also make it easier not to obey. So if you if you construct something that that makes sense in your own head Then there's fewer claims on my heart, right, in terms of obedience and so on. Um Now, in fairness to um some of the people in the early church age They didn't have access to the complete scriptures like we did in the first couple of hundred years. Um it was slowly being compiled. it wasn't as even what was being compiled wasn't as thoroughly distributed to everyone. And so there is a need for various Heresies to be dealt with head on. And the leaders at the time in each case brought to bear the scriptures And um many of these came to a head long after the body of our uh New Testament uh was complete. So in each case, the the heresy arises because people think of things that are logical to them in their head That seem to explain, at least what they want to explain from Scripture. But in every case, if it's based on human logic, it's shown to be heretical. It's in error. Now it shouldn't surprise us that things that are sound doctrine may be harder to get our minds around than some of these heresies would be. I mean very easy to get our minds around because they're sort of they're based on our own human thinking, right? Um But God has given us His Word to clarify and separate truth from error. And we have the benefit of having the full scope of Scripture right in our hands, every one of us, so we should, of all people, be less likely to um enter into heresy or even just anything that's contrary to scripture. But inevitably we sometimes do anyway. Anyway, that that's his context. But he's emphasizing that this isn't something that I got from other people. This is directly from Christ. Well, I starting on page nineteen And going through most of page twenty, I've listed in somewhat chronological order Key texts from both Acts and here in Galatians where Paul's conversion, his uh early uh training in in Christ and early ministry and so on are kind of woven together. I I don't think I need to read that here, but it might be a helpful Um a helpful list anyway. So much of what he's saying here in Galatians fits well with the chronology that's actually given to us in Acts and kind of pieces together all the various events. So we went over this a little bit in the first lesson, but you know he he came to Christ, or Christ came to him, on the the road to Damascus. He gets to Damascus Uh God brings Ananias to him to uh uh well, to help him regain his sight. God had uh uh blinded him. And uh also to encourage him and to kind of ground him in in the ways of the Lord. And um You can imagine how and we talked about how um challenging that would have been for Ananias. Well, think about Paul Think what's going through his head. You mean everything I've been doing has been against you, Lord? Jesus said, You why are you persecuting me? Jesus said, right? On the road to Damascus And so you gotta know his he's got a lot of questions in his mind and uh probably a lot of I don't think he had a question about was that Jesus or anything. He he he understood exactly, but think of the the guilt. think of the what do I do now kind of a thing. And it's right a when he's wondering what do I do now that that Ananias comes to give him the message that God had given him to tell Paul or Saul at this point, and it starts becoming clearer that God has Uh taking the initiative to separate Paul for a very specific um life of testimony. And so um he he goes off fairly soon thereafter and uh to Arabia, and I mentioned before that Arabia was just that large area, not Saudi Arabia as we understand it today, but further north all the way up to the Ferdo Crescent Uh so he wouldn't have had to go terribly far from Damascus to get there. Um and he was with Christ personally It was being taught basically. Here is his seminary training basically, directly with the Lord. And then he goes back to Damascus and appears to have been there he says, uh, for three years without having gone back home essentially, and was being strengthened by the brethren there, but also he was proclaiming Christ as Lord in Damascus. Um, and then um He went up to well, uh he was he wasn't very popular among the Jews in Damascus at that point. And so he started getting a taste of persecution and they were actually um ready to kill him. And so he um Uh actually the the the Christians there um smuggled him out, right? The they lowered him in a basket down the window of the wall and he fled at night and um escaped. But um I wouldn't, if I were him, have necessarily gone straight to Jerusalem, but that's what he did Um and he went up to speak with the uh the leaders of the church there, and of course they had they that raised their eyebrows as well. They have probably already heard something about the conversion of Saul, but now that he's come and um he's given them a a credible testimony. Um They were in Acts 9 it says when he came to Jerusalem he's trying to associate with the disciples and they were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple, but Barnabas took hold of him What does Barnabas mean, the name? Son of encouragement or consolation. Yeah, so he he lived up to his name. A very encouraging guy. Took hold of him and brought him to the apostles. Apostles described to them how he had seen the Lord on the road to Damascus and that he had talked with him and so on And that how at Damascus he had spoken out boldly in the name of Jesus. So anyway, that was encouraging, but Verse 29. And he was talking and arguing with the Hellenistic Jews, that is, the Jews uh from Greek or from Greece Grecian descent. But they were attempting to put him to death. So it's the same kind of response that the people in Damascus had toward him. But when the brethren, that is the Christians, learned of this, they brought him down to Caesarea And then send him away to Tarsus. Why to Tarsus? It's where he's from. And it would be away from the heat of the conflict, as it were Um and so then he he uh was there for quite a while and Barnabas uh brought him again to um Antioch, the church there that was needing strong leadership and teaching and so on, and they ministered together in Antioch before going off on their first missionary journey. Okay, so questions here. What do you think Paul meant when he said, God was pleased to reveal his son in me? Well, i it could have been a lot of things that we know from the history of this, but um his dramatic conversion Would have been quite a testimony that would be God glorifying. Um the godly character that he subsequently exhibited Uh the change from his former manner of life as he spoke of it would have been evidence of the work of Christ, God honoring Um and of course much of the New Testament he was um the human author of, God was revealing even the word through him. So why do you think God arranged to instruct Paul in seclusion before sending him out to ministry? Any thoughts there? Actually, do you have any comment on the last one? Oh, okay. It sets it up for the whole argument you sort of make insulations, which is the idea of this law as something placed on you externally to make unit. acceptable as opposed to the water advice and you being acceptable which obviously is justified and then Displaying. You know what I mean? It's that outside versus inside tension. Because even in that it's a thing I would call here E is revealed in me. I mean interacting with people who were ethnically Jew and then trying to force people who are not ethnically Jewish. to conform in an external way. Sort of like we all sets it up in that same intention of, you know, as he goes down, this is going to be, this is a new work. This is not something that you Just add on, add on, add on. So sorry that was back. Okay. Good. Yeah, so that that all reveals the person and work of Christ as opposed to our human effort and so on. Good. So, why do you think God arranged to instruct Paul in seclusion before sending him out to ministry? Any thoughts there? Okay. So he had some things to work through. Um he had a lot of pharisaical baggage in his thinking, for sure. Right? But you know, all of us have a lot of baggage in our thinking when we come to Christ. And we benefit greatly from being taught by other believers and and so on. But in Paul's case, um God seemed to make a special effort to equip him before sending him out to the wolves. Um And there's a a certain amount of wisdom to that anyway. But I don't know if if you've become aware of Let's say celebrities, maybe uh uh a movie star or uh sports hero or something like that, who then comes to Christ. And it's very public, a very uh public conversion What usually happens? People want to hear from that person um you know about their conversion, um uh and get quotes from them about all sorts of doctrinal things and and so on. And What happens? It's usually not very well grounded from a young babe who has a lot of notoriety. People are are familiar with the person, but um that person isn't all that um Well equipped to provide biblical answers to a lot of the questions that are going to be put in front of them. Right? Well, Paul was a person of a lot of notoriety certainly among the Jews. And um it seems that God wanted to prepare him very well before literally sending him out to the wolves. Uh, because there would there would be persecution and it would need to be about the truth and about Christ and not about his personality or or It's history or whatever. So kinda makes sense. Yeah. Um this open to my open verse that says be still and know that I'm God Um at that time I thought that Paul was blind and sometimes in darkness it does help you to be more aware internally. And I want to think what you said just now about God trying to equip him You know, with what in this we were grounded. For three days you didn't eat, you didn't drink. You must have been in the state of you are just in a dark hollow room just by yourself and seeing God talks you know without distraction of food, drink, or anybody at all. Just you and God. And it just ties to that person being still. I know that I'm God. And at that time that's where we are Yeah, right. That's the thing too, if you think of the kind of rabbinical tradition of the time that we Your teacher was was very important. And if Paul had had a teacher that was known, then it would kind of be like, oh, he found another teacher. But to come back with the knowledge and authority that he had without a con connection to one of the existing proposals added more validity to like it it was m probably more shocking to people. Like how did you know how did you learn this if you didn't have Right. Good point. Um and uh Who would be the foremost people to have that concern? Probably the original apostles. You know, we're the ones who who uh were taught by Christ for three years. Um And that was a qualification for being an apostle. Um And Paul's just kind of Johnny Cum lately. Um and yet it was the personal tutelage of Christ um over an extended period of time that um Actually Paul had it easier in some ways than the other apostles because um they had no concept of the crucifixion and the resurrection during those three years. They were very Distraught, surprised, whatever. They kinda came together after the resurrection and got uh Jesus explained it all to them and And then the Holy Spirit um came on Pentecost and and empowered them and and the rest that obviously was history. Paul, on the other hand, who was a zap Snatch him out, blind him, humble him, and say, I've got a task for you. Uh why are you persecuting me, by the way? Um and then spending time with him to prepare him. Um very different kind of background than the other apostles. Okay. Any other thoughts there? Because we also don't know what we're sure we say about what the world is disposed to make. Right. Exactly. From the writing of Way Russian later, he he he was he was kind of an arrogant guy too in his former life We acknowledge that, though there's a whole host of things that the Lord is probably doing just to prepare it, even apart from just optional things. Right Yeah, you can see right from the outset a lot of humbling going on. Um, but certainly teaching and and so on. But yeah, his heart um his aspirations, his convictions and things, um became just as steadfast And rock solid, but now based on um uh what God was looking for. in reality and not just a um uh outward adherence to the law. Who better to bring the gospel to the Gentiles than someone like the Pharisee who's also well versed in all this Jewish law so to people who've never heard anything can piece it together from the very beginning all the way up through the Um certainly wouldn't have been Paul's thinking at the time, uh, but in hindsight we can see God's wisdom in that. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So we move to chapter 2 in Galatians on page 21. And let me go ahead and read the first 10 verses here. Then after an interval of 14 years, I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas. Gotta love Barnabas. And taking Titus along also. And it was because of a revelation that I went up. I submitted to them the gospel which I preach among the Gentiles But I did so in private to those who were of reputation for fear that I might be running or had run in vain. But not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, that is, a Gentile, was compelled to be circumcised. But it was because of the false brethren secretly brought in who had sneaked in to supply out our liberty, which we have in Christ Jesus, in order to bring us into bondage. Bondage to what? The law. Verse 5. But we did not yield in subjection to them for even an hour, so that the truth of the gospel would remain with you. But those who were of high reputation, what they were makes no difference to me, God chose no partiality. Well, those who were of reputation contributed nothing to me. That is, to his message. But on the contrary, seeing that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcised, that is, Gentiles, just as Peter had been to the circumcised. For he who effectually worked in worked for Peter in his apostleship to the circumcised, effectually worked for me also to the Gentiles And recognizing the grace that has been given to me, James which James is this? The brother Jesus the brother of Jesus, half brother of Jesus, who be had by this point become so the prominent elder in the church in uh Jerusalem. James and Cephas, who's Peter, and John, and this John is the Apostle John. Who were reputed to be pillars, gave to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, so that we might go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised. They only asked us to remember the poor, the very thing I was also eager to do. Well, um that visit and that um uh collaboration, if you will, is um given to us in in much greater detail in Acts fifteen. And so the uh I want to talk about the reason for the Jerusalem Council, the events at the council, and the results. I'm on page twenty-one, but we're reading from Acts 15. Some men came down from Judea and began teaching the brethren, unless you were circumcised according to the custom of Moses. you cannot be saved. And so the context there of course was all these Gentiles who were coming to Christ. And they were saying, no, wait, wait a minute, you have to be circumcised and follow the the custom of Moses. In order to be saved. Verse 2. And when Paul and Barnabas had great dissension and debate with them The brethren determined that Paul and Barnabas and some of the others should go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders concerning this issue. Uh and here's where he says uh it's because of a revelation and so on. If you flip the page The events at the Council, continuing in Acts 15. When they arrived at Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they reported all that God had done with them. All that God had done with them where? The first missionary journey, right? Particularly. In which a lot of Gentiles came to Christ, including Titus. But some of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed stood up, saying, It is necessary to circumcise them and to direct them to observe the law of Moses. Which those Pharisees um said, I'm sure, with a clean conscience, this Obviously, right? It would have been a no-brainer for them. The apostles and the elders came together to look into this matter. After there had been much debate Peter stood up and said to them, Brethren, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles would hear the word of the gospel and believe What's he referring to there? Or who is he referring to primarily? Initially Cornelius, the centurion, right? Which is given to us in in Acts. And God, who knows the heart, testified to them, giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he also did to us. And that was a clincher for Peter at the time. When he saw these Gentiles speaking in unknown languages the same way that God had done for them as believing Jews on Pentecost, Peter's thinking It's the same reaction God has to these people, they must be saved too. It's just by grace through faith. Verse 9. And he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. Now therefore, why do you put God to the test by placing upon the neck of the disciples a yoke which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear? Which is what? Keeping the entire law As a basis for salvation. Verse 11, Peter continues. But we believe that we are saved through grace, through the grace of the Lord Jesus, in the same way as they also are. So there's Peter's very um Strong testimony. Reminding them of what God has done already and putting it in the context of of um What they also they were supposed to have already learned. Verse 12. And all the people kept silent. And they were listening to Barnabas and Paul as they were relating what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles. And after they had stopped speaking, James, again, this is The half-brother of Christ, who's one of the leaders there in the church in Jerusalem, James answered, saying, Brethren, listen to me. Simeon, he's referring to Simon, Peter, Cephas. Simeon has related how God first concerned uh concerns himself about taking from among the Gentiles a people for his name with This, the words the prophets agree, just as it is written, after these things I will return, and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David which has fallen. And I will rebuild its ruins and I will restore it, so that the rest of mankind may seek the Lord, not just the Jews. And all the Gentiles who are called by my name. says the Lord, who makes these things known from long ago. And then skip down to the results of the Council, continue in Acts 15 James continues, therefore is my judgment that we do not trouble those who are turning to God from among the Gentiles. But now remember, at this time, there are it was already a fairly fairly common thing that there would be Gentiles who would become Jews. They were called proselytes. They're referred to in in various passages in the New Testament as proselytes, that is, people who have converted From whatever they were in before to Judaism. That was fairly common All the more reason why these Pharisees would have thought, Pharisees and others would have thought that it would be a natural thing and a necessary thing for Gentiles. to convert to become proselytes, Jewish proselytes, in order to become Christians. So Therefore, it is my judgment that we do not trouble those who are turning to God from the Gentiles, that is, directly to Christ, not through Judaism. But that we write to them that they abstain from things contaminated by idols, and from fornication, and from what is strangled and from blood. For Moses from ancient generations has in every city those who preach in, since he is read in the synagogue every Sabbath. Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, and the whole church, to choose men from among them to send to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas, Judas and Barsabbas. And Silas, leading men from among the brethren, and they sent them, they sent this letter by them. And the letter said, The apostles and the brethren who are elders, to the brethren in Antioch, that's where uh Paul and Barnabas had come from, where the issue came to a head. And these whole regions of Syria and Cilicia, who are from the Gentiles, greetings. Since we have heard that some of our number to whom we gave no instruction have disturbed you with their words, unsettling your souls, it seemed good to us, having become of one mind. To select men to send to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, men who have risked their lives for the sake of our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore we have sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will also report the same things by word of mouth. For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to lay upon you no greater burden than these essentials. That you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled from uh and from fornication. If you keep yourselves free from such things, you will do well. Farewell So when they were sent on their way, they went down to Antioch, and having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter. When they had read it, they rejoiced because of its encouragement. Now um you might wonder why in the letter Did they list various things that these Gentiles should avoid? Right, um particularly uh Abstained from things sacrificed to idols, which was big among many of the Gentiles, and from blood. related and from things strangled and from fornication. Did they say that these were um No So what was what was the point of adding these these um do's and don'ts? Well actually they're all don'ts. Um what was the point you think? To show they had a new life. So that there would be um evidence of genuine repentance. That's a lot of it. Well those things were um popular in the culture we were leaving in or the time that they were leaving in. So that was the um you know the current things that would set them apart from the other people that when we do that. So yeah there would there would be a a a a genuine demonstration of the change in their lives, for sure. They could have mentioned other things that would be a demonstration too, but these were popular and so This would have been pretty easy to notice, Patty. Okay, so it's for their own benefits that they don't um um th the the the the uh the teaching of the gospel, the the work of Christ and the light isn't diluted with these other things. Yeah, yeah, I think the primary reason was to avoid offending the Jews. Why would the elders here be concerned about offending the Jews? Um division within the church. Um Maybe maybe because uh some of the actual believers uh from the Jews, well almost all the Christians early on were from Jews, right? Uh but even like the Pharisees and so on, um uh it would have been helpful to maintain um unity But I I think there's maybe an even um more overriding concern here. And that is you know most of these these leaders, all these leaders, uh were Jews All of them had a heart for reaching the Jews with the gospel And none of them wanted to put an unnecessary stumbling block before them Um and so we see this in in the life of Paul later. In fact we're going to see it in a few minutes here. Um I I think all these reasons may have been a part of it, but I think the big one was um They had a heart for the Jews. And the last thing they wanted was for the church to become basically just Gentiles. teasing this out a little bit more because you know if you didn't want to offend the Jews, just be circumcised. It's just a little surgery, it's not that big a deal. We're gonna get there. Good segue. Good segue. Let's go to um page twenty-three. Um before I get there, this first question. Were Those who taught that the Gentiles had to be circumcised and obeyed the law in order to be saved simply confuse Christians? It's possible some of them were, but in Galatians, Paul calls them false brethren. the ones at least who came up to Antioch. Not necessarily the Pharisees who were believers at the Jerusalem Council. Um they may have well it's hard to speculate anyway. Um in Axe 15 verse 5, we saw it in the previous page. Some of the sect of the Pharisees who had believed stood up and said, It's necessary to circumcise them and to direct them to observe the law of Moses. It doesn't specifically say that they needed to do that in order to be saved. But they definitely saw this connection between the law and salvation in Christ and it was still a bit murky maybe in their thinking. But these people who came to Antioch said, You need to do that to be saved. That's going a lot farther. Um and He also referred to it as we saw last week. If anyone teaches And it um spreads a gospel other than one that you have heard, which is by grace through faith Let him be accursed. I mean that is strong. He he had very strong opposition. And you can just imagine him at the um at the Jerusalem Council where it talks about great debate. You know Paul's in the thick of it. Because of what's at stake here. So um I think the ones it's pretty clear that the ones who went to Antioch from Jerusalem who said you have to do this in order to be saved couldn't have been saved themselves. He refers to them as false brethren. But there clearly were some, and maybe these these Pharisees, um who were genuine believers, but still not quite um solid in their theology. Yeah. Yeah. And so the the Jerusalem Council, it it seems to me the Jerusalem Council uh which included those Pharisees who believed, uh clarified this for everyone, including them. Um and so they may well have been genuine believers, but the ones who went to Antioch probably not. Okay, let's look at number three. How do you reconcile the following verses? So here in Galatians, he says, not even Titus, who was with me, though he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised, not compelled by who? The Apostles and so on at the Jerusalem Council. And then later in Galatians, he writes, Behold, I Paul say to you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. And I testify again that every man who receives circumcision, that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything but faith working through love. So what do you think he means here, receive circumcision? as a means of salvation. Yes. That's the point. So if you receive circumcision sp so that by that you think you're going to be saved You're on the wrong path. He says it's it's not that circumcision means anything, whether you have it or not, when it really comes down to it. Um and if you depend on that for salvation, um you're out of luck. And then back In Acts 15 of the Jerusalem Council, they said, you know, abstain from these various things. And then the very next chapter of Acts 16, Paul came also to Derby And to Lystra, and a disciple was there named Timothy. And he is the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek. And he was well spoken of by the brethren who were in Lystra and Iconium. So he wasn't a a um He didn't come to Christ directly because of Paul's preaching, but rather through the ministry of those who came to Christ from Paul's earlier missionary journeys. And verse 3 says, Paul wanted this man to go with him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those parts, for they all knew that his father was a Greek. So why did he do that? Yeah. So it it says particularly because of the Jews. Um he didn't want to offend them unnecessarily. Now offending people w didn't he didn't hesitate to offend people if it if the gospel was at stake, right? But he didn't want to fend them over something that was not critical to the gospel. Yeah, el elsewhere he says if one person's conscience is weak and easy to do. vegetables. Another person's conscience is strong and he eats everything. So it seems like the the individual's conscience plays a big role. Yeah. Yeah definitely. Definitely. In fact I've got a couple of passages here on the next page from 1 Corinthians saying that very thing. In that context, right? Cincy's mother was true. Yes. Yes. But because of some dynamic in the family, though that would have been the tradition for some reason as a child before she's a believer, he's got a circumstance. Right. So he Because that would have that would have required his father to be on board, I guess. Right. Right. And so totally agree that it was there's also like a very unique uh familial context to to a um I don't have a valuable piece of some Yeah. Yeah. So would it have been reversed then the father was Jewish and the mother Greek, then the father would have circum circumcised? He would have been circumcised as a kid at the regular time on the eighth day. Yeah. Yeah, well in in any case, um He hadn't been circumcised. And why did Paul circumcise him? Not just to appease the Jews there. Um but wha what was the nature of Paul's or what was the um his modus operandi when he goes on his journeys He started with the synagogues, right? And why would he start with the synagogues? Because there's probably some God fearing people there, right? And while many of them might not respond well to the message, some would. In fact, we see many did. And some of the early uh um leaders of the churches that he planted were God-fearing Jews who became Christians through his ministry in the synagogue Um that wasn't his primary focus, but he was looking for leadership. He was looking for the low-hanging fruit, essentially. So there could be a nascent church that he's founding among the Gentiles, and if Timothy, who's traveling with him, uh were circumcised, that might present fewer controversies in a subsequent ministry, not just here as well. But okay. Then there's an account from Acts twenty one where he also um tried to appease the Jews so that things that are not central to the gospel wouldn't become a stumbling block. Um and then you got First Corinthians eight and first Corinthians nine, uh that Jonathan was referring to. Basically his his approach was to be all things to all people, so that he may win some. Yeah, well the Jerusalem Council wasn't saying that it was wrong inherently to eat food um sacrifice to idols. Um and and that's what Paul's saying. It it's it's it's not what you eat that's the issue. It's um the conscience, why you eat it and w or why you don't eat it. Um and so just as a general rule, it would be helpful for the Gentiles from the Jerusalem Council, it would be helpful for the Gentiles who had come to Christ. to recognize that there are certain things, there are certain hot buttons that that would immediately offend Jews and it would be best for them, is how they put it, you will do well Right, you will do well if you abstain from these things. Um let the gospel itself be the stumbling block, not your your um this peripheral stuff. So I th I think it's a it's a similar it's a similar uh intent But as a general rule for them from the Jerusalem Council, it was just a a um kind of practical wisdom. I think. So just to avoid unnecessary problems. Okay. Well Real quick, we need to wrap up here, but some thoughtful questions for you to chew on. Are there any things that you explicitly or implicitly require unbelievers to do in order to become Christians? And are those things unbiblical? Are there any actions that you explicitly or implicitly believe are a sure indicator that someone is not a Christian? Or any of those unbiblical reasons. How they date, that's a surefire uh indicator, right? But it it can be very easy for us who are sensitive to the fact that if there's genuine repentance it'll become obvious. There'll be fruit of repentance. It's very easy for us to mistake baggage they bring into their Christian life as as a counter evidence of genuine repentance. So we need to be careful about that. Everybody's a work in process. And what we're really looking for is progress, not not and and heart. Where is the heart there? And not uh a legalistic do's and don'ts. Um In what ways are you legalistic opposing man's requirements instead of, or in addition to God's requirements? And what are some ways you have unnecessarily caused other believers to stumble? Unnecessarily. There are lots we can learn from this whole episode in Galatians. But we must close. Let's pray