We're on lesson ten, Children of the Promise, wrapping up chapter four of Galatians and kind of tiptoeing into chapter five with one verse. So I'll go ahead and read this. I'm on page 49 of the notes. Verse 21. Tell me, you who want to be under law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the bondwoman and one by the free woman. But the son by the bondwoman was born according to the flesh. And the son by the free woman through the promise. This is allegorically speaking, for these women are two covenants. One proceeding from Mount Sinai, bearing children who are to be slaves. She is Hagar. Now, this Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. And corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery, slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem above is free. She is our mother For it is written, Rejoice, sparing woman who does not bear, break forth and shout, you who are not in labor. For more numerous are the children of the desolate than of the one who has a husband. And you, brethren, like Isaac, are children of promise. But as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so it is now also. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the bondwoman and her son, for the son of the bondwoman shall not be an heir with the son of the free woman. So then, brethren, we are not children of a bondwoman, but of the free woman. It was for freedom that Christ set us free. Therefore keep standing firm, and do not be subject again Two yoke of slavery. This is an interesting passage for a number of reasons. And the one I want to focus on initially is in verse 24 Where it says this is allegorically speaking. What's an allegory? A uh a parallel. It's it's something to um uh illustrate other principles, other meaning, and so on. And so when you think of an allegory, what's probably the most famous allegory? Tokens progress, right? And so even the names um represent either people or or things and places and it's all it's it's all meant to be a um a story that has a counterpart meaning to drive home really the meaning. What's the difference between an allegory and a parable? Okay, a story that teaches a lesson, so how is it different from an allegory? I I think the main difference between it uh both an allegory and a parable are supposed to be teaching or illustrating Something else. Right? And so what's the difference? Well, with an allegory Uh the intent is that the components, many of the components anyway, the details, the people, the participants, the places They have a counterpart in the actual meaning that's trying to be taught. In a parable That's not necessarily the case. Sometimes there may be some parallels, but mostly the point of a parable is merely the bottom line. Not so much the details of each thing having a representation. Now in some cases, even in Jesus' parables, he said, well, like the parable of the four soils You know, the the seed represents this and um the the hard soil represents this and and so on. Um But really with any parable the the main point of it is the bottom line. What is it trying to teach? An allegory is intentionally having components that have a parallel in the real meaning. Okay, so He says, this is allegorically speaking, for these women are two covenants. So he's speaking of two women who are who? Hagar and Sarah, right? And you know the story of of Abraham Um God had promised him many descendants when he had none. And um God God made it clear that no, he was going to have many descendants, but they weren't coming, and so he and Sarah kind of took things into their own hands, right? And so Hagar was given to him and um Uh they had uh Ishmael. That is here in Galatia, he is referred to as uh the um the one boarding a born according to the flesh in verse twenty three. Right? So it's it's not just that he was a a he had flesh and blood, but that he was born because of their fleshly attempt at a solution to the problem, right? As opposed to believing God's promise. Um okay, so there's there's this correspondence, he's saying there's this back and forth. Now The reason I want to dwell on that is particularly with the account of God's promises to Abraham Uh, there are large numbers of Christians, genuine believers. Who think we need to interpret those promises to Abraham allegorically. And they could even point to this verse saying, well, you see that it even says it's an allegory. Um well there's some problems with that. And if you have your Bibles and you you can turn back to Genesis Uh you remember in Genesis twelve at the very beginning, God called Abram out of Uh both Ur of the Chaldees and then later calls him out of Horam. In verse twelve Now the Lord God said to Abraham, Go forth from your country and from your relatives and from your father's house to the land which I will show you. Verse 2. And I will make you a great nation, I will bless you and make your name great, so that you shall be a blessing, and I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. And he repeats that and gets more specific about it with Abraham over time. And so if you go to chapter 15 Verse 1, after these things the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision, saying, Do not fear Abram, I am a shield to you. Your reward shall be great. And Abram said, O Lord, what will you give me since I'm childless? And the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. So the issue here is God had promised many descendants and they weren't coming. And verse three, Abram said Since uh you've given me no offspring to me, one born in my house is my heir. Then behold, the word of the Lord came to him saying, This man will not be your heir. But One who shall come forth from your own body, he shall be your heir. And he took him outside and said, Now, look toward the heavens and count the stars if you are able to count them And he said to them, So shall your descendants be. And then importantly in verse six, then he believes God, believes in the Lord, and it re and he reckoned it to him. as righteousness. And then it later in that same chapter, verses eighteen, well in the interlude here, God is sort of ratifying this covenant he's making with with Abraham. And after doing that, beginning in verse eighteen, he says The passage says, On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, To your descendants I have given this land. From the river of Egypt as far as the Great River, the river Euphrates, the Kenite and the Kenesites and the Cadmonites, and the Hittite and the Perasite, and the Rephaim and the Amorites and the Canaanite and the Gurushite and the Jebusite all the people who were now in that land. Uh all the land that they're currently occupying. And then he repeats it again in chapter 17, repeats it again in chapter 22. What's my point? The point is that covenant Repeatedly you can see it's unconditional. Uh it's it's unilateral, for sure. God is just saying This is the way it's going to be. But it's also unconditional. He doesn't say if you do this, I will bless you. He's just saying, I'm going to bless you. You're going to have many descendants. This is what's going to happen That's not an allegory. That's actual history, and that's an unconditional promise of God. In fact, Paul here in Galatians is appealing to that promise, right? That it's an example for um Abraham himself is an e example for us because he was saved not by works but by what? Faith. Right? That's not just a story that has a parallel in real life. That is real life. And that is a real promise that's not even yet completely fulfilled And so there are lots of of uh genuine Christians with great intentions Who view that allegorically and say basically that God has a plan B. And plan B is the church. The church replacing Israel. And that you just don't see that in Scripture. Um but to come to that conclusion, you know there there are lots of things that that where you see some parallel, like um Under the law, even under the the Abrahamic covenant, there is circumcision as a sign. Um and so they think of baptism as the counterpart to that. Well, no, they're completely different And so we need to be very careful not to be lulled into the the temptation to view these promises to Abraham figuratively. Because God was very specific. I mean he's saying the here's the actual geography I have in mind for you. And um the key is that it was not conditional. Now, there was a later covenant What covenant was that? The covenant with Moses. The Mosaic covenant, the law, was that conditional or unconditional? Very conditional. Right? You read Deuteronomy twenty-eight. It says if you keep this law, you're gonna get all these blessings. But it says, if you disobey me in these in this law, you're gonna have what? Curses. The Mosaic law was very conditional. And God held the nation of Israel accountable for their disobedience. Multiple times, including the um um uh exiles, right? Even away from the land. Not giving up on them completely, but holding them accountable for their disobedience The Abrahamic covenant was not like that. It's completely unconditional. And To believe that God had to go to a plan B on the Abrahamic covenant because Israel disobeyed the Mosaic covenant um is to believe that God is not faithful to his promises. And actually Paul makes that point in Galatians. Um unfortunately, I'm not putting my finger on it right at the moment. But He says in Galatians the law which came four hundred and thirty years later, after later than what? The Abrahamic covenant, the promise. The law didn't um uh abolish the promise because it was unconditional. Instead, it had its own purpose. Right? And we talked about that purpose last couple of weeks. So um but he's using this word allegorically in verse twenty-four. Why is he using that verse, that word here in verse 24, when the promise to Abraham wasn't an allegory, it was actual history, it's uh unconditional promise. So why is he talking about allegory here? It's because he's using those actual events and that actual the meaning of the promise. And the contrast between the promise of God, no, it's going to be um your son, um contrasting that with their trying to uh solve the problem in their own way using Hagar, using that as an object lesson for us. Not to take away from the the the real meaning of those real events. It's not just a story. But to learn some lessons that do have a parallel. And so he goes here, he explains what that parallel is, right? Uh verse 22, you know, Abraham had these two sons. Well he had more than two later, but he's talking specifically here about Ishmael and Isaac, right? One by the bondwoman, who's Hagar, and one by the free woman, who is uh Sarah The son by the bondwoman was born according to the flesh, that is their fleshly solution to the problem. And the son of the free woman was born through the promise. Uh even in spite of their initial disbelief. You know, Sarah was laughing, right? You kidding? Um And so he's setting this up as a parallel. And so if you flip your page, if you have the notes You can see the the contrast in in the parallel concepts here. So the Ishmael column and the Isaac column. And so he's reviewing here um the two different mothers. One was a slave, one was free, and he's saying Uh there's there's some significance to that in our present situation. We don't want to go back to slavery, we we want to remain free in Christ contrasting their birth according to the flesh, according to the promise. And he talks about two covenants here. One proceeds from Mount Sinai. What was Mount Sinai? That's where God revealed the law, right? Now, as we said, as Paul pointed out, the law had a purpose. It was a good purpose. But um Misusing the law had and would still have serious consequences if we're depending on that law for our salvation. And so those who do depend on on it for their salvation essentially it's become slaves to the law. Which leads where Bondage. Bondage, death. Not to the salvation they're hoping for. Whereas um The the the covenant represented by Isaac, the the son of promise, uh proceeds from the Jerusalem above. He's referring to as it's straight from heaven rather than the workings of man. Right? Uh it produces free children as opposed to slaves. And um So he he quotes here from Isaiah fifty four one. Which is that first you know the numerical standard, whenever it's all caps, it's a uh direct quote from the Old Testament somewhere. In this case it's Isaiah 54, 1. Uh rejoice, barren woman who does not bear break forth and uh shout, you who are not in labor, for more numerous are the children of the desolate than of the one who has a husband And Paul is applying that concept here, uh, indicating that the Um the woman who has a husband according to human effort, and she's kind of represented in this parallel by Hagar. um will not have many descendants according to that promise. Now actually God did promise to Hagar that she would have a lot of descendants, and a lot of them these days are who? Airs. They they have lots of genealogical ancestors, but a lot of them through HML But on the other hand, he's quoting here from Isaiah 54, 5, just a few verses later, that Uh the barren woman's husband is the Lord, so she should rejoice uh in faith that God will fulfill his promise uh to provide many descendants. And so that's the the position that Abraham and Sarah were in, needing to believe that God would do what God had promised. Right? And that's kind of the position we're in, that God will do what He has promised. We have to approach His provision in faith And so in verse 28, uh it kind of contrasts how this applies to his Galatian readers. Uh the the Ishmael side of the the ledger suggests that um People ought not to be enslaved to the law. That's the point he's trying to to bring out of that earlier um uh story. But then on the other side, like Isaac, the children of promise, we are the children of promise like Isaac. Because we have entered into the family of God through faith, not by works. Not even trying to accomplish it by works. So there's two two birds, two suns, two mountains, two karnas. He's calling the one with Ishmael the covenant, if you want to think of it that way. And the big difference is one son is from a slave woman and it's associated with the law. And the other son is the true heir and belongs to the family. And he's saying we're also part of that family. We make crafty. Yeah. Yeah. So he he's basically using that as a object lesson to try in yet another way to convince his Galatian readers that seeking to rely on the law and keep the law as a condition of your salvation is Not a lot different from what Abraham and Sarah tried to do through Hagar to try to make a solution to their perceived problem. Through human effort. And his point is that doesn't work. It's never worked. The point is, and the whole point of Abraham's example in life is to take God at His Word. And um even though our situation may seem hopeless, it may seem Uh imp maybe s seeming that the promise is something that we laugh at, like Sarah did. This time next year you'll have a son, right? Um But God's calling us to take him at his word and act accordingly. It's by faith, not by works. So he's just setting up this this contrast as a way to kind of drive the point home, the same point he's been making in the whole letter, right? that relying on the law for salvation, um, doesn't cut the mustard, if you will. Does mustard get cut? Maybe maybe in order to to make it mustard you have to cut it, right? I don't know. Um And so the the the point he's making about Hagar being a slave, she was a servant to Sarah and Abraham uh is is merely to say, you know, this this solutions we try to implement through our own effort, our own fleshly conduct and whatever, uh, is just associated with bondage. Um And the contrast is that that God's solution is um um What appropriated, responded to by faith And what does it lead to? Not bondage to the law. I've got to do this, I've got to do that, I've got to check all these boxes, and fear that I'm going to miss something. That's bondage. Instead, it's Christ has done everything. And so my response is one of thankfulness, devotion, obedience, submission. Deep gratitude and faith. And so it's kind of like the he he's saying that, you know, these are two different women Uh they're in two different positions and um uh he's just saying it it's just another parallel here to to um the problem you all are grappling with concerning the law. Does that help? Any other thoughts, questions? Um are you finished with with the table? Uh maybe. Depends on your question. I could be totally off base, but um where it says relations between the two verse twenty nine. Is it eat maybe I messed up is evolved eating or no? Oh you're right, there's typo. So you know that these notes are not inspired. You did a great job of this trying to talk about it. Yeah, that Esau Who is Esau? Yeah, so he would have been Isaac's son who wasn't even born yet. Right? So in the table under Ishmael. It it should say Ishmael persecuted Isaac. Oh gotcha. Good catch. Yeah, I I just put that in there so you catch it. Good catch. Uh it's making reference to uh When Isaac was first born, um here we go. Go to Genesis twenty one. Isaac is born. Um Verse eight. And the child grew and was weaned. This is Isaac And Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. Now Sarah saw the son of Hagar, the Egyptians. Who was that? Ishmael, uh, whom she had borne to Abraham mocking. So um Ishmael was mocking perhaps Um Isaac himself, uh maybe even Sarah Therefore she said to Abraham, Drive out this maid and her son, for the son of this maid shall not be an heir with my son Isaac. So Ishmael was presumably and naturally thinking, I'm the oldest, I'm the heir, right? And um Abraham, of course, was conflicted here, but in verse 12, God said to Abraham, Do not be distressed because of the lad and your maid. Whatever Sarah tells you, listen to her, for through Isaac your descendants shall be named. And the son of the maid I will make a great nation also, because he is your descendant. And so um the uh the persecution that um uh Paul's referring to here is that mocking. Yeah, kind of making fun. I just find it interesting if the males are to lead and to lead ahead, that he says, listen to Sarah. You know what I mean? Well in this case he's he's God is not telling Abraham do it because Sarah said to do it. But he's saying, um, whether Sarah realizes it or not, this is what I want. And so do that thing. Not don't be conflicted about it. Um So it's just God is reinforcing what Sarah ha wanted. Now I'm sure that Sarah's motives were not God's motives. No, well the that's the thing too because she's also she forced Hagar to or force um Abraham to sleep with her. So it's kinda like you do this because I want this child to follow. So he's like, okay, I obey. has her issues, that's for sure. Right, right, right. Um and so God is not saying she is righteous in her motives on this, but he is saying that is what I want to have done. And um that the promise that I've been giving you all along is to be true, Isaac. You know, but also it is the show actually where it is, but you know, you trust in Andy, you trust in me. You have to turn the location. That's what it's all about, right? That brings us to verse one of chapter five. It was for freedom that Christ set us free Therefore, keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. And again, the slavery here is what? The law. Or even more generally, uh the the whole concept that we can depend on Doing certain things to show ourselves acceptable to God, earning our salvation. It doesn't matter if it was the law of Moses or any other law or any other to-do list that you might come up with, it's the principle of law that um brings us in bondage because if we're depending on that law or any law, is there any assurance of salvation? You'll never know if you've maybe missed something. Right? And So for example, um it's certainly true with with uh Jews who were focused on the law, but it's true with any religion. Islam, very much a religion of works. No assurance of salvation is possible. Um but in biblical Christianity, can there be assurance of salvation? Not only can there be, but there must be. Um you know, um first John five. 11 through 13. The witness is this that God has given us eternal life. Past tense, done deal. He has given us eternal life. And this life is in his son. He who has the Son has the life, not will have, has the life. What is the life? Eternal life. He who does not have the Son of God does not have the life. And then he says, These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, in order that what? You may know that you have eternal life. Not that you may hope that you will have eternal life, but you know that you have eternal life right now. Because it doesn't depend on your goodness. Thank God it doesn't depend on our goodness. Right? So the great privilege we have is freedom from that bondage of I don't know if I've ever done enough. I hope I do. But that's fruitless, right? There's no way we could we could accomplish that in our own works. But anything short of of a hundred percent falls short, right? Yeah So, um, I'm on the bottom of page 50 here. Christ sacrificed for our sin, redeemed us, purchased our freedom. Not just for a future freedom, but also for a present freedom from sin, death, and bondage to the law. Therefore, we must remain faithful to Him and His Word rather than enslaving ourselves unnecessarily to the very sin and and um uh what motives and structures and all that stuff that he freed us from And of course Jesus in John 8 referred to that. He was saying to the Jews who had believed in him, if you continue in my word, then you are truly my disciples. And you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free. It's that same freedom that he's talking about there, right? Freedom from the bondage to That to-do list in order to be acceptable before God. And they answered him, We are Abraham's descendants, and we have never been enslaved to anyone They missed it completely, didn't they? How is it that you say you will become free? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin. The slave does not remain in the house forever. The son does remain forever. So, if the son makes you free, you will be free indeed. Now that's good news. And that actually is the the verse I've used as the key verse for the book. Chapter 5, verse 1. Okay. Page fifty-one. How can we be characterized as free if we're slaves to Christ? There's a good question. Well, God gives us some answers. And I've Put a couple of uh passages here from Romans to help us get our minds around it. So Romans six. Even so, consider yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus. Therefore, do not let sin reign in your mortal body, so that you obey its lusts, and do not go on presenting the members of your body to sin as instruments of unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God as those alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness to God. When it says, your members, what's he referring to? Yeah, your whole your whole self, your body, the things you do, right? For sin shall not be master over you. For you are not under law, but under grace. So the law isn't what's saving us, it's God's grace that's saving us What then? Shall we sin because we're not under law but under grace? May it never be. Do you not know that when you present yourselves to someone as slaves for obedience? You are the slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin resulting in death, or of obedience resulting in righteousness. But thanks be to God that though you were slaves to sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were committed. And having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. I'm speaking in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh. For just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, resulting in further lawlessness, so present your members as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. Therefore, what benefit were you then deriving from the things of which you were now ashamed? For the outcome of those things is death. But now having been freed from sin and enslaved to God, You derive your benefit, resulting in sanctification, and the outcome, eternal life. So, the reality is we're either going to be slaves to sin or slaves to God. You can't be both, and you can't be neither. Romans 7. Or do you not know, brethren? For I am speaking to those who know the law, that the law has jurisdiction over a person as long as he lives, for the married woman is bound by law to her husband while he is living. But if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning the husband. So then, if while her husband is living, she is joined to another man, she shall be called an adulteress But if her husband dies, she is free from the law, so that she is not an adulteress, although she is joined to another man. Therefore, my brethren, you also were made to die to the law Through the body of Christ, so that you might be joined to another, to him who was raised from the dead, in order that we might bear fruit for God. For while we were in the flesh, the sinful passions, which were aroused by the law, were at work in the members of our body to bear fruit for death. But now we have been released from the law, having died to that by which we were bound, so that we serve in the newness of the Spirit and not in the oldness of the letter. And then the Apostle Peter in 1 Peter 2 says, Act as free men, and do not use your freedom as a covering for evil, but use it as bond slaves of God. God didn't create us to be independent, um, sovereign Entities. He created us to be uh his servants Yielded to Him, worshiping Him, obeying Him, and enjoying the blessings that that brings Of course we blew it through Adam, but each of us, and um became slaves instead to to sin. So Paul's point here, particularly in in Romans, and Peter's point as well, is we need to Um make sure that our our thinking and therefore our actions Are consistent with reality. And so prior to coming to Christ, we were slaves to sin, but in Christ, we are slaves of God, slaves of righteousness. Where now instead of uh death working through us in our actions, now life and uh God's righteousness. works through us. Um by faith. Yes. Um so how can one lose their freedom as a covering for evil Well, it's sort of like the question uh the question is uh how can someone use their freedom as a covering for evil? It's similar to what Paul says here. Shall we sin because we are not under law but under grace? And In um Romans the five one or six one, he asks Very similar question. In chapter five he's talking uh Romans he's talking about uh our salvation in Christ. Um while we were dead in our sins, Christ Died for us and so on. And it's all about grace, not about works. And so he asks in chapter six, verse one, the logical question, What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace might increase? So I'm covered by God's grace. If I sin, he's not going to send me to hell And our our fleshly mind is thinking, I can do whatever I want. That's evil. So that freedom doesn't give us a ticket to do evil, to do whatever we want. Instead, what should it do? prompts us to obey, to serve Him, to desire the righteousness of Christ to become more and more evident and and and uh a part of us? Um to please God. It all comes down to that, doesn't it? Well you can actually throw that you believe in community you're like to Christ and you are sinning that you still not go to hell. I don't know the part of the Bible where they were like, oh God served you did this in your name I was like I I never knew you So um where do we separate you um give your life surprise and the fruit of giving your life surprise is season God, doing His will, serving and all that to I'm giving my life to Christ, I'm okay, but I can do commit some sin and stuff like that. Well just this doesn't have your local cigar. Right. So that's that's the the obvious question. Is it true that a genuine believer does not lose his salvation when he sins? Yes, it's absolutely true. That's what the Bible teaches. Um in fact, you know, I just quoted from 1 John 5 about eternal life. And what is the key? What's the distinction between those who have eternal life and those who don't? Whoever has Christ, whoever is in Christ. If you're in Christ, you've got eternal life now. It's not just future. Right? If you don't have Christ Um and Christ in John ten tells us that um those his sheep are in his hand and the father who is greater than all has them also in his hand. We're in um We're um God's children and he's protecting us. He sealed us Into our salvation. It's not a matter of us hanging on to him, but he's hanging on to us. Won't let us go. So, those who are genuinely saved. Will not lose their salvation. It's just clear throughout Scripture. However, there are some who appear to be saved Um y you know the the um I think you were making reference to Matthew seven where Where Jesus says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. Right before that he says, you know, you'll know them by their fruits Right? And right after that he says it's like this. And he gives this parable of the house built on the sand and the house built on the rock. As you look at those two houses, they basically look the same. What's the difference? The storm comes, and then you see that there is a difference. The foundation is wrong on the one, but it's right on the other. And so people can appear to be something they're not. They may be depending on, their foundation may be something that's right or wrong. And so you'll know them by the fruit. You'll know them even by how they respond to those storms that come Right. And so multiple places in um the epistles we see warnings against um uh false teachers, um wolves and so on who come in. But even um typically the the examples given there are people who are within the church. And the the lesson for us, the actual teaching there is Um if they are um Denying Christ and and behaving in a way that is undermining the gospel That's a pretty good evidence that's built on sand and it's it's not gonna last, which means that they weren't saved to begin with. And so um in any given church, um, you know, as hard as the the The the shepherds, the elders, uh try to ensure that everyone who is a member of the church is actually saved. We don't know people's hearts. And so it's possible that over time people would um it become apparent that some people are not actually saved. And of course Christ has a process for for dealing with that. Um that doesn't mean that everybody who sins is unsaved. We're all sinners. Right? Um the difference is how does someone who is genuinely saved um Well, let me let me back up a little bit before I ask that. I think you remember a week or two ago I may have said something like One of the benefits a true believer has is that the Holy Spirit indwells him. Right? And one of the Holy Spirit's jobs is not only to comfort us, but also to convict us. Right? And we've all had that that experience where we do something and typically it's pretty quickly He convicts us saying, yeah, that was stupid. You know, or yeah, really? Or whatever language he might be using. But the conviction is, man, I feel bad I know that was wrong. How does a genuine believer respond to that? Yeah, saying you're right, Lord. I blew it. And so there's there's contrition, there is repentance, uh acknowledging it and and forsaking the sin, right? Someone who is a wolf in sheep's clothing, first of all, won't have that conviction. And even if they did, how would they respond? Doesn't care to me, right? So um it's not the presence of sin, it's it's uh um how we respond to it. Now even a believer can resist that conviction of sin a bit But the Holy Spirit doesn't leave us alone. If that soft voice and nudging doesn't quite do it Yes. He'll use a two by four. Right? Um He's not gonna leave us alone because we're in Christ. We're his. And our sanctification ultimately is in his hands. We need to cooperate, we need to submit, but He he's in charge of that and he won't let his genuine sheep get mired in the muck indefinitely So the unfortunate thing uh no, it's probably fortunate. But I was gonna say the unfortunate thing is that we as humans Can't put people in boxes. Oh that's that's a believer, a genuine believer, but that's someone who's pretending to be a believer and he's really not. We can't just tell by looking at them or even listening to them typically. But he says you'll know them by their fruit. Does that help? Yes. Is there a verse particularly that that you wanted to six? John fifteen six says, If anyone does not abide in me, he is thrown away like a branch and be done. And the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned. What does it mean to abide? Just generally. And uh uh how do we use the word? What does it mean to abide? To stay, right? Where do you abide? What is your abode? That's where you stay. Right? That's where you live. So if anyone abides in Christ, he's a genuine believer. 1 John 5 that I quoted earlier says, he who has the Son has the life. Or life in Christ, our salvation, depends on our being in Christ. It's not our righteousness that counts, it's his righteousness that counts. And so if we abide in him, if we stay, if we remain in him, actually he had it the other way around. If you don't abide in me, he's thrown away. So what I was just saying about the difference between genuine believers and people who uh may appear on the outside to be Christians, but They haven't actually come to Christ, they're not in Christ. You're going to know them by the fruit. And in this case, in this verse, in this example he's given here, you're going to know them by whether or not they remain in Christ. So if they fall away, like the getting back to the parable of the four soils, the um the rocky soil and the thorny soil They had some immediate uh response to the word, both of them, but because either the the thorns or the s the shallow rocky soil They didn't remain. Which means they weren't believers to begin with. Okay. Um I'll just what came to my mind in this verse um is that some people genuinely believed and gave their life to Christ. But unfortunately they were not, like you use your word, abiding in the Christian community. They were not reading the word of God. And at that time because they were not in that folder, you can't see the food, they're not manifesting the food Initially they believed they gave their life to Christ, but they didn't kind of abide. They were not part of the vine. So they couldn't produce the fruit that should come out of that salvation. That opened to my mind. my eight myself. And at the end of the day, because they're not producing the good fruit, they get pulled off. And that's why when believers give their life to Christ, um there's um discipleship follow up to teach them and make sure that they are actually within the hold and able to be able to I think that's where that's what comes to my mind in um some people I genuinely believed gave the life to Christ but did not kind of stay within the Well I um it's partly right. Partly wrong, if you don't mind my saying so. Um if someone gives their life to Christ, and it's a genuine repentance and genuine f saving faith in Christ, they're not going to fall away. Because they're genuinely saved. And their their sanctification ultimately is a responsibility of the Holy Spirit, not of the the discipleship and training and and whatever that they did. Those things are good tools the Holy Spirit uses, but if they're genuinely saved The Holy Spirit is going to nurture them in His way. And just like the parable of the four soils, the rocky soil and the thorny soil They didn't bear any fruit because of their lack of depth, their the they weren't genuinely saved. They had an initial response to the message But it was choked out and it didn't have root. Um and That's not good soil. The good soil reproduced thirty, sixty, hundredfold, right? Um And so what he's saying here is those who are not saved aren't going to remain in him, and it's going to become obvious. Those are the ones who are not Staying, remaining in Christ. But whether we notice it or not, God does And those who are saved, he will he will continue to um hold on to them Um in spite of any momentary sins and and so on. But he has that process also of dealing with the sin of a genuine believer. And uh he doesn't just let them go and get mired in it. But he he makes it so that they remain And if they don't remain, then that becomes evidence that they never were saved to begin with. Um what would a ungenuine um I guess response look like um for someone that you know would be what we're describing someone that, you know Well eventually because they don't have that foundation. Kind of evidence, main thing that scripture tells us that's true of those who profess to be believers but really aren't is looking at the fruit Uh but there's no timetable given to that. Ultimately it's whether they remain, and that's what's talking about here. So if they fall away, like in the the parable uh or the four soils where the uh uh the cares of the world or persecutions or or whatever uh like the rocky soil or the thorns, if that chokes out the initial response to the word, that's pretty good evidence that they weren't really saved to begin with. Um and so if they don't remain in Christ, if they if they show that they're just abandoning ship at some point, well That's the reason why. Um but it's possible from our perspective that we will never actually see evidence one way or the other. God knows. So it's not like we can put people in a box, oh, I think you meet all the characteristics of someone who professes to be a Christian but really isn't. That's a dangerous judgment for us to to put on anybody. It's not our job to leave. It's not our job to do that. Right. We can come alongside them and help them to deal with whatever they're going through but yeah, it's we better close. Is that in our hands to abandon sh I mean because we're saying you know a true genuine believer is going to respond to the Holy Spirit, you know, conviction or his loving chastening. Chasening, yeah. So is that really in someone's hand? Even if you're No, no, those who abandon when I'm saying b abandoned ship, I was referring to people who are showing themselves to be unbelievers when it really comes to it. Better close.