Well, good morning. We're on uh lesson eight in our notes from Galatians. We are turning the corner a little bit. We're beginning chapter 4 of Galatians, which is roughly halfway through. And yet we're a little over halfway through our our weeks uh for the class. But um Our topic today has to do with our being adopted by God as his children. And uh I'll go ahead and read here the first seven verses. Now, I say, as long as the heir is a child, he does not differ at all from a slave, although he is owner of everything. But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by the Father. So also we, while we were children, were held in bondage under the elemental things of the world. But when the fullness of the time came, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. so that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons Because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Therefore, you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. This actually is a continuation of his the points he was making in chapter three, particularly toward the end. where he was answering the question, well what's the purpose of the law? Right? And one of the purposes uh he covered there was that it served uh kind of like a tutor to point us to the ultimate solution for the sin. The law was to um uh make it painfully clear to the Israelites and even through them to others that uh sin is is a grievous thing, it's it's pervasive, it's true of all of us. And there needs to be um a solution for that sin And it should have been obvious to them that the repeated um uh sacrifices and offerings and so on uh were not the ultimate solution because they have to keep repeating them. And we see that point made in in Hebrews particularly. But here, there's some more implications of that. Not only was the law serving as a tutor to kind of instruct us in these things Um but uh uh he uses the example here of guardians and managers. Um A tutor, like we mentioned last week, could have been considered a guardian and a manager having that kind of role to prepare the child for his ultimate uh role. But while he's in that preparation, he's not in that role. Right? He doesn't have any authority. He doesn't have the prerogatives of the uh position he's being groomed for. But um Uh he's under the instruction, protection, uh, management of others And so uh what Paul's doing here, I think, is he's first of all referring to our position uh before Christ, certainly before Christ came, but in our case before we came to Christ. And then secondly, our position after coming to Christ. And uh the contrast between those and the transition between those is is key. So he uses this word in verse 1, errors How how do you think he's using that word errors? In what sense are we, or h even his readers, errors So when we think of heirs, what do we think? Of someone who receives the inheritance. Right? And it's usually passed down from the parents to the children, typically. Uh but it could be others who are named as heirs as well. Um but what inheritance is he talking about here? Eternity? Eternity what kind of eternity? Yeah, eternal life with with our Father Um God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. Um and so um In a in a sort of natural sense, we shouldn't have been considered heirs. Right? We were disqualified by what? Our sin. Uh not only the sin of Adam that place all of us in that predicament, but even our own sin makes us unworthy of that. And so in spite of that, we're being called heirs. And the the uh inheritance, the the position placing us into that position of inheritance is something that we haven't done, but rather the um what's the right? word to use in the analogy here the the parent, God or father, has taken the initiative to make happen. But the point he's making here is that there's a preparation, there's a transition. And the decision to make us heirs has already been made. We've got that position, but it's not our experience yet. And so the law came to help instruct, prepare, um, and um cause us to see that there needed to be a a an ultimate solution that only God could provide. It's a bit easier for us looking back at the cross to understand all that than it was for the Israelites looking forward. But um uh he made that decision uh long ago. In fact, I've got some verses here starting at Romans 8. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to become conformed to the image of his son so that he would be the firstborn among many brethren. Firstborn there, uh, as it's almost always used in scripture, has to do with uh the preeminence of the person being spoken of So the firstborn in a family is preeminent over the other children because of that's that was the the the custom But that's analogy is being applied here to Christ. He's the preeminent one among the whole church Um firstborn among married brethren, Ephesians 1. Just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the kind intention of his will. So what was our role in that decision? Zero. Zero, right? Um and were we even aware of it? in the early going. No, we weren't. Uh certainly not before the foundation of the world, and even in the beginning part of our lives, we weren't aware that God had done that for us. And then he took the initiative to um draw us to himself and um cause us to um forsake sin, come to him, rely on him, and understand more of this inheritance that's ours through Christ. So um that's uh very similar to what happened to Abraham, and we've already covered God's um uh promises to Abraham, God's uh sovereignly um selecting him for the role that he had for him. And uh the promises he gave were not just for Abraham, but for um many in the whole world, including us, who would be blessed through Abraham's seed, the the Messiah So he emphasizes here uh that even though that was true of us We didn't really have any different standing at that point from a slave. In other words, from any any uh uh anyone who was not part of the inheritance. Um and so there is this transition period, there's this um preparation period and in our lives it was that period prior to our coming to Christ where um The law, uh even more scripture that became available to us uh uh since the time of Christ, all came to bear on our the conviction that God brought in our lives. And um he used that in the same way as as uh tutor, guardian, manager to ultimately bring us to him And then in verse three he says, so we, while we were children, were held in bondage under the elemental things of the world And so we were not really any different from those I mean, we were unsaved. Uh God had elected Everyone who's saved. Um but until such time as he uh gives them faith and repentance and draws them to himself, uh they're really under the same law of sin and and so on and the consequences of sin uh as anyone else. Uh in in a very real sense During that time period we were really incapable of understanding uh the key elements anyway of the truth. Um So that's his analogy here, and and I I'm pretty sure he understood that this would resonate with people. They understood the principle here of of the preparation that an heir would have while he is a child. He doesn't have the prerogatives of that inheritance yet. But um uh and in that sense he's no different from anybody else. Okay. So then he turns in verse four to our the contrast, the after, our inheritance are are coming to Christ. And so he starts by rehearsing uh things that are true about Christ. So he is the son of God, he's um fully God He was sent by the Father, indicating his submission to the Father, which For most of us it's hard to get our minds around how there could be complete unity within the Godhead and yet hierarchy But it's clear from Scripture that Christ was sent by the Father. The Holy Spirit was actually sent by the Son and the Father. And Jesus clearly submitted to the will of the Father. That doesn't make him inferior. They're completely equal, having all the same attributes of deity Um but um there's this mysterious uh relationship within the Godhead That is largely outside of our experience and ability to completely understand, but is nonetheless very clear from Scripture. So we're talking about one God in three persons. That's already hard enough to understand, right? But then even within those three persons, the relationship there, there is a a hierarchy. Um not a difference in quality, essence, godness, divinity, if you will, um, but different roles. And um okay. So fully God, uh sent by the Father Uh and it says in the fullness of time, which which means what? When the time was right, according to God's sovereign will. Um he unfolded it. And there are lots of preparations for that beforehand, and we see a lot of the specifics recorded for us in the Old Testament. Um but in the fullness of time, by God's choice, not man's choice. There were lots of people prior to that who said Lord, please send us the Messiah, right? Um but in God's um fullness of time it happened And then Jesus did in fact come. He humbled himself by being born as a man. So he's not only fully God, but fully man. And he was born under and lived by the law, but unlike everybody else, he did so perfectly. So no sin Um perfect uh example, perfect substitute, as it turns out, for us. What does C mean? What do we mean by that? That's um in verse four, when the fullness of time came, God sent. So it was God's plan all along. And even the timing of it was according to his will. So, um, it was just it was planned Uh uh the general outline was provided before, the specifics in terms of timing was not. But the timing wasn't accidental, it wasn't random, it was by God's plan Yeah. Okay. So then in verse five it talks about What Christ did for us. He came, He lived perfectly, so that He might redeem those who were under the law. that we might receive the adoption as some sons. Uh do you find it interesting here that Um there's no specific reference in that sentence or really anywhere in the context about his death on the cross. Which was crucial to accomplishing all this. What is the emphasis here? His life. The perfection of his life And so his righteousness could be applied to us just as much as our sins are applied to him. And um Both are important. Okay, so he says, so that he might redeem those who are under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons. So redemption. Our everyday experience with redemption is we redeem what? A coupon or something. Right? And you're thinking, how in the world could that relate to this? Well, in many ways it doesn't. But maybe the way one way it does is if you don't redeem that coupon, what happens? It it's all for naught. It's wasted. What's that? It expires, right? And it it um it's essentially wasted. It's it's not put into And in that sense, it's somewhat similar. God redeemed us so that we would not face eternity without him. Right? He's bought us out of that, he's redeemed us, and brought us into his family. And um man, that's good news. So he redeemed us by paying the penalty for our sin, which we could not pay That made it possible for God to adopt us. He took the initiative to pay for our sins himself. But having done that, he then made it possible that that made it possible for us to be a part of his family. So we are in Christ We are our position in Christ is. God looks at us, and what does he see? The righteousness of Christ. Uh there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ, right? Um and I'm not sure if you've pondered this, but um because our position is in Christ, all of our sins are paid for by him. All of his righteousness is put on our account. When God sees us, he sees the righteousness of Christ. And because of that, the Holy Spirit can continually indwell us because positionally we're holy. And he actually has the the um one of his roles, the Holy Spirit's roles, is to help make our experience Match our position of holiness. And um how does he do that? Sanctification. Sanctification. W what what's his role in our sanctification? He just kind of zaps us a little bit at a time? He's indwelling us and because he's indwelling us, he convicts us of sin. He doesn't convict us of every sin all at once. That would blow us away. Right? You see those those examples in Scripture where people were confronted with the holiness of God, what did they do? They fell down like dead men. Because it just saw the stark difference between the holiness of God and and our current Condition. And that included Isaiah in Isaiah 6. It included the Apostle John, who was very close to Christ during his ministry. And yet he fell down like a dead man when contr in Revelation one. Uh well maybe that's a plug for tonight's uh thing. But in in at the very beginning of Revelation, uh John makes it clear that when he saw this vision of of the glorified Christ, not just the risen Christ, that's that's fascinating or awesome enough, but the glorified Christ, um He fell down like a dead man. And this is a very mature Apostle John. Anyway Positionally, we're holy, and the Holy Spirit, one of his roles, is to make us progressively more holy. Sanctification is holyfication, becoming more holy. That's what the sanct means. Set apart wholly. And so because he's placed us in that position and condition He goes through the formal adoption process. He just pronounces that we are his adopted children. Nothing we have to do, nothing we could do to be qualified, uh worthy. Um And that's typically how it is with adoption. Right? That uh the child being adopted isn't the one making the decision. It's the parents. So adoption emphasizes God's role in choosing us, and in our case, in our situation, freeing us from hopelessness and giving us an inheritance. And if a child is, let's say, an orphan and gets adopted at maybe the age of I don't know, ten or so. He's already got some understanding of the difficulties he's already facing in life. There may be some hopelessness. Um and there may be a lot of longing for um being part of a family, having some identity like that. And um That's very much the picture here. That because we're adopted into Christ, we have hope, we have a relationship with the Father, we're part of his family. It's a neat analogy. Some of you may have uh experience with adoption, maybe in your own family or maybe you yourselves were adopted. Yeah. Okay. So little infant. And obviously he has everything all the other four biological has so it's it's equal standing, equal inheritance, that kind of thing. Yeah That's a good example. Okay. So he's reviewed um the background facts about Christ. What led up to this and what he did for us in our adoption. And then six and seven, he talks about our current standing. Because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba Father. And That is a blessing that even the Old Testament believers, the Old Testament true saints, did not have. uh the Holy Spirit indwelling them. The Holy Spirit did indwell a few people periodically just to accomplish God's purposes. But it wasn't permanent, it wasn't um true of all genuine believers until Pentecost. when in the church age now we all are indwelt by the Holy Spirit. And um That produces in us a sense of disadoption. Then we address him as father. It's not a a royal title to us, it's a personal relationship title Daddy, Abba. And um actually y uh y there are some instances in in the Gospels where Um some of the Jewish leaders were taking issue with Christ for referring to God the Father as his father in this way. But it's it's an important aspect of it it's a relational thing. We're we're in Christ, uh but we're we're children of God. We're adopted into his family And uh that's that's special. Anyway, in verse seven he says, Therefore You are no longer a slave or anything resembling a slave, but a son, and if a son, an heir through God. So the inheritance, the uh eternal life. You know normally when we think of an inheritance We think of what will happen when the um what do you call the person who leaves the inheritance? The um Well, the the the the parent, let's say, in the simple case. You you wait for the parent to die and then you get the inheritance. Well, in our case, while there is much to look forward to The eternal life? When does that begin? At the moment of salvation, right? Um first John five says um this is the confidence we have be well no. Um this um This is the testimony that God has given us eternal life. He who has the Son has the life. Not he who has the Son will have the life. He who has the Son has the life, and he who does not have the Son of God does not have the life. So that life, that eternal life, that relationship with God begins at the moment of salvation and it the um the blessings of it and uh the impact of it grows over time And clearly there's much of the inheritance that is yet to come, but that eternal life has already begun at the moment of salvation. Um so um our current standing before God is that we're adopted as sons and like Fatty was saying because of that adoption uh there's no distinction between anybody and it it um it's not a a second class kind of r uh child um adopted as sons were temples of the Holy Spirit We're dependent on and devoted to the Father. We're no longer slaves, but sons, and we're heirs of the promise. Now You remember why Paul was um writing this letter? You remember what the issue was that he was trying to address? Right, this this teaching that may have made a lot of sense to a lot of the Jews, but this teaching that the Gentiles needed to become Jews in order to become Christians. Or more generally, everyone, whether Gentiles or Jews, had to fulfill the law in addition to being in Christ. Which of course obliterates the whole message of the gospel. And so in that context, he's saying, here's where you were, here's what Christ has done for you. You're now adopted as sons, you've got the inheritance. So what's the implication of that with regard to this issue? None of that stuff is necessary for you to either gain salvation or keep your salvation. The work is all done by Christ. And the adoption papers are already signed. Essentially. But as an element of Paul saying, why would you want to go back to school? Exactly. This is what you have, why would you want to reverse? Exactly. Exactly. And so yeah, that's that's the segue. Right. Before we get to that segue though, there's a couple of questions here. How can we both you know, uh scripture refers to our are coming to Christ, are are entering God's family in two different ways, two different metaphors. One is this one, being adopted into his family, and the other one is what Being born into his family, being born again, right? So how can we both be adopted into God's family, but also born into it? It seems like It's either one or the other, but not both. Ought to be the case, right? Well, you've got to understand that they're both metaphors trying to illustrate the same basic thing. And what is that same basic thing? But the sovereignty of God, God's choice in our salvation It's true of in both of those cases. Whether you're born or adopted into a family, what choice did you have? None. Right? Um and they both convey the resulting familial relationship we have with God. It's not just a judicial thing, it's a family thing. And both of those illustrate that. So just two metaphors really trying to get at the same thing. Even though technically you might think of them as Either or. But they have a lot of similarities. Seems like maybe um born again focuses on the regeneration angle and adoption focuses on the redemption angle. angle. It's just trying to illustrate the all those those um those doctrinal what, events, um, things that happen to us um are true and kind of happening at the same time. And it helps us to get our mind around the relevance or or the significance and and what's involved in each each one of those. And so there may be value in separating them in our minds. But in reality it's all part of the same package. Yeah. Okay, so I don't know if you've ever thought this, but the second question, why do you think God allowed us to be in bondage for a while? In your case, my case, uh, went through significant portion of our lives without Christ. Some of us may have thought we were in Christ but weren't. Others were very clear they weren't in Christ. It were all over the spectrum. But why do you suppose God allowed us. You know, he he chose us from before the foundation of the world. You'd think he would have some mercy on us to clue us in early on. Wouldn't that have been great? We c think of all the stuff we could have avoided, right? So from our perspective we're thinking, Lord, why wait? Couldn't you kind of thought if the if your if that's your logic, couldn't you say, Well now that we're Christians, why doesn't God just keep us from sinning? Yeah. Very similar question, isn't it? Yeah. Very similar question. Um and it's also and uh the reason I'm asking it is very similar to the question Paul's trying to answer here about why the law, why we were in bondage and and so on. I think one of the the reasons is um The more people understand, the more people see, the more people experience the devastation of sin The more they're going to understand the grace of God when they see it. Yeah. And experience it. So in a way, God was preparing us just like He was preparing the Israelites under the law preparing us to see the pervasive pervasiveness of sin, particularly our own sin, um, and that it needed to be dealt with and that we couldn't deal with it. We didn't have the capacity. So bringing us to that point, it's like we were being tutored, we're under the management and and so on of of if not the Mosaic Law, uh very much the school of hard knocks learning from our our own sin and the consequences of our sin, even if we had no awareness of Scripture, those things and our conscience, He's working in our conscience to um awaken us to our need. And um I also think too that he'll he'll let you go through these things because when you do trust and believe that and he gets you through them and you're also a walking testimony for others to see that, hey, there is a God. If he helped you he'll he'll help me. Yeah, and that's that's an excellent point. You know, it it gets at the question, um Why why does God want to conduct his evangelism, which really ultimately only he can do, but why does he choose to use the likes of us? to be a part of that sharing of the message and so on. Um and it's partly because when God uses the likes of us Um it just brings glory to him, not to us. Right. Um So we see a picture of God's grace. We understand his grace better when we understand the alternatives. It also brings the most glory to God when it happens. So we've got that segue then into verses eight through eleven. And I'll go ahead and read those. Uh however, at that time when you did not know God, you were slaves to those which were by nature no gods, but now you have uh now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God How is it that you turn back again to the weak and worthless elemental things to which you desire to be enslaved all over again? You observe days and months and seasons and years. I fear for you that perhaps I've labored over you in vain. Well it turns out the last um uh week or so I've been reading through the book of Exodus as part of my um daily time with the Lord. And I'm just impressed again how often the Israelites, having seen the miracles that God did to release them from Egypt, having experienced the walking on dry land through the Red Sea, having seen God bring those waves onto the whole Egyptian army that they were terrified of. And yet they get out in the wilderness and they grumble just like you and I would. And it's so easy for us to point our fingers at them saying, You idiots Didn't you see that? Man, if I'd have seen that I would have acted differently from you, but you know what? We probably wouldn't. Um And so there is this question, you know, they're they're going through the the the wilderness and they're repeatedly grumbling, right? And from a human perspective, there's some uh merit to their concern. The the need was obvious. There's no water, there's no food. Well eventually the that also grumbling, there's giants in the land they're going to. But um God was trying to teach them that He was their provider, not all these other extraneous things. But in the meantime, they were struggling. And God was working in them to help them to see that He's their provider, He's sovereign, He's all powerful, He's got this And what was he training them to develop in? Faith. Right? Not by sight, but walking by faith. Uh which is a hard lesson for any of us to learn, right? So I I don't think we should point our fingers at them too too much. Um But Paul is asking that same question here of the Galatian Christians. Now that you have come to know God, rather be known by God, how is it that you turn back to the weak and worthless elemental things to which you desire to be enslaved all over again? What were the elemental things that he was saying they would they're now um going back to Sorry. And that's what he's been talking about all along, right? He's going to talk here coming up about circumcision specifically But just in general so far he's talking about what are we relying on for our salvation? What should have the r the Israelites been relying on out there in the wilderness The circumstances, their own wits. No, they needed to be relying on God. And even when he provided the law, he provided it for a specific reason to tutor them, to manage them, to prepare them. Um but Now that you're you have all the prerogatives of the adoption and the inheritance Why would you want to go back to the tutoring stage is essentially what he's saying, right? Um now that's I think possibly another one of his uh rhetorical questions. It's a question that everybody knows the answer to, for the most part Um why they want to go back is because their their faith is not What it should be. They're relying on things that uh out of habits they've always relied on, whatever. Um And he even says in verse ten, you observe days and months and seasons and years. What's he referring to? The the celebrations, the the rituals and so on under the law that were repeated over and over and over again. Both sacrifices and uh feasts and and the whole works Um but if we're relying on those things for our position, for our uh salvation It's all for naught. And if it weren't all for naught, why would Christ come? Right? So um Paul, of course, in Galatians doesn't hold back from chiding the people, challenging them. Uh this is maybe one of his tamer tidings, but um He's really trying to get them to to think about the implications here. Yeah. I think when ever I've read this passage I've always read like the basic element of main speech like our simple desires because it says like before when you got like that's what you're enslaved to. So what makes you read it as like the law rather than simple desires or is there an aspect of it that we're going to those Yeah, um I'm thinking mostly in terms of the context of Galatians. So look at earlier here in in chapter four. Um Verse three. So we, while we were children, were held in bondage under the elemental things of the world. And elsewhere he referred to under bondage under the law. Um and that's that's It had a purpose, but they were missing the purpose. And if they f if they thought the purpose was to um uh basically earn our right standard before God, then That wasn't going to work and it was um um fruitless because they weren't doing it by faith, they were doing it as as an act of Self-righteousness essentially. Um and they're stuck in that. He he he he tells them that they were held in bondage. Um And yeah, I I think you could say that for most people, including the Israelites There are other aspects of their sin and sinful desires and motivations and so on that were just the outworking of the sin that was in their life anyway. But his whole point in Galatians is what is the core of the gospel? And the core of the gospel is not relying on those things whether they're um um logical in our thinking or not Those things, and and specifically the law, and we're going to talk more about that uh in a few weeks, um, that's not the basis. It never has been the basis of salvation. That's And that's the whole reason he's writing the book. Um and so um Yeah, I think there's a sense in which those elemental things of the world could include a lot more than the law, but I think the point in Galatians is don't depend on the law for salvation. Yeah. I just handed up in the first eleven verses of chapter four, slave bonded for slate five times in his in these short eleven verses. So he he clearly is nearing zoning in on you know you're not quite for all you so it's stop it. Yeah. Yeah and and so here in in verse um verses eight through eleven, he's saying, given all that we've laid out here, what Christ has done for us and the purpose of the law and and all these things Why go back? Why go back? Yeah, and and other implications like the role of circumcision and this kind of thing. Yeah. So I hope that helps. Have you ever read through um a book like Galatians? You're reading it through and said, boy Paul, if I were you, I would have mentioned such and such. That happens to me all the time. It shows how little I know, right? Um but For what it's worth, if I were Paul in verses 8 through 11, and he's quoting the Old Testament and drawing this analogy all the way through, I would say, don't you remember the grumbling Israelites in the wilderness? That could have really driven his point home, but I think um to a large extent his audience is Gentile, and so maybe it wouldn't have had quite the same uh effect. I don't know. But anyway. So in verse 11 says, I fear for you that perhaps I've labored over you in vain. And so one of my questions here, question two on page 45 Was Paul saying that he might that they might lose their salvation or might already have lost it? Well, I don't think so. And so as I point out here, that they he believes that they were genuine believers. How do we know that? Again and again, he says they received the Holy Spirit He refers to them as brethren. He says that they're all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. He says they're baptized into Christ. They Uh that they're one with Christ, and they won't lose their salvation because they're heirs according to the promised. So I'm pretty sure he understood these folks were uh were believers. And that's why he's writing to them to caution them And uh correct this doctrinal error that was creeping into the church. Uh so if that's true, why was he Fearing for them that perhaps I have labored over you in vain. that I see them believing hard on an error a a a core doctrinal error, right? Or running in dwelling sin, or denying truths what the scriptures say And it makes me fear their salvation at times to a to a degree. You know, I kinda can remind myself of what God's already done in my life. and stuff, but but there's an aspect of that that makes me go uh I'm concerned that they maybe you really weren't safe. Absolutely. That's what Paul is saying there. Well, I don't think so because of everything we just highlighted where he he seems pretty confident that they're actually saved. But if they're saved, his concern would be what? they're not enjoying the fruit of that salvation if they're relying on the wrong thing for the salvation. And they're they're reverting back to Egypt, right? They're reverting back to um a a a gospel of works or faith plus works, which is even worse. Yes. So what are the impli what what are the um what's the impact of genuine believers living like they're not genuine believers or communicating a different gospel, which he said isn't really a gospel at all. It's not good news. What are the implications of people pursuing the Christian life that way It's undermining the truth for others who might believe through them. It's undermining the the glory that God gets for salvation. Um and it it undermines their Their joy in their walk with Christ. And so it's for their benefit, it's for the benefit of others through them It's for the benefit of um the glory that God would get out of uh the pure gospel Um there may be other reasons as well, but clearly his heart is for their um right application of truth so that all involved would be um well better off that the gospel would would um go forward without hindrance And uh people would be genuinely saved. A lot of them will say they're whole Bible believers and so they believe in Christ and they start off as Christians, but then I think maybe they don't understand the role of the law or the Old Testament start following a lot of the Old Testament things that we no longer follow. Um and like um celebrate the feast And all of that and put a lot of emphasis on that and so that a lot of new believers fall into thinking that they need to be able to think is growing Yeah, and even if it's done with the right heart, it can be misinterpreted by someone as um this is necessary for salvation. They need a poll. Well they've got a poll. It's in the book of Galatians. Right. Um but yeah, that that could be a good example of it. Yeah. Okay. Uh I have on the top of page forty five just a little bit of wrap up. So in in these verses 8 through 11, he talks about their past condition, their current condition, and their current temptations. What are they tempted about currently? Well they're they're tempted to return to the wrong basis for salvation, even if it's just the superficial activities and so on as as being thought to be required Um and they thought that doing that would help them. That would be a temptation. Well, yeah, I should do those things. Um So those are temptations that possibly we those kind of temptations are things that may we might be tempted by. It's it may be the or at least a contributing factor to a lot of legalism. rules that are placed on top of the gospel in order for to define appropriate Christian behavior You know, very very much like all the rules that the Pharisees put on top of the law, so they could check off more boxes and feel more justified in their own thinking. Um I don't know. There could be lots of current day uh examples of that kind of thing. But um I I think the takeaway for us is that um we're probably no different from any of these people, whether it's the Israelites or the Judaizers or the Galatians Uh we need to be careful that we're not deceived about uh the gospel, about um The the nature and um implementation or or our role in our sanctification, our being made more and more like Christ Are we made more and more like Christ because we check off various boxes? Not at all. Not at all Now is it wrong for some of those things? No, probably. They're all decent things to do often. But they have no role in our in our becoming godly, becoming Christ-like That comes as a result of the Holy Spirit convicting us of sin and we forsake that sin. Trust alone in Christ and His righteousness, not our own. and submitting to him so that we can indeed become more like him in our practice, in our experience, not just in our position. And that's almost always humbling and hard because we're no different from the Israelites when it really comes down to it Was there a thought, question? Right. And the more we see it it may be hard to see that in real time, even for us in our lives But by God's grace he often allows us to look back and see how far he's brought us and what does that produce in us? Joy, thankfulness, humility. God's doing this. I certainly didn't accomplish that. And also, probably and hopefully it gives us a more cooperative spirit with him going forward. So yeah, the question is, what are some of the legalistic kind of things that people would add to the gospel in order for them to Um well, I say the gospel, but also what we're just talking about in terms of our submission to the Holy Spirit's work of sanctification in our lives. What are things we need to to check off? Well, I don't know, lots of people have come up with all sorts of things that maybe in good in uh good intentions, saying, I'm gonna commit myself to doing this, and then that becomes a law. Like, um I'm not going to um there are lots of traditional things. Like I'm I'm not gonna play cards Because card playing involves gambling. Gambling's a sin. I'm not going to give any appearance to sin, so I'm going to not do any playing of cards. I would also say like dress code too. Dress code nominations that they women can or PL. Right. Now a lot of these things have a kernel of wisdom and truth in them. But what are they omitting? Where is the heart? Where is the motive? Where is the the um what is it that causes these things to be sin or associated with sin Uh it's right to disassociate ourselves from sin, but if something is not inherently sin, like there are plenty of card games that don't involve gambling Than a a um across the board uh one size fits all rule that not only is for me and my personal sanctification, but I'm enforcing it with others as well. Yeah then it it becomes a legalistic requirement that's not a biblical requirement. Yeah, and if if we're thinking that God keeps track, he has the ultimate register of all the boxes that have been checked in our lives, and we're implicitly thinking that if we've got more checked off than not, then we're going to have better standing before him. We've missed the whole point. Right? And again, a lot of those things may be very wholesome, very biblical, and whatever, but they're not the basis. Doing them is not the basis for our right standing before God. That's the point. Hopefully a lot of these things, the things that do have wisdom and purity and so on, are things that we would want to do um just as a natural outcome or outflow of our walk with God, trying to please him. Um But it's particularly heinous really when we impose our our box checking list on other people and judge them according to how well they check off their those boxes, our boxes. That's that's not very helpful. Why would that be our mindset? Yeah. Um I think it's because we're all subject to our pride. We're all subject to the presumption that we need to present ourselves acceptable to God in our own merits That's a prideful saying. And if we understood our merits, we would realize we have we don't have anything to stand on. And so we need to rely completely on God and the righteousness of Christ, the sacrifice of Christ, his paying for our sins. That's the basis for our right standing with God. And these various good things we would do, if they truly are good, they're the result of that, not the cause of it And so in Ephesians two, uh when he says um For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, as a gift of God, not as a result of works, lest anyone should boast. The very next verse he says, For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works. So the good works are the result of that salvation, not the cause of it. And yet we trick ourselves into thinking, in our fleshly trifle frame of mind that the more we do to show that we have that we're acceptable enough to God. Um the more we do the better. It's just checking those boxes and it has nothing to do with our right standing. Because he he r he views our righteousness like filthy rags. Right. So So are we saying there's really nothing we can do that is pleasing to God? There's nothing we can do that God would put on his list as reasons why he should let us into heaven. But now that we are his children through the blood of Christ Um he is enabling us to do right things. Uh not because of our abilities or whatever, but because he enables us to bear fruit according to righteousness. Um and the more it's clear that this is God working through us, not our efforts the more it's clear both to us and to a watching world that this is God doing this, not us. And which do you think brings God more glory? Yes. That's a good question. Well it's it's important to evaluate the ultimately the heart of our desire to see happiness. Because like if you look at like the relationship with you and your spouse, you want to please them not to earn their favor but as an extension of your love for the so we ultimately want our desire to please God It's to be for our out of our love for him not to earn favor and I think difficult line for us to Yeah. We're used to thinking what's in it for me. Right. rather than what's in it for someone else, and in this case what's in it for God. It's it's the very nature of worship. It's not about us. It's about God. What he gets out of it, not what we get out of it. Now the the graciousness of God is that not only Is he blessed by being the object of our worship in a genuine sense? But so are we. But if that's our motive, what do we get out of it? We're probably going to fall short Anyway, we better wrap up. Let's uh let's close the breath.