We're just uh reviewing Paul's five rhetorical questions he asks here in chapter three. And we're currently on number three. Having begun by the spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? And Doug has a question. Is it a rhetorical question? It looks like there's another rhetorical question that says, in at least in the NASB Are you s are you foolish? He's already called them foolish in ch in verse one, isn't he? And now he's asking who would eat it. So um again, this uh being perfected here ha refers To our progressive sanctification in Christ, becoming more holy, more Christ-like. And his question to them, is that happening because you're working it out in your own? Flash is what you use. I mean it works your your uh your own efforts, uh whether it be the works of the law or any other works, and the answer of course is what No, I mean we can't do that. If that could happen, then it would have been very typical of people under the wall. The law would have made them more and more holy, but it didn't. And so again, we're going to get to the question, what was the purpose of the law? Correct. Paul comes to that question. Um but right now he's setting up the the the realization that the law can't do any of that. And and so uh it's it's not a preparation for becoming a Christian uh uh on an individual basis Um and it should become obvious. And so he's asking these questions, because they're obvious, to help them realize that um um the law or works of any kind doesn't really cut the mission. Okay. And then number four. Did you suffer so many things in vain? Um The word suffer there, uh, you know, we think of painful experiences, but mostly what it's getting at here is just experience. Is it something that you've experienced? Have you gone through these things? Uh what things? Well, they've come to Christ. They have um uh the Holy Spirit, they have peace with God. Um they're beginning to see the the fruit of the Spirit in their lives. Uh lots of things they could point to having come to Christ. And so have you experienced all these things? Um For not. I mean d do they don't don't teach you anything? I guess is what he's asking. Um And that again, all of the the things that they're experiencing, the this growth in Christ, the peace with God, and so on, it's all a gift of God It didn't come about as a result of their human effort. They needed to cooperate with God and submit to Him, sure. But Uh it wasn't something that they churned out in their own effort. Right. Okay. And then fifth, he kind of wraps it all together here, when he says, Does he who provides you with the Spirit and works miracles among you? Do it by works of the law or by hearing with faith? They undoubtedly had it had witnessed maybe uh from uh the ministry of of Paul or or maybe others, that there actually were s miracles that were done in their presence. It was a convincing proof that the message they were delivering was from God. Um But his question is again, did that all happen because of of works and following the law, or was it God's intervention? Um that you responded to with faith. And They knew that their their experience, their their um um coming to Christ and all the things that were were happening amongst them were not because of the law. uh not because of any human effort, but because God was proclaiming the truth through his messengers, the apostles and others Um and they responded to that by faith. So I think it's safe to assume that after they read those five rhetorical questions, and possibly six, depending on how you read it, that they realized, okay, he's making a strong point here. And let's put things in context. I think actually the third question For me anyway, is one of the critical ones he's asking here. Having begun by the Spirit, so they they They readily understood that they came to Christ by the Spirit. Are you now being perfected by the flesh? Now that's a question he could also ask his Jewish friends, who were believers. And us. And us, yeah. You know, if we came to Christ by grace through faith, then um What makes us think that we're gonna perfect ourselves by our own effort? Uh whether it's keeping the law, keeping whatever rules and do's and don'ts and whatever. Um if those things weren't possi w weren't uh able to bring us to Christ, what seems uh how would we think that those things would uh Um make us more like Christ. Now that's tricky because um Whereas Ephesians 2, 8 and 9 says, For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, as a gift of God, not as a result of works, lest anyone should boast, right? But you know what the next verse is? Verse 10? For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, that we would walk in them So the point is that the good works are not the basis of salvation, but they're Well, an a a result and an an outcome of the salvation. And As God gradually changes us by His own sovereign sanctifying work to become more and more like Christ, Those works are going to, you know, by works, what are we talking about? Righteousness, living like Christ, doing what is right. Things that we wouldn't have done apart from God's intervention in our lives. And God created us for good works that we would walk in them, it says, Ephesians 2. 10. Yeah. You know I think it's really um remarkable that um But I see they put it in your on your very last sentence under number five. Now poetry is the word works in a real in a really smart way. I mean it's not our work, I mean people saying it's not our work, but it's God who works and others is working and it's a miracle And um see that's just enlightening because having not grown up in the Protestant church or in the Catholic Church, you know, it's taught you're going to go to heaven. It's all about, you know, you're going to go to heaven, you're going to go to heaven and yet It's that's not the way it is. And it's just for anyone who um wasn't taught that at the beginning and then to have your brain switch, it's very difficult. So, um Yeah, well, you know I think I'm convinced anyway that every human being is inclined to think that um Well, God created us with a conscience and a soul and um People naturally understand that there is a God. We didn't just happen. And uh he's the creator. Now people suppress that um in unrighteousness, Romans 1 says. But deep down they know that there is a God. And I think most people around the world, every culture, all throughout time Their natural natural disposition is to want to uh Please God, our Creator, and the assumption is the way to please Him is to show ourselves good To do good works. And so you look at every religion out there except for biblical Christianity, it's all about works. It's not just Catholicism. It's it's everything out there is trying to better ourselves to make ourselves acceptable um before God And that's why the gospel is so um revolutionary. It's good news Because none of those other things work. Um but it's a natural Predisposition in the human heart, and we as believers are not exempt from it yet, even We tend to get tricked, deceived, as Paul says, into thinking that our efforts are something other than filthy rags before God Uh even after we're we're saved. And so we constantly have to be reminded that we need to um Cooperate with the work of the Holy Spirit who lives within us, he's the one producing Christ-likeness. in us we have to cooperate with him, obey him. Uh when he convicts us of sin, how should we respond? cooperatively. Right? One of the ways and and we'll talk about that later here in Galatians, but one of the ways um The Holy Spirit builds that Christ-likeness in us, is tapping us on the shoulder, saying You know that wasn't a very godly remark, was it? Or that wasn't a very god-pleasing thought or action. And so he convicts us of something that we know is already true. Um and if our response to that is um i to ignore it Or to rationalize well everybody else, though I mean it's not that big a deal, right? Um then he ups the temperature, ups the pressure on us because he loves us. He doesn't want us to wallow in our sin. Um And as we respond to that conviction of the Holy Spirit by humility and repentance, And we forsake the sin, what's happening? We become more like Christ the more he allows us and enables us to forsake the sin. And we think we're good to go, but no, he brings something else in our way. And uh patiently, one step at a time, chipping away at the things that are not honoring to God in our lives And we don't all go down the same path, but it's all basically the same process. He's making us more and more like Christ. And um Yeah, so people who are very entrenched in the whole idea of works and that it's official um probably have a harder time switching switching gears, as you will. But really it's it's so natural for everybody, the whole human race, because of our pride. To rely on works, to rely on superficial works, even. rather than genuine, from the heart, pure motive, reliance on God and uh God's enablement We're gonna get there. Galatians has a lot. Uh about the okay, so where do we go from here? We get to chapters uh five and six particularly Um but uh actually I thought what you were going to mention there, um Patty, is inverse um Five. He uses the word works. Um In another way. That that God is working or has been working. Does he who provides you with the Spirit and works miracles among you, he's the one working those miracles Right? Not you. Um and so there's an interesting contrast at who whose works count. It's the works of God, not the works of us He's also contracting face of works the whole time doing this. The whole time, right. Faced versus works, for sure. Brilliant. Yep. Yep. Yeah. Okay. Any other thoughts, questions so far? Yeah. I there's a lot and it's like you said, there's so much slipperiness about hanging on to this but when when I do kind of like mentally get my head into this whole thing this brings so much peace. Uh because otherwise I'm I feel like I'm just waving at the air. to try to make something happen in my life, but this is telling me, no stop. Stop waving in the air and rest in Christ. Yeah. And that that just puts me in the right place and allows things to yeah. You know, that's that's an interesting point because um If someone is trying to earn salvation by their works, what assurance do they have of heaven? Zero, right? Because they'll never know if they're good enough. Well actually they will know. I I'm I'm I'm I'm trying, but I'm still not able to even meet my standards, let alone God's. Right? But the same is true for Christians. Um That, as Doug was saying, if we're relying on works to become more Christ-like as a believer, and we see that our efforts aren't really producing Christ-likeness. And then we see that no, Christ is trying to live his life through us with the Holy Spirit's enablement. It doesn't mean that we're puppets and we're doing nothing, but where is the power? Where is the source of of initiative and strength? It's all coming from God. which which takes up a lot of the burden, well it takes all of the burden off of us. Ours is just to obey, submit, enjoy. Uh be humble because it's going to be a humbling process. Um but there's peace in that because it doesn't depend on us. Yeah. And and so if you get victory over a particular area of sin where the Holy Spirit has convicted you, you've responded well and you actually have forsaken it and you're making progress going forward, you look back at that and you say God did that. Rejoice in that, right? All the more confidence now that when he convicts me of something else My response ought not to be defensive, but rather cooperative with what he's doing. Because I've seen him make that change in my life so far, I need to continue cooperating with him And the more cooperative we are, um, it's still gonna be humbling, but it's gonna be not this up and down roller coaster kind of a thing. It's gonna be more uh even the process will be God honoring. So that's cool. Yes. I have we're going through this and it's just about like okay if you know the Holy Spirit is the one that is you know, and you know, um influencing and instruct you know, instructing and and it's taking part of this, then You know, and then we're saying, you know, on the other hand that when we, you know, do do some good deeds that um you know, that it's called filthy rags. I'm just curious if God is part of it. It seems like you want to say, well part of it, you know, it's good because God is influencing, God is the one in you know, working through us. So you know, but yet we're calling it filthy rags. Is it filthy because it's not perfect? Like it's not under perfect character and when it's being Done or yeah, well um Usually that passage that refers to our righteousness as being as filthy rags, it's understood in the context of um The basis for our salvation. So what are we relying on for salvation? It's also true, I think, in our life as believers in our process of sanctification where we're becoming more like Christ as we're shedding some of that sin progressively. But in our process of sanctification, the issue is um Whose quote when it comes to salvation initially, the question is, um what is the basis I'm relying on for my salvation? Is it Christ's work or my work? And that's we've got that, we're we're past that. We've we've done that. We're relying on Christ. But as a Christian, the question is Where is the power to live like Christ coming from? Yeah. Is it coming from me or is it coming from Christ through the Holy Spirit? And that's what I'm saying, and that's kinda why I'm like the If it's you know, if God is working through us then it's kind of God doing it, so it's kind of weird. What would we say filthy brag You know what I mean? Right. So I think that's what I was hearing. It's like we're saying that But we're you know, when God is working in and through us and He is the one that's you know, we're going through that process. Right. You know, that we were kind of stating it as is what we do, you know what we do is the filthy rag. I guess you're saying like But we can we can um produce filthy rags as believers as well. If we're trying to become Christ like in our own effort. Yes. Or we're doing it with the motive of people who are watching me are going to be very impressed. My heart is not right. Right. Right. That's filthy rags. Yeah, and I was just gonna add to you that even as Christians Right it's our human nature that we still take pride in that something. You know, like during the process. Yeah. And so like you were saying It's really the motivation understanding what you're doing. Even if it starts out like God enabling and and we're humble to that somewhere during the process it's like oh spin so even in the midst of good works. Right, right. Yeah, for in addition to our our life after death, I I also think that um salvation by Greece through faith has a big impact on our relationships with each other in the present. And in the Old Testament, it's interesting how being unclaimed Force people to go away. Um you know, if they had like blood on their clothes, they had to go out of the camp for a while and then come back And then in Ephesians, Paul talks about salvation by grace through faith, destroying the barrier between Jews and Gentiles. So that there can be this new group of people who are in God's family because they have they have faith. So yeah, without a doubt the the whole aspect of of our life after death is is really important, but it also just has a big impact on our relationships with one another um in the present. And Being in community with each other is not a matter of circumcision or uh kosher eating uh or ritual cleanliness, it's a matter of faith. Um that that's that's one of the things that I take away from it. And then you know, the next verse talks about being a child of Abraham. And I again it's just like the theme of family comes from comes up again, it's like, who's in God's family? Is it is it the law keepers? Is it the circumcised? No, it's actually people who have faith in Jesus. Right. And if God is their father, then their their brothers and sisters would be Amen. Yeah. Yeah, it's not it's it's it's primarily um getting our relationship and walk with God right, but that has ramifications with others. Right. Well, you mentioned Abraham. Let's let's go to verses six through nine. Um Paul, here in Galatians, elsewhere, notably in Romans, he appeals to Abraham to make this point. And so he says, is quoting directly from the accounts in Genesis, He doesn't say remember, because he's not primarily speaking to Jews here, but to even so Abraham believed God and was reckoned to him as righteousness. So what was the basis of it was reckoned to him, it was imputed to him, it was put in his account with God as righteousness So what was what what is righteousness? Doing the right thing. Right? Good works. That's righteousness. And so what was what did Abraham do that was credited as righteousness? He believed God. He took God at his word. That's essentially what faith is, taking God at His Word. It's not a blind faith, because the faith is is in God who said it And so when we take God at His Word, we're not disobeying, grumbling, whatever. Abraham, what was the context here? Uh God had not told him a whole lot, but he told him to um Pack up his things and go to this land you've never been to before. And he did that out of obedience. And uh then here in um Genesis um fifteen Oh God told him he was gonna bless him. And he was going to give him the land that he's in. And he was going to have numerous descendants, too many to count And at this point how many did he have? Zero. Um and it says that Abraham believed him. He took God at his word. Now you see in the rest of Genesis, and we've been reading through it, right, in the worship service, that He was very much still a work in process because he didn't always act as if he believed God and taking him in his word. But when God actually said that to him He believed it. And God and and so that's that's a relationship with God based on what God has said and a faith response to it Now what's interesting is, um when was the law given? But it was hundreds of years later that um God raised up Moses and gave him the law and and whatever. Um And Abraham's, you know, he he didn't have a law to obey. All he had to obey was God Himself. And to believe God to take him at his word and obey. And so he's a great example. And so I make the point here, believing God's promise and acting accordingly is doing the right thing. That's righteousness. Taking God at His Word. So the Jews claimed to have God's favor by virtue of being ape children of Abraham. And you saw Jesus at several times have to address that. that um statement from the Pharisees, particularly, well we're children of Abraham. You know, like we're we're chosen people, right? Um and And yet Paul's gonna be making here, as he does in Romans, a um Uh you know again, think about that, people. How was Abraham saved? Was he saved by the keeping of the law? No. He took God at his word and obeyed him. And so Abraham in fact is well In verse nine he says, so then those who are of faith are blessed with Abraham, the believer. And then later he says, um The children of Abraham, the true children of Abraham are those who are of faith, because they're following Abraham's example. Major point. Okay. We're going to talk about uh circumcision because that's usually the the the test that Judaizers will will seek to apply. Um And in that case, they can appeal to Abraham because circumcision wasn't really intro it wasn't at all introduced by the law, it was introduced to Abraham as part of the covenant that God made with him. So we'll talk about that. Anyway, uh some questions here. What's the relationship between hearing and faith? You might remember this passage from Romans 10. How then will they call on him whom they have not believed? And how will they believe in him whom they have not heard? And how will they hear without a preacher? How will they preach unless they are sent? Just as it says written, how beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news of good things. However, they did not all heed the good news, for Isaiah says, Lord, who has believed our report? So, faith comes from hearing, and hearing by the Word of Christ. So by God's Sovereign will, um faith in him comes as a result of hearing or reading, being exposed to um his His word, not just generally his word, but his demands on us to be submissive and obedient to him. Um if we take God at His Word that there is hope in Christ, there is forgiveness in Christ, um, then that is Saving faith. We're depending on that rather than our works. And the beauty of it is that The source of that faith is God Himself. And He produces it from the hearing of His Word, which ought to emphasize to us the importance of uh using scripture when seeking to evangelize unbelievers. It's it's the word of God that uh produces faith by God's God's power. Uh there's a lot to be said for having um actions and character and and so on ourselves so as not to undermine the message, but it's the scriptures that God uses to change hearts and to draw people to Himself. not our um eloquence or or even our good works. They can be they can help to re reinforce the message, kind of illustrate the truth of the message But ultimately it's God's word that he uses to bring people to himself. Okay. Look at the top of page 31. I think the other questions we sort of covered. But I find it interesting, I don't know if you did, where inverse 8. It says the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham. So in what ways, when he says, all the nations will be blessed in you, is that the gospel message? Well it's a promise from God. It's not something that we do or or uh something that that we work out with God. It's just His unilateral promise. It's also unconditional. Which again runs foreign to most people's mindset that they have to do their part. in order to be saved. They have to live up to certain standards. And and and so um You know, there are multiple covenants that God made with people. Um One of the the first major ones was the covenant with Noah, right? It had the the rainbow as a as a sign of the covenant God said, um, I'm not going to bring another flood to destroy the whole earth. And it's a covenant between me and you as humans, as well as all the animals. Um That covenant was unconditional. God didn't tell Noah, if you do this I will bless you, and if you don't do this, I will curse you. That was not the Noaic covenant. It was unilateral. God said, This is what I'm going to do. The covenant with Abraham is the same way, unconditional. No strings attached. God said, This is what I'm going to do. And part some of the multiple times that God relayed this to Abraham particularly the um the promised land Early on, God said, I will give you this land, as far as the eye can see. But um I forget which which maybe it's Genesis 22. But one of the times God repeated that covenant with him, he put it in the past tense, I have given you this land. It's a done deal. It's all unilateral. That is, it's God's initiative, God's work, and not not anybody else's. It was unilateral and unconditional, no strings attached But you get to the law, the law of Moses, it was very conditional. Where um the Deuteronomy is it nineteen? Where it says, if you do all these things and in obedience I will bless you, but if you disobey 'em, all these curses are going to be on you. And what did they do? They disobeyed and they got all the curses. Right? Um the law was very conditional. It had a reason, it had a point, and we're going to get there But every other covenant God entered into was unconditional, including this one with Abraham. He just said, this is what I'm going to do And that's sort of the nature of salvation. It's unconditional. God doesn't invite us to become Christians if you do X, Y, and Z. But he saves us not on the basis of our works, but on his work. It's unconditional. We do need to cooperate. We need to respond in faith and repentance, but God is even the source of that faith and repentance. So it's it's no strings attached. Yes. I was not thinking about don't respect what I can see because it's on, but also about the limit game. We're not prepared for what's happening Right. So even the promise of about lasting life is tied to believing and not just like imagine I don't think well um yeah being unilateral and unconditional doesn't mean that we don't have a proper response. And look at Abraham as an example. Abraham didn't believe God and then go off and act as if he didn't believe God. He responded, and his faith his his response of faith was what? Obedience. Um it wasn't the things he did that merited the the blessing that God was promising. But his following through on his faith, his obedience was evidence of the faith, and it's the same with us That God gives us the gift of repentance to turn to forsake sin and the gift of faith to embrace Him alone as the basis for our salvation, but there is a proper exercise of that faith and repentance, uh cooperating with him to um um um yield to him, to obey him. Um he gives us the strength to do it, but um Well, like like Ephesians 2. 10, you know, 8 and 9 says, For by grace you have been saved through faith, not not by works, let's say in which both, but verse 10 says, We're created for good works. We're created in Christ Jesus for good works that we should walk in them. So the walking in them is obedience. It doesn't earn us anything. It's the natural result of the faith that's already there. Right. So your reference to John three sixteen is the same thing, that um whoever believes in him will have eternal life. That belief is like Abraham's belief, it's taking God at his word and then acting accordingly. Now, there's no works that are justifying us. The works are the result of that faith. And so the other interesting thing here in Abraham's example, or the gospel preached to him, is it's It's a message for the entire world. And you would have thought that would have been front and center in the thinking of the Jews. that God had even with Abraham said that the whole the world's going to be blessed through you. Now I guess what they took that to mean was, oh, they're all going to become Jews too. But He says all the nations will be blessed in you. They're not going to lose their nationhood. They're gonna they're gonna be blessed through God's blessing to Abraham. Anyway, some good application questions here. Um They're not really rhetorical either. Are you seeking to become Christlike by your own efforts? If it's by your own efforts, that's not a good thing. We do need to obey, we need to be humble, but where's the power coming from? should be God, not us. Is your faith, like Abraham's, a full reliance on what God has said, which results in obedience, or are you trying to Prove yourself worthy by your own effort. It's tempting because there's no strings attached To say, oh, I'm saved. Um my future is secure in Christ. Therefore I can just kind of coast What's going on in the heart there? Basically lukewarm rebellion. It's not being cooperative with what he's trying to do. Um Why do you suppose and I guess we'll close on this, we'll get to it more in chapter five, but why do you suppose When God saves somebody, he doesn't just zap them up to heaven or zap them with perfect Christ-likeness Right on the spot. You think he could do that? He could. Why do you why do you think he makes it a process? Yeah. Yeah, I think both we and others Um can glorify God. I mean the the process itself brings glory to God. Um As a testimony of look I can see with my very own eyes that person didn't used to r respond that way. But God is doing a work in that person's life and um uh that's a good thing. Praise God. I can say that you we can each say that of of our own lives. We can look back and say, wow, I've come a long way. You know, sometimes going going from one day to the next you really can't see a lot of progress But it's helpful to look where you've come from and to give praise to God that that he's brought you even this far and therefore I'm all the more willing to keep going. Well it is connected with evangelism, isn't it? Exactly. He could have chosen to um be the only evangelist you know, write it in the sky or or appear to them as an angel or something and and each person would get the message um individually. But he's chosen to use us Us broken sinful people can actually be the bearer of good news to other broken sinful people, and God gets the glory. Amen. Well, we need the breaks so we can give God the glory and worship. Let's pray