Well good morning. We are coming down the home stretch in Galatians. We're on lesson twelve. in the middle of and actually wrapping up chapter five of Galatians. I'm on page 58 in the notes if you've got those. And I'll go ahead and Read here from the first three verses. For you were called to freedom, brethren, only do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh But through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in the statement, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, take care that you are not consumed by one another. So Um mostly up until now in Galatians we have seeing Paul's uh clarification, many clarifications of um the the purity of the gospel, right? So that it's it's um our salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. And adding any kind of works to that on our part as a requirement for salvation is um Anathema. It's just um completely contrary to what Christ has done for us and what God offers as a free gift And so he's been very strong about that, right? Um but that does raise the question So um does that mean we shouldn't do anything? I mean we're we're free from the the the law Um does that mean that there are no requirements placed on us and or can we just do whatever we want? Um like in Romans six here, um it says, What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may increase May it never be. How shall we who die to sin still live in it? So there is that that sort of logical Um misstep. You know, if if someone realizes that because eternal life is a free gift, there's nothing we can do to earn it And all of our sins, past, present, and future, are paid for, then in our Flesh, where does our logic take us? We can do anything we want, we're still saved. We're still forgiven. Right? And so Paul says, well Um what should we say then? Are we to continue in sin? But you know, the more we sin, the more God's grace is going to be on display because He's forgiving us. Should that be our outlook on how to live the Christian life? And he says, May it never be. It doesn't li th that's not God's logic, right? And so here in Galatians, he's he's getting to a similar point that he makes in Romans in in more detail. It says you are called to freedom, only don't turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but what? Through love, serve one another. So uh there may be not only a fleshly desire, but even a logical miscalculation that we can sin all we want and it doesn't matter. But it does matter. Doesn't believe that if you are are truly involved with the Holy Spirit that you're not going to be able to just live in unrepented. Absolutely. So God has a built-in um check, I guess is you know, like checks and balances. So if someone is truly saved Uh the Holy Spirit's living inside of each believer doesn't leave, right? And so when we do sin, what happens? Conviction. And sometimes often it's immediate. Sometimes it may take a while if we're a little bit hard headed. But um God doesn't leave us alone in that condition. And so whose responsibility is it ultimately that we become conformed to the image of Christ? Ultimately, it's God's work in us that accomplishes that. It's not our work. But what is our part? To cooperate, right? So when we are convicted of sin, our response ought to be, You're right, Lord. Help me to overcome that. Let me forsake that, right? And it's a process. And often we have to repent of that very same thing again. We're hard headed. But often it does uh result in a a permanent forsaking of that sin, and we are in fact becoming more like Christ. And that's that's how it should happen. So there is that built in check. Um and and so someone who is a An unbeliever does that very same thing, doesn't have that internal conviction or struggle, right? But a Christian does, and God uses that to to um get our attention, get us to see um where we should be headed, uh prompting us to forsake that sin and and follow him instead. So God does that. But we need to cooperate with it. And one of the cooperations is what he's saying here, through love, serve one another. And so I've Listed here a number of passages from 1 Corinthians, 1 Peter, Mark, and 1 John. You can imagine a lot more from the New Testament that give us some insight about how we should um serve one another out of love. Ephesians 4 is another good example. But that, you know, he quotes here in verse 14, You shall love your neighbor as yourself, which you remember when when Jesus was asked what's the greatest commandment, what did he say? Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And then he said the second, most important, is like it, love your neighbor as yourself. And And he said those two really encapsulate all of the the law, that is the moral um uh the moral core of the law and the requirements of the law and how we should um go about life. The I don't know if you've noticed, but the Ten Commandments. Um Are the first four of the Ten Commandments are all about loving God, and the last six are all about loving your neighbor as yourself. So here, when he's saying the whole law is fulfilled in one word, the statement you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Um I've got this question at the bottom of page fifty nine. Why do you think Paul didn't mention the greatest commandment here to love God? He's focusing really only on the second the second most greatest commandment, to love your neighbor as yourself. So I've I've added here that passage from 1 John 4, where John writes, If someone says, I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar, for the one who does not love his brother, whom he has seen, cannot love God whom he has not seen. So there's a certain extent to which the degree to which we love our neighbor Is going to reflect how much we genuinely love God. Because we're loving our neighbor because we love God. And in our case, because of what He's done for us. and uh so on. So um the context here in in Galatians where it says in verse 13, do not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh. But here's what you should do. And so it's the loving your neighbor part that's what you should be doing. Right? You should um uh Love your neighbor as yourself. Um so there's a a very real sense in which If our service to other people and our demonstration of love to other people is rooted in our love and obedience to God then that's going to bear fruit and it's going to be visible and it's going to be a a positive testimony. Okay. Well, and jumping back up in the middle of page 59, I I note here that if we demonstrate that we love others as much as we love ourselves Most of us don't have a problem loving ourselves. He says, Love your neighbor as yourself. Um We're not commanded to love ourselves, it's presumed that that's part of our problem. We we take care of ourselves, we put ourselves as first. Um but we should um treat others as more important than ourselves, right? Anyway, if we if we um Love others as much as we love ourselves, we fulfill all the moral demands of the law. So loving others is not the basis for our justification, that is our salvation but it's the natural, inevitable result of having been justified by God's grace. And so here Paul is is kind of getting at this question, okay, you've got all this doctrinal purity of the gospel And it's a free gift. There's nothing we can do to earn it or to add to what Christ has done. But there are some implications of that in living it out. Right, and so loving our neighbor as ourself is is a a good um a good barometer in many ways of the quality of our our love for God. Okay. Well there's a question here under part B on page fifty-nine. In what sense are we free? It says here, you were called to freedom, brethren, right? You're uh free from the law. So in what sense Are we free if we are obligated to love and serve both God and others? Doesn't sound like freedom if we have an obligation. So what's going on there Okay, sin doesn't have a hold on us, a pull. Okay, so we're we're free from the bondage to sin. Free to do good works. We're freed up to do good works. Okay. And as Paul makes it clear, particularly in Romans, we're no longer slaves to sin. But we are slaves to God, right? Um which means that God didn't create us to be Um our own masters. Often people refer to us as having free will Uh uh biblically it's best not to use that word free in front of will. Uh who alone has free will? God. He can do whatever he wants. He's God. Now we do have a will. We do have a capacity to choose because we're created in his image. We have intellect, emotion, will, but our will is limited by his sovereignty. He's the one with the free will. And we know that our will is not completely free. We weren't designed to have a completely free will because God holds us accountable. He held Adam and Eve accountable for their choices, right? They were able to choose, but he held them accountable just as he holds us accountable for our choices. Um so we're not free in the sense of having no boundaries, no constraints. Um there is God's morality, and that is, you know, love your neighbor as yourself. Um Uh in God's morality, um we have great obligations. towards him, towards one another. Uh it was that way even from the beginning, before sin. Adam and Eve had those obligations and boundaries and so on. And so really the only question is who are we serving? Are we serving our creator, our master, or are we serving ourselves? If we're serving our creator, our master, then we have obligations to also serve other people. in his name. I was just gonna say, I mean, I love that, you know, God allowed us to make these choices, to make choices I was listening to a a um a sermon this week and and I know you all heard it before that, you know, he didn't we're not puppets. He didn't program all of us to do and follow. We're given this you know, this choice that We either wanna honor him, we wanna follow him, or we don't, you know, that ultimately, whatever every decision we make we're gonna have to be held accountable to it. So I just love that. But no one forced me to this. Yeah. And and um kind of what you're saying. Yeah, good point. And you know when you think about uh animals How how how do they make choices? It's by instinct. God designed them to He wired them in their own each species with its own unique uh behavior and characteristics. Um um but humans We we don't operate from instinct. We operate from um a conscience And God's morality, and we can make choices within those boundaries, but we're accountable for them. Animals There's no accountability needed because they don't have a living soul. So of course the world out there thinks that we're basically the same as animals. Right? But no, we are created in God's image to have uh the ability to choose within God's boundaries And he holds us accountable. Okay. So our freedom, don't interpret that word as meaning anything goes Because it doesn't. God's created us to operate within his moral framework, his his boundaries that he's allowed us to choose within. And uh we're either uh his servants or um we're serving ourselves Okay. Well let's go then to page 60, where we pick up the rest of the chapter. Walking by the Spirit. And he writes here, but I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. For the flesh sets its desire against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. For these are in opposition to one another, so that you may not do the things that you please But, if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the deeds of the flesh are evident, which are Immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmities, drife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions envyings, drunkenness, carousing, and things like these. It's a short list. Could be a lot longer. Of which I forewarn you, just as I have forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things, there is no law. Now those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. Let us not become boastful, challenging one another, envying one another. So as he's making this transition to the the application of the gospel in our lives, becoming more like Christ Um the the command here is to walk by the Spirit. Um that word walk suggests Um it's a process, step by step by step, consistency, yet there's direction, that kind of thing. Um so the way we conduct ourselves in Christ would be characterized by the Spirit's leading. by staying within the the moral framework that God has provided and relying on the Spirit to keep us in check. Um because that desire of the flesh, referred to in verse sixteen, is always there. It hasn't been zapped. And we need to do battle with it. In fact, it says the flesh sets its desire against the spirit and the spirit against the flesh. There's a there's a battle going on here And in the life of an unbeliever, that battle's not there. They're just given over to the flesh and their conscience is hardened or seared or whatever it might be, um, unless God can awaken them and draw them to himself. But in the life of a believer, you've got that tug of war going on. Do I surrender to the desires of the flesh or am I submitted to to God? And am I following the the the lead of the Holy Spirit and and responding correctly to his conviction in my life? Or am I trying to ignore that? That's not very successful. You try to ignore the the conviction of the Holy Spirit, right? Um He'll do whatever it takes to keep us from disaster. Sometimes he'll let us learn the hard way, but um he's not gonna allow us to wallow in our sin. For sure. Anyway, so he gives this contrast here, right? The flesh sets its desire against the spirit By the way, um I made a note here on verse seventeen where it sets its desire against kind of brings up the the picture we have in Genesis four particularly, four seven. If you remember We had the story of Cain and Abel, they were making sacrifices, and Cain's sacrifice was not acceptable to the Lord. Uh presumably the Lord had given some instructions and he went outside those instructions. Um and but God's Admonition to Cain was be careful, sin is crouching at the door. Um And it's the way it the way God put it there, and the way it's written in Genesis 4 is sin's desire is for you, but you must master it Right? Now is sin's desire for you a good thing or a bad thing? That's a bad thing, right? And that's and you see that here as well. The um uh the flesh sets its desire against the spirit. You know, that's normally when we think of desire, often well, after Often anyway, we think, well, that's a good thing, to desire something that's that's good. But here the desire is a desire to want to control And that's exactly what um God was telling Cain in Genesis 4, sin's desire is to control you, but you must master it. What's interesting is in Genesis three sixteen, the very previous um chapter, God was giving Eve her sentencing following their sin. And what did God say to her? That In in pain? In childbirth you will have pain and your desire will be for your husband and he will control you, basically. He will have uh headship over you. Genesis 316 and 4. 7 use the exact same construction. Um and in the one case it's sin wanting to desire that is control um cane, but cane you're supposed to master it. And the other case it's um Eve is going to have a desire over or uh for her husband, but he's going to rule over her The desire there in Genesis 3 for Eve is not a good desire. It's a desire to control. to step out of God's ordained hierarchy within the family for her to want to control him Um and just like the pain and childbirth, this is a consequence of sin. And uh there's only one other passage in the Old Testament that uses that word desire. The first two are here in Genesis 3 and Genesis 4. The other time is in the Song of Solomon where it says, I am my beloved and his desire is for me. Is that a good desire or a bad desire? That one's good. Same word, different context. And the four uh in Song of Solomon really is the word for. It's a positive thing. The the for uh desire for you in Genesis three and Genesis four is a different word. It's not the same word as used in Solomon. Song of Solomon. The for there is more like this, it's more against. It's a desire to control. Um anyway Paul's using a very similar structure here about what's going on in the life of a believer. You've got sin and its desire to control you, and uh the spirit working in you is opposed, right? And so we need to cooperate with the spirits controlling or um uh opposition to the flesh. Okay, well it does set up that contrast, right? We're either we're either um submitted to and obeying the flesh over submitted to and obeying the spirit. So it it's one or the other And we can't persist with both. So the list of living by the flesh that he provides here In verses 19 through 21, I've listed on page 61 in two categories. Self-gratification. We all know what self-gratification is, right? Gratifying the the flesh, fleshly desires and how it makes us feel. We f and so it's it's pursuing it's it's all about us, right? But then the other category is self-legislation. And that's where this control comes in, wanting to control others through enmities, strife, jealousy. anger, disputes. Um and again, it's all about us wanting to get our way. And the self-gratification is about getting our um Well, gratification. Uh how it makes us feel, and so on. Now in both cases Where does where does it leave? Where does self-gratification leave? You know, I want to do these things because I feel good when I do them, but where does that lead? Bondage. Bondage. Is that away from God? Away from God. But is the thing that we're uh the various things that we're doing for self-gratification does it ultimately gratify? That's the that's the sting of it, isn't? All the things that we think are fun and and helpful and pleasing to us If we're motivated by sin, where does that lead us? It leads us into things that really aren't all that pleasant. Right. Yeah. Short term immediate uh Gratification versus long term. Versus long term. Ease, joy, big contrast. Yes. Right. Um and so for example, one of them listed here is drunkenness. So what happens after you get drunk? You think you're having a great time, what happens after you get drunk? You've got a hangover. And um probably a headache and all sorts of things. Um and so Self-gratification is for sure very short-sighted. It's it's not leading to anything that's long lasting. And that's how people get into things that are addictive and and harmful and so on. So What's underlying the the self-gratification is a desire for something that um Well, gratifies, looking for fulfillment and and so on, but is short-sighted when it's looking for things that give only temporary um uh a temporary and even false sense of gratification. But isn't that anything besides uh I mean most things are just giving you momentary satisfaction. Yeah. So Yes. Yes. So um that's the way it is with things that appear appealing. Um but if we don't get our satisfaction from God or from uh more generally God's will for us then we're looking in the wrong places. And the irony, of course, is we're looking for fulfillment and so on, and we're unfulfilled because we're going at it against God's design. Oh, I was just gonna say it's it's so officable today because the way the world is and you know if we look at our children I mean that's what I try to emphasize as a parent is that we we want to, you know, give in and there's all this anxiety and mental health that we're talking about, but if we give into that and not lead them to Christ then they're constantly gonna wanna, you know, be fulfilled by worldly standards and not have that everlasting peace and joy Yeah, and so that's an interesting example. Um What's actually in the child's heart naturally? This desire for self-gratification, self-legislation, selfishness, and if we If we uh fan the flames of that and give into it, they're going to um be expecting that that's what life is all about. Self-gratification, self-legislation. It's all about me. And um where does that lead? Heartache. Yeah. And so parents have a have a enormous responsibility to help our children as young as possible realize that The world doesn't revolve around them. Yeah. So Doug has another point. Yeah. Um kinda in the kind of context of the way we're thinking about this. It's it interesting cons it's interesting to consider that God's made beauty for enjoyment And but at the same time, or and along with that It's it's satisfying our ultimate satisfying actually still is being provided in that and that echoes kind of what Dave was teaching last Sunday and Where he had everything that he enjoyed that was taken away from him. He said, Praise God, he won't worry about it. It makes it so that You know, the difference here is if we're walking by the flesh, when it's raining outside a day is running. When and we're walking by the spirit, we can look into a priest God that's raining outside. I would prefer it to be sunny today because of what I plan, but God's in control. And I see by the flood by the spirit I can see and no one understands something like that. Yeah. And it it tends the enjoyment of the good things that God's given us, but not that those things become what we Exactly. And so you see the the big um irony here that in In the flesh, or an unbeliever, or even a misguided believer, if they're seeking fulfillment and satisfaction in these self-gratification and self-legislation ways, it gives rise to what they're not seeking. Right? You're being misled into thinking that this is going to be fulfilling when in fact it's the opposite Right? But the flip side is also true. You know, if we're thinking that, oh well, submitting to God, that can't be fun. Or um Uh thinking long term within God's moral framework uh is too restraining for me Then that's gonna likewise end in in misery because we're not following God's commands. But when we actually do, like Doug was saying, we actually do um uh uh seek to please God, uh have God's perspective on our situation and um yield to the Spirit's power and direction to conform us to the image of Christ. And realize life is not about what we get out of it, but what God gets out of it. The irony there is that that's when you do get the most out of life. Right And um it turns out that serving God is the most fun thing you can do if fun is what you're looking for, but that's not the reason to do it. It's just God is so gracious Right? Um we're that's maybe a segue into the next couple of verses here. But before I get there, I wanted to look at self-legislation, controlling others. Um enmities. Strife, jealousy. It's all about getting your way, right? That's self legislation. uh wanting to be the the the ruler, controlling other people. Um all these things are just uh manifestations of that desire to control others rather than to serve others Okay, so starting in verse twenty-two he says, but the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, and so on. Let me ask you a question. How many fruits of the Spirit are there? You see how it's singular there? The fruit of the Spirit is. It doesn't say the fruits of the Spirit are. What are the implications of that? And it's not a uh it's not a random kind of thing. You know, God isn't choosing like spiritual gifts. God is the one who chooses what spiritual gifts or gifts you have, and not everybody has all the same ones, right? That's not what's that's not what happens here. Right? The fruit of the Spirit is. What does it what does fruit here mean in this context? All of them? All of them? Well, no, w what the word fruit. What would be another word for the word fruit? Evidence bag life. Fruit is the result. The result of the Spirit's work in your life is what? Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness. What are those things? God's character. Right? God is building his character in us. Now, you know, it's very It's interesting that, again, back to Genesis 3, one of the temptations, or the the the the main thrust of the temptation that Satan had for Eve Was first of all questioning what God said, right? But the the temptation was and the deception was Um oh. God's holding back on you and he knows that if you eat of that particular tree, you'll be like him. Don't you want to be like him? Well, does God want us to be like him? See, that's that's where the the deception of of Satan is. It twists the truth. to basically defy God and to cause us to um uh sin. So in what sense does God want us to be like Him Like like um Omnipotence, omniscience, sovereignty, all those things, those are the things Satan wants and doesn't have. What he needs, what we need, is his c God's character. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, gentleness, faithfulness, goodness, self-control. Why is it a package steal? You can't divide God's character. The Holy Spirit builds God's character in the life of a believer to the extent that we cooperate with His is conforming us into the image of Christ. We want we should want God's character, but we're not to have God Yeah, the the things that are true only of God. He's eternal. We're not eternal. Well, going forward we're eternal, not going backwards Um but omnipotence, omniscience, those things are reserved only for God. And so he wants to share his character with us, including his holiness, right? And that that's kind of the mind-blowing thing about God. I think about this attributes, there isn't one that's more of the other. They're all present at the same time working Yeah, that's how God's character is. So could you have eight of these and fail like patience? or self control. 'Cause I struggle with maybe Yeah. So I know I don't know about y'all but definitely right here. And so I'm I'm like, Lord, are you are you ever gonna You're impatient about his making you like Christ? Yeah. Um no, it's a package deal. Uh it it may well be that in his sovereignty he develops some of these traits, characteristics uh in different people at different speeds and different mix and so on. But it would not be biblical for us to conclude, oh well I guess God just isn't giving me patience. That's how we're not like God, where all of these are present with him and working in junction with each other and imperfection and and forth. Developing racism But I think I also look up to people that do have that character and are strong. Like how do they do it? You know, just pick up them like Sabrina. That's a pain And that's all a good thing. But not out of envy, but rather out of um seeing, okay, God's got some work to do on me. And that's a good conclusion. But that's also, I think, a tool that Satan is using to discourage us. And that's when we have to remind ourselves that he's going to finish that good work Yes. God's the one who's doing it. We need to cooperate. And so next time he convicts us of something, like you were impatient this time We need to be quick to confess that, forsake it, seek his strength to overcome it, you know, all those things. Um and it's a process. Wouldn't it be great if at the moment of salvation God just zapped us with his perfect character? But the process of becoming more like Christ, in and of itself, the process to the extent we cooperate with it It's honoring to God. It brings glory to God that look what he's doing with the likes of us, making us more and more like him. And um he teaches us lessons, builds conviction. Um yeah, it's all good. Um you know, when you think about the attributes of God and stuff like that They call some of those things the communicable ones and some of them the incommunicable ones. And one of the things that we the reason why God has all these things all at the same time is because he's got them all infinite. And uh and we got 'em all in fractions, in tiny little pieces. And compared to infinite, the amount that we love or patient or something like that, it's really tiny. You can think about it like this. God's omniscient, he exists everywhere. That's his infinite presence. We can be infinitely present In our finiteness. I can only be in one place at one time, but the the idea, the concept kind of carries, right? Whereas God is infinitely loving, I can only love just this by And God is infinitely present. Well I'm only present this little tiny bit. Right. I can't be any place out of where I guess. But the concept carries and helps you get a sense of how Yeah, I I I would I think I would restrict that to the communical communicable attributes because he wants us to grow in those Whereas the other ones like you can't make yourself any bigger. Yeah, we we he he has no intent to make us omniscient. No, right? Or omnipotent or anything. Um and I was just gonna say in in in the same sense that Doug was sharing about just the rainy day and you know and how we how we interpret that and you know, uh and let it um enjoy where, you know, give make us down. I mean the same way when God allows us to see our faults and those, you know, uh characters that we we need to grow in. I mean we need to be thankful because we could go around saying, That's just how I was made you know, and walk in our simple nature. And and you know, and Um and and I mean it was I have been a Christian for a while and I always thought it was the fruits of the spirit. And my short temperedness I was say you know but I but that gets to me an audience, you know. And and I realized, oh, it's true. Like I really need to work at that. And so or yield to God's work in me as the fruit, as the work, it's the result of the work of the Spirit in us, in our cooperation with Him. Yeah. And by the way, for what it's worth, um top of page sixty two If this helps you, when I look at that list of character qualities, I see it as beginning with love. Ending with self-control and everything else in between is an example of loving self-control. So why do we have patience Because we're loving someone else in self control. Why are we kind? Because it's loving self-control. We're not trying to force our own way. We're we're what about uh gentleness, faithfulness? I mean they are all i different manifestations. of self-control motivated by love in our dealings, particularly with other people. But even sometimes in our own heart, in the patience and so on. Um and that's just God's character. Loving self-control. Okay. So then here in the Last few verses starting in verse twenty four. Those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. So if we really are believers, we are children of Christ, and we've percent uh repented from sin. Um we recognize that sin was defeated at the cross. And so if if we recognize that, then it gives us all the more motivation to cooperate with what God's doing. And so our our our motive for wanting to sin is taken away. That's helpful And verse 25, if we live by the Spirit, let us also walk by the Spirit. So the Holy Spirit is the one who regenerates us. causes us to be born again, and he's also the one who uh enables us to walk the Christian life. That's funny. I I it's going back to the group, I was thinking about something. I believe a lot of us get tripped up when we start comparing ourselves to other people and we're looking at how the fruit might be manifested in other people and feel some how as though maybe we're either falling short or doing better. But God is working in all of us differently and My level of patience might look different than yours because perhaps I had a longer way to go in that area So we have to just really focus on how God is working with and in us. measure of success is not being compared with other people. It's God's character that he's trying to work out. in us. Um and and another difference is not just how much more we've had to make up for, but also some people have been at it longer. and been maturing for longer and uh that ought to inspire us to motivate us to um stay with it Um allow God to mature us as well. I I have a question. I mean to what Diane would say, you know, like Each person has has has their own personal um growth and God is working on us individually, right? And we don't have a common standards. I mean you know, goals that we all are trying to reach. Aside from being more Christ like, right? Um but there are people that kinda take that and say uh you know, it it's personal. Um whereas and I feel like that's kind of a fine line because you know how Sydney wants us to go inward and not, you know, not not reach out and um have fellowship and kind of accountability. How do you w what's the right way? Well, you know, how did he how did he introduce this whole section? You are called to freedom, brethren, only to not turn your freedom into an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. So we're not serving ourselves. Uh the Christian life is all about serving God and serving others. Um and so his building the his character into us through the work of the Holy Spirit is not just um to get us to a certain place, but it's even in the process we can be a blessing to other people. Because we're actually living out godliness. Yeah, is also people expect you to do this quickly. Some of us have been in this a year, some others like me ten years, you know. So it's that expectation like, well haven't you grown? Why can't you, you know, speed up the process? or or whatever. They expect there's or maybe yourself you expect to be at a certain stage. And I think that it can be frustrating when you compare yourself to others Lord, give me more patience now. Yesterday. Indeed. Well that's just that just shows um What God has to work with. And uh yeah, we're all that work in process. Uh okay. And then um He wraps it up in verse 26. Let us not become boastful, challenging one another, envying one another. So he's just kind of talking the the consequences of going the wrong path versus the right path there. And it's lots of examples of uh s walking by the flesh versus walking by the spirit. And uh Someone can of course be trying to fake the uh character qualities of God, love, joy, peace, and patience. Um but if it's not coming from the heart and it's it's motivated by pride or something else, then it's it's a fake morality. And what the Holy Spirit does is he he changes us from the inside out. Right? So that's good news. On page 63, we wrap up with this last question here. What's the significance of the fact that Christians are commanded to exhibit the character qualities That are the fruit of the Spirit. So are we commanded to love one another? Yeah. Are we commanded to be patient? Yeah. So these things we're commanded to do, and yet God is the one who is at work in us to produce this fruit, right? So what implications does that have for us? Obedience. Obedience. Yeah. So our role is to cooperate with what he's doing, to obey him it and but to realize it's not It it's not a superficial obedience, but as he's changing our heart and working God's character in us These things are the overflow and so we're able to obey because he's at work in us. And it's it's a neat um It it it's like you know God that work in us, the Holy Spirit's at work in us, but we need to cooperate with that. that work. Um it's like Ephesians five eighteen which says um Um do not be drunk with wine, but be filled with the spirit. Okay, that's a command. Be filled with the spirit. Who does the filling? God does. So it's a passive command. And since he's commanded us to be passive in being filled with the Spirit, what's our role? Obedience. Cooperation, right? Submission. So that he can do what only he can do. I mean everything we do is because of him, whether you're a believer or not, he's the one who gives us life and gives us He gives us the ability to work, think, see, speak. So whether you have come to the realization or not, everything we do is dependent on Yeah. And again, the implication is we cooperate with him rather than rebel against him. Right? Yep. That's what it's all about. Real good. Any other last minute thoughts or questions? I just find it interesting that um we are commanded to do these things. But scripture also teaches that for those who are truly in Christ they will happen. Right? Like in Romans eight, right? We were predestined to be conformed. If we if we are the elect it will happen. It will happen. So the fact that they're commanded doesn't annul the fact that God's promising it will take place. And the fact that God's promising it will take place doesn't mean that they're not commanded. It's uh my bottling. It's not unlike uh an example that's often given in scripture of a farmer You know, the farmer has a lot of work to do, but what power does the farmer have for those little seeds to turn into plants? None. God has to do that, right? But the the he has to cooperate. The farmer has to co it's a lot of work to do and and and and some of it involves faith that I put this into the ground and I'm not just wasting it, it's going to come up and produce, right? And that's why it's an apt example of a lot of the Christian life. We have to cooperate with what God's doing. And um yeah. So we're commanded we're we're accountable and yet ultimately God's the only one who could produce it, walking by faith. Good. Well, a good note to end on. Let's let's pray