All right. Well we are on lesson four in our walk through Galatians, wrapping up chapter two today, verses 11 through 21. And so I'm on page 26 of the notes. So I'll go ahead and read this passage from 11 to 21, then we'll talk about it a bit. Alright? But when Cephas, remember that's Peter, when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned. For prior to the coming of certain men from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles. But when they came, he began to withdraw and hold himself aloof, fearing the party of the circumcision. The rest of the Jews joined him in hypocrisy, with the result that even Barnabas was carried away by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas in the presence of all, If you, being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews How is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews? We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles. Nevertheless, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but through faith in Christ Jesus, even we have believed in Christ Jesus. so that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law. Since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. But if, while seeking to be justified in Christ, we ourselves have also been found sinners, is Christ then a minister of sin? May it never be. For if I rebuild what I have once destroyed, I prove myself to be a transgressor. For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh. I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law Then Christ died needlessly. Okay, so uh Paul has already been quite strong in his in his um writing so far in this book and he's recounting here you know that when he was very strong in opposing Peter publicly. So let's take a look. What was Peter's problem? Paul referred to it as hypocrisy, right? So he um Used to and when I say used to, um as as um Uh Paul writes here in verse twelve, prior to the coming of certain men from James. So there was a time when not too long ago In the early church era, the the church in Antioch, uh which is north of Israel, um in the Syria area Uh the church there was established. It was um partly Jews, but a significant number of Gentiles had come to Christ And as is the case with any church, there is fellowship there, right? And they were very quickly um encountering cultural tensions. Put it that way, right? So culturally the Jews had this habit of not um uh not eating, particularly not eating with Gentiles. They didn't want to be defiled by what they what the Gentiles ate and they there was this need for um separation and and so on. Um and and yet as these Gentiles became Christians Um and particularly since the sort of traditions of the law were um Seen to be not the basis for salvation. And it was clear that God was saving these Gentiles Uh by grace, through faith, just like the Jews, then many of these cultural um No no's, right? We're realized that we were were revealed to be um Not relevant anymore. These are fellow believers in Christ. These are brothers and sisters in Christ. And Let's treat them like that. And so so certainly Paul, Barnabas, and here even even Peter Saw that and saw the need to create these new cultural, Christian cultural mores, if you will, and and traditions and and ways of interacting with brothers and sisters that would be uh doctrinally sound and um pleasing to God. And so everything was working fine. So he says prior to the coming of certain men from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles But when they came, so who are these certain men? And they're coming from James, who's James? James, who's James? Sorry? Brother of Jesus. Yes, the Brother of Jesus and his his significance. He was I don't recall if he was head of, but it was high up in the church in Jerusalem. Yeah, he basically became recognized as the point person. Um I don't know if they would have thought of him as senior pastor, but in the church in Jerusalem he was uh like Peter had been among the disciples, kind of the spokesman. Um he uh uh he would have been aware that some of these men uh came Usually they say down from Jerusalem because Jerusalem's up high in altitude. But certain men came from Jerusalem As far as Paul knew, they were being sent by James, although we don't know for sure whether that was the case. But in any case, these guys were um presumably the of the party of the circumcision So that means that not only were they Jews, but they were Jews who yeah, it doesn't actually say it in this text, but we saw in earlier last week in the Jerusalem Council The argument was that that these Jews were making was in order to become a Christian, Gentiles first need to become a Jew. And more importantly, perhaps uh observe all the uh the law and traditions and so on of the Jews and that that was necessary as a prerequisite or certainly a condition of salvation in Christ Um and so this party of the circumcision, it's like there's already this sort of um um More than clicks, but but um exclusivism and and and um It's kind of internal politics going on, you know, and that kind of thing. Um and verse twelve here says he, Peter, began to withdraw and hold himself aloof. Fearing, that is Peter fearing, the party of the circumcision. So what does it mean that Peter would be fearing the party of the circumcision? Yeah, the false teaching. Yeah. And and the the um the consequences of that. So basically his Peter's problem here wasn't I don't think Peter's problem, given Peter's history so far at this point, where God dealt with him first to show him that um salvation is for the Gentiles too. Remember the vision he had with the the clean versus the unclean animals and And uh God prepared him to go to Cornelius, a Roman centurion, and he and his family got saved and it was very obvious to Peter at that point that God had prepared him to get his mind right. So that he would see that God is saving Gentiles just the same way as he's saving Jews. And God had particularly told him um uh uh you know, what what I have declared clean don't declare unclean. So uh Peter had this history, he understood this, but yet all of us have a tendency to be Man pleasers rather than God pleasers. Right? And it's fearing men rather than fearing God. And it becomes Very tempting to not be confrontive with um in this case false teachers and the implications of all that, not not confronting it. Paul didn't have any problem with confronting it. Peter was was I don't think his mind was wrong doctrinally at this point, but his his actions were not consistent with that doctrine, and so Paul rightly calls him hypocritical at that point. He says one thing, but his actions reveal something different. Right? And his actions seem to be, according to Peter, motivated by uh sort of a man-pleasing, uh non-confrontational kind of saying. Paul, however, says, wait a minute, this is not just some incidental issue here. This gets to the core of what the gospel actually is. Right? And so is salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone? Or is it built on the foundation of works, the works of the law? And um so Peter was very decisive Now, why do you think he, as he says here, he opposed him to his face in the presence of all the others? Why did why did he not go privately to Peter? Barnabas, yeah, even in verse 13, that verse begins, the rest of the Jews joined him in hypocrisy, with the result that even Barnabas was carried away. by their hypocrisy. So it was not just Peter. But Peter was obviously looked up to as an apostle And um if anybody should have known better, it would have been Peter. And so Paul said the only way to address this I'm sure he's thinking in his mind, the only way to address this is head on, publicly, because it's now everybody is you you see the the way it just kind of easily uh permeates the the congregation here. Um he he had to make the confrontation public because everybody was was succumbing to it. Um but he had to direct it at Peter because Peter was um Basically influencing everybody else. And he could have sort of made a general uh Peter uh Paul could have made sort of a general say, hey guys, m generally But it it seemed important to address Peter specifically because of his position, his example, and all that. So how do you define hypocrisy? What is hypocrisy? Okay. So inconsistency between your your words and your actions would be one. Anything else there? Walking the walk talking the talk but not walking the walk. So it it it it um yes, untrustworthy. So it it um If s if it's clear that someone's being hypocritical, then that undermines your trust in them. Yes. That's one of the consequences, the implications, and so on. Okay. Um so there is some question about when this took place. Um it Seems like it was fairly early on. It was before the Jerusalem Council. Uh it was before Um some of the events we saw in in um in Act But we don't know for sure. It was certainly after the church in Antioch got established. Paul had already gotten there. Um whether it was before or after his first missionary journey, it's not entirely clear, but uh could well have been before. Okay, so let's look at verse 14. When I saw that they were not straightforward about the truth of the gospel. I said to Cephas in the presence of all, if you being a Jew, live like the Gentiles and not like the Jews, how is it that you compel the Gentiles to live like Jews, which not even you can do or are doing Um and so his conclusion here, his his point, is that uh to rely on the law or anything else, whether it's tradition or uh the the the favor and opinion of people To rely on anything like that, along with Christ, so I'm saved by grace Plus something else. And I've got to have the something else, in addition to the grace, in order to be saved What kind of salvation is that? It's a salvation of works. Right? You you give lip service to the grace that's required, but if there are rules and and obligations and works that are needed, then where's the grace? Right? It becomes a gospel of works if works have any role at all, essentially. So Paul saw that that that's ready the foundation, the core of the gospel. Uh this is now the early church. Uh this is where um uh this whole Jewish and gentile merging into the church was uh being worked out in in terms of its implications and um uh what that would do with both the traditions and and cultural distinctives of both the Jews and the Gentiles. You bring them together and there are bound to be issues. And this was this was one that was not just Peripheral, this was at the core of the gospel. So um He says in verses 15 and 16, we are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles, but knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, But by faith in Christ Jesus. And this is something that that Peter is affirming that or Paul's affirming that Peter also knows this. You should know better, Peter. that um uh nobody is justified by the works of the law, but rather by faith in Christ Jesus alone Even we, that is Gentile uh uh Jews, he says, even we have believed in Christ Jesus, so that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. Since by the works of the law no flesh will be justified. So um They're they're prime examples of the need for salvation by grace through faith. The Jews are And if they, even after trying to obey the law and follow all the traditions and so on, still need to be saved by grace, how much more Is it also true then of Gentiles who need to be saved by grace? Because as he says later Verse 21. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law Then Christ died needlessly. If it was possible to gain salvation and live a a righteous life, a God pleasing life, By the law, then there was no need for Christ to come. There's no need for grace, God to intervene uh on our behalf. For salvation. And Christ died needlessly because all we have to do is follow the law. But we can't. And we don't. And we are all sinful, and we do need grace if there's going to be anyone saved. That's the point. And so if that's the point, what's the point of the law? And Paul is going to um delve into that much more deeply because that's a natural question. If the law is not necessary for salvation, then what was the point of the law? We're going to get there in a few weeks. But here he's saying it's obvious that the law is not able to save anyone So why put that around the necks of these Gentiles who um are saved by grace through faith just like we are? Pretty sound argument, right? Yeah. And I'm sure Peter was saying, you know, in his heart Yeah, I I know you're right. Uh but i it's hard in the face of um um expectations of people we want to impress, or at least not to undermine, and we become people pleasers rather than God pleasers. So that's that's the issue here. Um Okay, but before I go on, any other thoughts, questions so far? Yeah. Looked on page twenty seven where I have a few notes on that. Item D two D there. So if anyone returns to reliance on the law after trusting in Christ alone for salvation, if I rebuild what I once destroyed, Then that person would be admitting that they had violated the law. And if they admit that they violated the law, they're sinful. There's no hope in the law. So why go back to it as a basis for salvation? So he says, if I rebuild what I once destroyed, that is destroying the law as a basis for justification, And I try to rebuild that, say it is it is a necessary part of salvation. That I I prove, because I haven't kept the law, I prove that I'm a transgressor, I'm depending on some kind of works, but It's hypocritical. I haven't kept those, I can't keep those, and yet if I go back to them as a basis for salvation There's no there there, right? Um I proved myself to be a sinner, a sinner without Um any hope. If that's what I'm bite if the if that's what I'm hoping for. So um If I reveal what I've once destroyed, I prove myself to be a transgressor. I don't know if that helps a lot, but I I think what you're saying is the law failed me once and I'm trying to rebuild it. Mm-hmm. Okay Basically. Any other questions, thoughts so far? I I really I really do think that one of Paul's biggest problems with the law is that it excluded um Gentiles from God's family. Because in Romans he says, uh, for we maintain that man is justified by faith, apart from works of the law, or is God the God of Jews only? So I really think that's a big part. The first part of the reading is explicitly about that. But even the second part I think still has those those overtones. You know that the plan was to give Abraham a huge family And that huge family was not just going to be his bloodline, it was going to be all these other people who would go on to have faith in uh in Jesus. So uh yeah, I think it's a lot uh our vertical relationship with God and then also our our horizontal relationship with one another. Mm-hmm. Yeah, and and the fact that all of us gain salvation the same way. Somehow if you think about his, you know, speaking to a Jew very clearly in the Old Testament, right? God talking to Abraham was saying The world will be blessed through you. Through you. What does God care about all the little things, all the little gold, whether or not you're sick No no no no no. He doesn't care about that. He cares about that relationship. That's very clear when you read the Old Testament. So why would it not why would the blessing of the reservoir gift not be salvation? And it came through the Jews, Jesus. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that Paul grasped that. That's why I really like Romans and Hebrews for that fact because uh very Clearly he's he's going back and spelling that out. So it's like sad because you grow up. Mm-hmm. For sure. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's first irresolution. Uh if you can everything and uh do you mean for a reason of the option of choosing and what can they represent in heaven? Is it the some of the elders that for the treason or say another group of what people So which group now? Hundred and forty-four thousand. Oh. Oh, the hundred and forty four thousand referred to in Revelation? Yes. Yeah. Um that's a little different. Um Revelation refers to twelve thousand from each of the tribes in the nation of Israel who would be saved during the tribulation period. Um and so that's that's after the church is taken up to be with Christ, then the tribulation starts for seven years. And during that time, many people will get saved, including Jews. The scriptures are still there. They see with great evidence that the prophecy in Scripture is being fulfilled in real time And many of them come to Christ during that very hard tribulation time, including a lot of Jews. Um And those people who come to Christ will be witnesses of the gospel during that tribulation time period. Many of them will lose their lives because of it. um the persecution of the world system out there and so on. Um I don't think that passage in Revelation is saying that there are only 144,000 Jews who will be saved during that time. But these 144,000, 12,000 from each tribe, had a special role in that time period. And that's different from here, where even like today, uh we're we're in the the the church age and so people like from Pentecost on People from Jews, Gentiles, whatever, are coming to Christ. And many are coming to Christ, many are not. And so what Paul's dealing with here is at that very early stage this confusion about the role of the law. Um and so far what he's speaking about is is it the basis for salvation? And the answer is no way. Um So both the Jews and the Gentiles, um Come to Christ the same way. Uh they uh um can benefit from some of the aspects of the law, but it's not a basis for salvation. This is uh well both. People have come to Christ and come to genuine salvation in the Messiah. Before Christ they were looking ahead to the Messiah. Salvation was still by grace through faith, even before Christ came. Now, after Christ has come, and we have more information about the fulfillment of that role of the Messiah and so on. Um salvation is still by grace through faith. And throughout that whole time spectrum You've got people who genuinely believe that, like Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. Right? That was happening throughout it's happening today, continues to happen. long before the events of Revelation take place. And so Um those 144,000 in Revelation are actual people who actually live during that time in the future who come to Christ even in the midst of all that tribulation. So Uh where are we at here? Any other thoughts at this point? Questions? Yeah. Oh. Yeah. Peter, um Seems to be appealing to the natural Jewish way of thinking. And he lumps himself in that. That's his heritage. But he says, even we We're saved by grace through faith alone. Let's go to verse 19. For through the law, I died to the law so that I might live to God. For I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself up. for me. And I read verse 21 earlier. I I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died needlessly. So what is righteousness? It's associated with faith. But at its core, what is what does it mean to be righteous? I think it's good. God declares human beings to be in the right. Okay, I think you're talking about justification. Oh. That's the pronouncement of Righteousness. That's but what is righteousness itself? It comes by grace. It's related to that. Righteousness has everything to do with doing the right thing. I used to think that holiness and righteousness were the same thing. Holiness is about being. Righteousness is about doing. So if someone is righteous, sometimes words like upright and um Well, there are other words I think as well that are used, but to have right standing before God is to be justified. Um To do the right thing. Actually, righteousness is very associated grammatically and theologically with justice. It's the same word. It's the same word. So being righteous is doing the right thing. Being just is doing the right thing. So a judge is just when he does the right thing and doesn't corrupt the law. Right? God is just when he always does the right thing. That's different from his holiness, which is complete separation from sin. That's about his being, it's it's who he is and what he is. Righteousness is about what he does. Righteous acts. And so Paul here is saying, if righteousness comes through the law Then Christ died needlessly. Where does righteousness come from? Christ. So the the beauty of the gospel Is not only are our sins transferred to Christ, but His righteousness, his good work? is transferred to us in our account. So when God looks at us, what's he see? The righteousness of Christ. The good works of Christ. The obedience of Christ. They're all ours by God's grace through faith, and of course Christ's sacrificial Sacrifice on our power. So his r Christ's role, Christ's the work of Christ in a broadest terms When we usually think of the work of Christ, what do we think of? The cross. And that's true, but that's not the sum total of it. The work of Christ is the life of Christ, the righteous life of Christ. And his substitutionary death for us. All of those are his righteous work on our behalf, but his doing all the right things, being perfect, sinlessly perfect, doing what was right, comes to our credit. And all of our sin went to him on the cross. So there's this double imputation, this double transfer. Our sins are transferred to Christ, His righteousness is transferred to us. That's where righteousness comes from. And so um we saw recently in Philippians can you turn to Philippians three Starting verse eight. More than that I count all things to be lost because of the surpassing value of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but rubbish, so that I may gain Christ and be found in him having a righteousness not having a righteousness of my own, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God On the basis of faith. Um and you see this Elsewhere, many places in in Scripture and and it's y um It's often overlooked. You know, we we think of the work of Christ on the cross, and that's that's definitely there. That's that's important, that's foundational, but a big part of his work was his righteousness So it wouldn't be the same if um by let's say God instead of having Christ uh take on human flesh in the form of a baby in the womb. He came at the age of thirty three and took our sins upon himself and paid for our sins. He could have done that, but the righteousness that we should have lived, he lived And also he died for us. And so both are a part of the package. So in verse 20, I I have a note there that the Christian life is both simple and impossible. So when you think about it, how The Christian life is impossible to live. It means living a righteous life None of us is able to do that. None of us has done that. It's impossible to do that. But on the other hand, the Christian life is extremely simple. It's not a matter of us living that life, but allowing him to live his life through us. Now that doesn't have present a challenge. It requires some humility on our part and yieldedness to him. But he's made it possible the law, and just because of our sin nature, it was impossible for us to live a righteous life before God. He's made it possible because of the righteousness of Christ, which is ours in Christ, if we are in Christ, and if we allow him to live his life through us Then we become more and more conformed to his image, more and more uh aligned with his righteousness, which is already ours in the bank. But becomes increasingly ours in our daily experience. Right? So Inherently, we can't do it of our own. Righteousness can't be achieved by the law, as Paul's saying, but We can be righteous. Not because Christ just zaps us and he does at the point of salvation. That is in our account before God. But this whole process of sanctification as believers, uh, he he brings that That position of ours, a position of righteousness, into our experience progressively. We become more and more like Christ, more and more righteous, more and more God-pleasing. What's our role in that? Obedience? Trust? Depending on him rather than ourselves? Submission, cooperating with the Holy Spirit's work in us, right? Um Unfortunately, we still tend to cling to our own selves and our own ways and so on, and God has to mature us to break us from that. So that we rely on Him and His righteousness. Like Paul said in Philippians 3, I press on. And here he says, I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness comes through the law, and it doesn't, but if it did, there would be no reason for Christ to die. Let's uh I'm flipping to page 28 to some questions. Does justified mean just as if I'd never sinned? You get that? Just as if I'd never s just as just as if I'd I didn't make that up, but other people have have observed that that there's a sort of a um an interesting parallel between the thought justified and justified. Justice if I'd never sinned Well I I think the answer is yes and no. It's it's more than just as if I'd never sinned In the sense that, you know, it's true that all of our sins were transferred to and paid for by Christ. So there's no penalty remaining due to my sin. But um it's not just that we haven't sinned, but we've um we've done unrighteous things. And it All of that is replaced by Christ with the righteous works of Christ on our behalf. So Yeah, I actually there's some other verses here that that uh teach that. In fact, let's go to 2 Corinthians 5. 21. You probably are familiar with that passage. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. So it's a it's a two-way transfer. Um He took on our sin, we took on His righteousness. Yeah, so it's it's I think the key is it's not just the absence of sin, it's the presence of righteousness. And both are involved. So, you know, if Let's say from the moment we were born, and uh omitting for the moment the consequences of original sin But let's say from the very early moment from our birth, we lived in a cocoon or some kind of bubble, and we didn't do anything We're still sinners. So our salvation is not just that our sin has been paid for, but also that Um in spite of what we've actually done, we have the righteousness of Christ. So um It's not just the absence of sin, it's also the presence of righteousness. um that kind of a logic that our our good be well not it's the absence of behavior, it's just the absence of sin would have qualified us, but in fact, even if we were in that bubble and we didn't sin, we still have a sin nature. Still has to be paid for. Exactly. And so he he um he paid not only for the sins that we actually did But also the sin nature that we inherited was all taken care of by Christ and replaced by his righteousness. That's good news. That is a million-dollar question That good and godly people have disagreed from Scripture about the destination of an infant, let's say who dies. And it comes up a lot in the context of abortion and what happens to those souls. Those are souls, right? Uh but even a child, a young child who isn't capable of making a decision for Christ, uh the question is what about them? Um it's Similar, not the same as, but similar to the question, well what about you know it used to be people would say, well what about the heathen in Africa who have never heard? Um what about them? Well, Romans 1 says they're accountable. This is a little different because is there accountability when they don't have any understanding at all of their sin, the need for a savior, and so on. Um so some good and godly Bible teachers we highly respect Argue from scripture that those by God's grace are um Ushered into heaven immediately. Other good and godly Bible teachers we highly respect. Say, well, no, we don't see that in scripture specifically. Um it feels good, but It's a bit presumptuous to assume that or to interpret certain passages that way. And so There's a lack of complete um agreement, even among people who take the Bible extremely seriously, Christians and Christians. Um I think the basic thing to reflect on in that context is Salvation has always been and always will be by grace through faith And God is sovereign over that. It's not something that we can choose for ourselves, He chooses us. Uh He gives us even the grace or or the the faith and repentance. They're gifts from Him. Um and so personally I haven't come down on either side of that dilemma, that debate But I know that God is sovereign over salvation and it's by grace through faith. Um and It would be possible and consistent with his character for God to save all of those children. It would be possible and consistent with his character to save some of them. Um it's all up to him. I wish I could say more. Um but clearly, like with even the question of what about the heathen in Africa who has never heard, it ought to give all of us the impetus to um proclaim the gospel, particularly to the most vulnerable, but to everybody And let God do what only God can do. Okay. Any easier questions? I thought it would be important to highlight here in this second question the passage from 2 Peter 3, where Peter, of course, is writing. He says, therefore, beloved, and and by the way, in 2 Peter 3, Peter's introducing here the um the inevitability of God intervening into human history once again to destroy the whole earth this time, not just to flood it, but to destroy it to the elements will melt and it's gonna start from scratch. There'll be a new heaven, new earth. Anyway, in that context, Peter says, therefore, beloved, since you look for these things, be diligent to be found by him in peace, spotless and blameless. And regard the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as also our beloved brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, wrote to you. as also in all his letters, speaking in them of these things in which are some things hard to understand. Right, Doc? Some things are hard to understand, which the untaught and the unstable distort as they do also the rest of the scriptures. So you see Peter here referring to Paul's writings as scripture, like the rest of the scriptures. And so they they um They treat God's um and distort, he says, God's word to their own destruction. And you therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, be on your guard so that you are not carried away by any error of unprincipled men and fall from your own steadfastness. So, do you think Peter held a grudge against Paul for his rebuke back in Antioch? No, he obviously didn't. He understood that uh Paul was being uh faithful to point out that sin that not only Peter um was involved in, but possibly because of Peter and certainly um uh Peter was fanning the flames of this so that other people would be affected by it Um Peter apparently responded very well to that. Uh if not all that obvious at the time, and I kind of think it would have been obvious his response at the time. But clearly by this time, when he's writing Second Peter, um he's referring to Paul as his beloved brother. and um the human author of other passages of scripture. So um Application question. How can you follow Paul's example in his rebuke of Peter and the others? Do you think that was hard for Paul to do? In one sense, yeah, it would be hard for anybody to do that. Like me against everybody else here? Right? But why was it easy for Paul? Well, Paul was Paul. But why w what are the circumstances that made it easy? He understood what was at stake. Right? The very purity of the gospel. Like he said in chapter one, anyone who's teaching another gospel is to be what? Accursed. This is serious stuff Because those who believe the wrong thing can be misled as if they're going to heaven, but instead they're going to hell. I mean the stakes couldn't be any more severe So I guess the question is, how can you follow Paulus' example in his rebuke of Peter and the others? What would we need to do in a similar situation? Right. Wha what a w what would be our natural tendency in a situation like that? Most of us probably would just clam up. Maybe do a little bit of praying. Or maybe a lot of praying, right? Um But we have that natural tendency to clam up. Why? Because we're people pleasers rather than God pleasers. Um maybe because we don't want to appear holier than thou, and that's not a bad concern to be concerned about, but maybe complain or gossip or could be any of the number of things, right? Even in the presence of others. Because they were also being following. Yeah. So he went directly not indirectly. So there's some good lessons there for us. Right? Uh Maybe more than Paul at this point, we might be wise to be humble in our I'm not saying that Paul wasn't humble, but he knew his authority as a gospel or as a as an apostle, and he was very clear on the gospel. Uh but It would behoove us to address people with humility, saying, you know, and sort of like Paul's saying here Yeah, I'm the same as you. I grew up with all this baggage and I understand the the pull that it has on our thinking as to what's relevant for salvation So we need to be humble even as we are forthright. And base our what we're saying on Scripture Not on, well I believe or I think or d don't you think well you know scripture is the key. Yeah, Sean Yeah. And so so a lot of differences of opinion, differences of You know, cultural differences, ways of doing things. Those differences ought to cause us to ask ourselves Is that wrong or is it just different? And if it's wrong, how do I know that from scripture? I don't know if if any of you have lived for uh an extended period of time in another culture. I know some of you certainly have, but um inevitably you're faced with things that are just different. And some of those things may actually be wrong. Some of them may be just different. So you need to be discerning. So if you come down heavy on things that are just different and not wronged by Scripture then you're gonna cause more problems than than it's worth, right? But if you recognize things are really wrong based on scripture and you understand what that thing is, that activity or belief, whatever, if you understand that it is contrary to scripture, the stakes are a lot higher, right? And if it's if it's about the basis for salvation Then the stakes are really high. Right? And so the sense of urgency you give to this is going to depend on your discerning Is it wrong or is it just different? And if it's wrong, is is does it affect the gospel? And kind of proceed accordingly. How can you define humility? Yeah. Um A good example of our being humble in this kind of context would be um Admitting our own sin. I fall short too. I'm not saying that I'm I'm perfect or I have perfect understanding. I'm learning also. I'm a work in process. But here's what I've learned from Scripture. And take them to the Scriptures and read it and and think it through and apply it. Exactly. Now being humble doesn't mean being quiet. It means not being proud. Um not judging someone based on our opinions That's that's a proud, selfish kind of thing. But rather evaluating things based on God's word In a spirit of humility, because we're a work in process too, we can't claim perfection on our part, and we don't want to judge people on by just by comparing them with us But rather we judge both us and them based on scripture. Yeah, we're we're we're uh in our experience we're not perfect, but We're a work in process. God is making us more and more like Christ. Um and the important thing with our interaction with others is not to uh judge them or correct them because we're comparing them with us, because we're not the right standard for comparison But we're comparing them with what Scripture teaches and we're trying to help them the way we have been helped. So it's it's coming alongside them, not a judgment of them um where they might interpret our words as being proud or superior or something like that. But we're speaking on behalf of the truth of God in in scripture. And among Christians we all need that. Right? We sharpen one another. That's God's design. We we often Speak first and think later. And that's usually not the right order, right? Yeah. Good point. Well, lots of other applications here. But let's um let's close in prayer.