Well, welcome to lesson nine in our walk through the book of Galatians. We're in the middle of chapter four of Galatians. And my sort of uh My take on this portion of the book is that Paul, of course, up till now has been very strong in his comments to the Galatians, um really challenging them and giving them doctrinal truth that ought to help them process all the things that they're hearing from the Judaizers particularly But it seems like here in this passage he's kind of pausing a little bit, catch his breath, and to just in a rather vulnerable way, say, um, um, I I don't understand what you're not getting. And um just rehearsing a little bit about their their faith, their coming to Christ and uh his his uh commitment to help them grow in Christ. But uh he's gonna get back into some more pointed doctrinal things, but this is kind of a uh Uh I don't know what you call it. Um a segue to that, but it's a pause a little bit in his heavy doctrinal content And so in this he, well I'll go ahead and read it. We're um Galatians 4, 12 through 20 He says, I beg of you, brethren, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. You have done me no wrong. But you know that it was because of a bodily illness that I preached the gospel to you the first time. And that which was a trial to you in my bodily condition, you did not despise or loathe but you received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus Himself. Where then is that sense of blessing you had? For I bear you witness that if possible you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me. So have I become your enemy by telling you the truth? They eagerly seek you, not commendably, but they wish to shut you out, so that you will seek them. But it is good always to be eagerly sought in a commendable manner, and not only when I am present with you. My children, with whom I again labor, I am again in labor until Christ is formed in you. But I could wish to be present with you now and to change my tone, for I am perplexed about you. So um one of the Key words here, as it turns out, that's sort of indicative of what's on his heart at this point is is down in verse 19. He calls them children or my little children. It's the only time in any of Paul's letters he used that term of endearment, which is very common where? In John's, the Apostle John's writings, right? Particularly first John. Uh but you can see his affection for them, his his um as he says, his He's perplexed. Is perplexity a word? I don't know. But he's perplexed about the confusion that they have. He was pretty sure that they understood the sound doctrine and um So he is concerned about them as his children. And that's his heart. So he begins here by saying, I beg of you, brethren. Uh so he's he's begging, he's urging, he's he's been challenging them, of course, uh and questioning them, but even as uh As a loving father, he's he's uh appealing to them to come to their senses as if you will. So in verse twelve, where he says, Become as I am, for I also have become as you are, that may seem like it's out of from left field somewhere. Like what does he mean by that? Right? Become as I am, for I also have become as you are. Well, I think what he's referring to there again is the whole issue at stake here is what is the basis of the gospel? What is the basis of our salvation? And the Judaizers, of course, would say that the basis for our salvation is Christ's sacrifice plus our works. And Paul's trying to say, no, the basis of our salvation is Christ's finished work alone. And so that these works have nothing to do with the basis of salvation. And one of his points is that the Gentiles, most of whom are most of the people he's writing to would have been Gentiles. The Gentiles don't go have don't have to go through that route of keeping the law and so on in order to be saved. Um and so he's telling them, you know, why go to that when you're already saved, you know, apart from the law? And so what he's saying here is I've become as you are. That is, um I'm saved the same way You are. It's through Christ alone. It's not through the keeping of the law. I'm a Jew. I could have relied on that, but I'm I'm not depending on any of that. for my salvation. Instead I'm depending on Christ just the same as you are for my salvation. It's totally of Christ. And it's his work, not my works And so he says, Become as I am. I mean, he thought that that's where they had been, and now that they're they they have these questions in their minds that the Judaizers have have um uh uh inserted, I guess, into their minds. But essentially what he's saying is um It's dependence on Christ alone. And even I have done that. I'm not depending on my Israeli roots. But uh Doug, did you have a thought or question there? I'm trying to go in it again, but it's a good idea. Sorry, I can't have well maybe there's a thank you. Okay. Alrighty So um then he says you have done me no wrong um I think that's a reference to when he was in their areas and and preaching the gospel and he was um persecuted in a variety of ways, particularly by the Jews, that His Galatian friends here did not. They didn't oppose him. They received him well, received his message well, and he's thanking them for that. Uh verse 13 is also interesting. You know that it was because of a bodily illness that I preached the gospel to you the first time. And that which was a trial to you in my bodily condition, you did not despise or loathe. So he's not explicit here about what that bodily condition was, what that uh malady or whatever was. Um But it's interesting in verse 15, he says, I bear you witness that if possible you would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me. Suggesting that maybe the malady he had had to do with his eyes, poor eyesight. In fact, um at the uh At the end of Galatians, isn't that true? Uh he makes reference again to uh you know, large letters he's writing in his own hands and and uh presumably because his eyesight was so poor. It's it's quite possible it's related to that thorn in the flesh It's also possible that it's related to the earlier blindness he had on the Damascus Road. where he was completely unable to see at that point, and then when Ananias came, prayed over him and something like scales fell off of his eyes Um it's possible that there's some connection there. Uh we don't have any definite linkages between these things. It's all supposition. Um but if you put all three together, you know, it's it's it's writing and large handwriting and then the the blindness and then the so and the sweat there There's something going on, obviously. Yeah. Yeah, I think the the connection with his eyes is very clear. Whether that's at all connected to the Damascus Road experience is less clear Uh in fact there's no clarity there at all. It's all supposition. Particularly well and also the the thorn in the flesh he referred to as something from Satan Um but we know in Job's case and in general that God allows Satan to do certain things It's ultimately under God's sovereign authority, uh, so that even that thorn in the flesh well he was appealing to God anyway to remove it Knowing he is sovereign over that. Whether that could have been with the eyes, who knows. But less. They say that um When he was in the lowlands of uh Pamphylia, they said it was possible that he contracted malaria. That was Yeah, there's any number of possibilities. We're we're not told specifically, but clearly he had an issue, at least at that time, with his eyes. And um that may be what he's referring to here as that bodily illness. But the way he says it is it was because of bodily illness that I preached the gospel to you the first time And so that could be a connection with the Damascus Road thing where God commissioned him to do that preaching. Um But you know speculation's fun, but we have no idea. We have no idea. Yeah. Appetite speculation to throw into the mix for whatever it's worth. Um and that is oh Paul Separatis talks about the difficulties that he had with the mission field. He was beaten, he was stoned to death, shipwrecked, and all that kind of stuff could add all kinds of boggly issues that are left over on him I mean, you get stoned to death and then God raises you from the dead, uh you might Well he wasn't exactly dead, but the next best thing to it, right? Yeah, whatever. You might got hit in the face with a rock. Yeah. And that could that make it difficult. We don't know. He was I think being uh somewhat humble here, but he didn't have to explain it to these people. They knew of all the things that we don't know. that are relevant anyway. And so he's reminding them that and the reason he brought it up is because they were very caring, compassionate to him. Um didn't didn't make his illness an issue, but rather received him well and he was commending them for that, and that's the point. Um You did not despise or loathe, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus Himself. He's not saying that they thought he was an angel. But they received him like they would have had they known an angel was in their midst, right? Or Jesus Christ himself, um they gave him the same kind of welcome and and uh care So in verse 15 he says, Where then is that sense of blessing you had? So he's reminding them that something has changed. I don't know that he's all that concerned that they're no longer caring, but he's very concerned that they're mixed up in their thinking. And um so I think he's appealing to their concern for him that they would um uh once again listen to him well because they know that he has their best interests at heart. Okay, so in verse 16 he says, so have I become your enemy by telling you the truth. What truth is he referring to? Yeah, correcting their the the errors that they've been hearing about the gospel So they wouldn't be confused, they wouldn't be misled, right? And they wouldn't be teaching that to other people. He wants to stop it in its tracks. Um he's speaking the truth in love, even though in this case it's this combination of tender father fatherly compassion and also a very strong fatherly exhortation to understand and apply the truth. So they he's commending them for their earlier care for him, their their um uh receiving well his message. And so he's saying in verse 16, um that shouldn't have changed, right? I mean uh this There's no reason to consider me your enemy because I'm just repeating the same truth to you. Highlighting it maybe with more emphasis because of the confusion they've been given. But um Still telling them the truth nonetheless. So verse six six uh seventeen, they eagerly seek you. Who's the they he's referring to? The Judaizers. Yeah, the people who are misleading them. Right? They eagerly seek you not commendably, but they wish to shut you out so that you will seek them. Right, so the Judaizers were trying to gather a following, not only among the Jews, who would probably be a natural following. Because the whole point was to elevate the role of being a Jew in order to become a Christian. But here in this case, they were actually seeking a following also among Gentiles So that as Gentiles um followed their this false teaching and became basically Jews in order to become Christians, that would be sort of a a badge of approval in the eyes of the Judaizers that this is working. People are following this thing, right? Uh so they they wished to shut you out shut you out of what? They were trying the Judaizers were trying to shut out the Gentile believers from the freedom we have in Christ. So put them back under the the the load of depending on the law to make us good enough for God. That's a bondage it's referred to, right? So they eagerly seek you not commendably, but they wish to shut you out so that you will seek them So if they con if the Judaizers convince these Gentiles, look, it's great you want to come to Christ, get salvation in Christ, but you gotta realize God's doing all that through the Jews and through the law and you gotta get in line with the law. so that you could become Christians. And it was so enticing, so logical to many in many cases, many ways. Um But it that is the way the Satan works, right? To twist the truth a little bit, to use the truth, twist it to become um Palatable, logical even though it's wrong, um to shut you out so that you will seek them. And verse 18, but it is good always to be eagerly sought in a commendable manner. So he's saying that there's there's nothing inherently wrong with people seeking a following. But if that following is in the wrong direction, it's and it particularly if it's um for the wrong reasons Then that's not a commendable manner. And then he says, not only when I am present with you, So, yeah. It's always good to be eagerly sought in a commendable manner and not only when I am present with you, um, even when he is um with them. Essentially that's what he's been doing. Right? Encouraging them to follow his example, his teaching and and so on. But they could also do that w while he's away and he's writing this letter to them to follow them in that follow him in that commendable manner. Okay? So in verse 19, again, he says, My children are my little children as. It's usually translated with whom I am again in labor until Christ is formed in you. So we get this question again, this natural question. Is he suggesting that they're not believers and that Christ has to save them? And the answer is what? No, that's not what he's saying here. What is he saying then? So that become more that's the whole point, right? To become more Christ-like. Um and What's key here is not that th they're in labor, uh but that he is in labor. He's laboring again To establish their foundation, their their um uh confidence in the gospel. And unless they've got that confidence in the gospel, they're not going to be um what, in the right frame of mind to grow in Christ. I mean if if your frame of mind is I've got to keep all these laws in order to please God That's sucking away the energy that would be otherwise devoted to submitting to Christ and allowing his righteousness to be um manifest in our lives. Um yeah, there's a lot of good stuff there Jesus was very clear about, well and elsewhere in the epistles, our need to abide in him. Um abiding in him. Um what does it mean to abide? Just generally. Remain. Right? It it where are you staying? Where do you live? Where are you Housed. And so when we abide in Christ, that's our identity. That's where we are staying. And it's not because um of our ability to stay there and not walk out. Um it you know in in John ten Jesus gave uh the example that um you know I I know my sheep they hear my voice and and so on and he says um Everyone who the Father has given me is in my hand. And the Father who is greater than I They're in his hand. So it's kind of like a double hand clasp. And the point is that our remaining, our staying in Christ is not a function of us hanging on for dear life. Instead it's what? God the Father and God the Son hanging on to us, keeping us in that life. Um and so we do have a role to play. That role is submission. uh obedience, faithfulness, not for the gaining of salvation, but for the the progressively becoming more and more like Christ, the the outworking of that salvation. Um but if we're in Christ, then uh that can happen. And we're not relying on our goodness to be what God would point to to allow us into heaven. Rather, our goodness is a function of Him working through us to make us more like Christ. So for those For whom that's true. And there is fruit, there is Christ-likeness being built in their lives those people will remain not because of their goodness, not even because God's creating it in them, but He because they are secure in Christ. And he's not letting go. And it's because he's not letting go that he brings trials, convictions, troubles into our lives That through those things He will um perfect us And that's that's the kind of thing he has in his mind here about Christ being formed in them. Uh it's not just a one-time thing, it's it's an ongoing process whereby they're becoming more and more like Christ, right? And that would be true not just of them, but it's true of every believer as we uh submit to Christ, cooperate with the Holy Spirit's working in our lives to um to make us more like Christ. Any thoughts there? Yeah. Um I guess going back to uh the conversation concerning my children. Um I'm struggling to uh connect or correlate some of the phrases that Paul's using throughout this letter. Um it in certain places it sounds like he He is saying you have fought into this false teacher, right? In chapter 1 he says, you are deserting him. In chapter 3, he says, who has bewitched you? You are bewitched. And then coming up in chapter five, he's gonna make some very strong statements, right? If you accept circumcision, which it sounds like they have, right, crisis of no advantages I'm not I'm not sure they all have, but he he he's concerned that they might be on the threshold of buying that hook, line, and sinker, for sure. Yeah. Okay, so I guess the way to reconcile these statements is he's writing to a mixed group who I I I guess I I'm struggling to it right it sounds like in some places he's saying you have all into this If you want to be justified with a law, you fall on live in grace, you're separate in Christ. In other places he's using terms like brethren and you've had a spirit. Right. Is the answer to that he's writing to a mixed group or somewhere in different categories? That may be part of it, but um he doesn't in his various Um the examples that you're pointing to, he's not suggesting that some of you or, you know, this is a partial thing and uh y you've got some of each camp there. He doesn't really draw those distinctions. Um I find strong. Yeah, yeah. No, I think I think He he doesn't know on a person by person basis how much they have bought into this false theology But I'm sure he's thinking that even among those who have, all is not lost They're still saved. He knows they're saved. They're very confused by these Judaizers, but By God's grace, um his strong exhortations his questions, his laying out the the theology, and even his tender love for them God can use to clarify their thinking, get them back on track. So depending on how much they've bought into it, all is not lost. Um if they've if they're on the threshold of buying into it, all the more rationale for helping them not go down that path. I don't know that he necessarily has any one scenario in mind, but he knows the the um uh what do you call it, the The virus is there and people can succumb to it if they haven't already. But the solution in either case is the truth. And uh so that's what he's given. Yeah, so that's a good question though. Yeah, he ranges from uh y you foolish Galatians to um my little children. And he has a tender affection for them, but you think it's kind of Putting them down? Yeah. Maybe. Maybe coming from Paul, maybe, not from John. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, there may be some of that But um I think no matter what the case, he's viewing the gospel as the solution. If no matter how confused or how bought in they are to this, um um The gospel is the solution. And so he's very forthright, strong. Then in verse 20 he says, I I wish I could wish to be present with you now and to change my tone, for I am perplexed about you. So I guess it's okay for us to be perplexed because he was perplexed too. Um Uh but he clearly wanted to do everything he could to to set the doctrinal record straight and by God's grace help them to um avoid that error or uh remove themselves from it if they to some extent have bought into it Um and he's as we go on here, he's gonna go back into some of the doctrinal implications and and so on. But um uh this It's something of an interlude and an appeal really to them to um um Think about this very seriously. Yeah. Yeah, there are lots of evidence in the book here. I I mentioned here um The bottom of page 47, the first question. Lots of instances where he's attributing to them things that are true only of Christians But that's partly why he's perplexed, because they've gotten caught up into this false teaching and he wants to help them. Um understand those false. Yeah. And sometimes people will come in And then they will once become members, um, but then they have some doctrinal differences. Um and what about like when they stay there where like they've been given the truth the correction, but they you know still just had that disagreement and then they end up going back to that Um whatever error. Do you guys end up questioning the salvation because it's like you're not teaching the world? themselves. I I I kind of struggle with that because I know for people who have you know disagreements on some of the practices. speaking in tongue or something like that and it makes me kind of question, you know, there's salvation somewhat because of this deception when they're holding to it, even though they've been given Yeah. Um yeah, so the question is uh even here at Hope, if we have members who um you know that they they're acquainted with all of the doctrine and uh they become members and if there's a a point of doctrinal difference at some point um What does that suggest about their salvation? Well, um the way we approach that is, if you recall The doctrinal statement has a short list of basic doctrines at the very beginning. And every member needs to uh believe all those those basic doctrines about salvation, the person of Christ and and so on. Um and um Biblically, if someone gives assent to all those basic doctrines and they have a credible testimony of salvation then uh we don't need to expect that they believe or even understand the more detailed other doctrines that are in our our longer statement but that they're teachable enough to be taught those things over time. So some uh it's very often the case that someone comes from a particular background where they have a different doctrinal position on something. And it doesn't at all affect their adherence to the basic doctrines and they have a very credible testimony of salvation There's no need for them as a member to believe what we teach in that area where they're different. Um, but they do need to be teachable and grow and and learn. And if they've got concerns about a particular area, they can very r respectfully interact with the church to come to an under a deeper understanding of our position, how it's based on scripture and and those kind of things. Um But they can stay a member even though they're in that process and they're they still haven't been convinced, they're still studying. It's good for people to be studying and and uh be teachable. The problem would come only if they make an issue of it and start teaching others that, or um having sort of an open rebellion against the church about that issue, that would be a problem. Not the fact that they believe something that's not c completely consistent with our our more detailed doctrine. So if someone ends up doing that and leaves the church because of a difference in doctrine That doesn't mean that they're not saved. Yeah, okay. In fact, um, if someone after study It comes to the point where they say, no, I'm I'm I'm just not seeing it. I I'm I'm very much committed to this other way of thinking about this particular doctrine, whatever it is Um and if that becomes for them a stumbling block for growth and service within the church, um will We'll help them find another church where they can be plugged in well and serve and and so on. It doesn't necessarily mean that they're not saved. I'm curious, what do you think about the notion that In verse 12, brothers he's referring, you know, addressing the the believers at Galatia. And then in nineteen he's referring to the subset that are not yet Well, it's possible, but It doesn't seem like he gives any clues here. It seems like he's talking to everybody all the way through, at least as I read it. Um Yeah, just chewing on the child for for the second time. Like I I could see him like the first time he's in Malaysia having labor pains trying to lead an entire country Congregation and now he's doing it again for the the people that are confused because the believers are not leading the strong exam. Yeah, um I've got a note here that the labor is the same word I believe that's used in in childbirth. I'm not so sure that that Um that metaphor is necessarily what he has in mind here. Because if it were, it might mean that um He was talking about their actual salvation. Um, but it doesn't seem that's the case. It If it if he's in labor, it's his labor as an apostle to shepherd them and to to to teach them and and this kind of thing. Um So yeah, it it's not completely clear. It it's possible that he's thinking of two different groups, but um sure. Doug. Galatians and seeing how Paul talks about these churches in in both ways at the same time. Like, you know, if you look at Galatians five, he says is basically if you take circumcision you're no longer part of Christ. Um well being circumcised doesn't I mean cutting your flesh right doesn't take you you lose your salvation But the the strong words that Paul is saying about the Galatian churches are are kinda like held right side by side. This book. And uh he calls him brethren, he calls them little children, and he calls them bewitched and um and foolish. And thanks, yes. Um and it's interesting to look at those things and then try to hold them all together at the same time. Um and and how does that you know how does that apply to these people throughout in a sense Yeah, it's it's not clear to me what he know he he he seems not to have been there since this this false teaching took root there? He's hearing reports that it's it's taking root and it it's it's spreading and he wants to deal with it as soon as he can, so he does it by letter without yet having been there. And so if he's not yet been there, it's not clear to what extent he knows the the reaction, the response of any particular people, maybe he has, I don't know. Um but He seems to be going after the the big picture and uh I I I get the sense that he's thinking, you know, if the shoe fits, wear it, right? Um if If you're uh if you bought into this hook, line and sinker, then you need this is a warning to you, right? And if you're merely considering it, you're confused, uh, you you're open to uh biblical thinking in along these lines, well let this also be a warning to you not to go down that path It's very interesting, for sure. So I have a question on page 48. I think we covered the first one The second question is, what is the connection between freedom from the law and Christ being formed in us? We touched on it a little bit earlier. If we're in bondage to the law then what? Okay. And instead we're doing what? Our own righteousness can be ever be good enough. Right. Right. And so It's not the goal necessarily, the righteousness that's the problem. It's how does that righteousness come about? Right? And so if I'm enslaved to the law as the basis for developing that right righteousness and being acceptable for God, then I've got The right goal, but the wrong way to get there. And it's not about our righteousness. That's like filthy rags. But rather it's the righteousness of Christ. And so in that sense maybe maybe it is the wrong goal. They're they're looking after their own righteousness Um but whether they're they're thinking that the righteousness of Christ can be built by our adherence to the law Uh it has the same effect. It's just it it doesn't work. And if it did work, why would Christ have died? That was his point. Um So being freed from that that bondage, that adherence to the law as the basis for our being acceptable before God, As Diane said, it kind of allows us, it it it it frees us up to see that no, that righteousness is not of my doing, that righteousness is purely the righteousness of Christ. Which um is imputed to me just the same as my sins are imputed to him. And the practical outworking of that is I become progressively more like Christ, the more I cooperate with what he's doing in my life. Um and so that that frees us up from the the burden, the uncertainty of um um You know, uh any progress we might make in becoming righteousness, becoming righteous by our own works. But yeah, my thinking about something Um so like if we are um like you know Doug was mentioning, you know, abiding, you know, in Christ, um and it seems like it's easier for us to sometimes not always, you know, continue Um and so I'm just we're I'm just like so we're not, you know, relying on the law, you know, I think but you know, when we've done kind of a binding, is that kind of can you call it also kind of um what type of bondage maybe too? Or we can't really call it that 'Cause it's 'cause then we're kind of relying on ourselves and it may not be good words, but it could just be that we are just you know, kind of trusting in our own efforts. Yeah. Yeah, it's easy for us to slip into um And maybe even more easy for us to slip into uh laziness, patterns of of um not taking taking our responsibility before the Lord seriously because you know think about it we're convinced that our salvation is a done deal It's not dependent on how good we are. That can make us very lazy. It's not going to affect whether I'm saved or not Well, the good news is that God doesn't let us get mired in that mindset. And one reason I think that he indwells every believer with the Holy Spirit One of whose jobs is to what? Convict us of sin, nudge us in the right direction. And in many ways, Christians can be doing the same things as unbelievers, sinful things, and Christians are a lot more miserable. Why? They know better. Right? And the Holy Spirit's convicting them. And they know they need to deal with it. And there's a struggle going on here. uh fr you know, from a like a moment by moment day to day wrestling with my sinful desires and so on. Um Non-Christians often don't have any internal struggle about that at all. But someone who's genuinely saved, God is not going to let them Stay mired in that condition, the Holy Spirit comes and says, Anybody here experience that? Um And if we're cooperating with his his sanctifying work in our hearts, how do we respond to that conviction? Obedience, uh submission, thankfulness that He cares enough about us to not let us go off in the mire of our our selfishness. And s basically say to him, Lord, you're right. But I can't do this myself. I need to rely on you. And that's the whole point. We can't do it ourselves. I have to rely on you. And he reminds us of that over and over and over again. Right? Um Aren't you glad that God is patient? I I may have mentioned this before here. I keep forgetting what I've mentioned where, but um You know, you you look at the several places in Scripture where people are just confronted face to face with the holiness of God, like Isaiah 6. Where Isaiah says, um how does he respond? Woe is me, for I am a sinful man, and I dwell among a sinful people, and and so on. Um He was devastated. Other places where where people were face to face with the the holiness of God, take uh Moses at the burning bush Right? And the Apostle John being confronted with the glorified Christ in Revelation 1, falling down like a dead man. Um what is it about the pure holiness of God that Or what is it about us when we're confronted with the pure holiness of God that we fall down like dead men? absolutely sinful we are the contrast between that pure holiness and what we now see you know apart from that we look at ourselves oh I'm pretty good. You know if God graded on the curve I'd I'd pretty make it right But in the presence of His holiness, we see that perfection, which usually most of us have no experience. Like some of the ones we see in Scripture. But if we had been, I'm sure that we would be just like them. We'd fall down like dead men saying, Woe is me. I'm ruined. Because I see more clearly the difference between holiness, which I could only think of conceptually, but now I see just how pure God is And the implications of that is I am far from that. Woe is me. Right? So, my point is, what if God were to Reveal to each of us this afternoon every single sinful part of us. Everything that is sinful, it would blow us away. Right? But he doesn't do that typically. What does he do? The Holy Spirit convicts us of things, usually just one thing at a time. patiently chipping those rough edges off, saying, you need to work on this. That's not biblical. Where did that come from? You know, that that kind of conviction Um and if our response to that is, you're right, I'm forsaking that sin, that's repentance, right? I'm forsaking that and turning to Christ to allow him to uh live his life through me. We're doing that on that that point of conviction, that that the thing that God was convicting us about And if if that's genuine and it's long-lasting, permanent even, then in that respect we're becoming more like Christ. Well tomorrow he's gonna say, you know there's something else I've been meaning to tell for you about. Or maybe it's not tomorrow, it may be next week or next month. He's patient. But he's persistent. Right? Why? Christ needs to be formed in us. And if we're left to our own devices, not going to happen. The Holy Spirit not only convicts us of that, but he empowers us to respond the right way. To be dependent on Him. We're gonna talk a little bit more about that in coming chapters, but um um that's just a Um simple way of understanding what it means for Christ to be formed in us. So you mentioned that it was a selfish act as well as it's selfish because we're id We tend to want our way. Oh. We want to be Lord. That's selfish. Putting ourselves before God. Okay. Any other thoughts, questions? Yeah, go ahead. merely escalate the problem. It makes it worse, right? But if we respond in a godly way It doesn't affect our walk with Christ, but actually our response can help their walk with Christ. Christ formed in you. That is the whole point. Right? Let's pursue that. Let's pray.