Well, we made it to the last lesson, last chapter in Galatians. And it occurred to me that it might be helpful if you turned back to page fourteen in the notes. I don't know if you remember, there's a kind of an overview uh chart of how Galatians is laid out. And uh This isn't necessarily the only way to summarize it, but I wanted to focus on it because by way of review You know, the first uh several lessons, first couple of chapters in the book were focused on the fact that there's really only one true gospel. And that was expanded on and emphasized in the next several chapters where we learn that justification, that is our salvation, is by grace alone, through faith alone. And then now, as is typical with with Paul's letters, starting uh last week, I guess. There are implications of sound doctrine and he always um applies that to our lives. And so if If it is true that salvation is that way, salvation is not by works, but it's by grace through faith, one of the logical questions is, well, what about works? Right? Are they uh irrelevant or uh unnecessary? And so the point here is, and the point he makes particularly in chapter six, but we began it uh last week is that um good works are not the basis of salvation, we've already covered that, but they're rather the result. of salvation. They follow our having a right relationship with God. So let me go ahead and read here the beginning of chapter six, verses one through eleven. Brethren, even if anyone is caught in any trespass, you who are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. Each one looking to yourself so that you too will not be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and thereby fulfill the law of Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. But each one must examine his own work, and then he will have reason for boasting in regard to himself alone and not in regard to another. For each one will bear his own load. The one who is taught the word is to share all good things with the one who teaches him. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, this will he reap also. For the one who sows to his flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. Let us not lose heart in doing good, for in due time we will reap if we do not grow weary. So then, while we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. And see with what large letters I am writing to you with my own hand. Okay, so he he has a number of different um um implications, I guess, applications of this basic principle that we have uh responsibility toward one another, uh particularly among Christians We do have a general love your neighbor as yourself principle, right? But that uh really comes into focus When we serve one another in the body of Christ. And so he begins with the rather common context. of uh sin within the body. And he says if anyone's Uh caught in any trespass, you who are spiritual. What does he mean by you who are spiritual? Believers, but he's talking also about believers who sin If any one is caught in any trespass, that's he's the the the context here is within the church mostly. Um So I think he means a little bit more than just saved. Those you you who are spiritual. Those who are demonstrating the fruits of spiritual. Okay, so those who are at least um Um being faithful to the Lord, alert to um their responsibility to each other, um not also involved in sin and needing someone to come to them, you know, in at least a a major way. Um so We need each other, that's his point. Right? We need each other. So anyone who is caught um In some kind of sin, you who are spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness. Why gentleness? He specifically says, each one of you looking to yourself so that you two will not be tempted. Um There is there's a certain amount of humility comes with the realization that we're all a work in process. None of us is perfect. All of us from time to time need someone else's help to come to us. Right? And so, yeah, it's your responsibility this time to go to that person But time will come when it may be the other way around. It needs to come to you. And so we need to be humble. We need to be he specifically says, gentle. What would what would be a way to go to someone that would not be gentle? Being judgmental. Judgmental. Yeah, and So you're coming alongside to help not to condemn. Right. Excellent. And I've I've inserted here that portion of Matthew eighteen that talks about those those typical steps people would go through to um help someone who is struggling for sin. Right. And he specifically mentions here in verse one that you who are spiritual should restore such a one. So the the whole object is not to belittle someone, but rather to bring them back into um right standing with God, fellowship with God, um uh victory over sin. All those things. Um so that's one area of responsibility we have. He he lists the numbers here. In verse two he says Bear one another's burdens, and thereby fulfill the law of Christ. While we're here, let's skip down to verse five. Where it says, for each one will bear his own load. So why do we need to bear one another's burdens if each one's going to bear his own load? That's a logical question. Right? Well the answer is that those are two different words, burdens and loads. The burden is a word that means excessive weight. It's it's more than someone can handle. And so there teamwork is needed to to get through. Right? In verse five it says each one will bear his own load. Um that's referring to standard Responsibilities people have. And we each have to fulfill our responsibilities and not impose on others to do our work for us. Right? But Even with that, sometimes the load gets too heavy and it helps to have multiple people, teamwork, uh that kind of thing. Does that make sense? So the words that are actually used there bring that out. In verse 3, for if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. Again, that's getting at the need for humility. Right? And um If if we're not humble like that, what's that likely to lead to, according to that verse? Pride, that's the opposite of humility, and it leads to often self-deception fooling ourselves, right? Um if anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, well those are the ski the extremes, but uh we can deceive ourselves into thinking that Um well could be any number of things. Maybe it's a sin. We deceive ourselves that, oh, it's not that big a deal. Everybody does it. Right, and that's that's not healthy. It could be um an interpretation of particular passage in scripture. Say, this is what it means But with a broader study with uh others pointing out relevant passages elsewhere in Scripture, bringing the full full weight of Scripture into this context It may well be that um the person's initial interpretation of a verse um wasn't Um completely consistent with the rest of Scripture. And so um being humble about that and having an open mind and letting scripture speak for itself in that case, um is a healthy thing. Yeah, do you do you do you think that self deception is pretty common or pretty rare? Everybody who said it's rare is self-deceived. Um In verse 4 it says, But each one must examine his own work, and then he will have reason for boasting with regard to himself alone, and not in regard to another. So we tend to compare ourselves with each other, don't we? And say, well I'm I'm better than that person, or I know something he doesn't, or I'm more mature than that person, whatever it might be, we compare ourselves with each other so that we look good, at least in our own eyes But what should the standard be? God and his word, right? Um where do we uh How would we be graded by God is the the key question. And uh the more self-deceived we are, the less we're going to be asking that question. Okay, we covered verse 5, verse 6. The one who is taught the Word of God is to share all good things with the one who teaches him. That has a number of applications or implications, but the general principle is that uh those who are benefited from the teaching, discipling of of someone else, or by someone else in their lives, Um ought to be grateful for that, both to the Lord and even to that person. Um So again, there's some humility there, there's some uh graciousness. Um Verse 7, you probably already have memorized. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, this will he also reap. Boy, that has a lot of applications. And so in the book of Galatians, um some of what's Some of Paul's concern, I think, is uh what people are sowing out there. If they're sowing bad theology, what's going to be reaped from that? Some um confused people some um wrong application because they get the the doctrine wrong, the the application's gonna be wrong. Like, you know, if if you if you're teaching that Gentiles need to become Jews in order to become Christians, that has lots of consequences. And you reap what you sow But man, that has application all over life, right? Um If we go into a a uh a situation, well, even like In verse one, if you're trying to approach someone uh concerning some possible sin in their life, and if what you're sowing is judgment and looking down on somebody, what are you going to reap? A messed up relationship, probably um harming um the other person and it comes back to actually to harm us when we t have that that uh posture. And so um yeah, you reap what you sow is I mean w we face that every day for the most part So it's a good reminder. So if you haven't memorized that verse, it's a good one to memorize it. And he begins it by saying, don't be deceived. And so again, we're talking about self-deception here. And to avoid self-deception, uh In this particular area, he says, don't mock God. How would deceiving ourselves into thinking that we're not going to reap what we sow be mocking God? Yeah. So if if we end up um denying God's design and principles and character It's gonna come back to come back in our face, right? I mean what's the illustration? Um Mocking God is a um what's another way to characterize mocking God? It's unbelief. Right. It's doubting his character, it's doubting his promises is doubting the applicability of his word, all those kind of examples. Um But the way it's written here, it says, it doesn't just say don't mock God. What does it say? God is not mocked. How is it that God is not mocked, even though people mock him all the time? God has the last word. Yeah. So you reap what you sow. And it continues in verse eight, for the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. Which makes sense. But the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. And not just eternal life as in future, but the blessings of having eternal life even now Eternal life is not something that begins when we die. Eternal life is something that begins when we get saved. He who has the Son has the life. Okay, any um thoughts, questions so far? Yeah. Yeah. Um Obedience to him is a key application of that, right? Um to disobey him is basically to Mock him. And to not mock him is to believe him and therefore to obey him. Good So he's already been talking about doing some good and right things. But in verse 9 he says, let us not lose heart in doing good, for in due time we will reap if we do not grow weary. So It's it's a reasonable uh component of our motives for doing what is right to recognize that ultimately God is the one who will reward us even if there's no reward in this life. Um but there can be other good motives for doing what is right. Can you think of any other good motives? Apart from God, what motive do people have for doing various things? Typically. But let's say for an unbeliever, um, they do some good things too, right? What what motives could people have apart from God giving them good motives? Being responsible to one another, um people Even unsafe people um love at least some people um Uh that's part of God's common grace to all of us, I think. Uh and so we know it's a good thing to uh To demonstrate love, to show love and and so on, although um without God having transformed us, our view of who we should love and and so on probably is a bit warped. Um but that could be a motive. Often the motive of unsaved people, and we get caught up in this um I think a lot The motive when it really gets boiled down to its core is what's in it for me. Our selflessness. And sometimes our selflessness drives us to do some pretty good things. I don't want to get uh bad consequences, so I'm going to do what's right, what other people would be helped by, you know, obeying or whatever. And there's God's given us each a conscience to kind of nudge us in that direction. But I mean look at the Pharisees. What was their motive? It's basically selfish. to follow the law and all the traditions that were heaped on top of the law, basically to look good. You remember what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount? Don't practice your righteousness among men where they can see your good works, but uh do it in secret It's between you and God, it's not about you impressing other people. And Jesus came down real hard, and the Pharisees who were perceived both by others and themselves to be the most righteous ones going. And um they could do all the they could do all the good things for the wrong reasons And I think we're not immune to that. Um so yeah. And and that's that's not inherently a bad thing. Um But without God's perspective on these things, it it's probably not going to get much better than that. And so what he's what he's saying here, let us not lose heart in doing good. Wha why would someone lose heart in doing good? because your efforts sometimes go unnoticed, sometimes what you're trying to do doesn't come to fruition. Yeah. Good intentions doesn't really produce something. It's discouraging. Uh it may take longer, right? So don't lose heart in doing good, for in due time we will reap if we do not grow weary. In due time we will reap. Does that mean maybe it'll take a month? Sometimes. But I think what he's really pointing at here is What are the eternal consequences of what we're doing? If we have an eternal view, that's going to impact the choices we make, the things that we do for others Um the the reason we do it is because it's the right thing, not because it's gonna benefit me. Right? Um Just having an eternal perspective can also I mean the the the the the verse here is a bit more general, in due time we will reap In other words, some of God's blessings we get to enjoy long before we're with Him in heaven. sometimes even later in this life, it might be years later, but they'll come back and they'll be a blessing not only for us, but potentially for other people. And God's sovereign over all that, and we just have to not grow weary, as he says. Um but why would we not grow weary? It's because We know that God is ultimately sovereign over that. And if our heart is right and if we're serving Him And we're learning patience and endurance in the process. Um God may or may not turn that around to a blessing for us in even in this life. But ultimately, if we have an eternal perspective, then It doesn't matter, really, if we're we're given recognition or some blessing as a result of our good works, because uh it's really as unto the Lord, not as unto other people. And certainly not as unto ourselves. And that's not inherently a bad thing to be a part of our motive. As long as um our desire is that he would be honored and pleased, not because of what we get out of it. Yes yeah. Um and that does get back to um motives If our motive is to be loving only those who love us, right, that's not sufficient. Um And actually that's maybe a good segue into the next verse. Verse ten, he says, so then while we have opportunity, let us do good to who? All people, and especially those who are the household of faith. Who is that? The household of faith? Believers. Christians. Right. So on the one hand he's saying, let us do good to all people, but then he says, especially Fellow believers. Not exclusively, but sometimes when we show our love for one another, as Jesus said, it demonstrates uh the goodness of God and it's a testimony to unbelievers, but s so there is some value there. And there's certainly commitments that we have to like our families, right? Um we don't want to uh neglect them. But uh he says do good to everyone Especially those who are of the household of faith. So verse eleven is good. See with what large letters I'm writing to you with my own hand. Now what's our application of that verse? Just an interesting note that Paul gives there. Um I think I speculated somewhere. Did I do it here? Um No, I think I did it in another place when it it made mention of his eyes and uh challenges he had and so on. Um So apparently at this stage of life at least he had um um diminished uh eyesight Uh I guess he didn't have glasses, so he was not able to to to read and and write as as small as he probably used to be able to. Uh so he would dictate his letters uh like this one to other churches. And in some cases we see um the scribe who was writing things down for him said um have his own greeting in there as well. But um In this case, I'm not sure, but it's possible what he's saying here is that he's writ writing this entire book on his own Uh but at least here at the end with with his uh his wrapping things up. Anything else on this set of verses before we go to the next So yeah. Something interesting I read. Um actually I read when MacArthur and R. C. School both say another interpretation of the large letters is that he was not writing in like the normal cursive handwriting that would have been used at the time, but big block letters that were used for like public notices, right, in a way to say, pay attention to the content of what I'm writing, not the style that I'm writing with. Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Well which is kind of in keeping with um the first that follows I guess where he kind of recapped Right, you get to have to be kind of a trusted winner. Right. I don't know, just possible. Well, let's go to verse 12 then. I'm on page 66. And I'll go ahead and read 12 through 18. Those who desire to make a good showing in the flesh try to compel you to be circumcised, simply so that they will not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. Um so you remember the the context here. The these Judaizers were trying to convince um Gentiles, but probably also other Jews, that in order for Gentiles to become Christians, they had to become Jews. And circumcision was sort of a um an outward manifestation of that and kind of maybe the symbol in their thinking. Um even though as Paul covered here in Galatians Um circumcision was a sign not of the Mosaic law, but a sign of the Abrahamic covenant. Which is a covenant of God's grace and man's faith. Anyway, um why He says here that they're compelling you to be circumcised simply so that they will not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. What's the connection there? Why would compelling people to be circumcised lead to them not being persecuted for the cross? Yeah, for sure. So if if you're a a non-Christian Jew at the time and you're all about, at least on paper, keeping the law And you hear these other people say, well, you know, Christ is the Messiah and all you need to do is believe. You don't have to keep the law How would the typical unbelieving Jew take that? Offensive. And you see in the book of Acts where Paul was the recipient of a lot of that offense, right? Coming from the Jews. Because he was preaching the gospel of Christ, not the gospel of keeping the law. Um and so he's saying here um They desire to make a good showing in the flesh. In other words, it's just by outward works. It's not part of the it's not by faith. They try to compel you to be circumcised simply so that they will not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. They're saying they believe in the cross of Christ. But they're able to convince the Jews that no no no no no no we don't want to offend you. Uh we're still keeping the law and so this is added on and so it it it it dampens the blow th that would come from these Jews because they're being placated, essentially. Um and so Paul says, you know, what other motive would they have? Um, or at least that's the effect. And then 13, for those who are circumcised, that is, the Jews, do not even keep the law themselves. And he's he makes this point in several places. Um those who are so attached to t keeping the law fail at it, so why should they they exalt and require keeping the law when they themselves Can't and don't keep it. But he says they desire to have you circumcised so that they may boast in your flesh. They want you to be circumcised kind of as a trophy of their doctrine. Right. Uh a scalp on the belt, if you will. And you know I've got another Convert. Well, actually, there were many uh proselytes they were called at this time, Gentiles who um adopted Judaism Um the New Testament refers to them as Jew uh just proselytes or proselytes to Judaism. Um and so that was a known thing. You even see references in the Gospels to God-fearing Gentiles, like Cornelius and Another Roman centurion, I think. Um they desired to have you circumcised so that they may boast in your flesh. So I've I've made a convert Uh one point for me, kind of a thing. They're boasting in the flesh, that is the outward trappings of the law. But then in verse 14, but may it never be that I would boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. So he's talking about a contrast of boasting here. Are we boasting in um our adherence to the law or our bringing other people, Gentiles, into at least some outward adherence to the law. And boasting that this is all a good thing? Or, as following Paul's example, are we boasting instead on not our works, but Christ's work? His work on the cross to pay for our sins, his work in his sinless life, to uh be the righteousness that God gives us. Um that's something to boast about. That's good news. Yeah, so he makes quite a contrast here. But then about the cross, he says, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. That sounds a lot like the Apostle Paul. What are you saying, Paul? What do you think he means there? The world has been crucified to me An eye to the world. What's it mean to be crucified? What was the purpose of crucifixion? Death. Um even um what's the word Execution, that's the word. Right? It was it was not just any old kind of death, it was being put to death. Um and so What then would it mean that the world has been crucified to me? Yeah, the the world has been executed. for me. It it it gives me no attraction, it's dead. I'm I'm uh No longer pursuing the things of the world because it's all dead to me. I I know that it's it's a dead end. It's uh not God honoring, it's not fruitful. Um and so that's a good thing. But then he says I've been crucified to the world. What's that mean? Yeah, it's so as a form of execution, it's something that's done to someone. Right? It's not just that he happened to die, but he died because he was put to death in this very cruel way. And so The world has been put to death, the world has been executed as far as I'm concerned, in my life, Paul's saying. Um I wasn't able to do it, but God did it. He He um um crucified the world Sh to me. And then he says, I to the world. Yes, it's it's it's over, it's done. Right. Got it? I don't know where it is, but you know I think Paul Right, you know, to live is Christ, to die is gain. I mean he keep saying it in a roundabout form. Saying it again, heal, right? I mean that right. Was it an English term Philippians? Philippians. You knew it was familiar. Yeah. Yeah. Um and he's not afraid to show that or to write that obviously. Yeah. Yeah. Um So the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. Um I I think at least in part what he's saying in that last part, I to the world Uh, is that the the old Paul has died And I've been given new life in Christ. And as far as the world is concerned, um I'm the the the Paul that they knew is dead is no Lord. But I'm a new person in Christ. And so the world has no attraction to me, and they can't figure me out because I'm a new person Um both things are happening because of the cross. Uh the cross of Christ. He accomplished both of those things Okay, verse 15. For there is neither neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation. So is he saying circumcision is a bad thing? No. What's he mean by it's not anything? Right. It doesn't accomplish anything to give you right standing before God. But neither is uncircumcision. I mean the the outward um uh act and status and whatever have no bearing on our salvation, right? So it's not that it's inherently bad. In fact, God commanded it. But it's not and never has been the basis for Salvation, right standing before God. Um and so our right standing before God isn't dependent on our being circumcised or uncircumcised, whichever, but rather it's based on what? A new creation. What's he mean by a new creation? Being born again. Right? If anyone is in Christ, he is what? A new creation. Yeah. And so Like Paul says, um the old Paul died, I'm now a new creation. And that's good news And going back to the law and trying to satisfy God by uh all of our good works Yes, it's important to do good works, but they're not the basis for our salvation. They're the result of a salvation. And they will be the result of our salvation if we're a new creation. And he does those works through us. We don't do them to uh impress anybody. But God does them through us. And uh verse sixteen. Those who will walk by this rule Peace and mercy be upon them and upon the Israel of God. So it's kind of a a um encouraging blessing, benediction. And given everything he said in the book, I think he's saying I hope you realize now that these Judaizers are wrong. They're misleading you. And so, um, yeah, you do need to do good works. But for the right reason and uh not depending on them for your right standing before God Um and that'll bring peace and mercy. And upon the Israel of God. And I think here he's referring to Jews like himself, who actually are saved. Um and of course he prays that many more Jews would come to salvation in Christ. And verse 17 is interesting. From now on, let no one cause trouble for me, for I bear on my body the brand marks of Christ. Well let's start with the last part of that first. I bear on my body the brand marks of Christ. What's he referring to there, you think? He probably has literal scars. Yeah, from flogging, from the beating, stoning even. Um so that's sort of the context in which he's saying this And he says, from now on, let no one cause trouble for me. And I one of the questions I asked here somewhere. The last question on page 67, on number three. Was Paul shrinking back from potential persecution like the Judaizers? So in verse 12, he's saying Um they're trying to escape persecution by um not offending people with the cross. So and yet here, Paul seems to be saying I've had enough persecution. I don't want more. But really what he's saying is uh y his own scars prove that he's serious about this and he doesn't shy away from speaking the truth even in the face of persecution Uh that's not the issue. ISCARs tell should tell people that that's not the issue. What is the issue is um He's written this letter to try to correct some false doctrine. And in his closing remarks, he's basically saying I'm praying this hits home and that uh those who were Being deceived by the doctrine of Judaizers will stand corrected and they won't cause me to write another letter or just have a heavy heart on their behalf Um so I I I think basically what he's saying is um I'm trusting that God's going to use these words to um prevent others from or to cause you who have been tempted by this doctrine of the Judaizers, to see that it's false and wrong and and therefore go the right way, and that therefore others won't be sucked into it also. Because that would be a burden to him Um he'd like to see his children walking in the truth, right? Rose, you had a thought? Yeah. So he he knows who are his and he's separated us from the world. Um in Paul's case Um he actually had those marks on his body, he said, uh which is his way of saying this was God's sovereign way of of um working in and through me. So I I think you know our situation is a little different because the persecution we would get isn't usually a physical persecution. You know, no one's gonna stone us or lash us with thirty-nine lashes or or whatever. At least yet. Um but that doesn't mean we're not persecuted. And sometimes people uh seek to avoid persecution by um watering down the gospel or not speaking up when really we should, right? But when we don't do those things and we actually do stand up and um there are consequences Those consequences might not be marks on our bodies, but they might be marks on our reputation. They might be um opportunities that are forfeited There could be a number of things that would be maybe not physical marks, but they're marks nonetheless. And they're there because of our faithfulness to Christ. And to the extent that they're not there, we're probably not quite the the uh representatives of Christ out there in the world that we should be. So it was it Paul said in um Timothy that um all those who Seek to live a godly life in Christ will be persecuted. Because we're so different from the world. Yeah. I also think about not just the remarks that are the likely better work negative, but the positive marks That we're supposed to have like compassion, humility, gentleness, patience. Those are all those marks. Because sometimes persecution comes not because we are living godly, but sometimes because we're being obnoxious. And you find that when you're not putting on those clothes that we're supposed to have as Christians And being kind of ugly and hateful and judgmental, that also brings persecution, but not the kind that we want yeah that makes sense. It's not proper correct persecution. Correct. Yeah. It's it's um Uh what's the word? Uh chastisement that we deserve. Yeah. Yeah, and if they're they're not thinking in godly terms, they might be offended by our the change in us. And uh God can use that. We're about at the point where we need to wrap up. Well let's close in prayer.