But because by it I see a reality. That's a flowery way of talking about how to see the world from a Christian perspective. Another quote from another author, Flenary O'Connor. Philenary O'Connor is a novelist and essayist. She was Catholic, lived uh died. 39 years old, she died. And she said, This, I see from the standpoint of Christian Orthodoxy, this means that for me, the meaning of life is centered in our redemption by Christ and what I see in the world, I see in its relation to that. That's kind of a flowery way of of getting at a Christian world. What it means to see the world as a Christian The only objective standard. So Christian worldview, I want to I'll I'll be using the terms a little bit interchangeably, uh, Christian worldview, biblical worldview, but really what we need is a biblical worldview Because there are many people in the world today, unfortunately, who claim the name of Christ who do not look at the world through the hands of the Bible. And so it can be confusing. especially if you're talking to unbelievers, if you use the term Christian worldview, and they can point to somebody who claims the name of Christ and sees the world through a totally different unbiblical land. So biblical worldview is probably the better phrase to use. And so we really need a biblical worldview based on and derived from the Old New Testament of the Bible and scripture itself. So that's what we're looking for in a worldview. So in other words, our thinking in every area founded on God's word. So we stand on God's word in every area. As we look at the world. And so what happens though when we look out at our culture, at our society, at the world we live in, what we see, we see all kinds of problems. Uh we see racism, we see abortion, we see gender issues, we see gay marriage, LBGPQ. But are those really the root of the problem? Or are those the symptoms of the disease? So the disease really we're gonna I'm going to argue and we're going to talk about here for the next few minutes. The disease itself is an unbiblical worldview, a secular worldview, not seeing the world through the lens of God is and he is not a scientist. He's he's revealed himself in his word. If you look at the world through any other lens, uh ignoring God in his word, that's a secular worldview. And the secular worldview produces all these problems we see. The underlying problem is the secular worldview, and it manifests itself in all these societal issues. And so we get this big whirlwind. We get this whirlwind of transgender LGBTQ, euthanasia, you know. Men and women's bathrooms, racism, gay marriage, all this whirlwind blowing through our culture and society In Ephesians 4, the Bible tells us so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine by humankind by craftiness and deceitful schemes. And so this is what we see happening to our culture. We see people being thrown around, tossed to and fro by waves and carried about by every way that Because they're not rooted and grounded in the scripture. And so we want to avoid that. We definitely want to avoid it in the church. We want to make sure that in the church we're grounded and reading the scriptures and we're not being tossed to the growth by these waves and carried about by winds. of doctrine. So where or where could we get an anchor in this kind of storm? Well the anchor that we have, the unmovable The immovable object that we can cling to in the midst of this kind of storm is the scriptures. And so if we have a biblical worldview, we have an anchor that we can attack. attached to in the midst of these storms. Really it comes down to a a a six thousand year and counting battle between two Religions. There's a religion based on God's word, and there's a religion based on man's word. And God's word leads to a Christian worldview, man's word leads to a secular worldview, and all the problems that come along with it. Now what happens if we try to have a Christian worldview based on man's word If we try to um to look at the world as a Christian, but our underlying worldview is really based on secular science or uh Secular philosophy. What happens to the Christian worldview? Well it collapses. It it it can't be the the foundation is broken, if the foundation is sand, the house is going to collapse. So really we need to make sure that we have the right foundation. We won't be able to have a Christian worldview or a biblical worldview. We have the right foundation. And the right foundation, as we're going to see as we go through this uh course over the next uh really twenty six weeks, is Genesis one to eleven. That's where the foundation is for the rest of the Bible, and the Bible is the foundation for our biblical worldview. And so uh at answered in Genesis, they have these uh seven C's. The first four of those C's are In Genesis 111, creation, corruption, catastrophe, and confusion. Creation, uh, pretty self-explanatory, corruption is the fall, catastrophe is the flood, and confusion is the tower of the And so those events, those huge events that happened in world history, world space-time history from Genesis 1 to Genesis 11 really uh set the foundation for how How we see the world. It includes who is God, who is man, what is sin, why do we need salvation? All that is in Genesis 1. How did we get the races of people that we see that are the quote races of people? That's one to eleven. And we'll talk about that quite extensively in the second uh part of the class. Um the idea of race, where did it come from? How did God really divide people up? Um and in the tower at the Tower of Baylor. And so we'll talk about all those things and we'll do a very extensive discussion, particularly of race and racism, when we get to uh chapter eleven. We'll spend a lot of time on chapter eleven at the very end of this class talking about race racism. biblical perspective. So um the what we'll see uh as we as we examine various aspects of God's creation We see that the true biology confirms God's word. True anthropology confirms God's word God's word. True geology confirms God's word. True biochemistry confirms God's word. Now I want to make sure to say this the right way. None of those things proves God's word. God and his word are self-attesting. The biblical worldview starts with two presuppositions. Those two presuppositions are one, God is. Two, he is the outside. Those are the two presuppositions of and from that everything else in the worldview flows. God is the first uh verse of the Bible, in the beginning God, there's no attempt in the Bible to prove God's existence. It's stated. It's it's a fundamental presupposition of biblical worldview. And so okay It it think about it, think about the logic of it. If there was something that could prove God's existence, then whatever that thing was would be a higher authority than God, would be more reliable than God. That you use to prove his existence. And there is no such thing. There is no such thing that's a higher authority than God, or more reliable than God, by which you can prove God's existence. And so if you and so in in logic, the thing that is the highest authority, the thing that is your fundamental presupposition Is the thing by which you measure everything else. And that's God in His Word in the biblical worldview. And so if you want to do a practical self-examination of ideas, your own worldview. If the Bible and anything else comes into apparent conflict, what is it that you will give up? Will you give up the Bible or will you give up whatever that other thing is? And if you'll if you'll bend the Bible to whatever that science, for example, if you come to something science and seems to conflict with the Bible. If you will bend the scriptures around science, then science is your ultimate authority. Uh no matter how much you protest, no no that's that can't be it is your ultimate authority if you will bend scripture around science rather than the other one Way around. So that's what we're going to talk about. That's the kind of discussion that we're going to have in this class when we go verse by verse. We're going to go through the scriptures, we're going to go through creation, we're going to go through Adam and Eve in the garden, we're gonna go through the claw, we're gonna go through uh what happened to Adam's and Eve's children uh in the immediate uh aftermath Of them being expelled from the garden in the fall. Eventually we'll talk about the flood and we're going to talk about the post-flood world and what happened at the Tower of Babel. But we're going to look at each and every one of these things based on what does God's word say. And that will be our our ultimate authority all the way through. And and as we do that, we're gonna also examine what what does the world say? And why is um why the world's view of each and every one of these things is is incorrect and leads to Not not only are they incorrect, but they're incorrect in such a way that they cause catastrophe, disaster uh for human beings. Uh following any other worldview other than the biblical one. Okay. So um the uh on the on the uh on the The left side of the screen you've got a Christian worldview. Christian view of marriage, the same life, and the fact that we we're one race, everybody's descended from the The uh family of Noah, so we're definitely a family, one human family, one race. And that's based on the scriptures, uh, and the scriptures from Genesis to Revelation. However, the scriptures uh the doctrines in the Bible I'm gonna I'm gonna show throughout this class are rooted and grounded in those first eleven chapters of Genesis. And so if you get the first eleven chapters of Genesis wrong, then you're gonna undermine all the scripture which undermines a Christian worldview. So that's why we start with Genesis 111. It really provides the foundation for the whole rest of scripture, which provides the foundation for a biblical worldview, which provides the foundation for looking at the world from God's perspective, looking at the world as it actually is And so it also provides us the ability to give answers when uh secular people with a secular worldview ask questions. Well what about this or what about that? We have the uh we have the capacity, we have the ammunition to provide answers that all of those questions, if we are well and truly grounded in a biblical worldview, especially that foundation of Genesis 1 to 11 Okay, and so once again, the the the key is that our thinking in every area, not just while we're at church on Sunday, but every area when we go to work on Monday, uh when we're talking to our neighbors, uh when we're uh coaching our kids literally, uh our thinking in every area is based on God's Word. That's what we're driving for. And so if that's the case, then we we need to understand what God's Word says. How do we figure out what God's Word says and what it means? And so there's some foundational doctrines that uh that we need to have in place before we get into Genesis 1-1. Uh two of those are inerrancy and sufficiency. And so these are theological terms that are that are really easy to understand. You know, there's there's a lot of details that you can go into and a lot of studying that you can do, but essentially inerrancy means that the scriptures in the original autographs are wholly true And everything that they affirm, whether that has to do with doctrine of morality or social, physical, or life sciences. Whenever the Bible talks about something, anything, the Bible is true. Uh that's inerrancy. Um and of course inerrancy is the original autographs, and so there's a a study of the transmission of scripture. Uh we're not going to get into that too much in this class. But there's been a lot of scholarship done about how the Bible has been transmitted over the centuries in Lydia to us so that we can be confident that what we have in our Bible is what God said. The doctrine of sufficiency of scripture Inerrancy is something that we hear a lot uh talked about sufficiency a little bit less. And so sufficiency of scripture is essentially that uh the Bible is all we need, absolutely need, to equip us for a life of faith and service. So it provides Provides a clear demonstration of God's intention to restore the broken relationship between Himself and humanity through His Son Jesus Christ by the gift of faith. No other writings are necessary for this good news To be understood, nor are any other writings required to equip us for a life of faith. So in other words, if there were no other books in the world and all you had was the Bible, that would be enough for you to understand God's plan of salvation and to understand what is required of you to equip you for a life of faith. Now Let me take a moment to say what sufficiency doesn't mean. It doesn't mean that you can't read any of your books or you shouldn't read any other books. No, that's not what sufficiency means. There are a lot of great books For example, that are written to help us understand scripture. There's commentaries and things that are written. Those are valuable books to read to help us to understand God's work better. There are lots of other kinds of books that are that are good that help us to understand God's world that He's made and people There's lots of other good books. What sufficiency says is those books are not absolutely necessary to be able to understand God's plan of salvation. And to equip you for a life of faith. They could be helpful. But the important thing is, anytime we get a book and we're going to read a book, that book to be useful has to line up with the truth of scripture. So we we uh we evaluate the the the truth and the useful of an outside book by the guide of the scripture, using the guide of the scripture. If it lines up with scripture, okay it's a book and we can use it. If it doesn't line up with scripture, anytime it doesn't line up with scripture of the scripture, then it's not useful in in that area. That's sufficiency. So what sufficiency is and what it is, that doesn't mean you can't read other books. That's not the idea of sufficiency. But the idea is that scripture really is sufficient to equip us for a life of faith. In other words, if somebody tells you, okay, the the Bible's great, but you really you to really understand uh uh race, you need to read these other books. No, that's not true. To really understand race, you need to read the scriptures. That's the sufficient thing to understand who people are, including the idea of race. It may be helpful to read other books, but But if somebody tells you that you have to read these other books or you won't understand some concept of the Bible. No, it's not right. Sufficiency of Scripture. The next thing interpreted is how do we read the scripture and understand it? So uh Second Timothy two 15 says, be diligent, present yourself, to prove to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed of accurately handling the word of truth. Hermeneutics is about accurately handling the word So it's the study of principles and methods of interpreting the text of scripture, and so we need to understand this before we attack Genesis. So the first principle is the Bible should be interpreted literally. What does that mean? What does the word literally mean? It means that you It's it's interpreted as literature. It's written literature, so you have to interpret it as literature. So when we you know reading a text, first we have to determine what's the literary genre? What kind of writing is it? Is it historical narrative? Is it poetry? Is it prophecy? We need to find out what kind of literature it is first So, for example, the sections of scripture that are historical narrative, like Genesis, Genesis is written in historical narrative. We understand the text and its normal or plain meaning, taking into account When we get to a book like Genesis or Acts or First and second Samuel. Those are historical narratives. They're talking about events. Such and such a person went over here and did such and such a thing. That's a historical narrative. There's many historical narratives in the Bible. There's also poetry in the Bible. There's the Psalms. There's uh there's wisdom literature in Proverbs that's in a s a particular style. Um that we don't necessarily read e each word in the in the in the wisdom literature or the as a as uh literal uh as a literal meaning. There's also things in the so the gospels are primarily historical narrative that Jesus and the disciples went over to the city of Galilee and then they talked to the crowd and it's However, when you're reading the Gospels, you also get to things like parables. Jesus told parables, he told stories. So when Jesus told the parable of the Good Samaritan, there is no Good Samaritan. You realize that, right? He he he made a story about a a hypothetical person. So he's not talking about a Steve the Samaritan. He's talking about he's telling a story. And so we realize that when we read the parables, that Jesus is telling a story to illustrate a theological truth. But that's how we analyze the scripture. We look at it. What kind of literature is it? What does the Bible tell telling us here and what kind of language is he using to tell it. And so when we approach Genesis, we know that it's historical narrative. It's in a Hebrew historical narrative style. And so we read it as a plain historical narrative. unless there's a particular Hebrew uh figure of speech in there. Uh we don't read it as an allegory, for example, because that's not how it's written and that's not how the re rest the Bible treats of. So in the sections of scripture that contain poesy or prophecy, we expect more symbolic language. That's what it means to read the Bible literally. That's what it means. The second principle of uh biblical permit is we read the passages uh in historically historically, grammatically, and contextually So historically means we seek to understand the culture and background and situation of the text. What's the cultural background of the text and that history? Uh and and grammatically means we we look at the rules of grammar for Hebrew and Greek. And so sometimes this is easy to do, sometimes it's a little more challenging. For example, in the when we talk about uh Genesis 1-2, we'll talk about the Hebrew grammar of Genesis 1-2. And so there's two kinds of Hebrew grammar grammar uh essentially in the In Genesis 1, there's uh Baal consecutives and there's Baal disjunctives. And so the Baal consecutives has the Hebrew letter Vau attached to a verb, and that's a uh sequence of events. So VOB disjunctive is totally different. That's when the letter VOB is attached to a noun. And that's a disjunctive. It's a it's a It's a a pause in the narrative, the sequence of the narrative to describe conditions. And in Genesis 1-2, it's about disjunctive, and that's important to understand the text. And so in next week's lesson we'll talk in great detail about volved disjunctives and and volved consecutives because it's important. What's it mean? And and in that particular case The Hebrew construction of Genesis one, two precludes a gap theory. Gap theory doesn't work if it was above uh con uh Consecutive, then you might be able to argue that there's something else happening one, two, that there's a gap there. But it's not. The Hebrew structure is above disjunctive. And so if there's not a time The Hebrew construction will allow. And so that's why it's important to understand a little bit about the Hebrew grammar. So we'll we'll talk about uh things like that as we go. We'll talk about the uh uh the Hebrew word Yom and what it means in different contexts and and um and why the particular context it appears in Genesis 1 precludes any idea that no one was anything other than 124 over day in that particular grammatic structure Okay, uh context includes the verses immediately preceding and following, it includes the chapter that we see the particular verse in, and most broadly the entire Bible. How does this pass passage of scripture fit the entire review revelation of God from Genesis to Revelation, it's a it's a it's a un it's a united integrated story the the scriptures and so every verse of the Bible fits into that story and it needs to be read in that context. And so that's how we knew hermeneutics. So uh the third principle is to compare scripture with scripture. So So if we're looking to analyze a passage of scripture and there are different possible meanings, which one of those meanings fits in with the rest of scripture? That's the first place to look. And if you're trying to make a passage say something that contradicts lots of other scriptures, so you you find a obscure passage, you don't know what it means, first look at What does the rest of the Bible say? What are all the clear passages of the Bible say? And interpret the difficult passage, the obscure passage, in light of all the clear passages in the whole rest of Scripture. Let Scripture uh uh interpret scripture. So it's all about really finding the correct interpretation of the inspired text. And we need to make sure we're doing that. Make sure we're getting it right. Right in the beginning. And it's protect us from misapplying scripture or allowing bias to color our understanding of truth. We want to see the truth, know the truth, and live the truth. So when complex and contentious issues come up, like creation evolution, for example, we need to make sure that we're accurately handling the word. And do that by proper home. So the final thing we'll talk about before we get into the little overview of the of the first eleven chapters is the idea of exegesis versus eisegisus. So these are words that mean exegesis means to lead out of. And so that's the let the text uh lead us. Essentially. Um the process of exegesis is first observation, what does the passage say? Then interpretation, what does the passage mean, applying proper hermeneutics, and then correlation, how does the passage relate to the rest of the Bible. And finally, after we've done all that application, how should this passage affect my life? Isegesis is the opposite. The word isegesis means to lead into, in other words, to put my ideas into the scripture. Uh eisegesis involves first imagination. What idea do I want to present? Next, exploration. Then I look around the scriptures. Where's a passage that says something about what I want to say And then application, how does my idea what is what how does what does my idea mean for your life? That's eisegesis. I I I j dressed up my own ideas with some a little bit of scriptural window dressing and told you what I think. Uh that's ideal Uh only exegesis does justice to the text, obviously. Uh exegesis is mishandling the text and often uh misinterpreting the text. Uh exegesis is trying to discover the true meaning, uh respecting the grammar syntax and setting eisegesis is concerned all over the base. making a point. And so if we're an honest student of the Bible and we really want to apply the Bible Bible appropriately, if we want to really have a biblical worldview, we need to be involved in exegesis. We're trying to agree. We want to be in agreement with God's Word. We're not trying to force God's Word to agree with us. Which is what you get at eisegesis. And so when we come to complex and contentious issues with creation evolution, we want to make sure that we're accurately handing the word truth by exegesis. What does it really say? What does it really mean? Not what do I want it to mean? And so that's the preparation that we need, the things that we need to have in the back of our mind minds as we approach the scripture. Now, we're the particular scripture we're going to be approaching is Genesis 1 to 11. So the book of Genesis in general, why do we care about this book? Genesis. So uh we already talked quite a bit about this, the fact that it's the foundation. Um and it really is. The book of Genesis really is the foundation on on which The rest of Bible doctrine is built. It's also the most quoted and referenced book in the rest of the Bible. So if you look at the whole rest of the scriptures from Exodus To Revelation, the most quoted book in all those other books is the book of Genesis. Every major doctrine of theological truth in some form or fashion goes back to the book of Genesis. Genesis. And so therefore, if the book of Genesis is not true, then everything else in the Bible comes crashing down. And so this is why, from Satan's perspective, It's important for Satan to attack the book of Genesis. If he can undermine the book of Genesis, the whole rest of the Bible comes crashing down. And he knows it. And so that's what he attacks. The book of Genesis. So as we look at the book of Genesis, just as an overview, the author, date, and structure of the book, Moses was the author of Genesis sometime around 14 fifty B C it depends on when you date the exodus. So of course we don't know exactly when the exodus was But there have been a lot of scholarly books. Uh if you go back to uh James Usher, for example, he dates uh Moses' birth to fifteen seventy BC, which means he died at the age of 120 in 1450 BC. And so he had to have written Genesis sometime before 1450 BC. And of course he wrote it under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. But he probably had access to older information And documents, for example, if Moses lived from say fifteen seventy BC to fourteen fifty BC, the events of creation were uh uh hundred thousand years before that. And so he had to get information about that from another source. Now there's nothing to preclude the Holy Spirit from just Whispering in Moses' ear that this is what happens in write it down. But there is evidence, uh internal evidence of a unifying hand that even if there were older documents or oral traditions from which Moses drew, the book of Genesis shows uh uh literary evidence that it was written by one guy. Not not not uh that it was old documents just stitched together by a guy, but that the whole thing was written by a guy. But there is a structure to it. There's a toledot structure. There's kind of eleven family histories, if you will. Toledot is a Hebrew word that literally means what came forth from. It's often translated in English as these are the generations of, descendants of, so to speak, but it literally means what came forth from. Other books of the Old New Testament affirm Moses is author. Old Testament scripture that say Moses is the author of the book of the law, Jesus himself and the apostles. say numerous times that Moses was the author of the uh the Torah, uh the first five books of the Bible. Uh there is a alternative Alternative hypothesis called the documentary hypothesis. And um I won't spend too much time on it. We can talk more about it uh after class if you like, but the documentary hypothesis is essentially says that there was four authors and one editor. The four authors J E D P Jay is the hobist author that used the term uh Yahweh or Jehovah for God. Uh E is the uh Eloyist author that used the term Elohim for God. D is the author that wrote Deuteronomy. P is a priest later on that added to the uh uh that brought the text together and R is Raconteur, a uh redactour uh that that brought it that that did the final packaging of it as a editor. And under the documentary hypothesis, it's written between 900 BC and 400 BC. uh redact to or the editor is born in BC in the time of Ezra. Now there's a lot of reasons to to discount this There's internal evidence against it. There's things like in the book of Genesis, there's references to Egypt and references to Egyptian animals and and Egyptian places comparing them to places in the the promised land that make absolutely no sense that they're written between nine hundred and four hundred BC, long after they've been in the promised land. But make perfect sense for being written in 1400 BC while they're while they're wandering in the wilderness, while they're on their way from Egypt to the Promised Land. haven't entered the Prophet yet. There's no mention of the city of Jerusalem, for example, in the book of Genesis. That would be very strange for a book that was written Between 900 and 400 BC, where Jerusalem is the most important city, to the people that were writing it. But it makes perfect sense it was written in 1450 BC to people that hadn't been to the Promised Land yet, and there was no city of Jerusalem yet. There was the city of Salem. Melchizedek is described as the king of Salem, not the king of Jerusalem, because there was no city called Jerusalem then. Uh so there's all these bits of evidence that point to a book that was written by people, a person that was with people that were coming out of Egypt and hadn't been to the promised land. Yeah. Which would not be the case under the documentary hypothesis. So uh one of the main evidences that are is claimed for the documentary hypothesis is the different names of God, but um the counter argument of course is Why could one a single author not use different names for God? There's no no reason why Moses couldn't have used different names for God for different circumstances For the name Elohim is the the creator God, the name Yahweh or Jehovah is the covenant God of Israel, and uh there are places in Genesis where uh you get uh Yahweh Elohim, the Lord God, and that's a big problem for the uh Documentary hypothesis, is why why didn't somebody put the names together? Um their answer is of course that's what the editor did at the end Yeah, he threw that in his hand. Um But you know there's there's no evidence for that. There's there's no evidence that any of that happened. In addition, there's a there was a fascinating story that I read that one commentator wanted to uh figure out if there was really anything to this documentary hypothesis and so what he did was he took the same algorithms that are used by teachers to catch your kids plagiarizing papers. Right? So there's a there are algorithms that teachers can use. They can apply it to a paper and see if it if it looks like They've used material from somebody else and not quoted them. So does the paper look like it was written by multiple authors, in other words? And applied it to Genesis. And the computer said, no, this is definitely written by one guy. It doesn't look like it was written by multiple authors according to the computer algorithm that tries to catch people cheating by By having multiple authors of a paper. There's also no evidence of a compilation between 900 and 400 BC. In other words, there's no ancient Jewish writings that talk about these J-E-E-P authors putting together Genesis. So there's no evidence. And so I think on hundreds of evidence we can uh discount this. So yes, go ahead. You said Moses was born around 1570 BC. Well. Okay. When did the flood occur? So the flood then would have been sometime in the um Say seventeen, eighteen hundred BC, uh I'm sorry, uh twenty six hundred BC. So uh Abraham was lived about two thousand BC. Okay. And so Abraham was something like four or five six hundred years uh before the so but these dates are speculative And so I I don't want to get too um I don't want to get too hung up on very specific dates. Uh general dates, yes. Right. Now on the question is about an exact date The question what I'm questioning is if the flood happened around roughly around fifteen, sixteen hundred, did you say, somewhere around that? So I would say the flood, so so um if if we add up all the dates in the Bible we get something like four thousand ish B C for creation. And we get about 2000 BC for Abraham, we get zero for Jesus, and we get two thousand BC So there's these sets of two thousand years in general. And the flood was in that first two thousand years. Um it was something like, I don't know, sixteen hundred years after creation. Right. Which is something like twenty four And then Moses came along how many years later? So Abraham was about two thousand. Moses was about fifteen hundred BC. So Moses something like Five hundred years after Abraham? But you know that's not really all that long. And I guess what I'm saying is that I'm trying to think when you're talking about how um you said of course the Holy Spirit Could could have very easily told him how w what had happened and all all of that. But you know, that's not gonna be a very long time period So if there were people in that in that era from one event to end, it could have certainly been passed down all that information. uh the the timeline of how long people live and when when they would have been able to talk face to face. For example, Noah's father Lamek overlaps with Adam. Right And so Adam could have explained in first person, grand great grandpappy Adam could have explained to Lamech exactly what it was like in the Garden of Eden. Right. And Lamech was Noah's father. So Uh Noah didn't quite overlap with Adam, but his Noah's father did. And so i it it makes sense for an oral tradition to have been passed down like that when you had these extremely long life. time so that you could see five or six or seven generations of your children and you could tell the stories around the campfire and And people could could hear 'em for year after year after year after year. And so they that in that environment you could have an oral tradition that passed down. Um and but what happens when lifespans go down to a hundred and twenty years? Then you need to have it written down. And so that's why Genesis was written down. God made sure that it was written down. All those events could have been passed down by old tradition when there were gigantic When the lifespans came down it really needed to be written down. And so that's when God had it written down. So I think it all makes sense. And uh one of the lessons I'll show a graphic of to illustrate that. And also the fact that uh I'll show you how long after the flood Noah lives. And and so Noah uh and Shem in particular. So Shem uh overlapped with Abraham. And so Shem who lived before the flood Could have told the story of what it was like before the flood, what the flood was like, what it was like to be on the ark, what it was like to come off the ark, could have told that to every generation after uh they came out to the ark, all the way down to Abraham. Um that's what long lifespans do to be being able to tell stories within all tradition. Um but eventually those lifespans came down and it needed to be written down. And so God made it so. And that all fits from a biblical standpoint, from reading the scripture, what What does the scripture say? What does it tell us about history? All of them clicks into place and it makes perfect sense. Okay. So uh I mentioned the Toledots, so there's the Hebrew word the Hebrew word tolerats up there, structured genesis. So Toledah means what came forth from. And so the creation doesn't get a tolada. Why does the creation not get a tolada? What if the creation come forth from from nothing creates the next me alone so it doesn't get a told up because it didn't come forth from anything. It came forth from nothing. Everything makes sense in the way God has structured His work. Everything makes sense. Even down to the idea that creation doesn't get a tolleron. The first Toleran is what came forth from the heavens and the earth. And so once God had made this heaven and earth, What came forth from that? Well for you made a garden, you made people, uh and it's uh Genesis two four four twenty six talks about the uh the uh uh Adam and Eve in the garden, the fall and uh the immediate aftermath after they were expelled from the garden, the full out of Adam, what came forth from Adam describes the generations from Adam to Noah. The Toledo of Noah, what came towards from Noah? It talks about the flood, it talks about Noah's sons and coming off the ark. The Toledo of Noah's sons talks about it's the table of nations. in in uh Genesis chapter 10 what came forth from Shem Ham and Japheth. Told it out of Shem because the what came from forth from Shem, and there's the more specifics about the descendants of Shem, from Shem down to Tirah, Tira, the father of Abraham. The next is told about Tirah, what came forth from Tirah. And it's the whole story of Abraham's life What came forth from Tirah was Abraham. And then there's the Toledo of Ishmael, just a six-verse little list of the descendants of Ishmael and then we don't hear about Ishmael again because why? Because the Bible is a book about what? What's the Bible a book about The Bible is a book about Jesus. What about Jesus? And so the Bible, we'll see this as we go through, follows the line from Adam That's what's important. And it doesn't mean that the other people aren't important. They're still image bearers of God. But the Bible is a And so we'll see this when we look at the genealogies. We get this robust genealogy that keeps following the line that will lead to Jesus. And when there's a side branch, we follow it for about this much. And Then it's gone. The Bible doesn't talk about it anymore because the Bible spokes on Jesus and we're going forward towards Jesus. So we get the Toledo of Isaac, what came forth from Isaac, and that's the story of Jacob. We get the Toledot of Esau, which is there's actually two Toledots of Esau, one with just his descendants, one is uh Esau as the father of the Edomites, and we get the E Edomite cliente because Israel's going to deal with those Edomites that are on. Then we get to call it out of Jacob, what came forth from Jacob, and that's the story of Joseph. all the way to the end of uh Genesis. So so the historicity of Genesis, so uh I'm almost out of time So uh there there's a tendency sometimes, not always, but sometimes, to think of Genesis 1 to 11 in a different category from Genesis. So pretty much everybody takes Genesis 12 to 50 to be history, a record of historical events from Abraham. Genesis 12 is where the historic Abraham is So Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, everybody's everybody pretty much acknowledges that's those are real historical events. But those events make you Genesis 111, we're not so sure about that. So is there any within a text is there any division between Genesis 1 to 11 and 2021 Fift fifty. Well no there's not. Uh this toll of that structure goes right on through. It doesn't stop at Genesis eleven. It's the same all the way through. We have told that's in Genesis one eleven, told told that's in twelve fifty. Um there when we're recounting history in general, we do things like the names of persons and places. So and so went to such and such a place and did such and such a thing. Well we see that over and over again in Genesis one to eleven, just like in Genesis We see references to Genesis 1 to 11 in the rest of Scripture that treat it like history. The creation event is reflected. And it's referred to as if it really happened in many other places in Scripture, uh, Old and New Testament. The fall is referenced in other places in Scripture. And it's treated like it's real history. Jesus and his apostles based arguments, theological arguments, on the historical record of the G. So for example in Matthew 1948, uh Jesus was asked about divorce. And when Jesus was asked about divorce, he says, Haven't you heard that God made them from the beginning, male and female? And he referenced that's Genesis one and two, and then he references two twenty-four um that it's written that uh man shall leave his mother. Father and leave to his wife, and two shall become one flesh. And so Jesus quotes from Genesis one and two as if their historical history would make no sense if it was a myth. Those things didn't happen Um that would be a very weak and poor foundation for Jesus' arguments in Matthew chapter So Paul also based theological arguments on the historical record of Genesis in 1 Timothy 2, 12 and 14. He he talks about why women can't teach in church. And so there are people that The read that scripture and say, well he's just making a kind of a s he he lives in a patriarchal society and so he's making an an argument from the the s how the society of the day was. Well, that that's that's a thought. However, what does Paul actually refer to? He refers back to creation. He refers to the order of creation. Adam was created first and Eve was created second. And then he refers to the fact uh during the fall that Eve was the one who deceived And so if if those were not actual historical events, it was just myth, then what a weak argument that would be for Paul to make. Um and notice the context of the argument. The the argument that he makes goes back to a time when there were only two people, no culture, no society, no government. And so he's he's obviously rooting these things in something more fundamental than social circumstances of his day. It goes all the way back to the the creation and the fall. So uh I want to play a clip for you Um so John Parker, this was a conference that I really wanted to go to. The Truth Matters Conference, May uh twenty twenty-two, and so Uh I knew when the tickets went on sale. I was sitting at my computer in the morning the tickets went on sale. I was pressing the button and and the the instant the tickets went on sale they were sold out. And so uh and so I watched the whole thing on uh on the internet, the whole thing's up there like uh twenty-four hours worth of video to watch. Uh but they explained at the very beginning that they sold out in thirty minutes. Uh-uh Um so I just want to play this quote for you if I if I may. See if I can do it. I wanna j I wanna just uh jill the lily a little bit here and say Um I'm often asked the Masters University is 95 years old and it has never wavered in its commitment to the absolute authority of scripture, an inerrant text and a sufficient text. And when people ask me how has this university stayed true for 95 years, my answer has always been the same. It is because of our convictions about the veracity of Genesis 1 to 11. You saw an illustration of that right here. Every single issue that causes the church to cave into the world is already settled in Genesis. And we've lived a hundred years of that history. Every faculty member, every staff member, I don't care whether whatever their discipline might be, signs annually a document affirming from the heart the the veracity of the account in Genesis one through eleven because this is the this is the foundation of absolutely everything in the Word of God. And also it is the most assaulted portion of scripture because it's where science gets away with the most anti-God effort Okay, so uh that's John MacArthur uh explaining why he thinks that the Master's University that he oversees has remained faithful to Scripture Um and so if you notice what he said there was he's often asked why, how is it that all these other organizations are strained and strained from the world Orthodoxy and the Masters University has it. He says his answer is always the same, it's our conviction about the veracity of Genesis 1 to 11. He also talked about at the end, this is the particular area where Satan attacks and attacks it through some And so uh in the c I have two minutes left. So I wanna uh we're gonna talk about this more as we go along, but um let me let me just say that um This idea of science, what is science? It comes from a Latin word that means having knowledge. The present part of Sibyl is scurae, which means to know. And so theology was once known as the queen of the sciences, the queen of the knowledges, many years ago. But over the past 200 years, science has come to mean a method of knowing, a way of know of discovering the truth uh and kind of the only way of discovering the truth. And so today many secular humanists have this philosophy called naturalism. or scientism, which means that the scientific method is the only way, the knowledge to the senses. Of course it's self-refuting because the very statement that science is the only way to gather knowledge can't be determined by science studies. I can't measure off five kilograms of the idea that science is only way to have knowledge. So it's a full philosophical statement. It's not a scientific statement in and of itself. It's self-refuting. Bible is not a science textbook, thank goodness for that. I as a uh Associate Chair of the Physics Department at the Naval Academy. I was in charge of uh evaluating textbooks and uh textbooks in the area of physics and Newtonian physics, which has been settled for 300 years hasn't changed in three hundred years. And yet the textbooks have to be revised every couple of years because there are mistakes in them. On on physics has been settled for 300 years. So I'm glad that's the Bible's not a science textbook. They're so valuable. Um and so what it does, the Bible gives us a proposition of truth about real events and space-time history. Uh and so scientific uh this was the last thing we'd do, uh I'll have to stop after this. So scientific observations are all done in the present, unless you have the You can only observe things in the present. Without a time machine you can't go back. So oper there's two main branches of science. Operational science is applying present observations to draw conclusions. About the present. From this we get things like computers and spaceships and uh all kinds of uh medical advances for operational science. There's another whole branch of science called historical science, or for instance. And that's applying present observations, filtering them through philosophical assumptions to make guesses about the facts Obviously there's not even the potential for conflict between the Bible and operational science. What the Bible said is is written down That's historical about the past. Operational science only deals with things in the present. Historical science is the only science that can conflect the Bible. When poor assumptions lead to poor guessing And then those four guesses are set up against the truths of the client. So I'm going to have to stop there. We'll have to pick up, there's a little bit more that I want to do about The gospel and how simple the gospel is, but if you're going to explain the gospel, That you need to be able to be ready to answer questions about, well, who is this God? What's sin and where did it come from? Why do I need salvation? And the answer to all those questions Is rooted in Genesis 1 to 11. And so the gospel is very simple, and we'll talk about this next time, but being able to explain why Why, why, why, why, the why questions about, or the who questions about who is God, who is man, what is sin, those sort of things. You need to be able to have a firm foundation in Genesis 1 to 11 to be able to explain those. The gospel is simple. Explaining the foundation of the gospel is a little bit more complex and requires a knowledge of justice. In the information about this course, you spoke about in a notebook. So uh so yeah, so I I talked to Kathy about this at the beginning. I I I have not created another book. Um so um I may I may as the class goes along um create materials that could be put into an notebook. And so um I I don't think it's well maybe it's weird. I this PowerPoint presentation I'm doing now could be made into a PDF and and and put into a notebook, but it's long. It's uh like we And and it I don't I don't want to kill a thousand trees and make a sort of fake notebook. So my intention is to hang all the materials in the files section on host And anybody that wants to can download. If you want to, you can print it out. But I'll put it all there. And as we go along, I've got a a lot of background information. A lot of scholarly papers uh uh PhD dissertations about uh interpretation of Genesis One, for example. I have one I have one PhD dissertation that's two hundred and forty six pages long that explains the interpretation of Genesis 1. And I plan to to put that on the homebook. Ooh. And put that as a file on the codebook. And you can read it or you can download it or you can print it off if you want. But but I don't think it's a good idea to print The you know the the materials that I'm gonna use for this class will run into the thousands of pages. Literally, thousands of pages. And so I don't think that's a it's a good idea to print out you know a series of five or six five inch binders that it would take to put all that material into for everybody So uh yeah. But maybe you would copy without printing it, you would copy it onto uh well I can upload it to uh to uh Hope Book and and everybody in the class can download it at your pleasure. Yeah, yeah, I'll do that. Right. Any other any other questions? So everybody knows and to to access that it's important that you register for the class. That's true you're not gonna have access to the files. Yeah. So you you really help to to review the files. I I looked yesterday and by my calculations about six people Yeah so uh but that's a good point. So yes, in order to be able to access the class material you have to be. Because it'll show up in your homework account Yeah, each register. Yeah, and just to be clear, to register you just put your name on the on the sheet here. Yes, that's right. So if you put your name on the sheet, we can add these in the class. Alright, any other questions? Alright, let's pull some prayer