But let's pray and ask for the Lord's blessing this morning. Father, we thank you for uh this day. Uh many of us have well all of us have come out into the cold and We're grateful for your care and protection over these last few days. Uh that the fact that we have warmth in our homes and uh can drive on clear w roads. Uh thank you for your mercy toward us. And uh Lord, as we now focus our minds on your word in Genesis, help us to think well, to understand and embrace what your word teaches. Uh so that we might grow in our love for you. In Christ's name. Amen. Okay, so we are in part nine. Today is February 1st. We have uh just a reminder, we're going all the way up to March first for this class. And normally March 1st would be the new quarter but because this quarter is twelve weeks we're extending it one week and then that way we have two thirteen weeks instead of a twelve week quarter and a fourteen week quarter. So we have just a few more Sundays left for this particular quarter and then of course Pastor Rob will continue on in teaching this class, and then I'll I'll be teaching a class with Pastor Allen next quarter. But Genesis chapter six is where we're at. And just as a reminder, just a quick reminder, how in these early chapters of Genesis we are uh confronted with the big questions and the answers to those questions uh that that God has revealed to us. The reason he's given us this information of what took place before the flood and didn't start with, let's say, Abraham or or even Jesus in the New Testament, is because he wants us to know who he is Uh that answers the question, you know, who's in charge, who's the rulemaker. Uh and all throughout the the Bible Oh, And all throughout the the Bible it emphasizes over and over again that God is creator, that God is creator. And that's to point out the fact that he uh has sovereign rule over all things. And uh we see that significantly obviously in creation when he created all things But there's an argument to be made that the flood is in is almost an equally powerful demonstration of the sovereignty of God hone in on is who is in charge. Who is in charge? And of course the answer is God, the maker of heaven and earth. Just a quick uh summary of what we'll look at today. Um in the first part of the book of uh sorry of Genesis 6 Let me just pause and say, you'll have to forgive me today because it's been a full weekend and uh my brain is um a little tired. But uh we'll look at wickedness before the flood in Genesis six. Uh what what was the environment like uh at the time of Noah. We'll talk about the sons of God and the Nephilim. That might be a an issue you're familiar with. And we're going to answer all your questions and leave you without any doubt of what the answers are. We're going to talk about the death of man's depravity and the coming judgment. The righteous uh Noah and his sons corruption of the earth And that God commissions the ark. All of that is from uh Genesis 6, uh 1, all the way up to I think it's verse 16. Just a quick review. I hope you uh had an opportunity to listen to the lesson from last week that was either live participated on Zoom or heard the recording. But that worked through Genesis chapter 5, which even though it's a genealogy, and you might think, oh, that's that's not significant, there's not much to draw from that. Um if you listen to that, I think you'll r uh be encouraged to know that there's much truth there. And what I just want to highlight by way of review is how the human race uh uh expanded and grew uh over the uh thousand plus years from creation to the flood. So we are given the line of Adam and Eve, of course through Seth And then we see the line that's detailed there in red that's articulated in Genesis chapter 6. But it's also important to remember that there are other sons and daughters, right? That every generation had other sons. and daughters, and I just continue on all the way uh down through the time of Noah. Now um we don't know this for certain, but it's an interesting thought experiment to ask how many people were on the earth at the time of the flood. Bible doesn't tell us, so we can't know for sure. But if you just do some basic calculations or you have ChatGPT, do some basic calculations. And of course there's others that have have worked through this as well. There's the potential that if Just the couple of assumptions there are you start with Adam and Eve and you work through with the actual chronology that's provided in Genesis, as as uh Pastor Rob mentioned last week. There's no gaps in the chronology. There's no time gaps that is. Uh that we're given this precise number of years, so we know exactly how long it was from the time of Adam to the time of the flood. So given that time frame, which was just over a thousand years And given the lengths of life that are uh given to us in that passage, and given an estimation, this is the most variable part, of how many children every generation had, and we've talked about how the Jews had a tradition that Adam and Eve had was it was it twenty-three, do I remember that? Twenty-three children or thirty? Thirty-two, something like that. Right. We we don't know exactly, but the point is when you live 900 years you might have a few kids. So let's just say for the sake of assumption of a calculation that every generation has twenty kids, right? They're living uh six eight hundred years, nine hundred years, let's just say for the sake of argument that they have twenty kids. What would be the population of the earth after or or by the time of the flood? Well, if you just count up the number of people, recognizing again how long they lived, therefore how many were still alive, even though they were born very early on at the time of the flood. The maximum, well not the maximum, a high, a high number, a liberal number, if you will, is in the neighborhood of twenty billion. Twenty billion. There are eight billion on the people on the earth right now. Now I don't think it was twenty billion in terms of who was how many people were alive. For one thing we know it was one less than that because Lamick murdered one of them But clearly because of the wickedness of men on the earth, the implication is there was a lot of murder taking place. Um and so again that's just an estimation it was probably a lot lower because of of death and and murder and disease and all of that kind of stuff. But uh that's to say that there was the potential You know, if everybody lived and everybody was sustained, uh it could have been that high it was probably much lower. But that's just an interesting thought, right? That i it wasn't like there was three hundred people on the earth when the flood came Right, there were l there were likely billions upon billions of people who were killed at the flood. Who were in indeed, indeed all wicked Uh again, this is from last week. Uh the phrase that's repeated in the book of in Genesis five is, and he died, and he died, and he died, which is to emphasize the truth of God's promise or the faithfulness of God's promise that if Adam and Eve ate of the fruit fruit of the knowledge of good and evil, uh that they would die. So his promise bore true. Uh the s there's a structure, if you just look at the the wording of Genesis 5, uh that uh when A, that is the name, had lived X number of years, he became the father of B, and then A lived another. w uh y number of years so that all the days of A were uh the combined number of years and he died. That that's just a formula that traces the chapter of Genesis five. It's easier to see in the Hebrew where you're not paying attention to the words because you don't know Hebrew. But you can just see the patterns of the words. It's very fascinating just to see how strict it follows that pattern with two exceptions. Enoch. Enoch and Noah. And with Noah, Nelamic and Noah, because the the narrative shifts because of the emphasis there. But other than that, it's a strict uh pattern that follows through. So that provides for us a chart like this where we can see You know, when people live, the red is uh the the years before the the child was born, the gray is the years afterward, and it shows you how much uh how um much life there was uh after Adam and even that when Adam was still alive, Lamech or rather when Lamech was born, Adam was still alive Which is just remarkable. Now, again, depending on how many people were actually alive and uh if it was indeed in the billions, uh that would certainly make it uh challenging perhaps for uh there to be such a a communal um uh relationship that where people would actually have The ability to go to Adam, but they had that potential, they had that possibility. It's also interesting to me anyway that Noah And his sons are the first generation, and I think this was pointed out in the notes last week, um, that Noah and his generation were the first to not have had the opportunity to know Adam and because of the flood, uh after the flood there was nobody who knew who had known Adam. But of course Noah would have known a lot of the um many older generation. Yes. Looks like everybody before Noah was dead before the flood came. Indeed. I I and I think that the kindness of God in this case we're tracing the the line of uh the Messiah ultimately and I think in God's kindness he allowed Methuselah and Lamech to die before the flood. Uh the faithful line did not experience the flood. And no one will have to live after except the alma and I did a a a timeline study and I I found that Methuselah died the year of the plus. Yeah. Yeah yeah. No, I think that's right, yeah. Maybe the future might have. Yeah. I ul ultimately we don't know, but um um Uh you know, because it's again a trace of the faithful line, or at least of the line that the Lord was preserving uh for the Messiah ultimately, uh it may be that uh they all passed away before the flood Alright, there's a lot more you could draw from that chart. Pastor Rob talked about that last week. Let's now dive into Genesis chapter 6. Genesis chapter 6. So this is preparation for the flood. That's kind of the focus of today. We're going to be preparing for the flood, and then next week Kashi Rab will come back. and talk about the flood and and all that uh that it means, the significance of it, the universality of it. Uh but today is just the preparation of the flood. And when you think about the structure of Genesis, we we've emphasized over and over how Genesis is structured in the Hebrew according to the Toledotes, the generations of, the record of And so in this section, we we kind of uh balance between two of the telodotes. First of all, the telodot of Adam, which extends up to Genesis 6 verse 8. But then starting in verse 9, we begin the jet the T Telodote of Noah. So in this chapter, we're kind of uh going from one transitioning from one uh to the other. So uh just a brief outline of what this section includes. Genesis one rather six one six Talks about the wickedness before the flood, again the sons of God, the Nephilim, of mankind's depth of depravity, the righteous Noah and his sons, the corruption of the earth God commissions the Ark. And in the second part of Genesis 6 into chapter 7, verse 5, God promises the coming of the Ark. It talks about who actually gets onto the Ark, uh the their entry into the Ark, and briefly we'll mention why the flood is important. Alright? And why it matters that the Bible's description. of the ark is accurate. Alright, so let's r start by reading the first 16 verses here. So Genesis chapter 6, 1 to 16. Now it came about when man began to multiply on the face of the land, and daughters were born to them, that the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful, and they took wives for themselves, whomever they chose. Then the Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever, because he also is flesh. Nevertheless, his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men, and they bore children to them. Those were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man on the uh was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. The Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and he was grieved in his heart. The Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land. From man to animals to creeping things and to birds of the sky, for I am sorry. that I have made them. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. These are the records of the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his time. Noah walked with God. Noah became the father of three sons Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Now the earth was corrupt in the sight of God, and the earth was filled with violence. God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was Corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth. Then God said to Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence because of them And behold, I am about to destroy them with the earth. Make for yourself an ark of gopherwood. You shall make the ark with rooms, and shall cover it inside and out with pitch. This is how you shall make it. The length of the ark, 300 cubits, its breadth, 50 cubits, and its height, 30 cubits. You shall make a window for the ark, and finish it to a cubit from the top And set the door of the ark in the side of it. You shall make it with lower, second, and third decks. So there's there's a picture, just a brief summary of what we just read. People become so wicked that God decides to destroy all living things with a flood. Noah finds favor in the eyes of God. So God commands him to build an ark, which will protect Noah, his family, and representative animals. And then he provides Noah with instructions on how to build the arc. Yes, ma'am. Mm-hmm. Oh yeah. Uh-huh. Yeah yeah. Yeah, so we can't turn it into the East Coast version of the Ark, yeah. Unfortunately. I don't think we can do three decks either, but Yeah, so that that's a good visual for all of us just just in terms of the length of it, that it's the length of our building. Alright, so that's a a brief summary. Now let's kind of walk through it piece by piece. And again, I know we're not going to be able to cover every detail uh just reading that. It's like, oh man, there's so much to to say there Um in fact, it was a couple years ago, I think, that I preached from a portion of of Genesis six in terms of God regretting that he had made all things. We're actually not going to talk about that at all today. So if if you're interested in thinking more through what does that mean that God regretted, you can go back in our archive and find that message. But first four verses here. Now it came about when man began to multiply in the face of the land and daughters were born to them that the sons of God saw But the daughters of men were beautiful, and they took wives for themselves whomever they chose. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward when the sons of God came in for the daughters of men, and they bore children to them. So this is the end of the Toledo of Adam, and it proceeds from the gen genealogy of Noah, that is at the end of Genesis chapter 5 To an explanation of how the earth became so wicked that God would judge it in a flood. Right? So Genesis 5 gives us genealogy from Adam to Noah. And now this is kind of a setting of our minds in that time of Noah to understand what is it that led to the flood. And as many of you know, verses one and two and four have come to be one of the most controversial passages. uh of the Bible. The sons of God, Bene Elohim and Nephilim, have proven difficult for many interpreters to decide the right meaning. In other words, the question is, who are these sons of God? And who are the Nephilim? What is going on here? So I'm let me just say up front Again, I know this is controversial. We're I'm just gonna walk through what what we believe and Rob and I are on the same page on this, uh, and and we're not gonna have time to uh really round out the discussion. And I just wanna affirm up front But there are alternative ways of understanding sons of God. And so if your particular view is is different, which I know some of you are, and that's okay. Um I I I I guess I just have to apologize that we don't have time in the in the time that we have in in this class to to get at all of that. But um for the reasons you'll see we we take the the position that we do, knowing that You know, faithful interpreters definitely uh look at things a little bit differently, that's a lot different. And that's okay. So the inter The phrase sons of God here in Genesis six is the same uh as what we find in Job one six where it says that the sons of God came before God, right? And that's when God entered and interacted with Satan. And then that happened again in Job chapter two, verse one, when we had that second And then that same phrase is also used in Daniel chapter three, verse twenty-five, which also is a reference to the same kind of uh interaction of of God with angels. And so the LXX, the uh Greek translation of the Old Testament, translates son sons of God. They just interpret it really. They don't translate it. They interpret it as angoloi, uh which is the word for angels, also more generally means messenger, but predominantly it's it refers to angels in in the context. So the uh Greek translation of the Old Testament understood or they they took what Moses wrote and they immediately interpreted that as Angels. Think about what Jude says in six seven six and seven. Jude says, the angels who did not keep their own domain, but abandoned their proper abode, he has kept in eternal bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great day. Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, since they were in the same, uh since they in the same way as these, that is the angels. as these indulged in gross immorality and went after strange flesh. These are exhibited as an example in undergoing the punishment of eternal fire. So there's a comparison being made here between the angels who did not keep their own domain, as Jude calls them, who went after strange flesh. That is flesh that was not consistent with their own. There's that there's those angels and then there's Sodom and Gomorrah, which the sin of Sodom and Gomorrah of course is homosexuality which is uh man going after flesh that is is his own. And in a sense it's not according to God's design is ultimately what uh comparison is being made here. And so these angels who did not keep their domain, they're kept in eternal uh judgment. And so one thing to consider is as we think about Genesis chapter six is And we come to Jude is who are these angels? If if Genesis chapter six does not refer to angels and it's talking about something else entirely Uh what is Jude talking about here? And uh I don't know that there is a a clear answer to that, at least not in in Scripture. So there's a parallel drawn between fallen angels and the sexual sin of God, Sodom, and Gomorrah. Think about 2 Peter chapter 2. It says, For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, and cast them into hell, and committed them to pits of darkness reserved for judgment, and did not spare the angels world, but preserved Noah, a preacher of righteousness with seven others, when he brought a flood upon the world of the ungodly, and if he condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to destruction by reducing And if he rescued righteous Lot oppressed by sensual conduct of unprincipled men, for by what he saw and heard that righteous man while living Among them felt his righteousness soul righteous soul being tormented day after day by their lawless deeds. Then a lot of if statements, then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from temptation and Keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment. Especially, he says, those who indulge in flesh in its corrupt So again, so we had Jude, now we have Peter also making a comparison between angels who sinned, who have been cast into the pits of darkness uh with you know others who had committed uh gross i immorality. So again there's two passages that speak of this group of angels and this isn't speaking of all angels because not all angels are in uh the pit, right? There are many fallen angels who are uh active in this world, who were certainly very active in the time of Christ. And uh and so this is speaking of a very specific set uh of angels who sinned in a particular way that they received upon themselves a judgment uh that is unique compared to other fallen angels And and there's an an interesting passage that tips us off to the fact that the fallen angels are aware of this dynamic and therefore they are fearful of Jesus that he might do what he had done in the past. Think about Luke chapter eight. This is just uh uh excerpts from that larger passage, but Then they sailed to the country of the Garosenes, and when he came out onto the land, he was met by a man from the city who was possessed with demons. Seeing Jesus, he cried out and fell before him, and said with a loud voice, What business do we have with each other, Jesus, son of the most high God? I beg you, do not torment me. For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. And Jesus asked him, What is your name? And he said, Legion, for the demons, for many demons had entered him. And then verse 31, they were imploring him. not to command them to go away into the abyss. In other words, there it seems to be this punishment, this judgment that these demons were afraid of. And the question is, well w wha what are they afraid of? Why are they afraid of this? What what's this fear based on? And it seems as though they are afraid of being judged before the final judgment day. I mean they they know the scripture. They uh they know that ultimately they will be judged, that they're on the losing side or at least if they don't know this by the time of lo of Christ, they they'll know it soon after. But they seem to be afraid of a particular judgment by Jesus. And again, apart from Um what we read in Genesis 6, there is no clear explanation for why they are afraid of this. So it seems to be Uh for uh let me summarize first before the conclusion. What uh to summarize, some particular subset of fallen angels, demons, did something so egregious and offensive to God that he locked them away and committed them to pits of darkness where they are kept in eternal bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great day. Whatever these angels did is linked to the time of Noah in 2 Peter 4 and compared directly to the sexual sin of Sodom and Gomorrah. in both Jude and Peter. So this is really just trying to bring together all of the passages of Scripture that seem to be talking about the same things and they cohere with one another. There were other demons who obviously were not locked up when they met Jesus. They're terrified that he will send them there in Luke 8. Now, someone might ask Doesn't the Bible say that demons can't get married or that they don't get married in Matthew 22, right? Well i exactly right. So uh i it it says here in the resurrection uh Uh they ask, you know, whose wife will she be, right? This woman who's married seven brothers one at a time. Uh and Jesus says, No, no, no, you don't understand. In heaven there's no marriage They will be like the angels in heaven. But as Austin just mentioned, it says specifically angels in heaven, not necessarily fallen angels. uh which are described in Jude as angels who did not keep their own domain. But uh another point which I don't think well, uh yeah, it's it's here. Uh this passage also speaks specifically about marriage. the relational covenantal uh dynamic of marriage not necessarily a capacity for engaging with people So the fact that Jesus says that they don't marry doesn't necessarily mean that they don't have the capacity to interact with people. And obviously there is mystery to that the Bible doesn't say what is it that angels can and can't do. We know for certain that angels can embody or at least possess a human being being, but to what degree can they influence the cells, if if you will, uh of a human being? Uh it's not absolutely clear they can impact the mind, they can impact the behavior. I guess you could say they can impact the cells because those who were demon-possessed had had, shall we say, supernatural strength. uh to break chains and so on. So again that passage doesn't necessarily um say anything that would uh dissuade us from considering the possibility that the sons of God are angels Now, maybe we should ask why should why would Satan have demons do this? Why why would they try to interact with human beings and influence the human race? Well, remember that Satan was there when God proclaimed in the Garden of Eden, and I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, and he shall bruise you on the head. and he shall bruise him on the heel. Right? So Satan knows this. He knows that his days are numbered, not only his, but the rest of his uh followers of demons. So one of his goals would be, understandably, given his sinister nature, to corrupt the seed of the woman. You know, if he could somehow stop God's plan from taking place uh then, you know, he could somehow be victorious uh over God and and uh not lose the battle So he has done this a variety of different ways. Obviously you see the example here of uh Herod slaughtering babies. He tried to murder the Messiah when he was soon after he was born. Uh he you know kind of gone back and forth uh in his strategies uh at the end of Christ's life, uh you know, in terms of he he put him to death thinking that he he would be victorious at that point. Um but early on it seems his strategy was to corrupt the seed of the woman. So All of that to say, uh our understanding, trying to piece those passages together, it seems You know, I I want to say it seems clear to us, but I know it's not clear to others because there's other arguments, other considerations to be made. But it seems to to fit an overall picture even with the mystery of of what the implications are that the sons of God are angels and that angels Uh it says took wives, you know, that whether they uh possessed uh men and and changed them physiologically, you know, all of that is is a mystery to us. But somehow they engaged with humanity in such a way that they corrupted the human race. more children and that produced the Nephilim, which were um you know s uh giants. I want to say supernatural, but that's probably not the best term. Um super super normal a maybe. Alright, so uh feel free to uh follow up later. Uh do you have a question, Io? Okay, so I'm up to that. You will cover it on where to take off or agents. Right? Why do we have things in the until among among angels. Yeah, the word that I was in the last time came down I might be in a way what kind of thing about the things that white have everyone like what happens to Yeah, so um I think Pastor Rob talked about this in one of the earlier lessons, but uh just to briefly answer the question, uh Ezekiel twenty eight, uh, Isaiah fourteen, am I getting those chapters right? Um There's two chapters, Ezekiel 28 and Isaiah 14, which seem to speak of the fall of Satan. And and if I remember right, Ezekiel twenty-eight is the clear passage. Let me let me look it up. Uh there in it's in a broader context of speaking about human kings. and uh God's judgment over nations, but uh in speaking of the king of Tyre or the Prince of Tyre He shifts his language to speak in terms that really don't make any sense to refer to a human king In fact, it says in verse 13, you were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was your covering, and it goes on from there. And then it says, um Verse 17, your heart. So this this seems to be the uh speaking about the devil, speaking about Satan. Your heart was proud because of your beauty, you corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor. I cast you to the ground, I exposed you before kings, and uh to feast their eyes on you. Obviously a lot of poetic language here, but what seems to be the case is that Satan was lifted up in pride. Scripture teaches that elsewhere. elsewhere. Uh that really is the the the first sin that that Satan committed, that he wanted to be like God, and that therefore God cast him out of uh heaven in terms of uh out of his dwelling place, and that Satan deceived a third of the angels to follow him. Now, when precisely did that happen? The scripture doesn't say. Uh there's considerations of it happening before creation, maybe happening immediately after creation or very soon after We we don't exactly know. Obviously we know he is fallen by the time of Genesis three, uh, but whether that was you know one of the first things he did when he was cast through the earth or whether he was fallen in before uh before the creation of all things, all of that is is a mystery. Uh but that that's the originating sin. that Satan was created as in really the the most beautiful, uh glorious being, created being, and therefore he was lifted up in pride, wanted to be like God, and therefore rebelled against him. Is that helpful? Okay. Alright. Let's let's move on here. Um again I know there's a lot more that could be said and discussed on on who the sons of God are. And uh this is not part of our doctrinal statement, so uh if you have other views, those are great good things to talk through and and wrestle with the scripture. So um Uh yeah, it's just it's a challenging issue for sure. And uh we're all just trying to do our best. But I hope that that's helpful to give you at least an understanding of that particular interpretation. Alright, moving on here to Genesis chapter verse three. The Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever, because he also is flesh. Nevertheless, his days shall be one hundred and twenty years. And uh when I was growing up, you know, didn't know the Bible very well, I assumed that meant that God was gonna cut short the life of humans and that's why we see after the flood lifespans decreasing more and more. That's not what that means That's referring to, in 120 years, I'm going to bring an end to mankind. I'm going to bring the flood. So that's really the Lord starting the time. uh the the uh countdown toward the flood. Verse five. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually I mean just think about that. Every intent, only evil continually. What what kind of a world would that produce? I mean, w we we have a world today where Obviously it's full of unbelievers of among whom we once were. And and yet even among unbelievers who hate God, don't care about righteousness, don't care about truth Uh it's hard to say that they only think about evil continually, right? There there's many loving spouses, many loving parents, many hardworking uh individuals. Um And yet this is saying, every intent, only evil, continually. Now, if you if you know your Bible well. Uh yeah, I think that's in Second Peter, isn't it? Either Second Peter or Jude? After the flood, God ends up saying the same thing about Noah and his sons. So there's an interesting uh theological principle to think through there. But what you don't have, what's the what's the difference between what this is saying before the flood, and let's just say b uh now in in in uh modern times, what would be a significant difference? Well um yes he became sorry and that's why he brought the flood. But in terms of just the environment of the earth before the flood versus today Length of life, that is a difference. And what difference does that make? And what difference does that make? Does he make? The the the yeah, all of these things are true. What I'm what I'm getting at I know I'm just kind of you're having to guess what's in my mind here. What I'm getting at is that the church by virtue of the work of the Holy Spirit is a restraining uh is a restrainer, right? And because of the last two thousand years of the spread of the gospel Uh and the the the the truth of of Christ that has had a significant restraining effect in humanity. Now there you can go to places where there is no uh impact on there. Uh you can go to the tribes, you know, the unreached tribes if you will, and there there's cultures w that have no um uh they've received no benefit of the restraining effect of the Holy Spirit. And you know, that's where you have cannibalism, that's where you have murder often being a a good thing, an expected dynamic of life. I mean there's just all all kinds of things that uh win you don't have the truth of Christ influencing a culture, uh the that culture will ultimately be destructive. And so that's what we see here, that there was no Holy Spirit, there was no church. Yes, there was a faithful line, but as far as we're told, that was a very limited slice of humanity. So, God resolves to blot out humanity because of its extreme wickedness, including whatever these fallen angels did. And so the result of the flood is a reboot of mankind with only Noah and his family uh surviving. Now just by way of uh a footnote here, numbers thirteen, that's when the spies go into the land to check it out, right, as Israel is uh has been brought out of Egypt and they're preparing to go into the land, so they send these spies. Spies come back, you know, two said go, ten said no, or ten said no, two said go. Uh and one of the things that the ten said was, we even saw the Nephilim there, the descendants uh the the descendants of Anak. that come from the Nephilim. So one has to think about, well wait a minute, I thought the Nephilim all died at the flood. So who are these people? Well, uh I think uh a legitimate way to understand what they're saying is what's written here, is that it's an attempt to scare the people by telling them, if you will, the boogeyman. Right? Because they they used uh if if you read the rest of what they said, they used um exaggerating language to talk about. We were like grasshoppers in their sight. This is impossible. They they the their descriptions were were beyond believability so that they would scare the people because of how scared they were uh to conquer the land. So it seems as though by referring them to Nephilim, they're not necessarily saying they actually were Nephilim, but that they were using exaggerated language. There's no indication in the book of Joshua that they actually encountered Nephilim. Yes, obviously there's Goliath. There's those who are giants. We see that in various portions of the Old Testament, but there's a difference between a giant and a Nephilim, at least the way the scripture talks about them. So just a footnote there. So, verse 7, the Lord said, I will blot out man whom I've created from the face of the ground, and from man to animals to creeping things. So the birds of the sky, I'm sorry that I've made them. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. He was a righteous man and blameless in his time, and he walked with God. So because God, uh rather, because man was given dominion over creation, Genesis 1 26, uh 28. God's judgment would also fall on many creatures under man's dominion. Specifically, you wipe out animals. creeping things and birds. These are all the types of nephesh Hayah, that is living beings, on the land. Those that have the breath of life, it'll say a little bit later in Genesis chapter 7. The only exception to the wickedness is Noah. It says Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. He was a righteous man, he walked with God. The word favor, Cain. can also mean grace, and since the Bible tells us that Noah found found this grace in the Lord, it s uh is uh right to consider it as unmerited favor. Right, we understand that because of the fallen condition of mankind, the only way that anybody could be right with God is if God bestows his favor on them and enables them to know him and follow him faithfully. Hebrews eleven, of course, tells us that by faith Noah, being warned by God about the things not yet seen in reverence, prepared an ark for the salvation of his household, by which he condemned the world and became So Noah lived by faith. So the Lord tells Noah to make an ark uh of gopher wood and he gives them all of these descriptions. I'm going to go really fast through some of these slides here. Um so how many people have been to the Ark in Kentucky? Wow! That's amazing. That's a lot of you. If you haven't, I'd encourage you to make that a bucket list item. It's just a fantastic uh uh representation of the ark where they sought to be as faithful as they could be to the descriptions in uh the the book of genesis here And as they thought about all of the different mechanisms that would need to be in place for the caring of the animals, for the handling of waste and feeding and all of that kind of stuff. Uh they they just thought what would realistically have been possible? What what technology would they have had? What kinds of ways would they have uh had to accomplish all of the tasks that they needed to do. And while there's a lot of things that are are truly uh you know creative thinking, they're not directly out of scripture. Uh it's all true to life in the sense that it's entirely possible how uh how they constructed not only the ark itself, but everything within the ark. Uh but the dimensions of the ark, and I'm sure uh Pastor Rob would be able to give a physics lesson uh as uh as to how the d particular dimensions that the Lord gave would give it the buoyancy and the the stability to uh not you know tip over and and whatnot, not to capsize in the violent seas that would naturally be in the flood. uh but the shape of it is perfect and and one of the things I appreciate there at the ark is they they look at the different uh w uh cultures and their descriptions of the so-called ark for the worldwide flood in different religions, different cultures. And they're all different shapes. There's squares, there's cubes, there's r round uh things. And none of them would actually work physically. And by that I mean according to physics. uh the ark that God describes in Scripture would actually work. So uh clearly there's there's wisdom and consistency with uh reality. Uh so this is a potential cross section of the arc. Remember there's first, lower, and third decks Uh and and there's just so much room. Even though it one would wonder how in the world can we fit all of these uh animals in the ark, there when you actually go in there and you walk throughout the spaces. It's incredible how much space there is. And there that's a whole nother discussion uh in terms of the sp specifics of that. Um So that's the first 16 verses. I'm just trying to fly through here because we have just about 10 minutes left. So we looked at uh these different aspects. What we're gonna briefly talk about now is the coming flood passengers entry and why it's important and the significance of the accuracy. So Genesis 6, oops, 17 to 22 Behold, I, even I, am bringing the flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh, in which is the breath of life. from under heaven. Everything that is on the earth shall perish. But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall enter the ark, and you and your sons and your wife and your sons' wives with you. And every living thing of all flesh you shall bring to of every kind key term, kind, into the ark to keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female, of the birds after their kind, and of the animals after their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind. Two of every kind will come to you to keep them alive. As for you, take for yourself some of all food which is edible, and gather it to yourself And it shall be food for you and for them. Thus Noah did, according to all that God commanded him, so he did In chapter 7, then the Lord said to Noah, Enter the ark, you and all your household, for you alone I have seen to be righteous before me in this time. You shall take with you of every clean animal by sevens a man sorry, a male and his female, and of the animals that are not clean too, a male and his female. Also of the birds of the sky by sevens, male and female, to keep offspring alive on the face of the earth. For after seven more days I will send rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and I will blot out from the face of the land every living thing that I have made Noah did according to all that the Lord had commanded him. So in this brief section, we jump from the commandum build the ark. Now all of a sudden to seven days before the flood. So we've jumped over about a hundred years here. So, again, the Lord says he will destroy with the flood. He tells Noah what to bring on board, his family, seven of every clean animal, two of every unclean, seven of every bird, and then enough food. uh for everyone on the ark. So God makes clear that the flood is not an ordinary natural event, but an action taken by God to accomplish a specific purpose, and that purpose is to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life from under heaven. Everything that is on the earth shall perish. Pastor, I was going to get into this next week, but it's remarkable to me how much universal language there is in here chapter seven and then further on in the rest of chapter seven. uh that it um there is really no there's no boundary set uh by God as to the extent of the judgment, extent of the flood, extent of the death. There's no boundary. It's everything on the earth, everything, everyone is going to die. If the flood were a local flood, those things couldn't be said, right? People could flee, animals could flee, birds could fly away. That wouldn't be true, that it would be spe uh have such a universal impact. But the universal language is so significant and clear. The Bible uses a special word to describe Noah's flood. In Hebrew it's Mabul, which is translated in the Greek as kataklysmos. Of course we get our English word kat. cataclysm from that. But Mabul is a unique term. It's a different term than what is used for floods in other passages of scripture. So if you do so a search for the word flood, you'll find all kinds of passages, Psalm 90, Luke 6, uh Nahum 1, but they all use different terms. uh that uh uh that aren't the same as what the Lord uses here. This is a unique once in a universe uh experience Notice that verse 18 says that God promises to make a covenant with Noah. He'll actually enact that covenant in Genesis chapter 9 when they come out of the flood. We'll look at that in a couple weeks. God gave Noah the details, the detailed instructions about what animals are to be on the board. Sorry, on the ark. I don't know where. On board the ark. There we go. And uh so this is to be, you know, things that are living things, land dwelling vertebrae. Um there will all obviously be no sea creatures on the ark. Their world expands significantly. Uh but neither w will there be invertebrates, insects, plants, things that don't count as uh things that have the breath of life, Nefeshhaya. The thing the next thing to notice is that God tells Noah to uh that the animals will come to you, right? So uh that he doesn't have to go searching the globe to find all of these uh unique animals. They're gonna come to him And as we noted or emphasized as we read the passage, it's of every kind of animal. So not every specific nuanced species, but rather every kind. uh of animal will will be brought uh to Noah, making his work uh a whole lot easier. So then the Lord instructs Noah to make provision for his family. Uh of course this would all be various kinds of plants, uh roots and um fruits and You know, maybe they had invented canning by then, I don't know. Uh but they had ways to sustain them their family and these animals for a full year. uh by everything that God had provided for them on the earth. Fortunately, Noah and his sons had ample warning, right? They they had uh o a hundred years or or more to uh prepare everything And we see at the end that Noah obeyed all that God commanded him Again, Hebrews eleven seven, he was warned about things not yet seen in reverence. He prepared an ark for the salvation of his household, by which he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness. which is according to faith. In the sense, Noah condemned the world by his example of obedience and faith. Okay, then chapter 7, verse 1 Where are we at here? Alright. Um So now we come to the the point where uh Uh we're just a few days, seven days a week uh before the flood starts. And so Noah or the Lord tells Noah to um get everything onto the ark. and that he will bring the flood in seven days. And and notice that second bullet point there, the phrase, I have made everything that I have made. God is making clear that as creator, He has absolute authority to do as He wills with His creation. Nobody else has that authority. As the potter, he can do whatever he wants with the clay. He can make whatever he wants with it, he can throw it away. He has absolute authority. And then chapter 7 verse 5 there's a repeat that Noah did all that the Lord commanded him. So this is the Mabul. This is the cataclysm. This is the worldwide flood that God brought on the earth. So why is the flood important, real quick? Why is the flood important? Well, uh we we've mentioned before how the New Testament uh and other portions of the Old Testament keep pointing back to these early chapters. as uh content for supporting other truths. And we see that here in 2 Peter chapter 3. He writes, Above all, you must understand that in the last days scoffers will come, scoffing and following their own evil desires. They will say, Where is the Where is this coming, he promised? Ever since our ancestors died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation. But they deliberately forget that long ago, by God's word, the heavens came into being. And the earth was formed out of water and by water. So that's referring to Genesis chapter 1. And by these waters also the world at that time was deluged and destroyed. Genesis chapter 6-9. By the same word, the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire, being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. So the worldwide flood is part of the testimony that ensures for us that the promise of coming judgment will in fact take place. God has done it before. He's not going to do it the same way again, but he will judge the world a different way, as he has promised. So this is a day yet future in terms of the the coming judgment of fire when people uh will no longer think that uh uh think seriously of or even believe in Christ's second coming. Right? If you go out on the street today and interview any stranger, uh most of them will not believe that that there's a judgment coming, that such a thing could happen Uh they're happy to believe that the world will be destroyed by climate change, but uh not by God's judgment. Right? Oh yeah. Yeah. The reason for this haughty skeptical attitude is a blind adherence to the idea that natural laws and processes have in the past always continued as they do today. never having been interrupted by direct intervention of God in a total destruction of human civilization. That right there is just kind of a key phrase that explains the scientific consensus of today. Right? As they look at the evidence of what is in the ground as they're trying to understand the history of the world, they assume everything has always continued the way that it does today. So that's why they don't accept a worldwide flood, even though they can look at this is one of my favorite pictures in in the arc there in Kentucky. Uh they have a picture of, I think it's Mars might be another planet uh with all of these features of the earth uh and and scientists are convinced oh there must have been a worldwide flood on this planet But then they look at the earth with all of the same features. Oh nope, no worldwide flood here. And it's just uh a blindness. It's uh it's a rebellious heart that refuses to accept God's word. That's right. That's right. All right, uh just about well, um Matthew twenty-four, uh Jesus uh says the uh he uses the the flood as well to speak of the coming judgment. It'll uh verse thirty eight, therefore in the days before the flood people were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage up to the day Noah entered the Ark, and they knew nothing about what would happen until the flood came and took them all away. That is how it will be at the coming of God. So again, you have Jesus, you have Peter using the flood as a historical event that gives us confirmation of what the future holds. Now, why does it matter that the Bible's description of Noah's Ark is accurate, plausible, and believable? Just real real quick, there's this book, Noah's Ark, a feasibility study. Uh and it it goes into all the detail to ar uh express everything that is written in Genesis six to nine is feasible, uh it's accurate, it's it's possible. There are those who would question, again, how could the animals fit in the ark? Could eight people have cared for them? How would they have had enough food? All of those questions, which I'm not going to answer now, have clear reasonable, understandable answers such that it could all have happened. There's no reason to deny a worldwide flood. So you see some of the some of the chapters that are addressed uh in that particular book. Whew, thank you for keeping up with me here Alright, let me pray, and we'll be done. Oh Lord, uh what there's so much here we could just dig into and and uh meditate on, think about. Uh but what uh just stands out to me as as we're uh wrapping this up is how you are sovereign and in your goodness you have revealed this history to us. You y you could have done all this and not told us. And we would be oblivious. But because you uh are good, you have told us the history of the world, you have brought us this as a warning. of what is to come in the future if we do not trust in you. That if if we are not uh l like Noah in living by faith, we too will get caught up in a judgment Lord, I know that in all the details of this section of Scripture, there's uh questions that need to be answered, there's challenging things to think through and wrestle with. Help us to always have a desire to know the truth, to pursue the truth, to, by the power of your spirit, wrestle with what you have revealed, and to grow in our confidence. uh that what you have spoken is true, and that that would bolster our confidence on the rest of Scripture. Lord, as we now transition to our time of fellowship and corporate worship, prepare us to sing praises, to receive more of your word, and to grow together in likeness to Christ. Christ, we pray this in Jesus' name, Amen