All right, so we are on part eight. So part eight, uh what we're going to learn today, we're going to uh continuing along with the life of Jacob and how God works in the life of uh the patriarch Jacob. We're going to look at three more kind of incidents, events in his life. We're going to look at his uh how he comes to marry these daughters of Laban. We're going to talk about the birth of his children, and we're going to talk about how Jacob became prosperous, because he shows up in Haran with nothing but his uh staff, staff and the clothes on his back, but he's going to leave uh very prosperous. So we'll look at those things. This is the third of our four parts looking at how God worked in the life of Jacob. So last week, just as an overview, we're looking at kind of the last 260 years of the book of Genesis. So the book of Genesis, you know, it goes from the beginning. All the way through the death of Joseph. And so it covers uh something between twenty five hundred and three thousand years of history Um, and we're down to the last two hundred and sixty of those years that the book of Genesis covered, and that's from the birth of Isaac to the death of Joseph. the last about two hundred and sixty years of history covered by this first book in the Bible. And so last time we talked about uh Jacob being sent away and so he had uh stolen the the birthright Uh he's he had finagled the birth rate, stolen the blessing, and now he's got to get out of town. And and that's what we talked about last time. So uh Isaac meets with Jacob and uh tells him, orders him to go uh to Haran Um and he also gives him a blessing, a a second blessing. So the kind of the stolen blessing happened, and now as Jacob's ready to depart, he gets a second, m mu much more formal blessing uh from Isaac. Um and it's really a repeat or a a passing down of the blessing that God's given to uh first Abraham and then Isaac and now Isaac kind of passes it along to Jacob. Uh he uses the name El Shaddai, which is the same name that uh God had revealed to Abraham in Genesis seventeen just as he gave Abraham the promises. And he gives the same uh promises of a land and promises of a people uh to Jacob as had been given to Abraham and then Isaac. And so um off he goes. So he's and he's now and he's now got formally he's got the rights and privileges of the firstborn. Uh everybody now acknowledges it uh that he's gonna be the he he's the one through whom the the promises now are gonna uh are gonna happen. So he then he starts off and he's gonna travel from the very southern part of the land of Canaan down here in Beersheba And he's going to travel all the way up to here to Haran, but he makes it up to a place that used to be called Luz on the first night. And it ends up being called he ends up renaming it Bethel because of what happened there Uh he sleeps on a stone. Doesn't sound very comfortable to me, but he sleeps with a stone as a pillow. And he has a dream. And in the dream there's angels going up and down either a ladder or a staircase. When he gets finished with his dream he sets the stone up that he slept on as a pillar, he pours oil on it. He renames the place Bethel, which means house of God. So he's on this journey, he stops, he has this dream, he uh he sees a ladder or staircase, and there's angels going up and down. The Hebrew word for angels, angoloi, in the Greek, is means messenger. It means messenger in Hebrew, and then the Greek equivalent, angoloi means messenger. And so these angels or messengers of God are ascending and descending in the staircase in the dream. So remember it's a dream. And they seem to be, in the dream context, they're specifically for Jacob and his descendants. And then in verse 13, God reveals himself in the dream. So once again, still in the dream. He sees a staircase with angels. Now he's there's God there in his dream. who's revealing himself and he calls himself the God of Abraham and God of Isaac. Um and then he and then God himself within the dream passes these um promises that God had given to Abraham and God had given to Isaac, God now formally passes them down to Jacob. So Jacob's father Isaac had done it, and now God himself does the same thing. He he he passes the promises down to Jacob. It's the promise of land. In verse 13, the promise of descendants. In verse 14, the promise that his descendants would bless the whole earth, which is really the promise of the Messiah. And also the promise that God Himself would be with Jacob to make sure to watch over him and to protect him and to make sure that all these promises came to pass. So he's the true heir of these promises. Just as God said to Rebecca before he was born. Uh that it would be Jacob and not Esau. Jesus, it turns out in the New Testament uh points back to this incident at one time. Uh so In the calling of Philip and Nathaniel, Nathaniel comes, and Nathaniel shows great faith. Nathaniel makes a proclamation of faith. Rabbi, you are the Son of God, you are the King of Israel. Nathaniel says that. And Jesus, in response, says, You will see greater things than these. Truly, truly, I say to you, you will see the heavens opened. And the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. And so this This story about Jacob's dream was one that would have been known by Jews uh from the scripture, and so Jesus is is referring to it. And saying that, hey, the at one time God revealed the angels and and uh uh ascending and descending on Jacob, but I'm telling you they're gonna be ascending and descending on me because I am the fulfillment of that promise This is essentially what he's pointing to. It's a um it's one of it's another one of the progressive revelations of who Jesus is. Going all the way back to Genesis three fifteen Uh Jesus is now giving a hint, a clue, based on this incident in Jacob's life, that he is the fulfillment of that promise that Jacob's descendants will be a blessing to all nations. Okay. Uh then he gets up and he finishes the journey. He goes all the way up to Haran in the northern part of Syria, what is today Syria. in Mesopotamia, so um to the east of the Euphrates River. Uh he arrives there, he goes to a well, he sees some shepherds, asks if they know his uncle. Unc do you know my uncle Laban? And they say, not only do we know him, but here comes his daughter, Rachel. So he kind of springs into action. He uh waters the flocks, introduces himself to Rachel. Uh and then he goes home to Laban's house, to Rachel's house, and meets his relatives. So there are a lot of similarities, as we talked last time, uh with the story of the search for a bride for Isaac. So um if you remember when it was time for Isaac to have a to have a wife, Abraham sent his servant up to Haran, and the first place the servant went was a well, just like Jacob is now going to a well. Now there are also differences. Um there's a major distinction in that Isaac didn't go. So Isaac had no part in the search for his own wife, but Jacob does. Jacob goes himself. He has to because he's afraid to be killed by his brother. Uh the other main difference is that Abraham sent ten camel loads full of treasure for the bride price. with a servant at the time when it was time to get a wife for Isaac. And Jacob goes with nothing but his his walking stick and the clothes on his back, so he doesn't have a bride price to pay. uh for a bride. So when he arrives, uh he sees a well, he uh sees the flocks around there, there's a large stone on there, he strikes up this conversation. Um He finds out that his they they do in fact know uh his relatives and then by the providence of God here comes Rachel just at the right just at the perfect time when uh Jacob arrives at the well Uh he Jacob's overjoyed because he's done what he was setting out to do. Uh his mother told him to go find her family. His father said, Go find your mother's family. And uh he he kisses Rachel, Laban comes, he kisses Laban. Uh he's overjoyed. He's found what he was looking for So notice that there's no deception. Jacob doesn't pretend to be somebody else. Jacob doesn't try to deceive. Laban doesn't try to deceive. Everything's good in this first reading. It's not going to stay that way. But in the first meeting everything's good. Uh Laban recognizes him and accepts his nephew and he remains for a month. So, and we see the providence of God here, the hand of God on all these situations But once again we see God directing the person that's that's the heir to the promises, the one, the conduit through whom the Messiah is going to come. God makes sure he directs the path of that person to make sure that his plans and purposes are accomplished. And so we see that throughout the the s the stories of these patriarchs, how God directs their lives, how how even their missteps, even their sinful behavior, God turns to his purposes. So that was last time. So we left the story with Jacob living with his uncle Laban uh for a month it says. So today we're going to look at these three events. And so we're going to start in the second part of Genesis chapter 29. So if you could open Your Bible to Genesis chapter twenty nine, we're going to read about what happens next So pretty much all all all we're gonna do today is gonna be take place in Haran in uh uh Laban's household. So Genesis chapter 29 started in verse 15. Then Laban said to Jacob, Because you are my relative, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me what your what shall your wages be. So obviously during the 30 days, during the month, Jacob hasn't been idle just sitting around eating grapes and stuff. He's he's working. And he's but he's working for no pay. So he's been there for thirty days working but he's not getting paid. Tell me what your wage is It shall be. Now Laban had two daughters. The name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. And Leah's eyes were weak. But Rachel was beautiful of form and face. Now Jacob loved Rachel, so he said, I will serve you seven years for your younger daughter, Rachel. So that's what his wages are going to be. Seven years of service for the younger daughter, Rachel. Laban said, It is better that I give her to you than to give her to another man. Stay with me. So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him but a few days because of his love for her. Then Jacob said to Laban, Give me my wife, for my time is completed, that I may go into her Laban gathered all the men of the place and made a feast. Continuing verse twenty-three. Now in the evening he took his daughter Leah and brought her to him, and Jacob went into her. Laban also gave his maid Zilpa to his daughter Leah as a maid. So it came about in the morning that behold it was Leah. And he said to Laban, What is this you have done to me? Was it not for Rachel that I serve with you? Why then have you deceived me? But Laban said, It's not the practice in our place to marry off the younger before the firstborn. Complete the week of this one, and we will give you the other also, for the service which you shall serve with me for another seven years. Jacob did so and completed her week, and he gave him his daughter Rachel as his wife. Laban also gave his maid Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as her maid. So Jacob went into Rachel also, and indeed he loved Rachel more than Leah, and he served with Laban for another seven years. So Jacob marries his two cousins. So remember we took- we said uh Laban is Jacob's uncle, and so uh Rachel and Leah are his first cousins. He marries each of his first cousins here. Leah, Laban's oldest daughter, has weak eyes. We'll talk about what that means. Rachel is beautiful in form and face. Jacob loves Rachel. He loved her from the beginning. The first time he set eyes on her at the well, it was love at first sight. He he really wanted Rachel. He he set his wages for Rachel, and then now he's married to Leah. He offers to serve Laban for seven years in order to marry her. Laban agrees. He does the seven years. He asks for his uh he's filled his part of the bargain. He asks for uh Laban to fulfill his part Um they have a big feast, a wedding feast. Um and so and Laban sneaks Leah in. Uh and Jacob sleeps with her, not realizing he was deceived until the morning Laban explains that in his country the older daughter is married before the younger. As with every story in the Bible, there's uh very famous paintings. of uh all of these events and including Jacob coming wagging and his wagging his finger at Laban uh for deceiving him. And and there's uh so you can see in this painting here Uh this is the beautiful Rachel, and this is Leah back here sulking in the background, and that's Jacob, and that's Laban in this in this painting from 1627. So he Laban promises Rachel in exchange for work. Um another seven years. And Jacob serves Laban for another seven years. Although he he does he does give Rachel to him as his wife right away with the promise that he's going to work seven more years And it says that he loved Rachel more than Leah in the scripture. So first of all, as as we're looking at this event in the Bible Notice that the tables have been turned on Jacob. So we've s watched him we watched the career of this guy and he f you know he finagles a birthright out of uh out of Esau and then he He and his mother took up this scheme to uh to deceive Isaac and get the get the uh blessing. But now the tables are turned. Um so i i it's You know, his uncle Laban tricks him into marrying Leah. Um so there's a first there's a brief yes. Like I said, short on decals, so was Leia veiled. Maybe there was no marriage ceremony or we could Yeah, so marriages, the consummation of the marriage. we we have some extra biblical information about the fact that they had a custom of veiling um in in those days. So yes, she uh almost certainly would have been veiled. Notice he brings her at night, uh, after the feast, after they've had a a really good time at the feast, uh drinking drinking wine. Uh So I think all those factors come together, probably. Uh he he doesn't notice, although it's still kind of uh it's sort of mind boggling. Um I just try not to think too hard about it. Um So yeah, so yeah, so there's yeah. Uh so anyway we get a brief description of the girls before before this all happens in verse 17. And it says Leah's eyes were weak, and that's a weird thing to say about a person. The Hebrew is rock for weak there. And it literally means tender, soft, or delicate That's what rock means. So that's tender, soft, or delicate eyes. That's what the Hebrew literally says, but it's obviously some kind of idiomatic expression. It's some sort of a Hebrew idiom which is very incompletely understood at this distance of thousands of years of time. It has been traditionally translated in English as weak eyes, that her eyes were weak, but it literally means tender, soft, or delicate. And uh there's great disagreement among different commentators, and uh some of the commentators believe that that idiom was a positive. that that the only good thing about Leah was her eyes, that her eyes were tender, soft, or delicate. The rest of her not so much, but the eyes were tender, soft, or delicate. The a and the reason I say that is because of the way they They in contrast describe Rachel, beautiful in form and face, as a contrast to Leah, whose eyes were pretty. Well that's about all you can say for for Leah. Yeah, well I don't know about that. Uh there's th yeah, so there's there doesn't seem to be anything about there being something physically wrong with her eyes. That that doesn't this Hebrew word doesn't seem to mean that. That there was something physically like she couldn't see or she's screaming all the time. Doesn't seem to be that But it's really um I I read a lot of commentaries and and there's really not a lot of d agreement about w what this Hebrew idiomatic phrase really meant uh you know three thousand years ago Um you know what keeps coming in my mind is even though when we read this and we realize um how horrible it was that he worked for seven years cares and was not given what he fully equal what he was promised. The truth is when you look at what he did to his brother and how he deceived The truth is this is I hate to say minor, but minor in comparison to what he did. Even though we feel badly for him. Yeah. He what he did was much worse. Yeah. Yeah, so it's uh yeah, it's it's I b I think we talked about this before, but I think this is God showing Jacob, hey, this is what happens when you deceive somebody. Uh let me put you on the other side of it and see how you like it Um and of course Jacob doesn't like it at all. Uh that he's on the receiving end of the uh uh the scheme. Uh he doesn't like it at all. Uh now of course um Y uh one feels bad for Leah, uh, until one remembers that she had to be part of the deception Right? She could have said, I I'm Leah, I'm sorry, my my dad put me up to this, but you know, I'm I'm not Rachel. She could have said that at any point and and stopped the whole thing and she did it. She went right along with it. Um so yeah, so she was part of the deception just like Jacob was part of the deception with the um blessing, it was Rebecca's plan, but at any point Jacob could have shut it down by telling Isaac, confessing Isaac, I'm I'm not Esau. Um So Leah had to be a willing participant. So uh there's a description of the girls. Leah's eyes are weak. It's not easy to understand what exactly that means Uh but Rachel was beautiful in form and face, so Rachel was the object of Jacob's desire. He really wanted uh Rachel He loves Rachel, but he has no bride price to give, so Laban has him right where he wants him. So the schemer Laban, he's got him. You know, he knows that he wants Rachel and he can exact a high price Um so he offers to work seven years to pay the bride price for Rachel. That seems like a lot. Seven years worth of work. And and it's confirmed that it really was by a lack of bartering by Laban. Laban doesn't say no how but ten. He he agrees right away, seven years. He he sees that that's a really high price. Um so and he's gonna get not only Jacob, but he gets to keep Ha his daughter around working too. She's been a shepherdess, she's been taking care of the flocks. So that's a that's a worker he has. And he gets to keep her for another seven years while this all goes on. So they still both work? Oh yeah So she's been a shepherd. So well he she wasn't a she wasn't quite a wife yet. I mean so he didn't it was that's during the seven years he so he went to get his wife after the seven years. So she was still part of Laban's household of still working. Yeah but not for once he got both of them, not for the next seven. Yeah, not for the next seven. But for the first seven he's got not only Jacob's work but he still gets the daughter's work too. Um so he's it's great for Laban. And he jumps right away as soon as uh he there's no bar bartering no bargaining. He just says seven years, oh yeah, got him Um so Jacob was so happy about the prospect of marrying his beloved Rachel that the seven years seemed to him but a few days. And that's the same Hebrew phrase actually that Rebecca used in Genesis chapter twenty-seven when she said, Go to my brother Laban and stay with him for a few days. That's the same few days there Uh same Hebrew phrase again, a short period of time, a few days, used in Genesis chapter twenty-seven. So once Jacob has fulfilled his end of the bargain, he goes to Laban and he demands, give me my wife. I've done my part. We had this agreement, this uh this legal binding contract. I did my part. Now you gotta uh give me my wife, Rachel. In the ancient Ear Ace, a woman who was betrothed had sort of the status of a wife, and they sometimes called them wife, uh, but they weren't uh living together, the marriage wasn't consummated, but they were They had a different status of betrothal was much more serious in the ancient Ear East than it is here. Uh we think of somebody who's engaged and that's um It it's something that in our culture is commonly broken off and that sort of thing. That wasn't the the case uh back then. It was a very serious, it was a a much different status than being single. Being betrothed was much closer to marriage than it was to being single. And we see that in other places in scripture as well. We see it in the Mesopotamian code of Hammurabi as well, that that was a custom that there was it was a significant different status uh to be betrothed than to be single. Then verse 22 describes the big wedding feast. We don't get a big description, but it's a big feast. He invites everyone. And it's to arrange uh to he's arranges to celebrate the marriage. And then Laban brings Leah instead of Rachel. It seems reasonable to assume, as we talked about a minute ago, that she was veiled, since that face coverings was a custom in those days. Uh so she was probably veiled. And since they were deliberately trying to deceive, it was probably as thick a veil as they could possibly get away with, uh my guess is. To make sure that Jacob didn't see who who this was. Uh notice that he brings ja he brings Leah to Jacob in the evening, so it's dark. Right? We there's no light switches or anything like that. And so he's probably in the tent and it's dark and she's veiled And they've had just had a big wedding feast where there was probably wine. And this cutting plot, it really parallels Rebecca and Jacob's plot to steal the blessing. from Esau. Uh in the former one, Rebecca makes the plan, but the execution depends on Jacob lying to his father. The plan won't work unless Jacob is convincing and lying to his father um Isaac. And he has to answer all these questions and he has to m he has to he has to make layers of lies uh in order to convince Isaac that he's He's Esau instead of Jacob. And in this latter case, Rebecca's brother Laban makes the plan, but the execution depends on Leah lying to her new husband. So it's not a very good start to a a marriage. Yeah. You can't help but wonder if there's like this as a con you know, going back you can see this pattern of deception is Abraham was Sarah with Rachel the whole time, right? Yeah. So, yeah, so it's a good question. And and so Yeah, so uh there's only a couple of possibilities. One is Rachel knew and was in on it. Um Well, or they you know, locked her away so she couldn't get out. Yeah, it could be. Um but Th I mean there's a pretty strong um there there's pretty strong filial piety in a lot of cases in the ancient Near East and so She might have been told by her father, this is the way we're gonna do it, and if if you don't go along with this, you don't get married at all. Something like that. And as soon as he's married to Leah, then you can be married to him. But otherwise you can't be married at all Yeah. So um but yeah you're right. Where was Rachel? You know, how did they keep Rachel from uh spilling the beans here and saying, Hey, it's not me, you know. Wait a minute, I'm over here. Um so Uh but Leah has to be definitely has to be involved in in going along with this deception. Um all the way to intimate contact. Uh and it's the Bible says that Jacob doesn't realize till the morning, so um yeah. Uh I'm thinking that Jacob Jacob probably had a little bit too much wine to drink at that at that wedding festival. He doesn't realize that it's a different woman all the way till the morning Uh and then he's angry and he goes to uh give Laban a peace of his mind. So uh and he says to Laban, What is this you have done to me? Why have you deceived me? Uh He he's just not happy. Uh Lavin makes a feeble excuse about the customs of the land, and the reason it's feeble is because He could have told Jacob about that from the beginning. He made this bargain specifically for Rachel. If it was impossible for him to marry Rachel, he should have said that right right away at the beginning of the bargain Uh but he didn't. So this is a feeble excuse. Of course Jacob's not buying it at all. Uh and then always the shrew businessman, Laban sees an opportunity to bring more work out of Jacob by offering him Rachel for another seven years of work. Um because he knows he still wants Rachel. So Jacob agrees and lay and right and he gives him Rachel, he doesn't make him wait seven more years for Rachel. He he spends uh what they call a bridal week with uh Leah, and then he marries Rachel. So within seven days he's married uh Leah and Rachel Uh so he doesn't have to wait. He receives Rachel as a second wife a week after he married Leah. But he still has to work off another seven years worth of bride price. It's also interesting to note that later Hebrew law forbids a man from marrying sisters. Leviticus 18, 18 says a man can't marry sisters, probably because of this. Yeah, so and it so this is an ugly beginning to a family, uh to a relationship. It's you know, the whole the whole beginning of it is based on deception and lies and Um and the the sisters obviously have animosity towards one one another all the way through. Um so uh put yourself in the situ you can't put yourself exactly in the situation, but uh just think about i if you if you grew up with sisters, uh imagine ordinary sibling rivalries for a whole lifetime and then pile this on top of that. Um and think about what that would be like. Um Not good. Not a good stable arrangement for uh a family. Um and Jacob's bitter from the very beginning against Leah for for doing this. He's bitter against Laban, but he's bitter against Leah also. So continuing. So then the so this is a family. It's a husband and two wives to start off this family. Then if you'll turn back to Genesis 29, we're gonna see how the family dynamics work out and see that the of course the girls are not They're not happy with one another and they're not happy with the situation. Um starting in verse 31, the Bible says, Now the Lord saw that Leah was unloved. And so uh the verse previous that said that uh Jacob loved Rachel more than Leah. Um that's actually in the Hebrew it's what's called a min exception. And and what it really means is he didn't love Rachel uh Leah at all. That's really what that Hebrew means. That he loved Rachel and he did not love Leah. And so, and we see that in verse 31. Now the Lord saw that Leah was unloved. And he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren. Leah conceived and bore a son and named him Reuben, for she said, Because the Lord has seen my affliction, surely now my husband will love me. Then she conceived again and bore a son and said, Because the Lord has heard that I am unloved, he has therefore given me this son also. So she named him Simeon. She conceived again and bore a son and said, Now this time my husband will become attached to me, because I have borne him three sons. Therefore he was named Levi, and she conceived again and bore a son and said, This time I will praise the Lord. Therefore she named him Judah. Then she stopped bearing. Then continuing in chapter 30. Now when Rachel saw that she bore Jacob no children, she became jealous of her sister, and she said to Jacob, Give me children, or I will die. Or else I die. Then Jacob's anger burned against Rachel, and he said, Am I in the place of God who has withheld from you the fruit of the womb? She said, Here is my maid Bilhah, go into her, that she may bear on my knees, that through her I too may have children. So she gave her maid Bilhah as a wife, and Jacob went into her. Bilha conceived and bore Jacob a son. Then Rachel said, God has vindicated me and has indeed heard my voice and has given me a son. Therefore she named him Dan. Rachel's maid Bilha conceived again, and bore Jacob a second son. So Rachel said, With mighty wrestlings, I have wrestled with my sister. And I have indeed prevailed. And she named him Naphtali. Continuing in verse 9, when Leah saw that she had stopped bearing, she took her maid Zilpah and gave her to Jacob as a wife Leah's made Zilpha bore Jacob a son, then Leah said, How fortunate. So she named him Gad. Leah's made Zilpha bore Jacob a second son, then Leah said, Happy am I, for women will call me happy. So she named him Asher. God gave heed to Leah, and she conceived and bore Jacob a fifth son. Then Leah said, God has given me my wages because I gave my maid to my husband. So she named him Issachar. Leah conceived again and bore a sixth son to Jacob. Then Leah said, God has endowed me with a good gift. Now my husband will dwell with me, because I have borne him six sons. So she named him Zebulun. Afterwards she bore a daughter and named her Dinah. Then God remembered Rachel, and God gave heed to her and opened her wombs. So she conceived and bore a son and said, God has taken away my reproach. She named him Joseph, saying, May the Lord give me another son. So that's the story of the birth of all these children, and it's a it's a brutal family dynamic. It really is. Um So first of all, he's the Lord sees that Jacob doesn't love Leah, blesses her with four sons, Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah. Rachel sees that she's not having kids, but her sister, who she despises, is, and she gives Jacob wife number three, Bilhah, and she gives she has two sons, Dan and Naphtali. Um and then Leah gives Jacob her maid Zilpah, wife number four, and she gives birth to two sons, Gad and Asher And we didn't read about the mandrakes. Her oldest son Reuben gives some mandrakes and she kind of buys Jacob's uh n a night out with Jacob. Uh and she gives she ends up giving birth to two more sons and a daughter, Issachar, Zebulun, and Dinah. And then finally Rachel has a son of her own and Joseph And so this is what the family looks like at the at the end. The only one that hasn't been born yet is Benjamin. He's born later when after Jake uh Jacob goes back to the land of Canaan But he ends up with four wives. Not two wives, but four. The scripture is clear, they're wives, describes them as wives. So Zilpah and Bilhah are wives. He ends up with four wives. And he ends up at the end of this um lesson he ends up with uh let's see twelve kids, eleven eleven boys and a girl. Um and the the six sons of Leah, the first wife include uh Levi, from which we get the priesthood, and Judah, from which we get King David and the eventually the Messiah. So that's fro through Leah. Now Rachel's boy Joseph, of course we're going to follow his life uh for quite some time uh in the future. We're gonna do four lessons on the life of how God works in the life of Joseph. uh once we're done with Jacob. Um but that's this will become these twelve boys once Benjamin's born will become the twelve children of Israel. Um they'll eventually become the tribes, although uh Levi doesn't get any land. Joseph has two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, that each get a tribe. So Joseph ends up getting two two tribes worth of land Levi doesn't get any transfer of the land uh because he's got the priesthood. So this is the family, uh and it's a very dysfunctional family. Um the the the dynamics from the very beginning, from the weddings, is not ideal. Um and the the two sisters d uh don't appear to get along at all Um there and there's nothing in the Bible about them having any interaction at all, the two sisters, which is a real shame. I mean they grew up as sisters together in the same household, but because of the way all this came about, now they're kind of rival wives. Uh which is not how God designed marriage. That's not how it was when Adam married Eve. Right. So we can see the mess that it becomes if you don't follow God's perfect design for what marriage is supposed to look like. As with everything else in the Bible, there are uh the the most famous artists always did depictions from the Bible. And so including the uh the greatest sculpture in history, Michelangelo He made two famous sculptures, one of Rachel and one of Leah in fifteen forty five So uh let's take a look at some of the details of the birth of these children. So in a general sense, this passage serves as genealogy. So we've been following the genealogy of the seed line all the way from Genesis From Adam and Eve, uh all the way following this line that would produce the Messiah, and now we've got this family that's actually going to become the nation. So The promise has been to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob that their descendants would be like this sand in the seashore or the stars in the sky. And this is the start of that explosion of descendants. So up to this point it's just been one So Abraham had this one boy, Isaac, and that's the only one that we're gonna follow. And then Isaac had he had the twins, but it's only gonna be Jacob. But now we're gonna have these twelve, and those twelve are gonna become twelve tribes, and it's gonna those twelve tribes are gonna become a nation. Uh and that's what one of the things that God had prom promised Abraham. He's gonna have many, many descendants and it's gonna be a nation and they're gonna have land. Uh and so we're really seeing the start of uh a big big step. Oh, I'm sorry, go ahead. God promised uh that the Hebrew people would come to you. Remember though that uh served Barron. Yep. And so was Rachel. Right. But worked through that. He did. Um all three of his ladies. Yep. But notice that Rachel's not the key wife. Uh Rachel's not the wife through whom all these promises are gonna come. It's actually uh going to be Leah. So uh Judah is one of Leah's children, and Judah is the seed line. That's the the line of David that's going to come down to uh to Jesus. It's through Judah. And so the the the key wife, the wife that's like um Rebecca, um is and like Sarah, that wife is Leah in this story. Very interesting. Knowing this whole story and being able to see forward that it's through Leah's descendants that we're going to get the king, the priest, the king, and the messiah. Um right, yes. Can you touch up a little bit on this this thing with wipes and servants Or the maid? So yeah, so there was evidently a custom in the Ancient Near East that if a wife wasn't able to have children, that it was a common practice for the wife to give one of her handmaids as a another wife to the husband so that The handmaid could have children, and then those children would essentially belong to the wife. They would be considered children of the wife. So that was a that was a custom in those days, and we see Sarah do it with her maid Hagar. We see both Rachel and Leah do it with their handmaids. Yeah, so evidently it was a custom to to uh to increase your household, the children that were considered your descendants, you could use your maid as a kind of a substitute. Would the handmaid then be considered in all aspects a wife? So uh evidently there was there were differences There were legal differences in that um i especially when it came to inheritance law, they they didn't get the same inheritance that the natural children of the I of the the first wife got. So yes, there were differences. They were actually wives, so they actually were married, but they didn't have all the same rights and privileges that Regular wise. There was two there was kind of two tiers of of wives. Yeah. In the case of Abraham there was one other possibility. That we had a servant board in the house. Yes, adopted adoption, yeah. And the Romans had that that going all the way thousands of years later, the Romans still had that custom that you could adopt somebody and Romans did that regularly, although and emperors did it too. Emperors adopted people to be their the next emperor. um to adopt a son of like a full grown man. They'd adopt a forty year old guy that they wanted to be the next person in line and they would adopt that person as a son. So yeah, adoption was a thing, especially for the purposes of Um if you wanted to if you if you really wanted somebody somebody to be your heir, they would adopt somebody. Yes. So it's a good question. So um it it so he she was actually his wife. So yeah, so he married her first and then he slept with her as his wife. And so it wasn't like he was sleeping with somebody who wasn't his wife Now the question is, what about polygamy? So there was no there was no formal law against polygamy until much later. Um and it seems to have been a a pretty standard custom in the ancient Near East to have for it to be okay to have more than one wife. And so there's multiple incidents of people having more than one wife And the Bible doesn't specifically condemn that part of it in so many words, but the way I think it condemns it is to show you what happened. I mean it it's a huge giant mess. It's a terrible mess. Um so I I it's not It's not sin in the sense that he he's sleeping with somebody else that's not his wife, because it is his wife. They did get married, yeah. The Bible says that he m gave it she she gave her maid Bilha as a wife To her husband. So yeah, he he gave her as a wife. Both both in both cases. And same thing with Sarah and Hagar. He gave Hagar to Abraham as his as his wife. And so yeah, it was really his wife. The the issue comes with w what's this with having more than one wife? Uh that seems really weird to us. It wasn't how God designed Adam and Eve and when he with the first marriage before the fall. That's not how it was. It was just two of them. And It caused in in the cases where we get any kind of detail in the Bible, uh Sarah and Hagar. Nasty. Turns nasty. Uh the Rachel and Leah, nasty, turns nasty. Um and so I think we can infer from that that this is contrary to God's design. Um it it's not it's not a sexual sin per se because yeah they actually married him and there was no formal l law, no prohibition against that. But I think the Bible is really clear about how bad an idea it is. uh to have multiple spouses. Yeah. So what's the difference between handmade and country body? So I think that uh in in so a handmaid can be somebody that you're not sleeping with Right. So the handmaids went with the daughters from the very beginning and uh but a concubine has the explicit uh understanding that that's somebody that you're sleeping with. Now Uh there have been many cultures throughout history where that did not involve marriage. This case it involves marriage. So in the entire story of the bargain between Laban and Jacob and the account of Jacob marrying Leah and Rachel, God is never mentioned. Never mentioned. So uh what does that tell you about disarrangement? Uh I I think that's a that's a uh a strong argument from silence uh in this case No mention of God in that whole story of this arrangement. By contrast, for this passage that we just read about the birth of the children, God is front and center. It's God who's doing it. He's the active one. He's deciding who has children and when. And that's really clear from the scripture. The Lord saw and he opened. And that's repeated over and over in in this section of scripture. It's interesting that what the scripture says about Leah that uh she deserves honor or love from her husband and i if he doesn't give it then the lord bestows honor honor. In fact he bestows the honor of Her descendants being the one that from whom the chosen seed, the Messiah, will come. It's through Leah. And it's just interesting that the scripture says That God considers the fact that she's unloved. Um that that God has that kind of heart. Um that he sees that she's despised and unloved and he gives her comfort And lifts her up to the point where she's going to be the mother through whom, like Sarah and Rebecca, through whom the Messiah will come. Uh the names of each of the first four sons are wordplays, uh and she's acknowledging God kind of all along through here. Uh Reuben is look a son, Yahweh sees her need and provides a son. Simeon is to hear. Yahweh has heard about Leah's distress. So she's really focused on the Lord as this goes through here She has Levi and she hopes that the third son will bring her and Jacob together. Levi means to join or attach. And then notice when she gets to the fourth son. She doesn't talk about her husband at all. She says, this time I will praise the Lord. Very interesting. And this is the son from whom we get the Messiah. This time I will praise the Lord. I'm not I'm not in it to see if I can, you know, get my husband to love me. This time I will praise the Lord. Uh and that's Judah, and that's the son from whom we have the the line of the Messiah. Um and then we see Leah's fruitfulness and Rachel's barrenness. It leads to domestic strife. Uh Rachel Um, i she's loved by her husband, but she's unhappy and she's jealous of her sister. The sister who's unloved. is having all these kids and the one it's the favorite wife is not having any kids and so she's jealous of the sister. Uh she makes a ridiculous demand, she demands that Jacob give her children. Uh or else I die Um it's a totally inappropriate request. She should have gone to the Lord in prayer. That's what Isaac and Rebecca did. Remember, uh Rebecca couldn't have kids, and so Isaac and Rebecca together, both of them Went to the Lord in prayer, and the Lord answered their prayer right away. That's in Genesis 25. Rebecca goes, uh Rachel goes and screams at her husband. I would imagine there was an awful lot of that. I think there probably was a lot of that in that household. So uh Jacob rightly rebukes her. Uh he he tells her, Am I in the position of God? It's not I don't give to determine those things. It's God who does that. Um So sh and this she turns to the same solution that Sarah used. And so evidently this was a thing in in ancient Near East that you gave your handmaid to your husband so that you could have children, but she goes with that same solution uh that Sarah used. She gives her servant Bill Haw to Jacob as wife number three. And this is her attempt to have children that she can call her own. Now, remember that when this happened with Hagar and S and Sarah It says that Hagar despised Sarah, first of all, and that Sarah despised Hagar too at at the end of it and wanted to get rid of her. And yet Rachel is she's going down that same path. So Bill has two sons, Dan and Nathalie. And then Leah is unhappy and jealous because for a little while she stopped having kids and now Rachel's creeping up on her. Uh, you know, now it's forty two and you know, it's it's no no good. Uh she becomes unhappy and jealous because she stopped having kids. And she follows the same strategy. She says, oh yeah, I I see your your handmaid and I raise you another handmaid Uh so she follows the same strategy as Rachel and Sarah before her, and she gives her servant Bill Zilpa to Jacob as wife number four. So now he's got four wives. Zopa has two sons, Gad and Asher. And so there's continuing strife between Leah and Rachel. Yes, go ahead. So then These sons of the handmaidens are seen as dubbed sons of Rachel and Leah. Are they all raised together? So Yeah, so it doesn't really we don't get really uh uh details in that, although we do get get a little bit of a glimpse when We'll see, uh next time when uh when they finally do leave Haran and go back to Canaan and Jacob is afraid that um his brother Esau is gonna attack and kill people Um, he puts the sons uh uh the handmaids and their sons in the front to be the first ones that are mowed down if if he does. And and he says that's and then he puts uh Leah and her sons next and Rachel and Joseph at the back. So yeah, so there's definitely favoritism and and he Jacob's got him rank order and and he puts the rank order. The Bible puts the rank order right there in there about, you know, which ones are gonna be the human shields in front as as Esau's watered men come to attack. It's the it's the handmaids and their kids are the human shields. Um yeah. Yeah. So of course Rachel and and Leah are sisters, so they have only that's only one mother in law. And we never meet any of the mother in laws. Uh we don't know if they were at the wedding feast or not. Um but yeah, so Yeah, four four wives and and uh the the family dynamics just don't um i y you can just imagine how bad it would be. It's It's not good. And um and we see just a glimpse of it. The Bible tells us enough to see that this is not the way to make a a family. And yet God uses it. God uses this terrible situation to make a nation. to make his nation, his people. Um but there's strife in that household. Um Jacob um i he's been a deceptive guy during his life. And now I think the the Lord is really showing him what deception can w the kind of seeds that deception can sh sow. And Jacob then gets to see it f firsthand for years and years and years and years and years, how that plays out. Um And yeah. So and and we see it we'll see at the end of his life, uh, you know, he he's standing before Pharaoh as a hundred and thirty year old man. And he and he goes, few and troubled have been the years of my life. That's how he describes his life, troubled. And this is part of it. This is part of the trouble. Strife between the wives, four wives. So next is Leah's turn. She has two more sons and a daughter. Issachar and Zebulun and Dinah join the family. So that's uh that's up to uh ten sons and one daughter at that point. Um she seems to be desperately seeking her husband's approval still. If I can just have enough kids, he's gonna uh approve of me. And then finally, at the end of this passage, God remembered Rachel. So all this time, uh Leah's been having kids, the handmaids have been having kids, and Rachel still hasn't had any kids And finally, uh the others fed eleven kids altogether from the three other wives. Rachel had not had any of her own. Uh and then Rachel has Joseph. And Joseph, of course, becomes daddy's favorite. Um and we'll see how this works out in the life of Joseph. His brothers hate him for it. Um he's he's the favorite, he's the clear favorite. The rest of the brothers despise him because of that Despise him enough to try to kill him, sell him into slavery, all that kind of stuff. And so this goes down to the next generation, this family dysfunction. Um i the kids see it. They grew up in it, and you know it's it's a reality for the kids too. Um but Rachel has Joseph, uh that's son number eleven, kid number twelve And throughout the entire passage, we see that God is in control over who has children when. The Bible is very explicit about that Uh before we go into a question about that, you said that the brothers hated Joseph. Obviously further on we see that they try to kill him. Why do you think it is that Joseph didn't have that? part for them. So um it's interesting. Um I I think that's the grace of God. And so it's as a as a very young man he he had he seems to have had a lot of arrogance. He does seem to have had arrogance that's born out of being the favorite. But what does God do in his life to drive that arrogance from him? He he has them sold into slavery and thrown into prison and falsely accused and and that drives the arrogance right out of Joseph. And so God forms Joseph's character through the trials and temptations and the and the harsh treatment that he gets. God uses that to form his faith. And by the end, in Genesis 50, as we'll see, Joseph is able to stand right in front of his brothers and say, You meant it for evil, and God meant it for good. He's able to say that, see that. Uh but he probably wasn't able to wouldn't have been able to say that as a teenage boy getting thrown into the pit and sold into slavery. Um it took some uh some f fashioning and forming of his faith by the Lord through his life circumstances. And so that's what we see. We see this uh kind of dysfunction that that is it's born out of the deception that starts. And so When when when we sin and when we lie and you know try to deceive others, um of course that sin can be forgiven. But that doesn't mean that there won't be multi-generational uh effects of that sin that go on for decades and decades and decades and decades And that's what we see here. We see a particular sin of lying, bearing false witness, is a sin against God and it has consequences. And we see those consequences worked out here in this family. But God's in control and he uses every bit of it to uh to work his will out and his purposes Okay, going on in Genesis chapter 30. So the last part of Genesis chapter 30 talks about uh this kind of weird incident of how Jacob became rich. So Remember he walks into Haram with just his walking stick and the clothes on his back. He doesn't have a bride price. He has to work for the bride price. And at the end of that all of his wages have gone to buying his two wives and so he still doesn't have anything. He has got two wives and he's starting to have kids, but he still doesn't have any any property or money or anything But now we see he he does become rich. Um and we see how that happens. Uh starting in verse twenty-five, now it came about when Rachel had borne Joseph, so we just had Joseph, that Jacob said to Laban Send me away that I may go to my own place and to my own country. So he wants to go back to the land of Canaan where his parents are. Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served you, and let me depart For you yourself know my service which I have rendered you. Now that's a bold statement, because if somebody was a servant in a household, like Jacob was a servant to Laban their kids were considered the property of the household. So uh there there's a i is a kind of a legal gray area there and And Jacob's making a claim and as we'll see next week, uh Laban doesn't accept that claim. Laban comes right out and says, Those children are my children. They were born in my household and and you were my servant while you were having these kids, so they're mine. So it's going to become a contention again. Give me my wives and my children from whom I have served you, and let me depart, for you yourself know my service which I have rendered you. But Laban said to him, If now it pleases you, stay with me I have divine that the Lord has blessed me on your account. So he sees that his flocks have been great with w with J uh Jacob watching over him. Everything has been great for his business, while Jacob has been managing it, so he wants them to stay. Stay with me, I have divine the Lord has blessed me on your account. He continued, name your me your wages, and I will give it. So he said, What shall I give you? And Jacob said, You shall not give me anything. If you will do this one thing for me, I will again pasture and keep your flock. Let me pass through your entire flock to-day, removing from there every speckled and spotted sheep, and every black one among the lambs, and the spotted and speckled among the goats, and such shall be my wages. So he says, Give me some of the sheep Then Jacob took fresh rods of poplar and almond and plane trees, and he peeled white strips in them, exposing the white which was on the rods, and he set the rods which he had peeled in front of the flocks in the gutters, even in the watering troughs where the flocks came to drink. And they mated when they came to drink. So the flocks mated by the rods, and the flocks brought forth striped, speckled, and spotted. Jacob separated the lambs and made the flocks face toward the striped and all the black and the flock of Lavan And he put his own herds apart and did not put them with Laban's flock. Moreover, whenever the stronger of the flock were mating, Jacob would place the rods in the side of the flock in the gutters, so that they might mate by the rods But when the flock was feeble he did not put them in, so the feebler were Laban's and the stronger Jacob's. So the man became exceedingly prosperous, and had large flocks, and female and male servants, and camels, and donkeys. So this is how they became prosperous. This is very strange. Um you know the the speckled and spotted ones are not the ones that you would necessarily want. Uh if you're gonna m you know, have wool from the sheep for example, you most likely want the white ones, but he wanted the speckled ones and he goes through this thing of put putting striped sticks in front of the gutters. Uh what's all that about So um it seems to me, looking at the entire picture, that um this was obviously something that God did. Um putting sticks by a trough will not make sheep have certain characteristics. That doesn't happen unless God makes it happen. And so this is obviously a work of God to make Jacob wealthy. Um and the only the only thing the only way I can imagine that Jacob knew to put, you know, stripped off sticks by the gutters was God told him to Um I mean that's just not something you would just think of. Why would he do that? So I I believe, the Bible doesn't explicitly say it, that this was something that God had Jacob do and God made the sheep come out the way he wanted them to come out so that Jacob would become wealthy. Um so he's worked for fourteen years. Laban doesn't want him to lose Jacob's service Uh so the two of them make an additional agreement where Jacob will continue to work for Laban in exchange for a portion of the flocks to take with him when he does finally leave. And the Lord kind of accelerates that whole thing to make sure, because the Lord, the Lord's purpose is for him to go back to Canaan. And the Lord kind of i it accelerates the the the whole process of building up a giant flock for Jacob by this by having all the all all the herds start bringing forth these speckled and spotted uh lambs and sheep. Uh so the Lord's definitely in this. He makes a very odd request about this speckled, spotted, and streaked. And Laven is is overjoyed. He he jumps. Once again, there's no bartering here because Jacob has has offered to take the the ones that he doesn't really want, the speckled and spotted ones. And so Laban's like, Yeah, I'll go for that Um but then uh Laban realizes that things are not working out for him. We'll see that really next week. Uh because Uh all of a sudden for reasons that Laban can't understand, all all the all the good sheep start that are born are all the speckled and spotted and streaked ones Uh and and somewhere along the way, Laban's son we'll see next time, Laban's sons realize that their inheritance is being uh whittled away by this breeding program of of Jacob and they get really angry. We'll see that next next week. But the Lord is with Jacob, just as he had been with Abraham and Isaac. So the Lord is superintending events, is providentially causing events to work out for the benefit of Jacob, not for Jacob's sake, but for the Lord's purposes. So remember this is going to be God's people. He's going to make a nation of Israel. This is going to be his people And through that people is going to come his Messiah. And therefore, God works events out in to make sure that Jacob And his household becomes what the Lord needs him to be. And so the Lord's with him just like he's with just like he promised. He had promised Jacob uh at that meeting at Bethel, that dream at Bethel, that he said, I will be with you And I will make sure these promises come true for you. And that's what he's doing throughout this whole story. And especially the story with the sheep. There's God just diving right in. to build this guy up into a super wealthy guy from nothing. And it's really a a miraculous thing that God does to build up his wealth in such a short time. So he causes the just disproportionate number of speckled spotted in the street lamps to rise up. Okay, so uh that's it for our lesson today. We're gonna finish off uh Lord willing, we'll finish off the life of Jacob next week and dive into Joseph after that. Any we have about four minutes. Any questions or comments about how God worked in the life of Jacob? Yes. That uh actually there were no other um emails born to any of those uh that were maybe not So a good question. Yes. So a good question. So we know why Dinah is mentioned because there's going to be an incident with Dinah later on. Um and so that dynah had to be mentioned there so there could be other girls. Now there's not a lot of time. Um I'll I'll put up a timeline later, but Uh next week I'll show you. Uh but there's not a a huge amount of time between the time he's married and the time he leaves uh to go back to Canaan. And it's a very short amount of time to have twelve kids. Uh it's a period of eleven years Uh or thirteen years. Thirteen years. It's a period of thirteen years, seven years and six years. Thirteen years. That's not a lot of time to have twelve kids. Um although there's four different lives, but but they're actually sequential 'cause the Bible says and this one had these and then she stopped very and then they gave the Zilpa and then they had these and then they so it's actually sequential. They're not all having kids at the exact same time. And it's only a thirteen year period total. And they and that there's a description of 12 kids in there, 11 boys and one girl. So there's not a huge amount of time to have more, unless there were twins. So um there could have been, it's possible that there could have been other girls that are not mentioned, but there's not a lot of time. uh to have a pregnancy, a series of pregnancies in that 13-year period where there's there's already 12 kids jump jammed into that 13-year period. Okay. Yes. Yeah, so uh so some commentaries try to force a scientific explanation on this. Like that the popul poplar stick stripe would somehow cause a a lamb to have a certain kind that's ridiculous. And and and it robs God of his glory, quite frankly. Uh and we see God using a physical s uh symbol When God's doing action. So later on we'll see um Moses, for example, hitting a rock and then water comes out. Did Moses' staff hitting the rock make water come out? No, God made water come out But God's purpose in having the water come out was to bolster and uh and build up Moses' leadership as uh to to make it clear to all the i Israelites that Moses was God's spokesman and so it was Moses' staff that hits the rock. But Moses' staff didn't make water come out of that rock. It was God that made water come out of the rock. And I think it's the same thing with these sheep. Those striped sticks didn't make the sheep have uh a certain kind of offspring. It was God who did that. But he gave for his own purposes, he gave Jacob this kind of physical uh symbol of what God was doing. Yeah, all the miracle signs have some sort of physical manifestation, but it's God that's really doing the action. Okay. Uh let me close this with a word of prayer.