Uh let's start with a word of prayer. Uh dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this uh beautiful Lord's day with uh snow and uh it's just a wonderful thing that you have made your creation this way so that part of the uh the cycle of um uh of water on your earth is uh snow and the snow is beautiful to our eyes I pray that everybody would be safe uh in this snow, uh that if people have to travel that they would be safe in doing it. We thank you for the technology which is available so that we can still have this kind of virtual meeting with one another on this Lord's Day, even though we can't see one another in person. I thank you for your word, which we're about to study here, and the way you've revealed yourself and uh the way you've revealed your plan of redemption throughout history. We thank you so much, Lord, for the great loving kindness that you've displayed throughout the pages of Scripture and throughout your relations with people from Adam all the way up to us today. uh the mercy that you show um and all the love uh specially in Christ Jesus. We thank you for uh the fact that he came uh to earth as a as a man, that he lived a sinless life, that he died as a substitute for us on the cross and that you raised him from the dead so that we can serve a living Savior, that he is our intercessor and perfect high priest in heaven today. We thank you for all these things, Lord. We thank you for the many promises that you have in your scriptures, and especially the promise of eternal life that you give to those who are in Christ Jesus. And it's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Okay, so today we'll be doing um oh wait a minute, I've got a freeze. Uh let me uh let me do a quick reset here. Um every once in a while if I don't touch the screen, the um the PowerPoint uh freezes and it has done that now. So I'm going to share the screen one more time Okay, there we go. Alright. Uh so we're up to port part eight. We're going to be talking about Genesis five today. Our verse of the day, of course, is Job 38. 22. Have you entered the storehouses of snow? One of the questions that the Lord asked Job in Job chapter 38. Today we're going to talk about the progression of the seed line. We're going to talk about the curious case of Enoch a little bit And then we're going to look at the long lifespans and the generational overlap and what the implications, uh one of the implications of that is for us. Uh let's see. So, but let's first take a look back at what Pastor Gabe did last week. Um Last week we had the story of Cain and Abel. Um and so we had um Cain, uh the firstborn is a farmer, and then Uh Abel, his younger brother, is a shepherd. Uh Abel offers the best of his flock and God looks favorably on that sacrifice. Cain uh decides to go a different direction and uh offers some of his crops and God does not look favorably on that sacrifice. Uh Cain get Cain gets angry and murders his brother Abel. And when God confronts Cain, he responds, Am I my brother's keeper, a famous phrase that exists to this day. God curses Cain, casts him away into the land of Nod, and he gives but he gives him a mark which warns people not to harm him. So if we look all the way back to Genesis chapter 1, Adam and Eve are told to multiply and fill the earth, and of course that didn't happen until after the fall. And so every single person that was born to Adam and Eve, and then all their descendants were born in the fallen state and have a sin nature. Um we'll see here in a second that uh Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters, so uh the particular focus was on Cain and Abel and then Seth is born, but uh the Bible is clear that they had multiple sons and multiple daughters other than these. We get um uh a clue from outside the Bible, Flavius Josephus. Titus Flavius Josephus was a Jewish scholar. um uh around the time of Christ. He lived from 37 AD to 100 AD. He wrote a very famous, uh very large multivolume account of uh called The Antiquity of the Jews. And in that book, he uh Josephus says in a footnote the number of Adam's children as says the old tradition So old in Josephus' day, two thousand years ago, so the ancient tradition was that Adam and Eve have thirty-three sons and twenty-three daughters. But Of course, that's not scripture, and so we don't know for certain. All we know for certain is that they had multiple other sons, because it's plural, and and multiple daughters, because that's plural, other than uh Cain, Abel, and Seth. Abel's saving faith demonstrated outwardly by his bringing the right sort of offering of blood, uh blood to cover sins. Uh Cain did not have the proper faith or belief, uh, and that manifested itself in an improper offering. And so The lesson that we get from that is that we come to God on his terms and his terms alone. We don't have the authority to make up our own path to salvation. And Jesus said that, of course, explicitly in John chapter 14, when he said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. We don't get to make up our own uh path of salvation. Uh but Cain was angry that God would not permit him to make up his own rules. Uh we get some uh indications in the uh we get some uh information about uh Cain and Abel in the New Testament Hebrews chapter eleven, the Faith Hall of Fame, uh Abel is in there. Uh by faith, Abel offered God a better sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained the testimony that he was righteous God testifying about his gifts and through faith, though he is dead, he still speaks. Matthew 23 Um Jesus speaking said, so that upon you may fall the guilt of all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barakiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar. Uh and then in 1 John 3. 12 we get more information about Cain. Um and it's uh the scripture says that uh We should not be as Cain who was of the evil one and slew his brother, and for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brothers were righteous. So the evil deeds preceded the murder. So the evil deeds, uh so not just evil uh not just a bad heart when offering this the uh uh the sacrifice, so that he did have that. He's uh cited in the Bible in the New Testament for evil deeds leading to the murder. So evil deeds before the murder. Uh and not just uh uh bad intent, but actually bad deeds in offering the wrong sacrifice before the murder. And then we have of course God confronts him, gives an uh an opportunity to repent, just like he gave Adam and Eve, and uh Cain refuses to repent. Uh he gives the Snyder remark, Am I my brother's keeper? Um and then um God judges him. He curses uh he he curses him. Um Cain is cursed from the ground is how uh the Bible puts it. And uh then he's told when he cultivates the ground it will no longer yield its strength. And of course, Cain's a farmer by trade, and so this is a pretty devastating punishment for him. And then he's also banished. He's told he's going to be a vagrant and a wanderer. Uh but of course in the midst of this uh harsh judgment, God also showed mercy because he didn't uh outright execute Cain, which is what he deserved for the uh for the murder that he committed. Uh then Cain leaves the presence of Yahweh uh as part of his punishment. Uh of course since God is omnipresent, Cain could never really be anywhere that God was not. Uh that most likely refers to the fact that God used to talk face to face with Cain and he's not going to do that anymore. He settled in the land of Nod, Cain did, east of Eden. The Hebrew word Nod means wandering. So land of Nod means land of wandering. And indicates that he was probably a wanderer for the rest of his life. And then we get a section on the descendants of Cain. It's very brief. And that's a pattern for the rest of the book of Genesis. We get The focus is on God working out his plan of redemption in Christ Jesus throughout all of history. And so We follow the seed line, the line that leads to Christ. And any side branches are sometimes uh there's sometimes very brief mention of these side lines, side branches of the human race But then the scripture very quickly gets back to the line that leads to Christ. Um and so there's limited details about the descendants of Cain. There's no age at the time of birth of the sons, no recording of other sons in Daughters, no time at the age of death, just uh a list of uh a few generations of names. And so in the line of Cain we saw that uh he had Enoch, uh not to be confused with uh Enoch from the uh the line of Seth, um and then this uh line down to a seventh generation which was characterized by extreme evil in in Lamek. And then after dispensing with the line of Cain, the narrative quickly returns back after not long, probably not long after Abel's murder of Cain. uh gets back to the seed line uh to show uh starting with Seth um at the age of 130 uh Seth is born. They have a son called Seth. And Eve describes as a replacement for Abel since Cain killed him. And then Seth and his wife produce a grandson for Adam and Eve named Enosh. And then at the very end of chapter 4, at the end of the Toledot, we have men began to call upon the name of the Lord. And so that's the end of the first Toledot, the first section, the Toledot of the heavens and earth, from Genesis 2. 4 to 426. And it starts at a high point with the the detailed description of the creation of the first man and woman, the ordination of marriage, and then we get the fall, Adam and Eve sinning and bringing death into the world, and then we have the first murder. And the but the Toledot ends at the very end, the very last verse, ends on a high note, with uh Seth and his son Enosh institut the worship of the true God, one true God Yahweh. And then that sets us up for this the next tola dot, which we're going to get into today. So any questions here about uh that first uh what we did last week, what uh Pastor Gabe covered last week. Okay, that being the case, I'm gonna roll into Genesis chapter five. And so if you'll take out your Bibles or tune your devices to Genesis chapter 5, we're going to read through the whole chapter first. So turn in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 5. And let's read through this, starting in verse one. This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day when God created man, he made him in the likeness of God. He created them male and female, and he blessed them, and he named them man in the day when they were created. When Adam had lived one hundred and thirty years, he became the father of a son in his own likeness according to his image, and named him Seth. Then the days of Adam, after he became the father of Seth, were eight hundred years, and he had other sons and daughters So all the days that Adam lived were 930 years and he died. Seth lived 105 years and became the father of Enosh. Then Seth lived 807 years after he became the father of Enosh, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Seth were 912 years, and he died. Enosh lived 90 years and became the father of Kennan. Then Enosh lived 815 years after he became the father of Kenan, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Engnas were nine hundred and five years, and he died. Kennan lived seventy years and became the father of Mahalalel. Then Kennan lived eight hundred and forty years after he became the father of Mahalalel and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Kenan were 910 years and he died. Mahalalel lived sixty-five years and became the father of Jared Then Mahalal lived 830 years after he became the father of Jared, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety-five years and he died. Jared lived one hundred and sixty-two years and became the father of Enoch. Then Jared lived eight hundred years after he became the father of Enoch, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Jared were 962 years, and he died. Enoch lived sixty-five years and became the father of Methuselah. Then Enoch walked with God three hundred years after he became the father of Methuselah, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Enoch were 365 years. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. Bethusel lived 187 years and became the father of Lamech. Then Bethusal lived 782 years after he became the father of Lamech, and he had other sons and daughters So all the days of Methuselah were 969 years and he died. Lamek lived 182 years and became the father of a son. Now he called his name Noah, saying, This one will give us rest from our work and from the toil of our hands arising from the ground which the Lord has cursed. Then Lamech lived five hundred and ninety-five years after he became the father of Noah, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he died. Noah was 500 years old and Noah became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth So that's the scripture we're going to take a look at today, all these generations that go from Adam up to Noah So this is a new Toledot, this Hebrew word tolodot, the generations of Adam, that is what followed from Adam. This tola dot is a little bit unusual in that it uses the phrase the book of, and none of the other toladots do. The Hebrew word translated book, Sephira, which is more likely to have been a scroll originally or even a clay tablet. And only in Matthew 1. 1 do we see a repetition of the pattern. The record, literally the book of the genealogy of Jesus, the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. In the Greek, the phrase Book of the Genealogy in Matthew 1. 1 is Biblios Geneseos. Biblios geniseas. And that's exactly the same way that the Septuagint renders Genesis 5. 1. So the Septuagint, the LXX is a Greek translation of the Hebrew Old Testament. So in the in the and it's an ancient translation from before the time of Christ. So the Septuagint translates Genesis 5. 1 as Byblos Geneseos, exactly the same as Matthew 1-1. And so this is actually very logical. Genesis 5 provides the generations which Proceeded from the first man, Adam. Matthew 1 provides the generations which preceded Christ, the last Adam, as we see in 1 Corinthians 15. Uh so the fact that these both use exactly the same language, the Book of the Generations of, uh makes sense because these two genealogies are really married to one another. It's what's proceeding from the first atom to the last atom in uh in the one case and preceding the last atom in the other case. If we look at a kind of a diagram of the descendants, we can look at in this particular diagram, all the ancestors of Jesus are in red So everybody who was an ancestor of Jesus, leading to Jesus, is going to be in red in these diagrams that I show you. Now, of course, Abel was murdered by Cain. And Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters. We don't know how many. but multiple other sons and daughters, and of course they were having kids. They were around for 900 years to have kids. And so um it's very unlikely that this is just a couple. uh it's most likely that there are many. Uh which means that um as we proceed through all these generations, most likely a vast majority of the people on earth are not from the line of Seth and not from the line of Cain, but from all of these other sons and daughters massively multiplying down through branches of their kids and grandkids and great-grandkids. And so when we follow a genealogy in the Bible, we're following a very slender chute of one branch. And there are uh eventually after a few generations there's thousands and ten thousands and hundreds of thousands and millions of people that are not in the lineup set. and not in the line of Cain. Keep that in mind as we go through these genealogies. So once again, ancestors of Jesus in red Um and notice that in each one of these generations, of course, they have others' sons and daughters. And so even when we're following this, as we follow the seed line, it's a very very slender chute of the ancestors of Seth. It's not all the ancestors of Seth. We're just following a very thin, narrow branch of the line of Seth. Because it's always at each step is branching off in multiple other sons and multiple other daughters that are not these people in red. So Seth, uh then Enosh, and then uh Kenan and Mahalalel and Jared uh always uh having one son that l that is going to lead to Jesus and then multiple other sons and daughters. Enoch, who we'll talk about in a minute, was a special case, and then Methuselah and Lamech and Noah And of course, when we go into chapters 6, 7, and 8, we're gonna 6, 7, 8, and 9, we're gonna be really looking at Noah and his sons in much greater detail. And as we had with the the line of Cain went down to seven generations. And in the seventh generation we had that man, Lamech, who was exceptionally evil. And in the seventh line from Seth, we have this man, Enoch, who is exceptionally righteous, so exceptionally righteous that the Lord takes him up to heaven. And that's kind of a parallel. if you will. So notice the phrase as we go through this scripture. Notice the phrase that's repeated over and over again, and he died. Um it's re it's a total of eight times in the nine generations from Adam to Noah we get, and he died, and he died, and he died Uh now why is that significant? Uh well in Genesis Genesis 2. 17 God had told Adam that if he ate of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, he would die. And then in Genesis 3. 19, God told Adam that because he had disobeyed God and eaten of the tree, he would return to the dust from which he had been taken. It was part of the punishment for that original sin. Uh and yet in his mercy God did not have Adam immediately drop dead in the garden, like he did later on with Ananias and his wife Sapphira in Acts chapter five. They they dropped dead right away But here in Genesis 5, we see the inevitable, irresistible fulfillment of God's word. God had said, if you eat, you'll die. They ate and he said, You're gonna die. And that didn't happen immediately, but it did happen um e eventually, uh over and over and over again, each generation they they died And of course, every generation from Adam all the way to today has experienced the same awful consequence of sin, which is death. Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death. And notice how the scripture puts that in Genesis 6. 23. The wages, which is something you earn, the wages of sin is death. But the free gift, a free gift of course is something that you don't earn. The free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. That's important. It's important to note the distinction made there. The wages, something we earn is death The free gift of grace is something that we definitely don't earn, and that's eternal life in Christ Jesus. And it's contrasted right there in Romans 6. 23. Uh the phrase, and he died, um, applied to eight of the nine uh preceding Noah. So what do we make of the curious case of Enoch? Enoch doesn't die. In Genesis 5. 24, we learn that at the relatively young age of 365, imagine that, 365 is young. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. We learn in um in the New Testament, in Jude, we find out that Enoch was a prophet. June 14 and 15 says, It was also about these men that Enoch, in the seventh generation from Adam, prophesied. saying, Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of his holy ones to execute judgment upon all, and to convict all the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds, which they have done in an ungodly way. and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. And so the New Testament points out that Enoch was a prophet. We also see the source of Enoch's salvation in Hebrews chapter 11. By faith, Enoch was taken up so that he would not see death for he obtained the witness that before his being taken up he was pleasing to God. And without faith it is impossible to please him. And so the New Testament is clear about Enoch's salvation. He was saved by faith. And he was a prophet who was saved by faith and taken up into heaven so that he would not see death. according to the New Testament. And so that's the curious case of Enoch. Let me stop there for a second and see if anybody has any questions up to this point. Any questions Okay, let me continue then So there's a structure in the genealogies in Genesis chapter 5. When person A had lived X number of years, he became the father of person B. And then person A lived another Y years, so that all the days of person A were X plus Y years, and he died. That's the pattern. And there are no time gaps in the line, which is thus a chronogenealogy. Unlike other biblical genealogies, like Matthew chapter 1, doesn't give these ages. We know for certain, with absolute clarity and certain, that there are no missing generations between Adam and Enoch. Why do we know that? Because the New Test Testament specifically says that Enoch is the seventh generation. And so unless we're prepared to say that the Bible is wrong, unless so unless we're prepared to throw away the doctrine of inerrancy. The New Testament tells us for certain that there's only seven, Adam to Enoch, and so there can't possibly be any extra generations. And even if there were, it would not add any time to the total between Adam and Abraham, because Genesis 5 and Genesis 11 provide the time gap X between each of the men in the list In other words, the number of years from Adam's creation to Seth's birth is 130 years, very explicitly laid out in Scripture. And so, regardless of whether there were generations between them, unless the Bible is lying about Adam's age when Seth was born. So unless we're prepared to th say right outright that the Bible is lying and that Adam wasn't 130 years when Seth was born, then it then it it doesn't matter even if there were more generations. Because the Bible says that Adam was 130 when Seth was born. And so unless that's a lie, then even if you add generations, you don't add any time. And so we can add up the time between Adam and Abraham. It gives a fixed number of years between Adam's creation and the birth of Abraham. And so you can lay that on the chart, and it looks like this. And it gives a creation date of about 4000 BC, 404 BC is what Bishop Usher came up with. If you stack the ages when from the creation of Adam using the dates in Genesis 5 and Genesis 11, the ages they were when their child was born. and stack all those up together. Uh you get a flood at twenty-three forty-eight BC and um You get uh Abraham born uh around 2000 BC, 1940, uh around uh 2,000 years after Adam was created, 1946 years. And you notice also that of course there are significant overlaps. In many cases, there's hundreds of years of overlap of those early generations. And there's some um ramifications to that. So almost all of Adam's descendants in this line could have known him Because he died in Lamech's fifty-sixth years. So in other words, um great great grandpappy Adam was around for um at at least the first six generations to tell uh the stories of creation, what it was like in the garden and so forth, um, to face to face to all these people. Only Noah and his sons of those listed in Genesis five wouldn't have met Adam face to face. And so all of the history from Genesis 1-1 to 426, Adam was either an eyewitness Or in the case of creation, he could have been revealed to him by God. And Adam could have recited that history face to face with everyone down through Noah's father Lamech. what it was like in the garden, uh what uh the fall and being punished by God and being thrown out of the garden and what it was like to till the soil after what it was like to how it was different in the garden. All of that history Adam could have recited around the campfire to every generation. Every single person on earth could have heard it directly from Adam all the way down through Noah's father Lamech. Furthermore, according to the Genesis genealogies in Genesis 5 and 11, Noah could have known everyone from Enosh, Adam's grandson, all the way up to Tirah, Abraham's father. So Noah could have heard all the stories from multiple generations that had been hearing it from Adam for hundreds of years. uh Noah would have heard it directly from them and been able to recite it to uh uh Noah lived another three hundred and fifty years after the flood. to recite it to m generations all the way down to Abraham's father Tirah could have heard it directly from Noah, what it was like before the flood and uh what it was like to be on the ark during the flood and come off the ark and all those sort of things. In addition to that, Noah's son Shem, who lived for a hundred years before the flood, could have known everyone down through both Abraham and Isaac. So Even all the way down to Isaac, Shem was still alive. Um, and so Shem, who knew the post-flood world knew what it was like to be on the ark for a year, knew what it was like to come off the ark and see the post-flood world, was there for the Tower of Babel. All those things he could have he could have recited face to face around the campfire to every single generation after the flood all the way down to Isaac. Um and so we have uh um an easy opportunity and the perfect conditions for um very um Very c the transmission of oral tradition, of oral history. It's easy to transmit oral history when you have these big overlaps by hundreds of years, not just decades. And multiple generations can can hear from the same ancestor that was there to witness uh that was an eyewitness of the events. And if you look at the uh these overlaps, the the overlaps in generations, uh here's what it looks like um on a on a map like that. Uh Lamick could have uh gotten the stories directly from Adam and then told them to his son Noah. So ev everybody from uh that first blue line, vertical blue line to the left, um w was all w we're all able to talk face to face with Adam, all the way down to Lamick. The second blue line that you see, vertical blue line that you see is uh Noah, and so everybody to the left of that line was able to uh talk to Noah, who lived for uh hundreds of years before the flood and hundreds of years of years after the flood, all those patriarchs could have uh talked to Noah and overlapped for almost their whole lives with Noah. Shem, or Paxid, Sheila, Eber, Pelag, Ryu, Sirag, Nahor, all the way down to Abraham's father Tirah, would have been able to speak face to face with Noah. And then the final vertical blue line is Shem. And so Shem, who lived 100 years before the flood, and another 500 years after the flood. um was able to overlap with all of those post-flood patriarchs all the way down through Isaac. And so Isaac could have talked to Shem face to face about it what it was like in the post-flood world, what it was like to live on the ark, what it was like to come off the ark into the post-flood world, what it was like at the Tower of Babel when God confused the languages. He could have heard those stories from an eyewitness who was there. And that takes us all the way down through Isaac. And so it's the perfect conditions for the transmission of oral history without having to have it written down. Um so there were could have been very few intermediaries for the transmission of the historical accounts between Adam and Abraham. Uh the only links would have to be Lamek and Shem, and you get all the way from A Adam to Abraham uh with these first person eyewitness accounts of all of this history. And so that's probably the reason why the book of Genesis did not need to be written down until the time of Moses. By the time of Moses, the Exodus lifespans had been reduced, uh Moses and the Exodus lifespans had been reduced to the point where events in Genesis had to be written down in order to preserve them for God's people. Um if you remember towards the end of the book of Genesis, uh Jacob appears before the Pharaoh. Uh Joseph brings his father Jacob uh to present him before Pharaoh. And Jacob says this. He says, The years of my sojourning are one hundred and thirty years, because Uh the Pharaoh sees this old looking man and asks, How old are you? And this is Jacob's response, the years of my sojourning are one hundred and thirty. Few and unpleasant have been the years of my life, nor have they attained the years that my fathers lived during the days of their sojourning. And so Jacob, who eventually lived to be 147, uh he knew that his lifespan was short compared to his ancestors. Um he knew from these uh oral histories uh from his ancestors that they lived much longer lifespans and he considered his 130 years at the time to be a very short lifespan. At the end of Genesis 5, we are left with Noah and his three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And that's where we'll pick up the story next week. All right. Let me um let me uh Stop sharing here for a minute and let's do some discussion. All right. Does anybody have any questions about any of that or comments that you would like to make about any of those things? Good morning, Pastor Rob. Thank you so much for having this class. This is Elsie. I just have one question, maybe you've answered it before, but the locations w was every everybody like in the same locations That's why they were able to share these stories? So good question. Uh and we don't know for certain. Um all we know is that uh Seth went uh uh Cain went off to the east to Lin of Nod, wherever that was, and we don't know exactly what the geography was like Um it could have been that it was all one continent. Um we have some evidence from geology. that there may have at one time in the past been a single supercontinent. Um and it may be that that supercontinent broke up in the flood and and and we ended up with the continents that we have. And if if everything was together in one land mass, then of course you could travel by foot um everywhere in in the whole world. And of course they had very long lifespans. So they had 900 years to wander around from place to place and and get to know each other. Now, also remember that the numbers of people started out small. I mean it started with two and then however many sons Adam and Eve had. And then it got bigger and bigger and bigger and that their original command was to multiply and fill the earth. And so the original command, if you think about filling the earth, uh requires people to spread out. And so they did most likely spread out. And so um i i i it It's a good question about how many people Adam actually did interact with, and we don't know. So there could have certainly been people that spread out um from some of these lines from Kane's line or from the other uh lines of uh of the from the other sons and daughters that maybe never did come back into contact with Adam. That could be Um but they also could have come into contact with Adam uh because he was around for 900 years, nine hundred and thirty years. Um And I think there is evidence from geology that perhaps it was one continent. Um and so it wasn't like people went over a giant ocean and then they were uh kind of separated by oceans thereafter. Uh perhaps not. Um and so It's a it's a question that's left open uh that we don't we can't know for sure how many people had their uh direct interactions with Adam. But there was the potential for direct interaction with Adam for all those ten of those first six generations after him. Okay, great. Thank you so much. Good question. Any other questions? Yeah, Rob, uh you had up in your graph uh when you're laying over the genealogies from Adam to Noah, Noah to Abraham and I you had a little fact there of uh a scientist that calculated uh creation of earth uh is four thousand four B C so that would mean that we're currently about six thousand twenty nine. So question I have, you may have an answer for it. At least a quick uh Google Google tells me the Jewish calendar thinks it's five thousand seven hundred and eighty six, so therefore there's a discrepancy about uh three hundred uh ish years and If you happen to know why the Jewish people uh think that it's only fifty-seven eighty-six, uh their math is different or what? Yeah, so there are some um different calculations that other people have come up with. And in in some cases they add um they add time um between Abraham and now, but in most cases it's before Abraham. And in some cases it's adding extra um um Extra people, extra genealogies of people that are not in Scripture And so as a general rule, we reject those extra biblical sources that add extra time that the scripture doesn't have. And so If we look at the scriptural account, we have a we have a a very definite number of years between Adam and Abraham. And so then to get the age of the earth, um, but uh the age f the time from uh Adam's creation to now, then it becomes a question of when was it that Abraham lived? And there are some differences in how people calculate when Abraham lived. And so that can change the uh the date of creation a little bit Um but I I don't think that's possible to add a thousand years to the time when Abraham lived. Uh I don't think anybody thinks that there's that Abraham lived in uh 3000 BC. I don't think that fits anybody's chronology between Abraham and now. Um but there can be a little bit of difference at least in um in when Abraham lived. Um and so that would give us it can give us a little bit different time for creation. So Um the the famous 4004 BC comes from Bishop Usher. He was a a bishop in England who did a calculation based on his uh his investigation of when Abraham was born. That's essentially what he did. He did a very thorough investigation of when Abraham was born and then he just applied then he just worked backwards using the numbers from scripture from when Abraham was born to um Adam's creation in 404. And the way he did that was by fixing Abraham's birth in 1946 B. C. Um his investigation of uh extra-biblical records. So if he was wrong about Abraham's birth, then that would slide the date of creation a little bit. But I but I don't think anybody believes that Abraham was was way off from 2000 BC. So the way that uh people get much greater ages is by adding more time before Abraham. That's typically how they do that. And um I I don't think a straightforward reading of scripture allows that. Okay. Um next question. Uh go ahead. Um good morning, Pastor Ross. Thank you for your teaching. This is Ayospeak. Um I I read in Genesis 4, 13 to 15 that after um King murdered Abel um his expression was fear was that whoever finds me will kill me, right? And God responded, promised that nobody would do that to him, you know. I was just wondering were there other people created at the time of um Adam, Eve, Cain and Abel, apart from those four, can you shed more light on that? Were there other people that were created that were not direct descendants of Adam and Eve? Yeah, so good question. So uh the Bible makes clear that um that Eve was the mother of all the living, and so there are no people that aren't descended from Eve. Uh the Bible is clear about that. Um and so the other people have to be the other sons and daughters of Adam and Eve. And so the Bible says that Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters, and so that's who Cain must mean. When he says, people will kill me, what he means is all those other descendants of Adam and Eve. So in other words, his brothers and sisters. Um and then also his um nieces and nephews. So their their kids, the children of Adam and Eve's children would be Cain's nieces and nephews and then his grand nieces and grandnephews. So uh as he lives out his however many hundreds of years, there would be multiple generations of those other sons and daughters There could also be the descendants of Seth and all all of them spreading out, but but primarily it would be all those other sons and daughters and the descendants of all those other sons and daughters that uh Cain would be talking about. But so there's two ans to answer those two questions. One, the Bible is really clear that nobody there's nobody on earth that isn't descended from Adam and Eve. and that Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters, so that there were other people around. And so one one of the the tr traditional questions that Christians have had to answer um from unbelievers is where did Cain get his wife? So in Genesis four we learn that Cain has a wife and that he has kids. Well where did she come from? Um the Bible says that Adam and Eve had uh Cain and Abel and Seth. Where did those where did they get wives from? And the answer, of course, is they married their sisters. And there's no issue with that. There's no commandment against that. Um and there's no um scientific reason not to because their genomes were perfect. The reason we don't marry close relatives now is because it would be a genetic catastrophe And the reason it would be a genetic catastrophe is because of genetic mutations. Um we we are able to measure the rate of uh genetic mutations and each generation uh there's three hundred new point mutations in the human genome per generation per person. So uh you have 300 additional point mutations that your parents didn't have in the in your genome. Uh there are three billion base pairs in the human genome, and so 300 is a relatively small number However, if you add three hundred new point mutations every generation, you see that we are getting uh less fit, worse and worse and worse. The human genome is going downhill. It's not evolution upward, it's devolution downward. And after and in the first generation there were none of those mutations. Adam and Eve had none of those mutations. And the first generation only had a very small number, exceedingly tiny compared to three billion base pairs. And so the reason we don't marry close relatives is because close relatives have the same point mutations that have been built up in previous generations. And those mutations on the same gene are very likely to line up. And so you could get a mutated gene from both parents if both parents are close relatives. And so it's it massively increases the probability of genetic disease, genetic uh defects. But in the early generations after Adam and Eve, none of those point mutations were there. There was no virtually no uh danger of having uh genetic uh diseases or mutations or difficulties when marrying your close relative. And so they it was no problem to marry a close relative in those early generations. um from a medical standpoint and a scientific standpoint. Uh and also there was the the law against it was put in later And it was put in for a purpose, because God know God knew all about the human genome and mutations in the human genome long, long before we did, because he made us and he knows every single working of us And so they married their sisters in that first generation. And then they married their nieces and grandnieces in generations after that. And it was not a difficulty until after we started having multiple generations of genetic load of mutations And most especially after the the giant genetic bottleneck in Genesis uh chapter uh So uh we we had a huge population of people on Earth that was bottlenecked down to eight because of the flood and the ark. That kind of bottleneck will cause a genetic disaster if um it would if we did it right now, because there's so much uh uh accumulated mutations now. Back in the uh s the eighth generation it wasn't so bad, but it was a an issue. Uh I mean it caused an issue and and probably is the reason why um uh lifespans went down the way they did. Um be from nine hundred to a hundred and twenty years is because of that genetic bottleneck. Okay, good question. Uh thank you. Thank you. Any other uh questions about anything we see in Genesis chapter five? Or back to Genesis chapter four. All right. Uh sure, no questions? Uh going once, going twice All right, let me uh let me close with a word of prayer. Uh dear Heavenly Father, we thank you again for this day, and I thank you for my brothers and sisters that are here, and I wish I could see them uh in person, but I do thank you that we have technology so that we can uh we can have some connection and interaction and discussion of your word uh even when we can't leave our homes. Uh I thank you for that, Lord. I thank you for my brothers and sisters. I thank you for uh this local church at Hope Bible Church and the opportunity we have to uh encourage one another and pray for one another and lift one another up and spur one another on to love and good works. We thank you, Lord, for the virtual service that we'll have coming up soon, the opportunity to hear from Pastor Gabe, the preaching of the word. We thank you, Lord, for the many promises that you make in your word that Jesus promised that he would be with us even to the end of the age. That you promised that you would never leave us and never forsake us, and that you promised for those that you've redeemed by the blood of Christ. and saved by grace through faith, that we have eternal life with you. What a wonderful promise that is, Lord. And we thank you for it. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.