We are in part eighteen. And we're still talking about the flood. So what we're going to learn today is that After all this time with uh Noah in the in the ark, the waters prevailing over the earth for five months, God remembers Noah, and God starts to remove the flood waters. Eventually the Ark touches land, but the world's still covered with water. Noah sends out birds to try to see if there's dry land out there. The earth ends up uh finally completely drying, and God commands Noah to get off the ark, and Noah, his family, and the animals, in fact, leave the ark. And then at the end, if I have time We're going to get into the Ice Age. I hope to have time to get into the Ice Age today. If I can't, if we can't get into it today, I'll talk about it next week. But uh I'm hoping to get to the Ice Age today. Okay. First let's do a little review of last time. So last time we were uh we talked about uh chapter seven. We're going to be in chapter eight today. In chapter seven we see that there's a very careful chronology laid out for the flood um that uh the flood starts with um the fountains of the great deep and the and the rain and it's global it's 150 days it covers all the high mountains And the flood, we talked about at the very end a little bit, I'll go over it again today, how the flood was responsible for the flood fossil record. So we see that the flood starts at a particular day. He's 600 years old. He goes into the Ark with his family, and we get another inventory of all the things that go onto the Ark From the biblical information we can tell a little bit about genetics. Uh we know for example that um there was only one Y chromosome on the Ark because Y chromosomes only pass from uh uh a father to his son, and so we had Noah and his three sons, and so Noah passed his Y chromosome to his three sons, and so there's only one Y chromosome on the Ark. Um and so that's a great mystery to those who don't believe in the accounted scripture. Why is there so little diversity in the Y chromosome of all the men who walk the planet. Uh in the evolutionary story, if we were really here for hundreds of thousands or millions of years and all those generations, there should be much more diversity of the Y chromosome. But there's not There's very little diversity in the Y chromosome of people in the world today, of all the men in the world today. So just as a reminder, the 23rd chromosome pair Here if you're a man you have an X and a Y. If you're a woman you have an X and X for your toy throat chromosome pair. And so on the the for the women on the Ark, there was four women on the Ark And assuming they weren't related, that Mrs. Noah was not related to the three uh daughter, daughters-in-law, and that the daughters-in-law weren't related to one another, the maximum there could have been was eight X chromosomes. So two X chromosomes for each woman, eight total for the four women on the arc. And so that gives you much more X chromosome diversity, and that's actually what we see. Uh there's a lot more diversity in X chromosomes than there are in Y chromosomes. In addition, there's another uh genome that's much smaller. uh that's called mitochondrial uh DNA. Uh it's a mitochondrial genome. And that is only passed from the mother to the offspring. And so therefore, if we tra track it through generations, it's only passed from mothers to daughters, because when it's passed from a mother to a son then the son can't pass it on to his descendants because men don't pass on the mitochondrial DNA, only women do, so it goes daughter, daughter, daughter, daughter. Um and so how many Of these mitochondrial DNA sequences were on the ark. Well there were four, but Mrs. Noah, according to the Bible, didn't have any daughters. And so only the three mitochondrial DNAs from the three daughter-in-laws came off that arc. And so it's a great mystery to secular geneticists. that there's three, and exactly three, mitochondrial DNA sequences in the world today. They call them the the the seculars call them M, N, and R. They have names for them, but there there's three of them Um and to somebody who believes the Bible story, that's no surprise whatsoever that there's three and only three mitochondrial DNA sequences in the world today. So then we talked about the fact that we have this sequence that we go from a particular day on Noah's 600th year, second month, 17th day. Um and then we get the sources of the floodwater, the fountains of the Great Deep and the floodgates of the sky. And the floodgates of the sky are described as these forty days of continuous rain. Uh fountains of the Great Deep most likely water coming up from below. Then we've got that the final act, God closes the door of the Ark. And that ends the post-flood world. From that point on, everybody outside the Ark is doomed. So if all this water covered the earth were to go, so we talked about that, uh today the earth is covered 70% by water, uh, so there's much more water surface than there is land surface. And in addition to that, the water is much deeper than the land is high. So the average depth of the ocean is two point four miles, the average height of the land is 0. 5 miles. So the ocean covers much more of the earth and it's also much deeper um than the earth than the continents are hot. So if you made the earth into a smooth sphere, so if you flattened it down into a smooth sphere, it would be entirely covered with water to a depth of two miles. Um so there's an enormous amount of water in the oceans, in the present oceans, plenty of water enough to cover the whole earth in a big flood. We notice as we look at the description of the flood, we see the absolute language, the word all repeated, the word every, to make sure that it's very clear that everything outside the Ark died. Um and to show that the the flood was global in extent. So it's as if the Holy Spirit wants to make sure, wants to make positive that we understand the global extent of the flood. And the reason for that, really, there's a theological reason for that. Uh it's to show that God's judgment was total and inescapable. with the single exception of the one way of salvation that God himself provided in the ark. And that's exactly what we have It it's a it's a perfect picture of God's salvation in uh in at all time, from the beginning to all the way to today, that i if you're inside the ark The one way of salvation, salvation through grace, uh by faith in Jesus Christ. That's the ark. That's the one way of salvation. If you're inside that, then you're safe. If you're outside that, then you're not safe. And that's why Jesus and Peter use the flood as an analogy to Christ's second coming Okay. We have this repetition of the word f uh blotted out, the Hebrew word that's translated blotted out here. It means to exterminate or obliterate. And the subject of that verb is God. So it's clear that God's doing the exterminating and the obliterating. And then there's a cut so and there's a list of all that's exterminated and obliterated, and then there's another list of those who are saved. And then today we're going to get into the water draining off the land. So at the very end we talked about fossils and so the global flood is responsible for the fossil record for uh the vast majority of the fossil record. What we see in the fossil record is essentially a sequence of burial of uh ecosystems. So uh sea creatures are buried by turbidity currents uh to begin with and then you have the burial of those things that were amphibians or live close to the close to the water and then higher up in the fossil sequence are um uh higher creatures that would have been able to think about getting to higher land Um and then of course that is uh that that that sequence uh is in place in many places. But it's also all mixed up in many other places. There are fossil graveyards with many ecosystems all mixed together. And that's because of the mixing of the flood that it got all jumbled up in many places because of the violence of the flood and so that's what we would expect if there was a big flood. We would expect that there was a sequence of burial um in general, but there were many places where it was mixed up. And that's exactly what we see in the fossil record. There's many places where the fossils are mixed up. in different ecosystems. And they're they're very difficult to explain from the evolutionary standpoint. Okay. Um so that was what we talked about last time. Go ahead, Doug. See you, I know you mentioned it before, but I I didn't know if you're gonna speak in any more detail about coal uh and oil. Yeah, so I talked I touched briefly on coal and I'm I'm really not planning to talk too much more about coal, but I'll go back through what we talked about before. Um that coal is um Plant matter that's smooshed together. And that plant matter, if you think about every single tree on the entire planet being ripped up all at once which is what you added the flood. And then um it being kind of mixed around in the water and uh and then um being being kind of mixed up in the sediment that comes out of the flood um and then kind of buried by sediments coming out of the flood. Then you have lots and lots and lots and lots of plant matter. You have an unprecedented event where all the trees on the whole planet are ripped up at once and smashed together. And then That's the perfect conditions for making coal. And so the evolutionary story is it takes millions of years for the coal to be formed, that it takes millions of years for it to gradually be compressed. But Um I think I mentioned before that uh two of the creationist organizations got together, ICR and CMI, and they took samples of coal from all around the world, many samples And they sent them to Carbon Fourteen Dating Labs. And initially the Carbon Fourteen Dating Labs didn't want to um test them because in the evolutionary story there can't be any carbon fourteen in there. So carbon fourteen has a half life of a little over five thousand years and um th the standard the rule of thumb is after ten half lifes It's all gone. Uh for any material that you're testing, after ten half-lifes, all the material is gone. So if you cut it in half ten times, there's none left, essentially. um not detectable anyway. Um and so therefore nothing over fifty thousand years could possibly have any carbon fourteen in it. And the standard story is coal takes millions of years to um to form. And so carbon fourteen is in living things, and once the living thing dies, there's no more carbon fourteen going in, there's only carbon fourteen decaying. And so after fifty thousand years there can't be any carbon fourteen in there. And so in a secular lab and they're thinking there can't be any uh carbon fourteen, and so they didn't want to test it. And the creationist organization says if we know, we know, just test it And there was carbon fourteen in every single coal sample. And so what that tells you is everything single coal sample from all over the world was less than 50,000 years old. just for there to be detectable carbon-14. So that that means that the standard story of how coalforms is wrong. It doesn't take billions of years to form coal. Um it formed during the flood, uh is was what happened. And so um there's an enormous coal seam that's in the northern hemisphere. There's an enormous coal seam that's in the southern hemisphere, it goes all around the world. Uh the one in the uh northeast United States goes um it's the exact same coal scene with the exact same plant fossils around it uh in the northern United States and in in um England And then also in um the the the southern part of Russia. It's the exact same coal scene And so it was all laid down together during the flood. Uh and so there's i everything that we see in the coal is very consistent with the flood story. And there's big problems Um if if you try to make it um fit the evolutionary story, it doesn't fit uh the evolutionary story. So that's coal. Um I don't really have any other information about coal. Did you have a specific question about coal? Alright, diamonds are the same. Diamonds are supposed to take billions of years, and the creationist organization did the same thing. They took samples of diamond, ground it up a little bit, um to sent it to the labs, and it has detectable carbon fourteen. So there's supposed to be a billion years to form a diamond, but we can from the carbon fourteen dating we we know for certain that it's less than fifty thousand years old. So let's take a look at chapter eight, the flood subsides. And so uh if you open your Bible to chapter eight, we're gonna go through uh the verses here that describe how the flood water receded or subsided from the earth. So They've gone over it for the five months it prevailed, so there was five months that the whole earth is uh covered with water Uh and then 8-1 says, but God remembered Noah and all the beasts and all the cattle that were with him in the ark. So God was thinking about Noah. He was also thinking about the animals. So I mentioned this before, but uh if somebody tells you that God doesn't care about animals, that's not right. God cares about animals. It's right here in the Bible. Now, it's not like the animal rights activists want to make them equal with humans. That's not right at all. But he also cares about his creation, including the animals And God caused the wind to pass over the earth, and the water subsided. Also the fountains of the deep and the floodgates of the sky were closed, and the rain from the sky was restrained. And the water receded steadily from the earth, and at the end of 150 days the water decreased. So after 150 days, the water discreased, and it just described how it discreased. In the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark rested upon the mountains of Ararat. The water steadily decreased um the water decreased steadily until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains became visible. Then it came about at the end of the forty days that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made, and he sent out a raven, and it flew here and there until the water was dried up from the earth. Then he sent out a dove from him to see if the water was abated from the face of the land. But the dove found no resting place for the sole of her foot, so she returned to him into the ark For the water was on the surface of all the earth. Then he put out his hand and took her, and brought her into the ark to himself. So he waited yet another seven days, and again he sent out the dove from the ark. The dove came to him toward evening, and behold, in her beak was a freshly picked olive leaf. So Noah knew that the water was abated from the earth Then he waited yet another seven days, and he sent out the dove. But she did not return to him again. Now it came about in the six hundred and first year, in the first month, on the first of the month, the water was dried up from the earth. Then Noah removed the covering of the earth and looked, and behold, the surface of the ground was dried up. In the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was dry. Then God spoke to Noah, saying, Go out of the ark, you and your wife, and your sons, and your sons' wives with you. Bring out with you every living thing of all flesh that is with you, birds and animals, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth that they may breed abundantly on the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply in the earth. So Noah went out, and his sons and his wife, and his sons' wives with him Every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird, everything that moves on the earth went out by their families from the ark. So that's the description of the water going down and then Noah coming off the Ark. So let's take an overview. So after the flood prevailed on the earth for five months, God begins to act. Explicitly on the behalf of the Ark's passengers. The floodwaters abated over the earth thanks to a wind that God sent. We don't know exactly how that worked. What kind of wind was that? How did it dry up the water and likely mountain uplift and ocean subsidence as well. The Ark comes to rest in the mountains of Ararat, although no land is yet visible at that point. It was another seventy four days before the mountaintops were exposed. And then another 40 days after that, Noah started to send out birds to see if the land had dried. Finally, a year and ten days after the passengers boarded the ark, the land had dried sufficiently And God told Noah to leave the Ark. And then the post flood conditions, both warm oceans and cool continents, leads to an ice age. lasting for several centuries after the flood. And so we'll talk about that ice age, I hope, if we have time, uh at the end So here's our timeline once again. And so we had the five months of prevailing. So 150 days, the floodwaters prevailed over the earth, and then the ark comes to rest on the mountains of Araret. on the second day, uh the seventeenth day of the seventh month of Noah's six hundred year. But it's not until the first day of the tenth month, about two and a half months later, that we a he actually sees the peaks of mountains. So it comes to rest. Um because the there's some of the arc that's under the water and it bumps into the land under the water, but there's still only water visible until two and a half months later he starts to see mountain peaks around it He waits another forty days and starts sending out birds. Uh then he waits uh another month and he takes the um uh the roof off, he takes the uh uh the covering off of the ark, he looks around, and it looks dry. But he waits another two months. before the earth really is dry. And so what's the difference here? So it looks dry, in other words, it's not covered by water But what is the earth there right after the waters run out? It's mud. It's ridiculous big deep gross mud that you couldn't walk on. Um so he waits another two months for that to dry out, for it to really be dry. And then he leaves through. Okay. And you can you can write a table like this if you go verse by verse. You can go day by day, verse by verse. Um and this is one table that somebody's made that uh that tells you uh The 600th year of Noah's life, the 600 first year, which month of that year, which day of that year, what happened in the scripture reference? It's easy to make a table like that From the information. So the Holy Spirit has made sure we can really understand how long this flood was. It was a year and ten days. You can see it from the information that's provided in Scripture. Okay, so let's take a look at what these verses have to say. So God remembered Noah. Verse 8. 1, very a very nice verse especially for Noah, that God remembered him. The flood account, it's written in it as a chiasmus, and so I'll show you in just a second what a chiasmus is. It's a special structured way of putting together a story so that it's easy to remember to tell orally. And so remember that Moses didn't write this stuff down till thousands of years after this these events, many of these events in the early parts of Genesis. And so it was originally either oral tradition or family documents that were handed down um so that people would know the stories And then the Holy Spirit inspired Moses to write it down, but before that it was the stories existed, before that, before Moses wrote them down. And there is evidence from the structure of the many of the Genesis accounts that they were structured in such a way that they were easy to remember so that you could tell it to your Kids and grandkids. Possible, but it's not um It's not written in Hebrew poetry which lends itself to song. Like the Psalms, of course, are written in Hebrew poetic style. This is not. This is historical narrative But the historical narrative i itself is written in such a way, and I'll show you here in a minute, that makes it easier to remember if you're going to tell the story orally. So God remembers Noah. That is the middle of the chiasmus. I'll show you that in a minute. And of course it's not that Noah that God forgot Noah. Right, that doesn't doesn't forget anything. It's a Hebrew idiom, meaning that God began to act again on Noah's behalf. And you see this same Hebrew idiom throughout the Bible. Genesis 1929, God remembered Abraham. He never forgot that Abraham was there. This is a Hebrew idiom meaning he was about to start acting on his behalf. Uh Exodus 2. 24, God remembered his covenant. Of course God had not forgotten his covenant. Jeremiah 2. 2, God remembered Israel. Of course God had not forgotten Israel. He was about to do something. Jeremiah 31. 20, God remembered Ephraim. He hadn't forgotten Ephraim, he was just about to do something. So this is a repeated Hebrew idiom in the Old Testament. God remembers something, that means he's going to act on behalf. Then we see the results of God's remembrance, which is to take action so that the water subsided and the water receded. God both caused the wind and also restrained the sources of water. uh to make sure there was no more water no new water coming in. Uh this is the chiasmus. So this is the chiasmus that goes all the way from Genesis chapter six to Genesis chapter nine It's a three-chapter chiasmus, uh where there is parallel at the beginning and the end. So in six ten we have Noah and his sons. In nineteen nine nineteen we have Noah and his sons In 613 we have all life on earth. In 917 we have all life on earth. We have a curse on the earth in 613. We have a blessing on the earth in 913. We have 614, the ark in 910, we have all living creatures in 617, we have all living creatures in 910. All the way down to the middle, things like entry unto the ark in seven thirteen, exit from the ark in eight fifteen Waters increase in 717, waters decrease in 813. This structure. And notice what's in the very middle of this chiasmus. God remembered Noah. That's the key thing in the whole story. God remembered Noah. And so the structure is made so that you can rem remember it easily around the whole story of the flood from chapter six to chapter nine. Um and the key verse in the very center of the chiasma says God remembered Noah. Oh it's kind of like a leaf in that to play Timbenka. Yeah, yeah, so that's right. So he he has all these events uh that involve the curse and the flood and the and the way of salvation, and then he has God remembers Noah and then everything is is kind of reversed and the floodwaters come out and they come out of the ark and he blesses them as they come out of the ark. Yes Is that is that a literary device is uh sound and other It's found in other places in Genesis. Uh there are other chiasmas in Genesis. Um there are s there are smaller ones. This is the biggest one. Uh there are smaller ones, yes, in other places in Genesis in particular, especially Genesis one to eleven, uh because It wasn't written down yet in a systemized way by the Holy Spirit by the hand of Moses until much later, and so in order to remember it, there's these kind of devices in that. Okay, so continuing with the story, so uh we we learned uh once again we get the provision of an accurate timing of events down to the day. uh seventh month, seventeenth day, um the Ark comes to rest on the mountains of Ararat. So uh so probably about one third of the Ark was underwater. So if you do the calculation of the buoyancy of a big wooden boat like that, the amount of animals that were on there Something like a third of the boat was underwater. And so uh there still would have been fifteen feet of water covering the entire earth when the bottom of the ark touched land. Um so still lots of water out there as the water slowly goes down, even after the Arc touched on top of the mountains. So still water as far as the eye can see It takes almost another two and a half months as the water slowly recedes for the peaks surrounding uh the surrounding mountains to begin to emerge from the water. So once the w the arc comes to rest and they feel it come to rest, um then it's still another two and a half months until they see anything but water when you look out. And then the first day of the tenth month you start to see the mountain peaks peaking up through the water Um and so we've had the mountains rest on there and then it's all this time, two and a half months, before the peaks are seen. Um and it's still a lot more time between before the ground in general. Yes, go ahead. What's probably going on I think is water is receding because the mountains are rising. And so as the mountains rise, they're giving Yep. And the emphasis in the scripture is the proceeding because that's for what we're seeing, but probably both are happening at the same time. That's right. And so um most likely there's lots of geologic evidence of uplift. in mountains all over the world. So most likely the mountains are coming up. And so we talked about this, I think, a few weeks ago, that um the current ocean basins are made of very dense rock compared to the continental rock. Continental rock is much less dense than ocean based rock. And so when you have a uh a diversity, uh a difference of density between one subject uh one uh uh uh thing and another, what happens? The denser thing falls and the less dense thing rises. And so you have the continents rising and you have the ocean basins falling. Both things. And so what does that do to the water? So water all uh uh under the force of gravity goes to the lowest place, and that's the ocean basins are sinking and sinking and sinking, the mountains, the continents are rising, rising, rising, and so the water flows off from the continents onto the current ocean basins. And so you're seeing both of those things, mountains coming up, oceans going down, water receding, and so um Alan's exactly right. The the fact that the ocean the the The mountains are peaking up out of the ocean. Um part of that, at least, is that the mountains are going up. Well just real quick, how far did he um from when he entered that bark until he got off that arc? What was the distance? How how far had he traveled No way to know. Um yes, there's no way to know because um the Bible tells us that the the world it was that then was was destroyed So we don't even know what that world looked like. Um so in in terms of the current continents, we we don't even know if the current continents were the continents at that time So there's really no way to know where Noah started. We know about where he landed, the mountains of Ararat. Um it's in the Middle East there. Uh there's a lot of speculation about exactly where um i i i whether it's the mountain that's called our Araret today or the general region um around there. But yeah, so um yes. That kind of takes away Maybe, and correct me if I'm wrong, I would think that that removes the idea of kind of angias or something like that. Not necessarily. So um there is uh evidence of continental drift. Um there's a very slow continental drift now, um, but it it does look like the plates fit together and they have drifted And it's possible that they drifted at a much greater rate during the flood than they do now. If that's the case, then there could have been something like Pangea and the continents drifted especially during the flood. In my mind that means and if I'm wrong about this, please help me out. Um that the water covered the earth, all the sediment settled out, and then the continent that's drifted apart underneath the water. Or it was happening w during the flood, during that whole year of the flood. Okay. But but there's that's still there's a lot of speculation there. I mean the Bible doesn't tell us that there was a Pangea or doesn't tell us anything about that. Um it's one possible theory. Okay. Um and so is the ark still there? Can we go find the ark somewhere in the Middle East? Uh from an apologetic standpoint, finding the ark is unnecessary, especially since the biblical and geological evidence of the flood is so plain. We talked about the geological evidence of the flood. We talked about the biblical evidence evidence of the flood. So we know there was a flood We don't need to find the ark to know that there was a flood. Um Also, would God really want a relic that might become a substitute for him? To worship this ark. Well you say, well that couldn't happen. Well that actually did happen with the bronze serpent. God commanded Moses to make this bronze serpent in Numbers chapter twenty-one and lift it up to heal the people that were bitten by snakes But centuries later people worshipped the serpent itself. So godly King Hezekiah broke it into pieces in 2 Kings chapter 18. Um and so relics get worshipped. And so uh the fact that there's no ark around for people to worship, especially in the post-flood era, is probably a good thing. Finally, the absence of the arc proves nothing about the reality of the flood. Let me give you an example. Nobody has ever been able to find the Mayflower. That boat does not exist, and nobody knows where it went, nobody knows what happened to it Does that mean that the pilgrim voyage to America never happened? Because we can't find the Mayflower? No, of course not. It doesn't mean Uh the current theory is that was made into a barn in in Buckinghamshire. But nobody knows for sure what happened to that Mayflower. Um and that of course that does not mean that the pilgrims never came to America because there's we can't find a Mayflower. Uh it is likely that the wood-of-the-art was used to make shelters and fires for warmth and tools and animal pens in the initially treeless post-flood world So it took a while for the trees to grow and start to make lumber again. But you had this source, this enormous source of lumber, right there. Uh and so uh that's my guess is the people said, hey, look at all that wood there we could use to build houses and stuff, rather than freeze to death in the open Um and so I think that's what they did. So uh then we then we have this uh forty days. Um Noah opens the window of the ark that he had made he's and he starts to send out birds. Um he he starts to send out a series of birds to fly around and find out if there's really any dry land out there. Uh the first bird he sends out is a raven. It flew here and there, which is a Hebrew expression meaning the raven flew back and forth repeatedly. The Masoretic text doesn't explicitly rule out the possibility that the Raven later returned, but the Septuagint is more explicit. The Septuagint says, and it went forth and did not return. Uh the Masoretic text doesn't really specify, but the Septuagint does, and so do a couple of the other more ancient manuscripts. um Syriac manuscript for example. The Volgate has that it doesn't return. Um so I I think probably the Raven didn't return. Uh Noah deduces that there's uh there was some land somewhere for the Raphen to land on and not come back. But he just doesn't know. It's inconclusive. He doesn't know whether it's safe to leave the ark or not And so next he sends out a dove to find out if there was dry land available anywhere. So the first time Noah sends out the dove, it does not find anything. So it comes back to the Ark So it says, but the dove found no resting place for the sovereign foot. And it's because the water was on the surface of all the earth. So there was still a lot of water out there. And so she comes back. Um the Bible tells us the water was on the surface of all the earth. Uh so evidently there was some place that the raven was able to find, but when the dove went out, he couldn't find a place. Um Even though the water's now been receding for four months, at this point the water's been going down for four months, there's still very little dry land, even in the mountains. Noah, of course, shows great patience. Even though he was probably anxious to walk on dry land after almost a year in the Ark, he waits. He waits another seven days before he sends the dove out again. And so the dove, the second time he sends the dove out, it comes back with this olive branch. um the olive leaf, a freshly plucked olive leaf, freshly picked olive leaf. And so this shows, according to the Bible, that the water was abated from the earth. And so essentially in the area around the arc, the water has gone. It's no longer underwater, the whole area around the ark. The freshly picked olive leaf is evidence that the ground has dried enough for plants to start to grow Uh so that's the implication that this is a olive plant that has started to grow so it has leaves. So there's dry dry ground somewhere that's dry enough that some seed that's been floating around for almost a year on one of these floating beds of vegetation and it lands on mud, it sticks in the mud, and it starts to grow. And it makes a leaf. And the Dove finds it, picks the leaf, brings it back to Noah. However, Noah waits another seven days. So he's not uh he's not gonna just rush off this arc. Uh he waits another seven days and he sends the dove out again. So he sent the dove out, it came back. He sent it out again, it comes back with an off leaf. He sends it out a third time. And this time the dove doesn't come back at all. I don't know how long Noah waited, but he waits and it doesn't come back. So now he knows that the dove has found a place to live And so altogether Noah spent three weeks as the water continues to recede sending out these birds So we have mountains at the five-month point resting on the mountains of Ararat. Two and a half months later he can start to see peaks of mountains. He waits 40 days and starts sending out birds. But still he doesn't leave the ark. He waits another month before he even takes the window off uh the roof off the top, the covering off the top. And he still doesn't come off then. Wait till two months after that before he finally comes off. So in the six hundred and four first uh year of his life, so we started on the six hundredth year, now we're in the six hundred and first year of Noah's life And the first month of the first day, so January 1st on the modern calendar, uh the waters dried up. Noah removes the covering of the ark, so the top of the ark, and he looks around So he waits another month after the birds, and then on January first, um he uh the Bible tells us the water was dried up from the earth. And so at that point Noah still does not come off the ark Uh but he removes the covering top part of the arc and he looks around. And he looks around and sees, well, it looks dry. Everything looks dry. I don't see the ocean anymore. I'm looking around, I don't see the ocean anymore. Ground looks dry. But he still waits another two months after that. After he looks around, there's no water anywhere, so he can't see the ocean anymore. It looks like everything's dry land now He still doesn't come out. He waits another two months. Uh all the months of January and February on the modern calendar, um, essentially. He waits. Um even after everything looks like dry land, he no longer can see any ocean water. Um he still waits another two months. Um And now it really looks dry. So what is he seeing actually? So after all the water has receded, so he can't see water anymore, it's still mud. It's still nasty mud. And so he waits two months for the nasty mud to dry, is what he does, uh, before he goes out. And he's also waiting for one more thing which we'll see See here in a minute. This is what he's waiting for. Then God spoke to Noah saying, Go out of the ark. So that's what he's really waiting for. He's waiting for God to tell him it's safe. So he's gone through all these machinations of sending out birds and looking around. But what's he really waiting for? He's really waiting for the Lord to tell him it's okay to get off that ark. The Lord taught him to get on there, and Noah's really waiting for the Lord to tell him to get off again. And we see that in verse 15, uh where the Lord tells him, Hey, time to get off the ark. Uh go out of the ark, and then there's a um he tells Noah to leave the ark with his family, and God commands Noah to bring out the animals too And so, and we get a uh just as we as we go into the ark, we see a detailed description of the passengers as they leave the ark. So he describes who's coming off the Ark. Noah and his wife and his sons and his sons' wives uh are coming off, just like we get an inventory of who went on. Uh we get an inventory of the animals too. Um the birds and the animals and the creeping things. Um we get a description of who went on the ark, we get a description of who kind of who came off the ark So there's a detailed description of the eight people and who they are. There's a detailed description of the land vertebrates and who they are when they uh come off the arc. And then we get the explicit purpose. God describes once again the purpose for which he brought all these animals onto his ark. Um the purpose of preserving the animals in the ark was that they may breed abundantly on the earth and to be fruitful and multiply in the earth. So he's talking specifically about the animals there. um telling them there's an we'll see in chapter nine there's a specific command to Noah and his sons to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth as well. But this is the one saying This is the reason why I saved all these animals. I want them to be fruitful and multiply and go out. And they do. Of course the animals obey God. The people not so much. Uh we'll see in chapter eleven. The people don't don't obey God and spread out like they're supposed to And so God takes things into his own hands, we'll see in chapter eleven. But there's the purpose there. And then of course we have Noah once again obeying So Noah went out. So God told him to go out, so he went out. And so all along in this um description of this event, we see Noah is always obedient to the Lord. Uh he does what God tells him to do. God tells him to build an ark, he builds an ark. God tells him to go in with all these animals, he goes in with all these animals. God tells him to go off He goes off uh the ark. So Noah's obedient. He does what what God says. And also notice in here, um I didn't put it on here, but uh the animals go out by their families, it says by their families. So there's families of animals coming off this ark. So what does that tell you? So they they went in by pairs. They come off by families. So what so what what happened during the year of the flood? They multiplied. They started multiplying already. So they come off by families. They go on by pairs, come off by families Uh the animals. That's the description of the animals. Um okay. So the Bible uh tells us about that too. So we do have time. So I'm gonna get into the ice age. Uh any questions about any of that before I go into the Ice Age? About the subsiding of the flood, uh the fact that it was a year, the fact that the Bible makes really clear by giving us specific months and days To make sure we understand that this thing was a year and ten days long. If if I look at our Earth right now and it's completely covered in water for a year And everything dies and the water subsides and you are left with dry land. I would think that they got off that arc and it was pretty stark Is that correct? I mean I'm thinking you're not seeing giant trees. No no you're not seeing green grass, you're not seeing none of that for the Some some grows on pool, right? Yeah, so that's right. So think about what Noah and his family would have seen when they came off the yard. Pretty stark I think. Uh we have evidence from the dove bringing back an olive plants that that things had started to grow. Plants had started to grow back. And remember, after that olive branch, he he waits another three months. So he waits another month, takes off the cover, he waits another two months, comes out of the ark. So it's three months after we know for certain that plants had started to grow Okay. And so in a three month period a lot of plants could grow. Right. There could have been grass here and there, there could have been shrubs and bushes and things like that. But you're you're not gonna have any, you know, thirty foot tall trees. Right. Um right. So that would be very stark to look at. A world with no trees. Yes. We'll see that why? Yeah, we'll see that in chapter nine, yeah. The that the fact that we're they're allowed to eat animals starting. Uh they never were from Genesis one up to Genesis nine. Genesis nine we'll see they are allowed to start eating this yeah. So uh we don't know how much they packed on the Ark, but uh my guess is they packed a lot and that they still had food. My guess is that they still had food uh when they came off the Ark. But they did have to start planting after that and we see that. Noah plants a vineyard. He makes grapes and he gets drunk. And we'll see that when we get to chapter nine. Uh sad story. But yes, they started to plant right away. Yeah we see that. The Bible is clear about that. They started to plant things to eat as soon as they got off the ark. But they were also allowed to eat animals. Yes. This is just for my the arc with a black bottom boat press. We don't know. We don't know, but uh I mean that's a possibility. Right. Yeah, we don't know but yeah that's uh mount to um a muddy one Yeah. But a and not hard rock. Remember all over the settled so that it would be more uh all over the earth was sediment Yeah, all over the earth was sediments, remember. Uh what we s what we see as hard mountain rock today, almost all of that is sedimentary rock. And so right after the flood that wouldn't have been hard. It would have been soft. And so essentially the the arc settled in soft mud. That's what it settled in. So it kind of settled so it would be um you know, parallel to the camera code at an angle. Right, because it it's settling gently and gradually into soft mud. And so what does gravity do? It's gonna keep it Yeah. And and remember, remember the Bible says God rem God remembered Noah And all the inhabitants of the ark. And so God was in charge of this thing. And so is God gonna set the ark down somewhere where it you know falls over on its side or something? No. Remember God is in charge of this whole thing. Um You know, there's there's he's sovereign over every bit of his creation, including that ark and where it landed and and what attitude it was in when it landed. And um he he was in charge of all that Um and so he he's not gonna let the ark, you know, slide down the side of a a mountain or something. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, good question. But yeah, think think make sure you think about it in that way. The way that the Bible describes it, that's God remembers Noah, that means God is specifically acting on behalf of Noah and the people and all the animals somewhere. Mark. Yeah. Okay, any other questions about uh what's going on in the flood before I get into the ice age? Okay, let's talk about the ice age. So there's strong evidence that ice and snow once covered much of Canada, the northern USA, northwest Eurasia. Not just ice and snow, but glaciers So uh when glaciers uh advance and retreat it it grinds up the underlying uh uh material and so you see the you see the um We can still see today the effects of a glacier moving through uh a certain area. Um and so and you s we see that in uh s all the way through southern Canada and northern United States and in uh northern Europe and uh northern uh western Asia. Um so yeah, there was an ice age. There was a time when glaciers were covering uh places that, you know, snow and ice don't cover today. So evolutionists believe there were many ice ages. But the evidence that they used to say that there were many ice ages looked very suspiciously like advance and retreat cycles of a single ice age Um and in the biblical uh framework of history, one ice age with a lot of advanced and retreat cycles uh looks like it fits in with the biblical story of history. Evolutionaries evolutionists find the cause of the Ice Age a great mystery. Um they can't figure out how we could have the conditions. For an ice age. Because obviously the climate has to be colder, but cooler global temperatures lead to less evaporation from the oceans Less particip precipitation, and less snow and ice. So if you cool down the whole world, you don't get an ice age. You get less evaporation from the oceans and you get less water on the land. And for example, Antarctica qualifies as a desert. Um you can just uh just Google Antarctica and Desert. Uh Antarctica is officially a desert. Uh it only gets six and a half inches of precipitation per year. That's like the similar to the Sahara. It doesn't get any precipitation. Why does it get no precipitation? Because it's too cold. And the oceans around there are too cold. So there's no evaporation from the oceans around there. And so there's no source of precipitation on Antarctica. So it's a desert. So snow and ice doesn't fall there. Um and so in the tropics where the ocean water is warm, you get a large amount of evaporation and you get a huge amount of rainfall in the tropics. Because the oceans are warm. That's where the water comes from to make rain. Um and so it's a conundrum. So an ice age, in order to have an ice age, you need to simultaneously have warm oceans and cold continents at the same time. Unusually warm oceans, much warmer than today. And I'm usually cold continents, cooler than today. So how does that happen? How can you get warm oceans and cold continents at the same time? Well, the flood provides those conditions. Uh the fountains of the Great Deep broke up, and so that is most likely water coming up from the ground and lots of geologic work of breaking up. So hot water and lava poured directly into the oceans. So all over the world there are what geologists called large igneous provinces, LIPs. Large igneous provinces all over the world. There are enormous lava flows, much larger than anything we see today, not associated with a particular volcano, uh, in many cases. Just lava came up from the ground from massive fissures, openings all over the world. And many of them are in the present ocean basins. And so uh it is likely that these vast lava flows occurred during the flood, since there does not seem to be any other time in Earth's history as related in the Bible when this kind of activity could have taken place and not killed everyone And so it took place during the flood. All these large igneous props, massive lava flows. So what happens when massive lava gets flowed into a globe-covering ocean? What does that massive lava flow do? It heats up all the water all over the earth, heated up to much higher temperatures than our oceans today. The result of all that lava is that the global floodwaters would have been significantly heated, so much warmer than oceans that we're used to today. There's also evidence of massive volcanic eruptions on the land in the immediate post-flood timeframe. Uh eruptions that were m are much larger than anything we've seen in recorded history since then And this would cause large amounts of aerosol particles in the atmosphere, blocking out sunlight and causing much cooler temperatures on land. So you have the conditions right after the flood, evidence in the geologic record that the conditions right after the flood were such that you had very warm oceans and cold continents at the same time. And that's exactly what you need for an ice age. And so the aftermath of the flood would produce the very unusual conditions required for an ice age. Warm oceans to provide a very high rate of evaporation to keep the atmosphere full of water vapor. and cold continents because of aerosols blocking the sun to make sure the precipitation on the continents was mostly snow instead of rain. This would result in increased snowfall on the continents, with snow falling faster than it could melt, ice sheets would build up. This ice buildup over centuries produced glaciers. That advanced and retreated with the seasons and over the years to leave geologic evidence that we see today. So I just want to give you some modern examples from uh I'll tell you about these two books. So There's two books that are written by a name uh by uh Dr. Michael Ord. He wrote one called Ice Age, the only Only the Bible Explains It, and The Frozen Record. Um he's a climatologist, a Christian climatologist, and he goes into great scientific detail about how this works. Um I'm only giving you a very top level view. If you want a uh detailed PhD level scientific analysis of what I'm just telling you Two books, The Ice Say It's Only Bible Explains It and The Frozen Record. Both by Dr. Michael Ord. So I just want to give you an example of this. So Mount Pinatubo, who remembers Mount Pinatubo Um was anybody there to see it? I was actually there to see it. I I I was i in the Philippines. Um I I'd not exactly well it was going off. I flew in about uh six weeks later after it went off Um and it normally so I went to the Philippines many, many times and normally when you fly into the Philippines you see nothing but green. It's very lush. as far as the eye can see as you come into the Philippines. And then when I came in in nineteen ninety one, in July of nineteen ninety one, we came down out of the clouds and it looked like the surface of the moon. Nothing but ash, nothing but gray as far as the eye could see. So Mount Pinatubo goes up. It uh was a very large earthquake by modern standards. Um and um but it's a much smaller scale than the eruptions that are in the geological record from right after the flood. But it was ten times larger than Mount St. Helens. Mount St. Helens is a pretty big earth uh volcano, but uh Pinatubo is ten times the size. It ejected 2. 4 cubic miles of matter into the atmosphere. It killed 850 people. It made an out- ash cloud 13 miles high. Um and it ejected uh fifteen to thirty million tons of sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere. That sulfur dioxide forms together with water and oxygen forms sulfuric acid in an aerosol form all the way up in the stratosphere. Um and that sulfur fluoric acid persisted for three years, from nineteen ninety-one to nineteen ninety-four And it scattered in the stratosphere and it reflected sunlight and it reduced the level of sunlight, releasing the Earth by ten percent. This one volcano in nineteen ninety-one So the average global temperature for the next two years after that eruption dropped by uh a measurable amount, 0. 7 degrees Fahrenheit, the entire global temperature dropped because of that one volcano Um now uh did did it completely blot out the sun? Do you remember from nineteen ninety-one to nineteen ninety four was there no sunlight during those years? No. No, there was it didn't blot out the sun. What it does was it reflects s enough sunlight to actually change global temperatures. This one volcano. Um measurable amount. There's also two videos you can watch The mammoths in the Ice Age and the Great Ice Age, two great videos that I recommend as well. So one volcano we know for certain puts enough aerosol up there to change global temperatures Now, what was the size of the, so these are the relative size of material spewed into the air by a volcano. Right here is Mount St. Helens. That little tiny dot. Right here is Mount Knutubo. Right there. Mount Krakatoa in 1883, Mount Tambora in 1813, both in Indonesia. But these three are all ones that occurred immediately in the aftermath of the flood. Look at those and and compare to the size of Mount Pinatuba, the amount that came out in these two Yellowstone eruptions and the Yellow Valley eruption. Those are both of th all three of those were in the United States, the Western United States. How much more aerosols went into the air from those three volcanoes that all erupted at the end of the flood Compared to Mount Pinatubo. That's a huge amount of aerosols. That's a huge amount. Mount Pinatubo reflected about 10% of the sun's light. uh ten percent less light got through to the earth's surface. What happens when you put in thousands of times more aerosols into the air than Mount Pinatubo? You you get tremendous global cooling because of these enormous volcanoes. Tremendous global cooling. At the same time as the oceans are very hot. So lots of evaporation and then over the continents it's very cold and lots of snow keeps falling, keeps falling, keeps falling, keeps falling. Uh the Mount Pinatubo uh persisted for three years. Who knows how long it these persisted? It looks like the Ice Age lasted for several centuries. Uh that's what the geologic record shows. Several centuries, like four or five hundred years after the flood, the conditions were there still for uh this ice age. Uh well would it have been colder uh would it have been colder in some parts of the world than other I mean that Noah wasn't coming out like in in Right, so so remember where Noah is, he's in the Middle East. Right. Right. So he's not in he's not in northern Europe, he's not in northern Asia, he's not in the northern Un And states are Canada. He's in the Middle East And so so who who's in charge of where the arc landed? I was in charge of where the arc landed, so the arc landed in some place that was not A frozen tundra. Right. So God made sure the arc landed where it wasn't a ice age cooler, cooler corruption had it not been for these eruptions. Yeah, cooler than the Middle East is today, I think. Okay. Yeah Animals will kill off. No, no, so not I mean not hot enough to boil things, but say uh you know the the the the ocean temperature at the equator can be eighty, eighty-five degrees Well, if you made the entire ocean eighty or eighty five degrees for a couple of centuries, you would get enormous amounts of evaporation. And just like you do with the tropics today, when the when the ocean's eighty or eighty five degrees you get lots of evaporation, huge amounts of rainfall at the tropics Uh just uh well just imagine the entire ocean is the tropics. You get huge amounts of evaporation, but then that evaporation immediately as it goes over the continent, it encounters you know freezing cold temperatures. And so it falls as snow. So you get tropical snowstorms essentially. Tropical level amounts of precipitation all as snow. And that ends up building up, building up, building up to make glaciers So yeah, that's that's the conditions you need to make an ice age. You need you need really warm oceans and you need right next to really warm really cold continents. And so it's a huge mystery. to those who don't believe the Bible. How how can you get the really warm oceans and the really cold continents? Um okay. So um yeah, so that's the story. Um there's some um some other uh ways to to Th these are more dots that show the size of uh eruptions um with Pinatubo, you know, you know, here's Mount St. Helens, here's the the recent ice the earthquake uh volcano in Iceland, that one from two thousand ten is there. It put that much out, similar to Mount St. Helens, not nearly as big as Pun Punatubo. But these ones from uh the ancient times are right around the flood, uh this l this Long Valley one is in um um Like I think Long Valley and Yellowstone are in California, Crater Lakes in Oregon. Um Wawa Springs is in Utah, uh right at the Utah-Nevada border. Uh and that's the biggest one we we have. Um that's huge. I mean fifty five hundred cubic kilometers of stuff came out of that one volcano Um that's a huge volcano. Um so and and there's nothing in modern times that compares anything like that kind of an eruption. Let me show you that Wawa Springs. Wawa Springs tough for the super eruption. You can see, I don't know if you can see there, this is the border here between Utah and Nevada. And that's where the caldera is for this Wawa uh Springs super volcano. And the the picture that's shown there is the the depth of ash from that fell from that eruption. And the red area um is a few feet. The yellow and green um areas are um in hundreds of feet So hundreds of feet of asphalt. The blue area of the center is thousands of feet of asphalt. And the center of the deposit is 15,000 feet thick. So imagine You know, i i i i if ash falls and you get a couple of inches of it or a couple feet of it, this is fifteen thousand feet of ash uh fall uh in one spot. Um and and a huge area around there that's more than a thousand feet of asphalt. Um th this is something like m nothing you see in modern modern times. It's a huge volcano. This happened around the flood. This happened sh right at the end of the flood. Okay, so with all due respect, how do they know that So how how do we know uh how do they know this it erupted then? So uh the the seculars say it uh it erupted like uh five hundred and fifty million years ago Right, right. Well I know that. How do we know? So how do we know that it's it erupted then and not well so um w it didn't it didn't erupt much later than that because we don't have ice ages from the time of Abraham for example. So i if you go too much further into history, we have lots of recorded history from lots of places around the world. um because there were people there. And there is no recorded gigantic eruptions like this from later times. Um and there is also no um there's nothing to indicate in the Bible that you would have something like this before the flood. Um because if you did this before the flood, once again you get an ice age before the flood. Um and you just don't see that in the Genesis record. Mm-hmm. And so essentially it's a process of elimination. When could this have happened and not killed everybody? And when could this have happened and not um and not otherwise be recorded in history? Um when when is the one time when there weren't people around to observe and record something like that So there is the acknowledgement that there was an ice age. Mm-hmm. Okay. So biblically speaking This would have been the only time that it possibly could have happened. Right. Do we have evidence of this happening? I mean, so uh uh so yeah, you can you can see all the um the results of this volcano are still there. Geologists today can dig in and look at the ash. And so that's what they've done here. Modern geologists have made this map of where the ash went around this volcano. Uh fifteen thousand feet of it in the center. Uh-huh. That's a lot of ash, fifteen thousand feet of it. Um So i I mean if if there were people around it would kill everybody, uh absolutely everybody. Uh nobody could live in the vicinity of a volcano like that, uh where fifteen thousand feet of ash are falling over. Okay. So there's there's evidence of lots of uh s stupendous geologic work. like uh these larginias provinces and these huge volcanoes. Um and those are Within the biblical story, they fit in the flood time frame. The flood and the the immediate post-flood. And also the flood itself provides the conditions to have an ice age in the first place, which are very unusual and very difficult for um evolutionists to imagine how could we have had those kind of conditions. But if you actually had a global flood like the Bible describes, these kind of conditions are very understandable. uh how you would end up with uh warm oceans and cold continents. Okay. So uh one more thing I want to talk about the Ice Age in the last few minutes we have left. Now this is called the Ghost Squadron So uh in 1942, 6P38 Lightnings uh crashed in Greenland. Um they um They were abandoned um and years later, uh, in nineteen eighty eight, uh guys wanted to go find them. He wanted to go find these aircraft that had crashed in Greenland. Um And he he expected they would be only covered with a few feet of snow. Um because the the secular um The secular way of dating ice cores said that there was millions of years of ice in Greenland. Um and after from 1942 to 1988 should only be a very small amount um of ice in that that story. But it turns out he found them seventy nine meters uh down into the snow, more than two hundred feet down. So there's a picture, an actual picture, of one of the P-38s right after it crashed in 1942. They found it 79 meters down, covered in 79 meters of ice in 1988. So 42 to 88, that's 46 years. In 46 years, millions of years of ice went over top of that plane So for years and years and years, scientists had been very confidently saying that the Bible's chronology could not be correct because there were hundreds of thousands or millions of years of ice in Greenland and Antarctica. They said we can take these core samples, we can count each one of these layers as a year, it's hundreds of thousands or millions of years. Very confident. And then this happened. Um that the fact that this thing was under seventy-nine meters, two hundred and fifty feet, of ice in only forty-six years. This is a picture of it today. It actually flies. They brought it up from 79 meters down. They put it back together. That's what it looked like when they first brought it up. Now it looks like that. It flies around. It goes and does these air shows. They call it Glacier Girl. Um so uh what's happening here? So um so really um we have absolute proof That those Greenland ice cores, that method of saying that there's hundreds of thousands of millions of years, that's wrong. And and the reason it's wrong is because in Greenland You could have more than one snowstorm in a day. You could have hundreds of snowstorms in a year. And so really what those layers are are just snowstorms. Sometimes more than one a day And so this huge 79 meters, 250 feet of ice is only 46 years. We know for certain, absolute certain, we know the day That the plane was there. We know the day that it was there. We know then that it only took 46 years to make 250 feet of ice and snow on top in Greenland Um and so and yet for years, decades, uh scientists Very confidently said, nope, the Bible's wrong about its timeline, and we can say that because these ice core samples say there's been hundreds of thousands of millions of years. And so the lesson is When a scientist very confidently says something disproves the Bible, um just remember this Ah just remember this. Uh i you know they they they very confidently say things that turn out to be wrong Um but the scripture is never wrong. The scripture has been tested for century after century after century, and it's never wrong. Science is good, but it's wrong all the time. Uh and especially when it tries to contradict the Bible, it's been shown to be wrong over and over. Alright. Uh that's all the time I have. I'm gonna have to skip. Uh I'll come back to this later. I'll the the way that animals got from uh the land bridges that were created by the ice age and how the animals got to the various plates around the earth. I'll have to do that next time. Okay. So uh there's lots of stuff that I gotta do next time. Um I'll have to remember where I was so I can come back and do that next time. Um Alright, we've run out of time. I apologize. Um let's uh let's break