Uh let's let's get started with a word of prayer. Uh dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this morning and the the beauty of your creation when it's covered in snow. We thank you, Lord, for your your miraculous uh creation of all things and as you describe in the book of genesis I thank you for our opportunity to Study your word and study your creation. We thank you, Lord, for the privilege of gathering as the body of Christ to worship you on the Lord's day. We thank you for your great plan of redemption revealed in Scripture from Genesis to Revelation. We thank you for The incarnation of Christ that we celebrate at Christmas, we thank you for his sinless life and death on the cross, and we thank you for raising him from the dead so that we serve a living Savior. We thank you that he sits at your right hand as our perfect high priest interceding on our behalf. We thank you that he's coming again. We thank you for all these things, Lord, and we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. So part two We're going to talk about the creation. We're going to go through this is what we're going to do, day one, God creating time, space, matter, and energy. Day two, separating waters and creating an atmosphere. Day three, dry land and seas And plants and trees, day four, the sun, moon, and stars, day five, sea creatures and flying creatures, day six, land animals and people. And then we're going to talk about men and women created in God's image and what does that mean and how people are different from the rest of God's creation Uh first we'll take a look back. Actually we're going to take a look at stuff that I was supposed to teach last week and didn't get to. So uh primarily I want to tell you about uh two things. Um Before we get into Genesis 1-1, there's two more things I need to cover. Uh one is the two main ways that that Followers of Christ that believe in secular science in terms of the millions and billions of years, there's two ways that Historically, followers of Christ have tried to fit millions and billions of years into the Genesis text. And those go by the name of the gap theory and the day-age theory. And I want to very quickly go through the Hebrew grammatical structure to show you that neither one of those things fits. the actual text of scripture. Neither the gap theory nor the day age theory. It doesn't they don't fit. Uh and in fact theological disaster ensues if you try to harmonize secular science with the scripture. So First, uh the fact that uh the entire Trinity was there at creation. Uh in the beginning God, that's Elohim in the in the Hebrew, created the heavens and the earth The earth was formless and void and darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was moving over the surface of the waters, that spirit of the God Ruach Elohim So the God was there and the Spirit was there. And then in the New Testament it tells us that Christ was there as well. Colossians 1, 15 and 16, he, Jesus, is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, for by him all things were created. So by Christ, all things were created. And then further down in the passage, all things have been created through him and for him. He is before all things. So Christ was there before all things, before the creation started, and in him all things hold together. The gap theory. The gap theory says that there's a indeterminate huge amount of time between Genesis 1-1 and Genesis 1-2. Genesis 1-1, in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. And the earth was formless and void. That in the Hebrew grammatical structure, that's what's called a valve disjunctive. This is the what where the word and is followed by a non-verb in the original Hebrew text. So the phrase and the earth is a vowel disjunctive because the earth is a noun and not a verb. This indicates that verse 2 is a clarification of verse 1. It describes the condition of the earth in uh was the end when God first created it. God created the heavens of the earth, and the earth was formless and void. That's The verse 2 is just describing the conditions from verse 1. It's not a passage of time. In the he uh the Hebrew grammatical structure is clear. So let me give you an example of the exact same Hebrew structure at another place in the Bible in Jonah chapter 3 And Jonah chapter 3, Jonah chapter 3, verse 2 says Jonah went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. And verse 3 says Nineveh was a great city. and or now for the particle. Some translations put now Nineveh was a great city. Some put and Nineveh was a great city. That's the same particle. It's a Volve particle. It's a different form of the valve particle. This is the same valve disjunctive. So look at it compared Jonah 3. 3 and Genesis 1. 2. Now Nineveh was city great. That's now Nineveh, then Nineveh was Hayath, and then city great. So Nineveh was a great city. It's exactly parallel to the Hebrew structure of Genesis 1-2. They haarat Now the earth or and the earth Hayath was Tohuva Bohu, formless and empty, formless and void. It's exactly parallel structure. Now nobody thinks That Jonah goes to Nineveh and has to wait around for a million years for it to become a great city. There's there's no passage of time there. He shows up at Nineveh and it's a great city It's describing what the city is like when he gets there. It's exactly the same Hebrew structure for 1-1 and 1-2 Formless and void is describing what things were like from verse 1 when God created the heavens and the earth. There's no passage of time there. It it's absolutely ridiculous to put a passage of time in that Hebrew structure. And yet if you're desperate enough, if you believe that the secular science definitely says there's gotta be millions and billions of years And you use your eisegesis to try to fit your ideas into the scripture, then you try to find a way. And this is one of the ways that people try to find, but it won't fit in the Hebrew grammatical structure Okay. There's no gaps. And furthermore, Exodus 2011 says, For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Now who wrote Exodus 20, 11? Moses wrote it down, but whose words were he copying down? God's word. God wrote those words with his own finger on the tablets of stone. Now was God confused about how he created and how long it took to create? I don't think so So there's no gaps. It's six days to create everything. And God said so with his own finger on the tablets of the um of the uh the Ten Commandments. Um it eliminates any version of the gap theory. The passage teaches God made the heaven, the earth, the sea, everything, uh, in six days Uh and this would not be true if there are gaps in Genesis. Uh God really does know how to communicate. Um but people just don't want to accept what he has communicated. So there's no gaps. The other uh major uh way of trying to fit millions of billions of years into the Genesis account is by saying the word Yom must be talking about vast ages, and it's called the day age theory Eight one of the six days is a giant gigantic amount of time. So I want to just talk very briefly about the word Yom, which is the word day in Hebrew. It can have three different meanings. It can mean a 24-hour period a day. It can also mean the the period of daylight. the day, the daytime of one day. It can also mean an extended period of time. It can mean that. And the same is true in English for the word day. Uh let me give you an example. So here's an English sentence. In my grandfather's day, it took 21 days to cross the country, traveling only during the day. You see that? It can mean three different things. However, once you put it into an actual sentence The the the the meetings shrink down to only one. It can only be one meeting once you put it in an actual sentence. My grandfather's day cannot mean a twenty-four-hour period My grandfather didn't live only one day, or else I wouldn't be here. Um 21 days is Twenty f is twenty-one twenty-four hour periods. Traveling only during the day is the daylight portion of a day. Uh once you put it in a grammatical structure, once you put it into a sentence, the meanings collapse down to just one meaning in both English and Hebrew. Everybody see that? And to say otherwise is a grammatical uh error called an unwarranted expansion of an expanded semantic field. If you have an expanded s expan uh semantic field, you can't expand it once it's in a actual context. You can't I can't say that uh that last part during the day means a vast age. He only means daily. Okay. So what do we see in the he actual Hebrew text? So in the actual Hebrew text We have, of course, in the Genesis account, we have evening and morning and a and a number by each one of those days And we can look at the rest of Scripture everywhere except Genesis 1 when we see that exact same strip structure. In fact, there's day plus a number 410 times in the scriptures outside of Genesis 1, and it always undisputably means a 24-hour day. We have evening and morning together without the word day 38 times and it always means an ordinary day We have evening and morning with day 23 times and it always means an ordinary day. We have night with day 52 times and it always means an ordinary day. So the Hebrew structure is very, very clear that it's an ordinary day in Genesis. It's not vast ages. Um right, so there's no gap and there's no day ages. Uh also an any any ch any effort to put millions and billions of years before the creation of man gives you death, death and disease and pain and suffering before the fall. The fossil record has evidence of uh cancer in animals, for example. Um we have animals eating other animals Right. There's fossils of uh of one animal inside the mouth of another animal as as they were covered up and and uh fossilized. None of that matches the biblical story of being very good and only eating plants and all this sort of thing at the end of Genesis. So it doesn't work. Um so uh and the Bible describes death as the last enemy, and so uh evolution requires just millions of years of death and ugliness. And for that to fit, it all that all would happen before the fall, if if in fact the the secular evolution tr story is true. And so it just won't work It won't fit. The Bible doesn't is not compatible w with all of those those secular ideas. All right. Um and so uh at at At the bottom, what we're trying to figure out is how does the Bible answer these questions? Who am I? And we're going to talk about that quite extensively at the end of today's lesson. Where do I come from? Origins? Who's in charge? The rule maker? Who's sovereign? Uh who's how should I live my life? What are the rules? We'll get into that mostly starting the next week and what happens when I die of future eschatology. Alright, so let's compare for just a moment the the secular story of origins and the biblical story of origins. The secular story uh starts with a big bang about thirteen eight point eight billion years ago Stars started to form about 13 billion years ago, shortly in their story after the Big Bang. Our Sun about 4. 8 billion years ago, the Earth about 4. 5 billion years ago, the first oceans 3. 8 And then early life some time after that. Uh not exactly sh uh certain when, uh, secular scientists aren't How does that match up with the biblical story? Well the answer is it doesn't. The biblical story has Earth before the any of the stars, for example. And in the secular story, that's quite impossible Right? Because in the secular story the Big Bang only produces hydrogen and helium. And to get any other items and perhaps a trace of lithium. But to get any other items heavier than that, you need to have stars form. and then collapse and then supernova. Uh and that takes hundreds of millions of years. And you need population one stars and then population two stars and then population three stars like our Sun and so all those things have to happen before you can form a rocky planet like the Earth, a heavy element. So any The the earth is made up of all kinds of uh carbon and uh and iron and gold and lead and all these heavy elements. And in the secular story you can't have any of that until many billions of years into the story. Uh long after you have stars, for example. The biblical account has the earth before the stars, so it doesn't fit. These two accounts are mutually exclusive. Okay, so let's talk about how God says he created the uh universe. So uh open your Bibles to Genesis chapter one and let's follow through the story uh as God tells it about how he created. Now uh this is an eyewitness account, right? Uh the Bible is full of eyewitness accounts. And this is how God says he created the universe. Genesis chapter 1. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was formless and void, and darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was moving over the surface of the waters. Then God said, Let there be light. And there was light. God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness. God called light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening and there was morning one day So notice the structure one day is different from the structure of the rest of them. One day, because he's defining a day here for the first time After this, it's a second day and a third day through the fifth day. And then there's something special about the sixth and seventh day, so those are the sixth day and the seventh day. Th there's meaning in the way God has designed the Hebrew structure here for this. But here in the first day it's one day because that's the first definition of what a day is, evening and a morning. Okay, how was there an evening and a morning without the sun? How was there light without the sun? God said, let there be light, and so there was light. Does God need to have a son to make light? No, he does not It's secular thinking to think otherwise, uh, that there can't be light without the sun because God well God couldn't do that. Is anything too difficult for God? He made light without the sun. Okay. Day one of the creation week. He creates four important things. First time It may be surprising to you that he had to create time itself before then even time doesn't exist. Only God exists. He's eternal So before the beginning there was no time. There was also no space. God had to create space. This was so there would be somewhere for God to put everything else that he created. So in physics, space-time is a mathematical model that combines the three dimensions of space, x, y, and z directions in one dimension of time, into a single four-dimensional manifold. Uh it allows us to describe the universe mathematically when we use space-time. Uh according to the best current Physical theory, space-time helps to explain the relativistic effects that rise from traveling near the speed of light, so going very, very fast. Everything changes when you go near the speed of light. You have what's called time dilation, time slows down, you have length, uh the length is shortened, so if you go fast in this direction, you'll you'll actually start uh your size will shrink and your mass goes up as you go faster. Not just your weight, but your actual mass goes up. And it also helps us to be able to figure out quantum mechanics. So, uh time and space, and then he also created matter. God created the earth, he created the rocks and soil that make up the earth, and lots and lots of water. And none of those things are possible in the Big Bang structure inf uh without billions of years of stars living out their whole hundreds of millions of years of life and and dying and and being compressed and blowing up in supernovas That's the only way that the secular scientists have of creating elements that are heavier than helium. That's the only way they know of to do it. God just made these things. without having to go through processes like that. So God created all this material, uh everything else too, and he created out of nothing. Yes. So what they're saying is give them helium the lightest. So hydrogen is the lightest. So hydrogen is the lightest helium. And according to the secular story, the Big Bang can only make hydrogen and helium It can't make anything heavier than that. The Big Bang itself. So a Bing Bang out of a singularity. It it that's a whole nother story. They how do you get the Big Bang in the first place? Well they say there was nothing and then it i it exploded and made everything. Nothing exploded and made everything. But they have to start somewhere, and what they say is there was a fluctuation in the quantum vacuum. and and the quantum vacuum. And so and I always say time out, where do you get the quantum vacuum from? The quantum vacuum is not nothing. They have to start with something Um anyway, the according to the secular story, the Big Bang can only make hydrogen and helium. The first two elements on the periodic table, uh, those the lightest elements, and the only way to get anything heavier is for uh hydrogen and helium to condense into a star, what they call a population one star, with only hydrogen and helium. And then that star live out its hundreds of millions of years of lifetime and and then it it collapses in on itself and when it collapses in on itself like that it squeezes the helium together and makes heavier elements. Uh like carbon and nitrogen and oxygen, all these heavier elements. And th that's scientifically possible? Uh it is scientifically possible. Um and then it is scientifically possible. And then that would then explode into a supernova and scatter those materials across space. And then hundreds of millions of years later those materials will condense into another star. But now there's heavier elements than hydrogen and helium for these what they call population two stars So they then it has things like oxygen and carbon and nitrogen and iron in there in the star f from the beginning. And then that star lives its hundreds of millions of years of life and it collapses and it explodes in a supernova And when it collapses, it already had carbon and oxygen and nitrogen and iron in it, and then it can make heavier elements when those are squeezed together And the reason you need that is because planets like the Earth have very heavy elements, much heavier than iron and carbon and nitrogen. We have things like lead and gold in our planet that are very heavy elements. And so you need not only population one stars but population two stars and then population three stars like our sun. And that's billions of years to do that to have the early stars and then the the next generation of stars and then the next generation of stars before you can make a rocky planet like the Earth with all those heavy elements. In the secular story. So so Hydrogen and helium. No. They don't. Huge amounts of pressure From the mass of the star, gravitational mass of the star. So the star is very large, has very high gravitational force that's squashing these together. Now we can make this happen on Earth. We call it a hydrogen bomb. We can squeeze hydrogen together and make helium in a fusion bomb on Earth Um it's a h that's how we make a hydrogen bomb. Um and that's exactly what's happening in the middle of the sun. Uh hydrogen being squeezed together and making helium and fusion reaction that that's that's what fuels the sun But the sun also has heavier elements. So the the point is in the secular story you have to have stars for millions and billions of years before you can have planets. In the biblical story, the earth is first before there are any stars. And so those don't don't won't line up. They won't line up. So you you can't have the secular story and the biblical story can both be true. You you gotta choose a side. And there are many Christians who try to square that circle and say, well, maybe they're both true. No, no, they're not both true. They can't both be true. God's description is the earth first and then the stars. The secular scientists' description is the stars first and then the earth. Yeah. Isn't it I thought he said that created the heavens and the earth. Mm-hmm. But but he didn't create the stars until day four. Oh, okay, so he's two stars. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah yeah. Yeah. Okay. So they're not compatible. Uh so let's continue with day one. So he creates matter, so all these heavy elements here on the earth. And it's before he creates the stars. And he created them out of nothing. He also created light out of nothing. uh without stars. Um so it was dark everywhere. He created time, space, and matter, then he creates light. Uh he just said, let there be light. And and God's word is that powerful. There's a striking result of Einstein's theory of relativity. Mass and energy are convertible into one another. The famous equation E equals Mc squared, E is energy M is mass, C is the speed of light, and so it's a pro proportionality constant. But what it says is you can turn mass into energy, and you can actually go the other way too. And so on the first day, time, space, matter, and energy, God created. And of course, in in relativity, we see that these things are connected. Uh special relativity, space and time are connected, and energy and mass are connected and general relativity. Um Matter and energy are connected as uh uh or matter and time are connected as well because you get gravitational time dilation um which we can actually measure that gravity causes time to change. And we see that with the GPS satellites. The GPS satellites are further away from the center of mass of the Earth than we are here on the surface. We're a certain distance. Center of mass of the Earth is the center of the Earth. We're at the the surface of the Earth, which is a certain distance from the center of mass. GPS satellites are 35,000 miles above that And so they're farther from the center of the mass of the Earth. And that difference in gravitation between us at the surface and a satellite, uh the time runs it different. Time runs at a different rate up there at the GPS satellite than it does here on Earth. And so if you don't account for that, then your GPS will be off. What does that mean? It's a good question. So how do we measure time? How do we measure time? Okay, so some physical process. That's how we measure time. By a f how How long does a physical process take? That's how we measure time. So how do we measure time really, really, really accurately? We do it with a cesium clock. Right, it's the cesium clock, so cesium atoms decay at a certain rate. And we can measure that rate And that's how we set really accurate clocks, like for the GPS system or for the uh any any of our uh the all your computers are are run off uh the there's a cesium clock that runs the time, then updates the time on your computer. But what happens if the cesium atoms decay at a different rate in a different gravitational situation? And they do. And so the clock, this even a cesium clock, the most accurate we have, runs at a different rate if it's in a different gravitational field. Uh C E Z S I U M. Is it an atomic clock? Yes, it's known as an atomic clock. Cesium clock. All right. So I didn't I didn't realize we're gonna have such so much physics, but uh I like the physics. And it is it's interesting to me. I'm a physicist, so this is all stuff that I studied in school and I'm I have my degree in physics and I was a physics professor and so I taught all these things um as a scientist. Um yeah. So it always confirms. The sci the the true science always confirms the scripture. It's always compatible with the scripture. Well, y y you don't uh i uh uh when I was in school teaching physics, I just taught the physics as it is. Um and there's no problem because if the physics is all compatible with the scripture, um man's guesses about what this the physics mean are often wrong. But the physics itself is what it is and it and God made the the universe what it is and when we make physical observations it's it's God's universe that we're looking at. And so I never had any problems teaching physics Yeah. That's probably something that friends of mine has a problem. Uh conscience of God where he came with the fact that he created time at the same time he was doing his creation. Yep. That's right He created time, this idea that we can measure things by physical processes, but the the only way that time has any meaning is by a physical process. And when there was no physical stuff, there are no physical processes, so there's no time. Yeah. Yeah. So there physical process he invented such that At the same time, what he's doing then is inventing time as well as he invents physical processes. So it's a good question. Will there always be time? And I think the answer is yes, because there will always be physical processes. So even uh in the new heavens and the new earth we have we'll still have physical processes. We won't have the sun anymore. God Himself will be our light No need for the sun. Uh but there will still be physical process. There's there's a physical earth. We'll have physical bodies on a physical earth, so I think there will still be touch. We will. Yeah. Alright. So let's continue then for a s and so remember it was one day when he was defining a day, and look how it is in the second one. A second day. Different A little bit different. Then God said, let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters. God made the expanse and separated the waters which were below the expanse from the waters which were above the expanse. And it was so. God called the expanse heaven, and there was evening and there was morning. A second day. So, second day. God continued his work of preparing the earth so that plants could grow in it and animals and people could live on it. The Bible says he made an expanse around the earth, and that this separated water under the expanse and water above it. God called the expanse heaven, which we might call sky. This is the atmosphere and the space beyond. I've I've had uh people that are pretty smart uh get themselves all watered up in a bunch over the whether this expanse is the atmosphere or the outer space. And the answer of course is that it's both It it's it's this this uh the expanse of heavens in Genesis 1 is very similar to our English word sky. Now if I walk out and I look up at the sky Can I see birds and clouds and airplanes in the sky? Is that a legitimate thing to say? I look up and I see birds in the sky and I see clouds in the sky Well, are those birds and clouds and airplanes in the atmosphere or are they in outer space? Atmosphere. So the sky is the atmosphere. Now, can I also go out and look up in the sky And see the sun and the moon and the stars in the sky. Is that legitimate? Yeah. Are the sun, moon, and sky in the atmosphere, or are they in outer space? Outer space. So the sky, and remember this is written for people about how people observe things, and so If I'm a person looking up in the sky, I can see birds and I can see clouds and I can see the sun and I can see moon and I can see the stars in the sky. That's what this expanse of the heaven is. It's both. Okay. Don't get confused. Uh the atmosphere. Uh, yeah, don't let anybody confuse you. Don't anybody that thinks they're really smart confuse you and try to tell you that it's no, it's gotta be only the outer space. Well then we're gonna see in a minute that the birds are flying in the expanse of heaven and on on day four. And so are the birds flying in the outer space? No, I don't think so. Okay. Okay. Um so the atmosphere is very important. Can't really see it. Can just look right through it, but it contains the air that we need to breathe and birds fly in it. The air is made up of mainly nitrogen, 78%. And then oxygen a little bit less than 21%. And then a lot of other tristrace elevents, a little bit of argon xenon hydrogen, helium, krypton, and a very small amount of carbon dioxide, 0. 038%. Very s tiny amount of carbon dioxide. If there was more oxygen, then a single spark would set the whole atmosphere on fire. If there was a lot more nitrogen, we would suffocate. Carbon dioxide is essential for plants. Plants essentially breathe carbon dioxide, but is deadly to humans in large quantities. Earth's atmosphere has only a tiny amount of carbon dioxide, which is plenty for the plants, because they use it very efficiently. And this small amount is harmless to us at the point zero three eight percent. All right So that's two days. Let's go on to the third day. Then God said, Let the waters below the heavens be gathered into one place, and dry land appear. And it was so. God called the dry land earth, and the gathering of the waters he called seas, and God saw that it was good. Then God said, let the earth sprout vegetation. plants yielding seed and fruit trees on the earth bearing fruit after their kind with seed in them, and it was so. The earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed after their kind, and trees bearing fruit with seed in them after their kind. And God saw that it was good. There was evening and there was morning a third day. So we had one day when it was defined, and then we have a second day and a third day and a fourth day and a fifth day And then it changes for the sixth and seventh day because they're special. It's the sixth day and the seventh day for those because they're special. I don't think it's trying to say that on that third day that they were reproducing rapidly in a twenty-four hour day. But I could be wrong or it's just like this is the way it's gonna be. These are I think they popped up pretty fast. Trees trees were there and it it normally would take more than a day for the trees to but they popped up like that. I think yeah I think the plants themselves popped up on that day. 'Cause it says, Bring forth those things and God said for the earth to bring forth those things and it was so And and just uh maybe this will lead into it the the the after their kind, maybe that will lead into the Noah story Well uh eventually it will lead to the Noah story, but not today. Yeah. Uh so God on the third day is continuing to make the earth the ideal place for people and animals to live in The her whole earth was originally covered with water, but then he in this day he causes land to emerge from that big bulb of water. Um and so there's a lot of water on the earth Uh if you made the earth uh a perfect sphere, if it was flat, if there was no mountains, if there was no deep ocean basin, if it was just flat, the whole earth would be covered with water two miles deep. Whole Earth two miles deep in water if you made it perfectly flat. That's how much water there is. Lot of water on the earth The Bible doesn't tell us how many continents there were at first. There might have been only one. And today's continents formed at the time of the flow. We don't know. It doesn't say The secular scientists believe there was originally one continent. They could be right about that. God spoke again and commanded the land to produce all kinds of plants. I think if you had been there, you would have seen greengrass and palm trees and other vegetations sprout up from the ground. Uh you would have seen all kinds of colors of flowers to begin to bloom and daisies and daffodils, roses, orchids, all the kinds of flowers you would have seen. Bushes and trees in all sizes and shapes. He made these plants, each with its own particular seed, so that they would reproduce after their kind. And it repeats it three different times just in that. one description of plants is after its kind after its kind after its kind to make sure that we realize that things reproduce after their kind. Alright, so where's the water? So on the earth, about 90 per s 97% of the water is in the oceans. It's salt water. So only 3% is fr freshwater. In that 3% of freshwater, about 69% of that is in permanent ice and glaciers. About 30% of it is in the groundwater aquifers, and about 1% is on the surface, in lakes and rivers and streams on the surface. The ocean is really deep. The Challenger Deep. The deepest part of the ocean in the Marionette Trans is about 36,000 feet deep. The tallest mountain, Mount Everest, is only 29,000 feet, so you could sink the whole thing in the ocean, and there would still be 6,500 feet of ocean on top of Mount Everest if you sank it down to the deepest part of the ocean The ocean is really deep. That's why if you made it a perfect sphere, you would have water across the entire globe two miles deep. The ocean is really deep. And there's a lot of water there. Yep. Uh one thing we'll meet land building park is right in the city. Could be. It could could be. Alright, so right now uh we uh uh if we count the surface area of the earth, about seventy percent of that is water and about thirty percent is land Okay. God also made this water cycle. So uh I I got this map from the U. S. Geological Survey, the uh the U. S. government agency that's responsible for geology it's in the Department of the Interior. Um so it it shows that water evaporates from the oceans and It goes into the clouds and then it condenses and falls as rain and then it uh some of it falls as snow and it's trapped in ice and then the ice snow and ice melts and it runs off Some of it goes into groundwater and and those aquifers and then we draw it up out of the aquifers. Some of it's stored in uh lakes and rivers and streams. Then some of that runs into the ocean and that keeps going round and round and round and round. And God did that. God made it that way. God designed it that way, and it works perfectly. It's awesome. Then the fourth day. Let's talk about the fourth day. Then God said, Let there be light in the expanse of the heavens So the lights are in the expanse of the heavens. We'll see in a minute that the birds are in the expanse of the heavens too. What does that tell you? That the expanse of the heavens is our equivalent to the English word sky. where you look up and you can see things up there. Uh so lights in the expanse of the heavens separate the day from the night. Let them be for signs and for seasons for days and years. And let them be for lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth. And it was so. And so this is the fourth day. He makes the st uh God made two great lights, the greater light to govern the day and the lesser light to govern the night. He made the stars also. So he makes the stars here on day four He made the earth on day one, and now he makes the stars on day four. God placed them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth and to govern the day and the night and to separate the light from the darkness And God saw that it was good. There was evening and there was morning a fourth day. So on the fourth day, he makes the sun, moon, the planets, the stars, and he just commanded them to come into being, and it was so He made them all for our benefit and for his glory. Right? It's for for tomorrow times and seasons, that's for us. But ultimately it's for his glory for us to look at these things and say, what an awesome God we have. The Bible says their purpose was to give light on the earth, with the sun to light up the day and the moon to light up the night They were also to be for signs to mark seasons and days and years. And so we have that. We the you know, the day is the earth rotating around, the year is the earth going around the sun once, we've got the moon uh marking um depending on what calendar years it's basically a month. Um and so times and seasons and w one thing is not marked by any uh any sign in the um in the natural world and that's the seven-day week. There is nothing The sun, moon, stars, none of that marks out a seven-day week. What marks out a seven-day week? The creation, and that's it. And yet, every society that we've ever we had know anything about has always had a seven day week. What do you think that is? Because God put it there and everybody knew it. Everybody knew the seven-day creation, and so everybody used the seven-day week, all the way from the beginning of the earliest civilizations we've ever studied all the way up to today. The the the only exception was the crazy French. Um well the crazy the the crazy French after the French Revolution in 1789 tried to enforce the government tried to make a ten day week. They did. They the government enforced a ten day week and everybody hated it. It and people were exhausted at the end of that ten day week They wanted to make people work more and so they invented a ten day week. Um and it didn't work. It didn't it collapsed. And people hated it. Um anyway, so every culture has a seven day week only because God made everything in seven days. Oh, I think it was a couple of months. But you know I mean they were chopping people's heads off if they did anything to disagree with the government. They had the guillotines all set up there and they were chopping people's heads off and so Uh yeah. So uh sun and moon, the Earth's special lights. The sun is a huge star in the center of our solar system. Um it's really big. If you wanted to if you took an earth-sized object and tried to fill up the sun, it would take a million earth-sized objects to fill up the uh the volume of the sun. Uh it's made of hydrogen and helium gas mostly, but trace elements of other things. Uh it's six thousand degrees centigrade at the surface and it's fifteen million degrees centigrade in the center. Where the fusion reactions are actually occurring. The sun's energy comes from this continuous nuclear fusion reaction at the center, turning hydrogen into helium, which is the same thing as what we do with a hydrogen bomb. Uh, God's design is way better than ours though, 'cause it doesn't spew out radiation. The output o is heat and light with very little dangerous radiation, and even that small amount is mostly blocked by our atmosphere, which was created on day two. Which we would needed before God made the sun. The atmosphere is necessary um to filter out the the very small amount of dangerous radiation. Yeah. fifteen million degrees centigrade. Yeah. Are they really right? Well So it's a good question. How do you tell? How do you tell? So uh most of that is determined by spectroscopy. Um so it's a it's i it's it's uh analysis of wavelengths of light. And different um different temperatures radiate different wavelengths of light, um, and different elements absorb different wavelengths of light, and so Uh the re the reason they know there's other elements in there is because of uh what this what's called absorption spectrum. And so there's some missing light for what it would be if if it was just hydrogen and helium, uh there would be a certain spectrum of light But there are other spectrums of light which have absorption spectrum that match carbon and nitrogen and oxygen and iron. And so we know those things are in the sun as well. But to some extent it's uh there's there is some guesswork. And so they say fifteen million degrees, could it be fourteen million or could it be sixteen million? But the the point is it's really, really hot and they can know that for sure, but to say precisely fifteen million, probably a little bit of a guess, yeah. There are. Yeah, yeah, there are. Yeah. Uh although spectroscopy is pretty good, um I mean it's something we can do on Earth and match um So it's it's not something that's only done with with the sun and things that we can't uh you know go up there and directly measure. uh the indirect measure that we do with uh with absorption spectrums are something that we can do with ordinary materials here on earth and so we know that the s that science we can we can check in a laboratory here that that's science actually works. Okay. And so the sun puts out all this uh heat and light for us um to support life on earth. And e everything about that everything about it is just perfect. Really it's just perfect. He when he made our system our solar system he did it. Uh like he does everything right. He he did this right. So uh the the earth is 150 million kilometers or 93 million miles from the sun, and that's exactly the right distance to hold the temperature for most of the earth between 0 C and 40 C. Um 32 and uh and 100. Uh and this is the temperature needed to sustain most life. If we were five percent closer to the sun, the oceans would boil. If we were 5% further, the oceans would freeze. It would got to be just this distance from the sun for it to work. Earth's orbit around the sun is nearly a perfect circle. Some orbits are highly elliptical They they're like uh flattened out like an egg, they go like this. The sun's orbit is almost a perfect circle. Um If the orbit was open more oval shaped like an egg, the earth would become blazing hot when it got closer to the sun and deathly cold when it was farther away So the fact that it's almost a perfect circle is necessary. And God did it that way. Uh if the Earth's speed of rotation or its action was much slower, our days would be unbearably hot and our nights would be freezing cold. So in other words, if the earth was going slow and and we were facing the sun for longer than we are, it would heat things up too much in the day, and then we would the nights would be much longer and it would be freezing cold in the night. Um and so the way that God designed it, it does get a little cooler at night and it gets hotter in the day, but it's not too bad because it's fast enough to keep us rotating through those cycles fast enough so that it doesn't have too great an effect on temperature. Uh if the rotation was much faster, the wind would blow so strong that you couldn't stand up in the open If it was rotating faster. Uh the length of each day at night is also just right for the amount of sleep that we need. So God designed all these things interac interlacing, interconnected, so that they were all perfect And the secular scientists call this the Goldilocks zone. This is their word, secular scientific word, Goldilocks Zone. That's what they call it. If you're too close to the to the star in the center of a solar system, it's too hot And if you're too far away, it's too cold. But if you're if you're in the Goldilocks zone, it's just right. Just like the temperature of the porridge for Goldilocks was just right. So no kidding, that's what the secular astronomers call that, the Goldilocks zone. And the Earth is right in the middle of it. And and the secular scientists of course say that's an accident. And And you know, i and that's the only reason life developed here is cause we were accidentally in the right place. That's what they say But that's not true. God did that. Um okay, fourth day. Uh it continues sun sun, moon, stars, and planets. Uh the pull of gravity on the earth. By the moon and the sun causes tides. At the beach when the sea level is high, we say it's a high tide. The tide is in. Six hours later it's a low tide. It's about It's a little more than twelve hour cycle, the whole thing, twelve hours and twenty-five minutes or so. Um we have this cycle of tides, high and low tides. It's by this the gravitational pull of the moon and the sun. Gravitational pull of the the moon is about two and a half two point two times greater than the gravitational pull of the sun. Sun's much bigger, but it's much further away. And gravity is proportional to mass, but it's inversely proportional to the square of distance. So it's a much distance is a much greater effect on gravity than than mass is. And the sun's really far away And the the Earth also has its own pool. So the yes, the earth has its own pool, and that's why the oceans don't just float out into the into outer space. If the earth didn't have its own gravity, the the the water would just flow down into the outer space But the but the moon is pulling on the oceans too, and so the oceans bulge. The m the oceans bulge where the moon is. So here's the earth, here's the moon. The the water on the earth actually bulges out towards the moon. And and also yeah, so it's high tide when on the side where the moon is, and and it's low tide on the sides, and it's actually high tide on the opposite too. When it makes a bulge, it bulges on both sides Pulses out on the side facing the moon and the side away from the moon also. Now now and and so the the sun also has an effect and so when the sun, the moon and the earth are lined up we get what's called a neat tie uh uh a uh spring tide, that's a a higher high tide. When the Earth, Moon, and Sun are at right angles, it's called a neat tide, and that's a tide that's not it's not as extreme. Spring tides and neap tides. Navy. So I had to study all these things in the Navy in addition to studying them in in physics. So um tides. But the tides are really important The tides clean the oceans the shores. They put oxygen that the fish breathe in there. Without the tides you don't get that. Uh it keeps the ocean currents moving, preventing the sea from becoming stagnant. Um and all that is necessary and God designed that to work perfectly. The moon causing the tides. If we didn't have a moon, we wouldn't have tides and the oceans would be a stagnant mess. And no fish could live in them. Um also the huge plas planet uh uh Jupiter has uh uh big gravity, uh strong gravity because it's big, and it's further out from the sun than we are And so it turns out that it catches quite a few comets and meteors and things like that and keeps them from coming into the inner solar system to bombard the Earth. It's like a comet and meteor magnet, because it's big and giant and it's further out than we are. And God put it there on purpose so it would do that and protect the earth. So God knew what he was doing. He did everything just right. The Bible says that his eternal power, divine nature, can be seen in the things that he has made. All right, fifth day. Let the waters teem with swarms of living creatures and let the birds above the earth fly above the earth. in the open expanse of the heavens. So the birds are in the open expanse of the heavens and the sun, moon, and stars and the planets are in the open expanse of the heaven. Why? Because it's the sky. And people can look up and see birds there and clouds and and sun, moon and stars. Alright. God created the great sea monsters and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarmed after their kind, and every winged bird after its kind. And God saw that it was good. God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters and the seas, and let the birds multiply in the earth. There was evening and there was morning, a fifth day All right, so the fifth day, it's the ready the earth is now ready to support animal life, uh birds and fish in this case. So God has made water, soil, air, plants, uh plants and fruits for food. He's created the sun to give light and warmth. Uh now he creates the first inhabitants, animals that live in the sea and those that fly in the air. Sea creatures, he speaks, and the ocean is teeming with them. Tiny ones, medium-sized ones, big ones. Giant giant giant creatures like whales and plasiosaurs, uh things like eels and corals and crabs and octopus and propus, all of those things. And the vast majority of fish do not eat other fish. They eat underwater plant material like seaweed, algae, drifting plants called plankton. All right. He also made flying creatures, so he made the sea creatures into flying creatures. Um birds, uh flying insects, butterflies, bees, bugs, everything that flies. uh bats which are mammals. Um and then of course we have the songs of the birds. So uh God didn't have to do that, but he did because He delights in creating this variety and beauty and bird singing is a beautiful thing Uh he made different kinds of wings for different kinds of these flying creatures. I won't go into this because we're running out of time. Flight feathers are a a marvel of engineering. Absolutely marvelous. If you ever want to do If you ever want to be stunned by how awesome an engineer God is, study a flight feather. Amazing. And the secular scientists say that thing just happened by accident. Totally. Yeah, the bone structure, the muscle structure, uh uh the hollow bones, um the the way the brain is made so that it can process the information to fly, all of it. Amazing Um starting. Um And then then God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures of their kind, cattle and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind, and it was so. God made the beasts of the earth after their kind, and the cattle after their kind and everything that creeps on the ground after its kind and God saw that it was good. So after we have the sea creatures and the and the birds and the air l air creatures, now we get the land creatures. The Bible says on the sixth day God made all the animals that live on the land. And he just said, let the earth bring forth. And there they were. God spoke. And there were land creatures. He made uh animals that are of special use to people, like cows and sheep and horses He also made all the little animals like squirrels and rabbits and mice and frogs and lizards, and then he made larger beasts, apes and elephants, and all the kinds of dinosaurs. Uh all these appeared immediately at God's command and all lived peacefully together. The Bible tells us that God made each animal after its kind. This means that God gave each animal the power to have offspring just like itself But one kind could not change into another kind either then or now. Rabbits have baby rabbits, not baby kangaroos. And then also on the sixth day, the pinnacle of God's creation, God said, Let us make man in our image. according to our likeness, and let them rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth So man was to have authority over everything on the earth. God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him, male and female, he created them. God blessed them and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. And rule and he repeats in it, so he said he was going to create them to rule over the whole earth And then once he makes them, he tells them to rule over the whole earth. God said to them, Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, subdue it. Rule over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the sky, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. Then God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the surface of the earth And every tree which has fruit yielding seed, it shall be food for you. And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the sky, and to everything that moves on the earth which has life. I have given every green plant for food. So not only people, but all the animals can eat only plants. And then what does it say next? And it was so And so the animals only ate plants, because God commanded that the animals only eat plants. God saw all that he had made, and behold it was very good, and there was evening and there was morning the sixth day, different. grammatical structure. We had one day for the first day, we had a second day, and a third day, and a fourth day, and a fifth day, but now we have the sixth day, because it's special And we'll see when we get to it that it's the seventh day also, because that one's special. Why is the sixth day special? Because now there's a creature that's made in God's image. And God's image is what makes us special. Okay. Um So the sixth day, uh Adam and Eve, um uh God had a little chat. Uh let us make man in our image. Who is he talking to? Right? Okay? It can't it cannot have been the angels, right? Because we are not made in the image of angels. So it can be that. So it has to be he was talking the within the three persons of the Trinity, Father, the Lord Jesus and the Holy Spirit. All right Uh the uh let me sc let me skip this. The the Westminster Confession has a good um description of what it means to be created in um And his well let me let me read it. So the Westminster uh confession describes what it means to be in God's image. Uh he created man, male and female, with reasonable and immortal souls endued with knowledge, righteousness, and true holiness after his own image. having the law of God written in their heart and power to fulfill it, and yet under a possibility of transgressing, being left to the liberty of their own will, which was subject unto change Beside this law written in their hearts, they received a command not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, which while they kept they were happy in their communion with God and had dominion over the creatures. So God said, let us make man in image and likeness. What does that mean? That both the Hebrew word for image, Salem, and the Hebrew word for likeness, demut refer to something that is similar but not identical to the thing it represents as an image of. So when when it says image of God, that does it not mean we're little gods. No. it means that we're in some ways similar to him. Uh that's from systematic theology by Grudham. Uh indeed we are similar to God but not identical. We're similar in that we share communicable attributes such as reason, love, will. discernment, morality, and language. We are not identical since we are creatures, so could never share God's incommunicable attributes, such as omnipotence, omniscience, omnipresence, and self-existence. The Imago Dei, that's the Latin for Image of God, refers to the immaterial part of humanity. God is spirit So l it's being in the image of God is not uh a physical thing. Uh it sets humans apart from animals, fits them for dominion, God intended, and enables them to commune with their maker. It's a likeness mentally, morally, and socially. Mentally, humanity was created as a rational, volitional agent. In other words, human beings can reason and choose. This is a reflection of God's intellect and freedom. Anytime someone invents a machine, writes a book, paints a landscape, enjoys a symphony, calculates a sum, or names a pet He or she is proclaiming the fact that we are made in God's image. Morally, humanity is created in righteousness and perfect innocence, a reflection of God's holiness as before the fall. God saw all that he was made, including man, and called it very good. Our conscience or moral compass is a vestige of that original state. Whenever someone writes a just law, recoils from evil, praises good behavior, or feels guilty, he or she is confirming the fact that we are made in God's image. Socially, humanity was created for fellowship. This reflects God's triune nature and his love. In Eden, humanity's primary relationship was with God. And God made the first woman because it is not good for the man to be alone. We'll see that in chapter two. Every time someone marries, makes a friend, hugs a child, or attends church He or she is demonstrating the fact that we are made in the likeness of God. So part of being made in the likeness of God is the capacity to make free choices. So they were given a righteous nature. Adam and Eve made an evil choice to rebel against their Creator. In so doing they marred the image of God within themselves and passed that damaged likeness on to all their descendants. Romans chapter 5. Today we still bear the image of God, James chapter 3, but we also bear the scars of sin. Mentally, morally, socially, and physically we show the effects of sin. The good news is that when God redeems an individual, he begins to restore the original image of God, creating a new self created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. That redemption is only available by God's grace through faith in Jesus Christ as our Savior from the sin that separates us from God. Let me stop there because I've already gone three minutes past our time. So we're created in the image of God, and that has profound implications and makes us profoundly different from the rest of creation. All right. Let me close this in prayer. I'll stick around for a few minutes if you have questions. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity to just study your creation and stand in awe of you. Everything that you do is good. Everything that you do is perfect. And you have made this earth, this universe all perfectly designed so that you can uh have this uh this relationship with us and bring glory to yourself. Bring glory to yourself in what we see and bring glory to yourself in your image bearers. and a restored relationship with those image image bearers through Christ Jesus. That's just a wonderful thing, Lord. We thank you also for this opportunity we're about to have for corporate worship. Please, Lord, may our songs and our meditations and the sermon and all of our thoughts be worthy of you and bring Praise and glory to your name, and we pray these things in Jesus' name, Amen.