So part 21, moving right along, we're getting towards the end of Genesis 10 to 11, but we're going to camp out for a while on these last few chapters. Really uh most of the last uh weeks of this uh this uh this week and really four more, we're gonna be talking about this part of Scripture and the various implications that it has uh for today, for who who we are as uh as human beings. So what we're going to learn today, we're going to talk about the descendants of Japheth. We're going to talk about the descendants of Ham. We're going to talk about the descendants of Shem. But we're going to talk about the rebellion at Babel and how that has echoes of implications all the way down to today. We'll talk about God's particular judgment for the rebellion at Babel and the implications for today. The fact that there was a confusion of language and the scattering of people groups. as a result of God's judgment at Babel. But first let's take a look at what we looked at last week so we can set the set the scene really for today's material. So the the all the people that come off the ark, the eight people that come off the ark, the animals that come off the ark, and then we get to hear a little bit about what um what happened to that first family uh in the post-web world. Um and so we see that they be that Noah begins to farm. Uh so he he begins to plant crops and one of the crops he plants of course is um grapes and he makes wine and Uh and then we have this one this incident of Noah's the the one moral failing that we hear about in the Bible, he probably had others, but we hear about one for sure, um and it and a very strange incident it is and Um and we'll talk about um who did what. We talked about who did what and what the uh what the the punishment was. And then we get the end of Noah's life and the end of the Toledot there So uh we get Noah's sons named as they come off, and we get the uh the specific in verse 19 that it's from these three, these three, Shemhem and Japheth, the whole earth was populated. There's no mention of Noah having any more kids after the after the flood. And we hear about one grandson, Canaan, and it seems odd that just this one grandson is thrown in there at the beginning of this narrative Um so he makes uh noah plants crops, he makes grapes, the grapes ferment and he drinks and gets drunk. Um and then he says he uncovered himself and it was inside his tent. Um and then Ham of course manages to spot his father uh inside the tent. Um and we talked about the fact that the Hebrew Uh it doesn't sound quite so bad in English, but if you dig into the Hebrew, he he deliberately kind of went out of his way to look at his father's nakedness in the sense of violating a boundary Uh and then he runs to tell his brothers about it. Um and he and in the co the Hebrew context it's he's telling his brothers with delight. Uh the older brothers of course are not uh they don't buy into this, they don't um uh they don't delight in their fathers. uh distress, uh they go in there and cover him up with a garment. So some there's many depictions of this in old paintings. This is one one old painting uh depicting that scene from the Bible Uh somehow as Noah wakes up he knows uh what his youngest son has done. Uh his youngest son Ham. Um And then Nero Noah curses not Ham, but Ham's son Canaan. So not Ham, not the guy that actually did the the deed, but one of his sons. We talked about why that might be that uh the fact that God at the beginning of chapter 9 in verse 1 had already blessed Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And so he God had blessed Ham, so Noah did not have the authority to curse Ham, to curse somebody that God had blessed. So instead he curses one of his sons. Then we've got we took a little bit of detour to talk about um this being one particular case of people trying to justify their own sinful behavior and try to use the Bible to do it. This attempt um in in history, recorded history, of people trying to use the Bible to justify slavery Um and but but they of course they they don't get it right. They have to twist scripture to use it to justify simple behavior. Uh the first thing they they do is they latch on to something that that In in history, uh, and some of you may have even heard this phrase, curse of hand. Well, the Bible doesn't have any curse of hand Uh Noah didn't curse Ham, he cursed one of his sons, Canaan. Um and we have historical evidence from talked about these these these pictures on tombs that the Egyptians made where they made them with anatomically correct uh detail, including skin color. And so and they're and they had interactions with the Canaanites and they depict the Canaanites with light skin. So We know from a contemporary picture that the Canaanites, the descendants of Cain, um did not have dark skin. Um and so and they but they did depict other peoples that they interacted with. Um for example the uh Nubians, they depicted them with dark colored skin on their uh pictures on the on the tomb walls. And so they knew about people with various skin shades They depicted them on the tombs, and the Canaanites, they weren't dark-skinned people. Um and so there was no curse on hand, first of all. The curse itself, there's no evidence that it had anything to do with skin color, but that was the whole basis of this twisting of scripture to try to justify slavery. So we talked about also, well, what does the Bible say about the slave trade in particular? Exodus chapter 21, verse 16, he who kidnaps a man, and that the Hebrew is man steal. Steals a man, man stealing. He who kidnaps a man, whether he sells him or he is found in his possessions shall surely be put to death. So we notice that um in the scripture the um It assumes or implies that the purpose of the man stealing is to sell that the victim as a slave. And the punishment, it couldn't be more clear, the punishment is the death penalty for that Um and so that's what the Bible has to say about the slave trade. And so uh when we get, you know, fast forward from Exodus to uh the slave trade, the African slave trade, um we we get people trying to justify their sinful behavior by twisting the scripture, but the scripture is really clear on this particular issue. Death penalty for somebody who kidnaps or man steals for the purpose of selling that person. Okay. Then we talked about the fact that what this curse entailed to be a servant of servants. And then we see These Canaanites then continue to pop up in scripture. We'll see when we go forward in Genesis that the Canaanites pop up again. Um and Then after the curse on Canaan, we have Noah blessing. And the blessing starts not with an explicit blessing of Shem, but it says, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem. That's how the blessing starts And of course the blessing starts with Shem, and that's because Shem is the line that leads to the Messiah. And there's also a blessing on Japheth, but the blessing on Japheth uh is given couched in terms of a relationship with Shem, uh the seed line that will lead to the Messiah. Okay, and then we get uh the closing of Noah's life. So he lived uh 600 years before the flood, 350 years after the flood, total lifespan of 950 years, um, and then he dies. And we get the the um the certainty that the curse uh from the fall is still in effect. People are still gonna die. Even though God has visited this great judgment on a ma a vast majority of the population, only eight people have survived. Uh human nature is still fallen and still subject to the curse and so no one dies. And that's the end of the Toledot. And so that brings us up to where we're going to start today, which is going to be a new Toledot. We're going to go from uh we're going to do the whole chapter 10 and the first nine verses. of chapter 11. And that just happens to be the next Toledot. So we're going to do a whole Toledot. The Toledot of Shem Ham and Japheth goes from the first verse of chapter 10 all the way to the ninth verse of chapter 11. That's exactly what we're going to do today. Yes, Roger. So the oldest is Japan. And then Shem and then Ham. And you can figure that out from various uh parts of the Bible, although there are some There's some little bit of ambiguity in the in the Hebrew. I don't think it's really I mean if you look at the Masoretic text and you look at uh the w the the word for word in the Masoretic text uh for Chapter 10, verse 21, some of the English translations l almost look like they're calling Shem the oldest. But that's if you look at the Masoretic text and go word for word, it's not what it says Uh Japheth is the oldest. Yeah. So Javith, Sham Ham. Okay, so uh from a biblical view, uh as a 35,000-foot view, um we have in the New Testament, Acts 17, 26 that God has made of one blood all the nations of men. So New Testament tells us that everybody is related. From one blood all the nations of men that we see. That's in the New Testament. And then we see in the Old Testament, the the sections of Scripture that we're looking at now, how that happened, how he made from one blood all the nations of earth. And so um to to step back and look at the whole picture. We start with Adam and Eve, and Adam and Eve had sons and daughters. And then we see the genealogy all the way from Adam to Noah, specifically in Genesis chapter 5. And then you have coming off the ark, the eight people, the sons of Noah, and we see recorded in Genesis chapter 10, all their descendants for the next four generations. Um and we get then in Genesis chapter eleven, how did they end up Scattering and uh and scattering out in groups. In in coherent groups We learn about that in today's lesson. And so that's how we got to where we are today with nations that have different cultures and different languages. All that started in Genesis chapter 11 at the Tower of Babel. So we're going to take a look at how that happened. But first let's look at who these people are. So if you'll open up your Bible to Genesis chapter 10, we're going to go through Um these initial descent, it's how the earth was populated right after the flood. So in 10 chapter 1 we get the the Hebrew word Toledot, what came forth from, and what came it's what came forth from Shem Ham and Japheth uh the sons of Noah. Uh and sons were born to them after the flood. So the them is Shemhem Japheth, and it starts with the sons of Japheth, the oldest. Um the sons of Japheth were Gomorra and Megog and Medai and Javan and Tubul and Meshech and Terez. And then we get some of the Uh so that's the gr this the grandchildren of Noah. And then we get the grandchildren of uh Japheth, the great grandchildren of Noah, uh for some of them, not all, uh so the sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz and Ripbath and Togarma. And we get the sons of Jaina, some of the sons of Javin, Elisha and Tarshish and Kidam and Dodim Dodanim. From these, the coastlands of the nations were separated into their lands. So we get a little bit about the geography, a little bit, very little bit about where these people went. But no explanation of course why they ended up going somewhere other than where they were. Everyone according to his language, according to their family. So uh and we have no idea where these languages come from at this point And we won't get that until Chapter eleven. So but they're separated into nations and lands according to languages and families And so if you look if you put together a little uh family tree, this is the family tree, the names that are mentioned there in the beginning of Genesis chapter 10 as descended from Japheth. And so you can construct a little chart like this for each one from the Bible names that are given, all the sons. And then notice that only two of the sons, or only two of them we get the names of grandsons. So there's a whole bunch of children there that Japheth had that we don't we don't get anything beyond just that first generation If you want to learn more about these genealogies in chapter 10, there's a great book called After the Flood by a guy named Bill Cooper. And Bill Cooper is the Table of Nations guy. Uh he he goes around the world giving lectures on the table of nations. So Genesis ten, this is his thing. This is his bag. He he wrote a whole book on Genesis chapter ten. He does lectures on Genesis chapter ten. He uh he spent decades going through ancient manuscripts all over Europe and finding ancient genealogies that trace back to J And he's got a lot of them in there. And so there are people alive today that can trace their ancestry to Japheth. Um and so lots of the royal lines for Great Britain and other places, uh the Scandinavians um go back to Japheth or go back to to somebody that's on this list right here. And and so what does that mean? If you can trace your lineage back to somebody on this list Who else can you trace your lineage back to? No. And then Adam. So you can trace your lineage, your family tree, all the way back to Adam. if you can trace your lineage back particularly to one of the royal families. And so for example, the English royal family can definitely trace its lineage back to one of these names here And there are tens of thousands of people around the world that can trace their ancestry back to some branch of the English royal family. And so the for those people, they can do a family tree all the way back to Adam, which is pretty cool. And so this guy did all the research if you want to uh take a look at that book and uh If you're really if you're interested in this kind of thing, yes, go ahead. When you get to the Apocrypha, they um they often claim authorship um that is pretty clearly spurious. Uh but they will often latch on to a name that is um that could have some weight to it. Uh yeah. Then we get the Sons of Ham. So, and it takes a little while to go through these Sons of Ham. Uh the the first generation is Cush was reign put in Canaan. Uh so Canaan is the fourth son of Ham. And then we get some of the next generation. Um so the sons of Cush, Siva Havelas at uh Rhema, Zebteka, and then we get some the next generation of that. Uh we get sons of Rayamah. Um and we get some this one son of Cush we get some information about, Nimrod. He became a mighty warrior on the earth. He was a mighty hunter before the Lord. Therefore it is said like Nimrod a mighty hunter before the Lord. So this guy was a famous guy. Yes. So it's um I think it's a it's a kind of phrase to say that uh that everybody knows about this guy Nimrod. Um so you didn't necessarily mean you would talk and make it. I don't think so. Uh I don't I I don't think so. It it's possible, but I don't I don't believe that that's what it's saying. Okay. Um so uh then we s we get uh the beginning of the kingdom so these kingdoms that were established by uh Nimrod, uh Babel, Eric, Achad. Kalnah, all in the land of Shinar, and we'll see that uh land of Shinar is where these people clumped together and where we had the Tower of Babel From that land he went forth into Assyria and built Nineveh and Riaboath Ear and Kala and Rezin between Nineveh and Kalah. So he goes around building uh places eventually. uh uh you know after after the events of the Tower of Babel. Uh Mizray became the father of blood. So we get another generation there for these uh descendants of Ham. And we get this little parenthetical expression that from one of these great grandsons, uh Keslurim, from which the Philistines and capturam come. So we get a kind of an editorial comment that, oh by the way, this is the ancestry of the Philistines, because the Philistines will then pop up later in biblical history. Yeah, I th I think so. So there's uh I mean the the rebellion that we're gonna talk about in Genesis chapter eleven is centered on Babel, and Babel is the city that he founded And so uh it seems to me that what the biblical narrative is saying is this guy's the leader of this rebellion against God. Um He's a mighty guy, so everybody looks up to him, uh, but he leads a rebellion against God. It seemed I mean that's that's not explicitly stated, um but I kind of infer it from how the how things work out. Uh how he's mentioned here in town and then what happens in chapter eleven. And so then we get uh some of the descendants of Canaan, and so uh Sidon, who founds the city of Sidon, and Hath, who is the ancestor of the Hittites and also the Jebusites, the Amorites, and the Gergashites, all these people that the Israelites will come into contact with. centuries and centuries later, are descendants of Canaan, of course, because those are the Canaanite tribes that the Israelites will come into contact with, the Hibites and the Archites and the Sinites The Arbidites, the Zemerites, the Hamathites, all these are descendants of Canaan. They're the Canaanite tribes. Then he took they there's a description of the territory of the Canaanites because they're going to be important uh in further biblical narrative. The Canaanite extended from Sidon, which is a coastal city in the north. Um as as you go toward Gerar, as far as Gaza, which is in the south, as you go toward Sodom and Gomorrah, Adma and Zavoyam, as far as La. So this is laying out the area that will be Canaan uh in the future. Uh and those are the sons of Ham according to their families, according to their languages, by their lands, by their nations. And of course by this point we where do these languages come from? Well, we don't know until we get to Genesis chapter eleven. So this is a list of the named descendants of Ham. Um and so we get descendants of his from three of his sons, but one of his sons we don't even get any descendants. from put. And then some of them get a few of the next generation, but some of them we get several generations afterwards, like Nimrod. Um and Canaan. Yes. Some of these guys show up at least their names like Hood and Gog. Show up other prophecies and stuff Yeah, they do. So uh what yeah yeah, so the Gog and Magog, for example, uh show up in prophecies and um Well I'll show you a map of where either the Bible tells us or we have some sort of historical knowledge of where they initially went. And I'll show you where Magog's descendants were. Is that uh referring back to these people that came from these guys? So um in some cases it's uh it's a people, in some cases it's actually more geography, uh seems to be anyway. Uh because uh quite frankly, when I'll show you where these people initially went, but I'm jumping ahead, I'm sorry. Yeah, it's okay. But um Of course, people eventually became mixed. I mean people didn't just stay in these family groups. Um they they got mixed up eventually. Um You know, just in our our own uh recorded history you had um the the Greek people that came from one particular descendant of Japheth They kind of spread out and took over the whole world at one point. And then you got the people of Rome spread out and took over the whole world And then in about four hundred to five hundred AD, the Germanic tribes spread out and took over the whole world. The Visigoths, the Ostrogoths, the Franks, the Burgundians, the Anglo Saxons and Jews. Those are all Germanic tribes that started in what's today Germany and took over the whole world. The Franks and the Burgundians took over what today is France, the Visigoths took over Spain and North Africa The Anglo-Saxons took over what is today Great Britain, the Jutes took over what is today Denmark and the Scandinavian countries. So the Germanic tribes took over everything uh in the five, four, five, six hundred AD Um so these people got mixed together. So we have some indication of where they they initially started out. They come together in groups, they s but then you know, life happens and they they spread out and they mix together and so y th you can't if if if we were to learn our ancestry, each and every one of us to perfectly learn our ancestry, we could probably Each of us trace back to multiple people on these lists. It wouldn't just be one. Okay. And then Sem comes last. And in this case, the the one last is the most important. Save the best for last here. Uh the so that the get get rid of the ones that are are going to be less important and then get to the most important one here at the end uh is how it's set up this time. So uh we get the sons of Shem, Elamesher, Arphaxid, Lud, and Aram. And then we get some of the grandsons and great grandsons as well. Um down to uh a guy kit named Eber, who's very important. Um he he lasted a very long time after the flood. Passed Abraham and Isaac. And then we get a curious thing about one of the sons of Eber. The name of one of the sons of Eber is Pelig. And hit in his days the earth was divided. Let me give this a little uh curious expression. In his day in his days, so during his lifetime, in his days, Pelag's days The earth was divided. Um and so we'll we'll get back to that when we get to uh Genesis chapter eleven. Uh what does this earth divided mean? Um and then we get another generation, Jochtan becomes the father of Al Modad and Shelef and Hazar Maveth and Jerah. Um and so we get some idea later on in the Bible about where some of these people went, and I'll show you a map with that in just a minute. And we get this phrase at the very end of this section of Scripture that says, Now their settlement extended from Mesha as you go towards Sephar, the hill country of the east. And so These were landmarks that were known to the people that Moses was writing this to. So Moses writes this down much later. um hundreds and hundreds of years later. And he gives little uh guideposts sometimes to where these people went based on uh places that his original audience would have known. And this is one of those cases there. And once again, of course, the sons of Shem are according to their families, according to their languages, according to their nations. And but we don't get, well, how did they end up in a nation Um but this is what it looks like, the named descendants of Shem. Um and I've added some more. So uh actually we go down to uh Pelig and Jochtan and there the descendants of Joctan there. in Genesis chapter ten. And then later on we get of course much more of the seed line, the the descendants of particular descendants of Shem that are going to be uh important to the story of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and uh the nation of Israel. Uh that comes from Pelik uh in this story Uh and here they all are on one big chart. Uh if you have really good eyes. Um the people the the people in uh uh kind of a um Brownish red there are the sons of Noah. And then the bright red ones are all grandsons of Noah. The blue ones are all great-grandsons of Noah. The black ones are all great-great-grandsons of Noah. The green ones are great-great-great-grands Sons of Noah, and the gray ones at the bottom are great, great, great, great grandsons of Noah So that's all the people that are named. And as I mentioned, it's actually Pelig who has the seed line that goes to Christ. So the man that's named here in Genesis chapter 10 that's going to lead to the Messiah is Pelik. And he's the one that in his days the earth was divided. Now there are lots of other people that were alive when the earth was divided as well. I'll show you a calculation. There are probably about 3,000 people alive. at the time of the po Tower of Babel. But we get only one is identified that the guy with it was alive. Why do why is he so important? Well the why why he's so important is he's the one that's going to lead to Christ. And so this book, the Bible, is about Jesus Christ. It's about God's plan of redemption. for mankind in Jesus Christ. And so the the one person out of three thousand that's alive when the earth's divided that's identified is the one guy on that list that's going to lead to Christ Okay. So uh then the the it ends the chapter ends by saying these are the families of the sons of Noah according to their genealogies, by their nations and And out of these nations were separated on the earth after the flood. So this is how the the these are the nations that were going to spread out. But uh and so here's a map of In some cases it's identified in the Bible where they went. In most cases, it's kind of been pieced together from other historical records where they went. Purple on this map are descendants of Shem. The orange is descendants of Ham, and the green is descendants of Japheth. And so notice that the descendants of Japheth are went to Europe, essentially, most of Europe and also Asia. And notice Magog way up there at the top. He's um It spread about as far north and east as any of this initial generation that we know of Um and some of those names, as uh Doug pointed out, show up in prophecy all the way out into the book of Revelation. Uh Yeah. But it seems to be that that's talking about a general geography rather than a people group, I think. But notice that there's they're already even very early they're mixed up a little bit because Philistia is a those are descendants of Japheth and they settled in essentially the land of Canaan. And then later they uh they actually move over here and become the Carthaginians, uh the descendants of the Philistines. Um Okay, so this is how they all spread out. Yes. historians going back piecing together ancient records and trying to figure out where did they go. Generally where they go. Right. Our follows And I thought either because I thought it or I thought you said it, but regardless, I thought that the reason that the Lord came to them at the Tower of Battle amongst one of others, but one was because they had not spread out correct the way they were told to spread out so the and El actually they had Right. No, no. No. So this is what happened after the Tower of Babel. Yeah. And so I'll talk a little bit about that uh in coming up in a minute. We'll we'll talk about the fact that Some of the things that are mentioned in Genesis chapter 10 happen after Genesis 11, 1-9. They're the results of what happened in Genesis 1-9. So yes, so w we're told that they did spread out in Genesis chapter 10. We're not told how, when, and why they spread out until we get to Genesis chapter 11. Yes, good question. And anyone else before I move on from the map? So they can't go the green guys can't go too far north because there's ice age going on. Right. That's right. Yep. And of course a and for the initial at least a hundred years they clumped all together in Shinor in Mesopotamia. They didn't go anywhere at all. Uh at least the first hundred years. This is only after um you know within this is At least a century after uh the flood, before they get anywhere. Because they clump together for four or five generations. They clump together in one spot Um so let's talk about the Tower of Babel. Let's talk about Genesis chapter eleven. So yes, go ahead. Which of these tribes multiply more than others? Like is there any Well um i it's it's a good question and it and to just to make a guess It looks like JF is essentially the ultimate ancestor of almost all of Europe and Asia. Um and Europe and Asia is an awful lot of the population of the of the world even to today. However, I also mentioned that these people they mixed subsequently. Um including you know, extreme mixing like when the Greeks took over the whole world and the Romans took over the whole world and the Germanic tribes took over the whole world. Um They mixed a lot. Uh but the initial dispersion from Babel, it looks like Japheth had A lot of descendants. A lot of dissents. Yeah. And uh it's interesting that that's was part of the blessing of Noah of Japheth. uh that he would increase great. There's a lot of north and and east, but there's not a lot of transition into Africa. Africa in this map. Well is that because there's not a lot of written records in Africa? It could be, it c it could be. And so um we we get some indication that uh that Hamson Cush went as far south as anybody. And the genealogies that do survive seem to put the Nubian people as descendants of Cush. Uh but we don't know a whole lot. We don't know um i it it is the the record is is very incomplete, uh the historical record about what happened af so we get a little picture of what happened right after Genesis chapter eleven, but You know, how did the Incas and the Aztecs get to South America? Uh what about the Chinese people? Um, you know, they ch the Chinese were one of the first to have a uh a really um large and organized civilization, um, but we don't have any record in the Bible about exactly who which one of these the Chinese came from. Uh most likely one of uh the descendants of Japheth. Uh Chinese, Indians, and Europeans, uh, most likely. Uh but it's still there's some guesswork there uh about who who was it that actually populated pert a particular area, like uh most of Africa, for example. There there are some settings of hand that we can we can put in the northern part of Africa, but then eventually of course they spread south and we don't know exactly which of these people groups it was that spread south from there. Um nor do we know which ones Yeah. Just just letting it speculation Is the the land the fertility of the land also would define how these people are moving? Like if they can't grow, they can't do anything there down. Well that's true, yeah. So um i i it's it's not uh I mean I haven't really studied it. When when and how did the Sahara Desert arise uh in the post flood Uh if if it was already a desert by, you know, two or three hundred years after the flood, then obviously nobody was gonna go there. Uh because you couldn't grow crops and you couldn't live, so nobody was gonna go there. Um but what they would have done is stayed on the coast so you can fish and get food and stay by the river. Uh and not just they not just in Africa but everywhere they would have stayed by the rivers Um, because from the rivers you can get transportation, you can get drinking water, you can get all so yeah, people probably settled by the rivers uh initially, wherever they were. Yeah, good points. Uh now, chapter eleven. So if you'll uh flip in your Bible to chapter eleven, the first nine verses of chapter eleven are part of the same set of scriptures as verse chapter ten. So chapter ten, all chapter ten plus the first nine verses of chapter eleven is one tolodot, one section of scripture. They go together And uh Genesis 11, 1 to 9 says, now the whole earth used the same language and the same words. Um it came about as they journeyed east. So they journeyed all of them journeyed east from the the the ark. They found a plane in the land of Shinar and settled there. They said to one another, Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly. And they used brick for stone, and they used tar for mort. They said, Come, let us build for ourselves a city and a tower whose top will reach into heaven, and let us make for ourselves a name. Otherwise we will be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth. The Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built. The Lord said, Behold, there are one people, and they have the same language. And this is what they began to do And now nothing which they propose to do will be impossible for them. Come, let us go down, and there confuse their language, so that they will not understand one another's speech. So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of the whole earth, and they stopped building the city. Therefore its name was called Babel. Because there the Lord confused the language of the whole earth, and from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of the whole earth So that's our passage. So Genesis 10 and 11 are example of the literary technique of recapitulation. Genesis 10 showed how the nations formed from Noah's descendants and that they were dispersed, with a brief mention of the dispersion in verse 25 with Peely. explaining that it happened in Pelik's days. However, Genesis 10 does not explain why or how they became dispersed. Now that we get to Genesis chapter 11, the reason for this dispersal and the mechanism, the why, is provided. This explains many things about subsequent human history. starting with the nations described in Genesis chapter 10. So if we go back to the beginning of Genesis chapter 9, 9. 1, God had commanded Noah's sons to multiply and fill the earth. They flagrantly disobeyed this command, and so God forced the descendants of Shem, Ham, and Japheth to disperse. Um so the events in Genesis one to n eleven one to nine are come before many of the descriptions that are given in Genesis chapter ten. So it's what's a literary device called recapitulation. So um we get this idea that uh the narrative begins by explaining the state of mankind in the post-flood world, uh and for all we know, the flood before the flood. Uh There's no indication that there's any other language before the flood, uh except the one. Uh notice that we get the phrase the whole earth here. It's obviously referring to people, not land The whole earth use the same language. So this is obviously the whole the phrase the whole earth then is obviously people. And so when we go back to Genesis chapter 10, and we see the phrase referring to Pelik, that the whole earth was divided in the days of Pelik. And it's the exact same section of scripture says the whole earth had the same language, what can we deduce? That that's not talking about dividing up land. It's talking about dividing people. The whole earth was divided in the days of peeling. The whole earth used the same language. It's talking about people. That phrase is talking about people in this section of Scripture. Um the earth was divided is talking about the people, not the ground. Um the many word plays involving Hebrew in Genesis one to six. I pointed out some of them, but there are many word plays with the names of people. And that would only make sense if the a the language was Hebrew. The language they were le using was Hebrew. Um so that suggests that the original language before the flood, um, and then of course the early person, because there was only one family, um they all sp spoke the same thing and it w the Bible's very specific that everybody spoke the same thing. But it's most likely that even before the flood there was only this one language. Because those word plays would make no sense if there were many, many different languages So Hebrew or something close to it was the language before the flood and coming f and obviously from Noah and his family and then all their descendants all the way up to uh four generations in the Tower of Babel. Yes Well but but um how would the parents have known beforehand to name their their kid something that was a Hebrew wordplay if it wasn't Hebrew? At the time they were naming the kid. Sure. During Genesis one to six. And and I would imagine I'm just trying to think this through with you right now. Um and that is that there's a a potential that uh other languages named Adam and Cain and Seth something different in their language So po possible, but the parents were naming that kid, and so they were obviously l using their own language to name that kid. Right. So so the the like is w we can make a s a strong there's a strong indication that the people that are written about in Genesis one through six their language is Hebrew. It does not necessarily prove the possibility that all the other people that were out there that were not this particular line that we're following in Genesis 1 and 6, maybe they had developed some other language. Possibly. But It takes a special miracle of God to make the languages after the flood. And there's no indication that God worked a special miracle before the flood to make up other languages. So from all that, I my guess is that there was only one language and it was something very s like Hebrew before the flood, and then of course, when you have only one family coming off the ark, obviously they speak their language. Um okay. Um then the Hebrew uh beh it came about uh indicates that considerable time has passed since the events of Genesis nine. So at the beginning here of Genesis chapter ten of this cult Toleda, it came about That Hebrew indicates that time has passed, considerable time, and it looks like probably decades of time. Uh because by the time yes. Interesting. Well, by the time you get uh to this the events here at the Tower of Babel, there's at least four generations of born, because you have Nimrod the fourth generation down after the flood. He's the is founding the city of Babel. Yeah, go ahead. Yep, that's right. So this technique of recapitulation has occurred before. This is not the first time we see it. Particularly Genesis 1 and 2 we've we've seen. Yeah. you were asking. Like the the the way the the names were named, like if you go back to that big chart, right? Like Adam. It sounds like the word for dirt, the Hebrew word for dirt. Yeah. Starting all the way at the beginning. Are we saying that after the Tower of Battle the names the the the way people were named were di was different Right. Right. Yes, because they had yes. After the Tower of Babel they have different languages. So they're um in in cultures where the like the name means something, which many ancient cultures the the name hacks has a meaning. It's uh you c it it means uh the one who does this or the one who does that. You know, the it's not just in our culture it's less common to have a name that has a meaning, but in most ancient cultures the names had a meaning and so that meeting would have been in the language that they used. And up until the Tower of Babel that was appears to have been Hebrew or something very similar to Hebrew After the Tower of Babel there's many different languages for people to use to name their kids with a meaning. But there's rn in the in our language today. I mean like Thompson. Yeah, Thompson's son. Yes, that's true. Yeah. Baker. Uh you know, names like that, yes, they obviously have l last names like that have meaning, yeah. question is the the the different languages other than Hebrew that would whatever were Adventic or whatever cut less than so they kinda lost but only the ones that are Hebrewish So uh but other cultures the the names mean things. Uh like in Japanese to this day, al almost everybody's name has a very specific meaning in the Japanese language. That the name means something Um even to today. And so I think there are other cultures like that. I mean you can somebody can can tell me if you know for sure, but the one I know for sure is Japanese. The Japanese names mean something Kinoko means silk, for example. Kinu is the character for silk. And so Kinoko's name means silk. Um so i it I think it would depend on how related the particular language is to a Semitic language like Hebrew. Uh in some cases it may be, but I think that's pretty doubtful in languages that have no connection to Hebrew. Um that's my guess. So kind of to support that that theory uh is that not only looking back do we see Hebrew words in people's names or similar word. But looking forward after the Table of the Tower of Babel, other nations have names that no longer relate me. No longer relate to Hebrew, but they do relate to their language. They have meaning in their language. The name is not just a a set of syllables. It's actually um it actually has a meaning in their language It's it's not nearly as common in English as it is in many other places. And it's and of course it's in the language that the parents use. Okay, good. Any other questions about that before we Yes, go ahead. Seems like because of the word play my guess is because of the Hebrew wordplays with the names that that was their language that they since they were using a Hebrew wordplay to name their child, that's most likely the language that was their language. So then we get to these events, we get to this place Shinar, and so Shinar is uh most often um identified by uh anthropologists as a place in kind of southeastern Mesopotamia. Um and so uh as the next few generations are born people move from the mountains. Remember the Ark comes to rest in the mountains And the mountains is probably not where you're going to stay. Not the best place for agriculture, uh not not the place where the river's right there. So they move to a plain where there's rivers and they can do agriculture The people moved from the mountains where the ark came to rest and settled in the plain to the east of there, really the southeast of there. And notice that they're not spreading out to fill the earth as God commanded. They're clumped together in one place in Shinar. That's what the Bible says. They all go in the same direction. None of them go west, none of them go north, they all go to Chinar. Um and they start to build. The Hebrew in verse 3 has a couple of word plays. Nilbinal Bainin is let us brick bricks. That's literally let us brick bricks. And Nizrapa Lizrapa is let us burn to a burning, literally. And it's you know it's translated in English here, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly, but it's let us brick bricks and let us burn to a burning. um really literally in Hebrew. So a little bit of Hebrew wordplay there. And so they're making bricks in a kind of a special way to make sure that they're very sturdy Um Southern Mesopotamia does not have stone that you could quarry, but it has plenty of clay that you could use to make bricks. And they didn't notice that they didn't make them uh ordinary sun-dried brick the easy way, uh, but instead they went through the trouble of baking them with fire to make them strong Uh they were definitely looking to make a lasting tower. Um they used tar to put the bricks together, tar for mortar. Um and then we see in verse four what these bricks and mortar are going to be used for. Uh and also why. We get uh what they're gonna be used for and why. Uh they intend to build a city with a giant tower. And the reason is given to make for ourselves a name. So for pride And also very specifically to disobey God's command. Because the reason they're making this city a build this tower is because otherwise we will be scattered over the whole earth But what did God command them to do? He tell them to spread out and fill the entire earth. So they're clumping together very deliberately to make sure that they disobey God. So for pride and to make sure they disobey God. Alright. So they the uh the rebellion centers around this tower. Which was likely a ziggurat, because we have ziggurats from uh ancient Mesopotamia. We've also got ziggurats from ancient cultures all around the world, Aztecs-built zygorats Um Egyptians built their own form of ziggurats, pyramids. And so it seems like this was a uh a common building uh architecture, uh going all the way back to ancient cultures all around the world. Um we have a famous surviving ziggurat uh in antiquity, so it was surviving at least in in written history. So meaning that 2,000 years ago people could still see these ziggurats. And there was a particular one in the Sumerian city of Borsapa which is in southwest, uh southwest of Babylon, on the east bank of the Euphrates River. Uh and it was known two thousand years ago as the Tongue Tower The ruins of this tower are still about 50 meters taller than the surrounding ruins, so like 175 feet above the surrounding ruins. Arabs and Jews identified the tongue tower with the Tower of Babel. So ancient Jewish tradition was that this is it, that this tongue tower thing, that's the Tower of Babel. Uh the Arabs named it Birz Nimrod after Nimrod. However, it seemed to be a part of a temple to the Babylonian god of Nabu, God named Nabu, after whom Nebuchadnezzar was named Uh the Akkadian Nabu Kudari means Nabu protect my firstborn son. So that's what Nebuchadnezzar's name meant. It was tied to this um Babylonian god Naboo and it seems that this tower was a temple to this Babylonian god. Now It could have been repurposed to be a temple to the god of Naboo if it in fact was already there long before that. Or it could have been built purpose for that. We don't know. We don't r actually know which is the Tower of Babel That's a ruin of a ziggurat, a picture of one. Here's an artist's reconstruction of what the ziggurat could have looked like. We have a written record from a historian named Herodotus. Herodotus lived from 484 B. C. to 425 BC, so about 2500 years ago. And he wrote that he went through Babylon and he saw this enormous ziggurat that was ancient in his day, 485 BC. Uh he described it as having eight levels and standing about two hundred feet tall in his day in five hundred four something BC, four hundred something BC. And so that could be it, who knows? So there were though ancient ziggurats. uh that survived into the time when people like Herodotus were writing. That he could see a giant, giant, giant ziggurat tower in the 400 BC timeframe. uh near Babylon and write about it in in in uh historical records that we still have Okay, so uh they they decide to do this, but uh was there were there enough people to warrant a city and to build a big tower Uh we saw that Shem, Ham, and Japheth had a total of sixteen grandsons. Uh we assumed that they were also having daughters, that they didn't just have sons, that uh typically doesn't happen. Uh over a large uh uh sample size you usually get this about the same number of boys and girls. Um But if we assume that they had the same number of uh boys and girls, that would be thirty-two for the three of them, ten point seven children for each of the original, an average of ten point seven children each of the original couples The next generation for the ones we know about, 130 great grandchildren of Noah, and we can do a weighted average of per couple for each of the ones that we know about. Um and in two generations that works out to 8. 53 children per couple. If we use that birth rate, uh weighted average for the first two generations, that gives us five hundred and fifty-four children in the third generation And two thousand three hundred and sixty-five children in the fourth generation, uh, one of whom would have been Peeling. Um and so that gives us over three thousand people by the time the days of Peelig roll around So that's enough to build a city, 3,000. And they're all clumping together and they're not spreading out. So it's 3,000 people together. That's enough to build a city. And that's a lot of labor to build a big tower. So uh about three thousand people is a good guess for and and the next generation would have been about ten thousand. Um so there could have been three thousand people that were kind of growing either uh close either adults or close to adults and of course they're still living like Ebra lived four hundred years, uh Shem, Ham and Japheth uh Shem lived uh six hundred years. So the people are not dying in the first hundred years. The very f the people that came off the ark are still alive. So it's not like you only have the people from the third and fourth generation. You got first, second, third, fourth generation all together and nobody's dying. Um of course some people may have died, but but they're not dying of old age, let me put it that way, by this point, a hundred years after they come out of the army. So in the fourth by the fourth fourth generation. Yeah, so um but that's plenty to make a city um and to make it enough labor to make a big tower. Um and then at this point then they get divided into people groups, uh as we'll see here in a minute. So the Lord comes down. So the Bible has an interesting way of putting it. The Lord came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built. Uh so it describes God coming down to see the tower tower. Now, God is omnipresent. God is omniscient. So he knew very perfectly well what was happening. He didn't have to go anywhere to see this tower. So what's going on here? It's an anthropomorphism. It's a um it's a figure of speech ascribing human actions to God. Um he doesn't really need to go anywhere to know what's going on here. But it's an interesting way to put it. Um It's because it emphasizes the greatness of God and the puniness of man by comparison. So man has vainly tried to build this immensely high tower and said that it's going to reach into heaven And God still has to be described as coming down to see this puny venture. So that's the word picture here. Uh that's why this anthro anthropomorphism So we're building this mighty tower all the way up to heaven, but God's gonna come, he's gotta come way down just to see the peanut thing, is the word picture. So God evaluates the problem. What's the problem here? He makes a twofold observation and he describes the twofold results that will come from it. So the twofold observation is they are one people with one language. And the twofold results that God sees uh are, first of all, this is just the beginning of their rebellion. And no sin will be impossible for them. So they're committing this sin by rebelling against God and not spreading out like he told them to do. And so God foresees that if they go this continue to go this way, they will continue, this is just the beginning, they'll continue. and they will be able to if they're if they're able to coordinate and organize, they will think of an unending train of sins to commit. And so God is going to in his mercy save them from that. And he's going to do it in a very peculiar way. Uh so let us go down and confuse their language so that they will not understand one another's speech. So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of the whole earth and they stopped building the city. So once again God is presented as going down to the people who mainly thought they could build a tower up to heaven Uh we also see another example, there's a they're scattered kind of around the Old Testament of the plurality of the Godhead. God says, let us go down, the plural. Um who's he talking to? So this is the Godhead, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit talking about what they're going to do here to go down and confuse their language So God takes action to help these people, to save them from themselves. Takes action to confuse their speech so that they cannot understand one another. And there are two main results here immediately One is they stopped building the city because they're freaked out. All all of a sudden they can't understand the people that yesterday they were all You know, the foreman could talk to the carpenters, could talk to the brickmakers, could and today he can't. They can't understand each other. They're they're they're they're babbling incoherently. Uh as far as e each one hears the other talking their own language now and they can't understand each other and it really freaks them out. Yes. So um God's plan was for them to spread out and They defy his plan and one of the results of the the defying of his plan is they have They have kind of c concocted this rebellion against him. And that rebellion against God is not good for them. Um and so God in his mercy um he deflects them from that path. So God can see where that path would lead. Um and he deflects them from that path. So he says this is only the beginning of their rebellion. If they keep going this way, if they keep having one language, they keep organizing themselves, they're going to get more and more and more and more wicked uh they're going to continue to rebel. They'll keep they'll be continue to be able to uh teach each other how best to sin more and more and more and more. So he does um he takes an action that causes them to go in another direction. Uh forces them to go in another direction. The direction he told them to go from the beginning. Um yeah. So it is a m uh act of mercy, yes. Well and the first time And we can definitely wiped everyone out. Mm-hmm. So it's like instead of wiping everyone out, I guess it's harder to Right. So yes, the pre-flood world we get in Genesis chapter six, the uh the we get the the thoughts and intentions of men's mind were only evil all the time. That was what happened in the regime of one language And God has determined to go a different direction in the post flood world. Um and he first he commands them to do to spread out, like he told them. They don't do that, and now he forces them to spread out. He takes action to force them this process. Yes. It's interesting to note the man says, Come, let us make bricks and do this sort of thing and then They and then after they did that they said, Come, let us build ourselves a city. And then God answers that by saying A few verses later, come let us go down and prevent that. Yeah, confuse their languages, make them display them. Yep, it is. It's a very it's a parallel structure there. Yeah. Go ahead, Doug. I've always thought about this tower as a tower up to heaven like they're trying to get out into space. Um first they didn't know probably our space and all that kind of stuff. But but it isn't it's I And you again, Rob, have continued to help me look afresh at at the book of Genesis and this is kind of an idea that formed while you were teaching. that if they really wanted to build a tower that was really, really tall, they they would have gone back up to where the arc was and started at a higher place. Right. And it seems to me that the reason why, and this is kind of an extension for me playing Minecraft. That the reason why they built that tower was so people get lost out in the middle of this plane. If you're ten miles away, I can look and see that And also uh the another implication you can think of is God had promised that he wouldn't flood the world again. But what if you didn't really believe God's promise? What would you do? You'd build a big t tower, really tall tower, that you could get up there and and uh avoid the flood if it came Uh yeah. So yeah, there's uh there's real rebellion and and not uh not trusting in God. God said to spread out. They no we're not gonna do that. And in fact we're gonna build this tower to make sure we don't have to spread out. Um So uh and of course the result they stopped building the city because the key confused their languages and it would have been really hard to coordinate when today you can't understand what anybody else is saying Uh it's really hard to to coordinate a construction project if nobody can understand what anybody else is saying. Um they were scattered over the face of the whole earth. So God forced them to obey the command that he had given in the first place. So there are some important results of this dispersion of Babylon. First, and some implications that we need to think through. Uh man dispersed after most of the animals. So this is fourth generation, a hundred years or so. The people have all stayed together, but the animals, God told them to disperse and they dispersed. And we actually get have uh um record of animals being places. Um and one of the results of this is in the post-flood world, of course, there still would have been lots and lots of mudslides and things like that. and would have buried animals. But when we look at um at uh animal fossils and animal bones, um there's there's always animal bones before there's any human bones. Um and evolutionists say, aha we see the the everybody rose up from uh animals and you get animals first and then people. But from the biblical perspective Animals were out there in the whole covering the whole earth and there were no people there yet. Because the people were clumped together in Shinar making their stupid tower. Um and they only came along later. And so you would expect from the biblical narrative that you would have layers of buried animal bones before you would have any human bones And actually that's of course what we see. All the main language families resulted from Babel. So God made a certain number. There was only 3,000 people. We don't know how many language groups he made But he made language groups. Um and since then there has been considerable variation within these main language family groups. And today there's somewhere between six and seven thousand languages. Um that's one thing that happened. So God initially made these language languages that couldn't talk to one another. But then as people spread out, those languages changed over time. There were dialects formed within the languages. And the dialects separated enough that she had separate languages within the language families. And today that adds up to six thousand languages. Another implication is the various people groups that separated then and went off a separate way, each of those little families would only have had a subset of the total gene pool. And that and therefore would have attained distinct physical characteristics in the f from the fact that they have only a subset of the gene pool. Um and we see that of course in different people groups around the around the world. within a familiar boundary. Yeah, I'll show you what the family and we can still we can work backwards from today's language and and look at language groups, group languages that group together with similar words. Uh even today. Yeah. D have people hypothesized that uh when God confused languages he also entered Um I I don't think he introduced genetic differences, but uh from modern gen population genetics we see that when you isolate a population, you get a um and and they in interbreed together, you get a reinforcement of certain characteristics. And they um Y and and the family that went over that way and is no longer doing any interbreeding with this family that went over that way, they have a different kind of um gene pool than this one over here does. And and we see that in different people groups around the world today. But there's additional it's much more complicated than that because W over history we've had these people groups then mixed back together in in many circumstances, in many places around the world. Um there are very few that are that are have been isolated for thousands. One is Japan is a is a major exception. It's an island and they ha they pursued a deliberate public policy of never allowing any immigration for thousands of years. But most places you have a mixing. Um and so you had an initial separation, you had um a uh a kind of a unique gene pool that went off this way and went off that way and went off this way And and through intermarriage within a particular group you have the expression of a set of characteristics, a characteristic set. of uh maybe hair color, eye color, skin color, things like that. But then we've had thousands of years of history since then to have kind of a maybe like a reintegration. of of mixing of our uh human gene pool. Uh so it becomes a little bit more complicated than that So languages. So there are language groups. Let me uh we only have oh we have no time at all. So uh for example romance languages, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, they have similar words Germanic languages, German, Dutch, English, Scandinavian language, similar words. Slavonic languages, Russian, Polish, Czech, Serval, Croatians, similar words. Semitic languages, Hebrew, Arabic, Aramaic, similar words However, it's not possible to trace back to a single original language. And the secularists are always trying to do this, and they can they're very frustrated that they can never do this. Because they get they bump into boundaries where you go far enough back and it seems like there are multiple languages that just will not fit together You can't say that both of these you can't say that the Romance language and the Germanic language came from the same place. They don't have any similarities. So but the account of the Tower of Babel explains that. Why why we we would expect that we can go back and make language families, but we get to a certain point, those language families are so different that you cannot go back to a single common language because God miraculously made a whole bunch of languages all at once that are not similar. Okay, let me close with prayer