We are on part eleven. So uh today we're going to do an overview of chapter four. Um we're going to talk about Cain and Abel, the first two children that were born. We're going to talk about the first murder. We're going to talk then about God judging and banishing Cain. But first a little review. So last time we finished up chapter 3, we saw God hand out the punishments for sin. He starts with the serpent, and he punishes the serpent first. Um and then in the midst of but in the midst of the punishments though, he has the promise of a seed that will crush Satan's head. Uh and then he he punishes Eve, uh the multiplying a child's birth, uh your desire will be for your husband. We went through this uh discussion of what does it mean that your desire will be for your husband and Uh if you dig down into the Hebrew, it is an indication of the the conflicts that sinful human beings will have in the marriage relationship that that the s the woman will seek to usurp a man's authority within marriage. That's what's contained in those that Hebrew phrase She will and uh according to this uh commentator Fruchtenbaum, uh the woman will desire to rule over her husband who is to master her. She will seek to gain authority over the husband. And the the Hebrew is parallel to what we'll see today in chapter four verse seven, with uh sin seeking to um uh to rule over Cain, but he's supposed to master it. That that's exactly parallel Hebrew structure. Um then he got then he turns to Adam, God turns to Adam and he curses the ground. Not not Adam first, but he curses the ground. Because Adam had been given dominion over the creation, the creation was his responsibility. When Adam fell, the entire creation was cursed. We see that in Romans chapter 8 very explicitly that the the creation itself is groaning because of sin in the world. And then uh the the curse that that he will have to toil to eat and there will be thorns and thistles, and then the physical death. uh that that you were taken from the ground, dust you are, and to dust you shall return. And of course there would be no point in that being part of the curse for sin if Physical death was already around before that. So this is a strong indication we have that there was no such thing as physical death. There would not have been physical death without sin. And the first animal death, of course, occurs almost immediately because God makes garments of skin. And so in order to get skin, that's an animal, that's the first death. And then he throws them out of the garden. Uh so there's yes, go ahead. Uh wacky question. Sure. Sorry to alert. Is this letting elbow stop being played? Mm-mm. No. Yeah. That's all I need. Yeah, we'll get that out in in Genesis chapter nine next quarter. Okay, so uh we have a bad news, good news story. Uh and that's the typical order. Bad news good news. So we uh Adam's curse and Christ Cure. uh one man and one man, um there's a parallel drawn, especially in the book of Romans, chapter five, between uh S de sin and death coming into the world by one man Adam and life coming into the world by one man Christ. And so this imputation of sin. So Adam and Eve had a bad day in the garden. They were punished for it. What does it have to do with me? And so this is the doctrine of the imputation of sin. And we looked at this, we looked at this chart from the Moody Handbook of Theology, that there have been various views, and that there are two views that we looked at in particular. Federal view and Augustinian view. And we took a look at some of the details of that, the federal view that Adam was the federal head of the human race. Everybody's descended from him And therefore, he represented the entire human race, and when he fell, the entire human race fell. Um and That's uh how sin is imputed down from uh Adam to the entire human race, and you get suffering and death for the entire human race. And um and the the strongest argument or the strongest reason for belief in this view of the imputation of sin is the passage in Romans 5, which gives through the does a direct parallel between uh Jesus and uh Adam uh in terms of one man bringing sin into the world, one man bringing life into the world. The other view is the Augustinian view, taught by people like Calvin, Calvin and Luther and Shedd and Strong And that is the view that in a real physical sense we were in the body of our ancestor when he sinned. And so we were there. And that view appeals to the story of Abraham and Melchizedek in Hebrews chapter seven, which we went through last time, the fact that uh Levi was in the body of his ancestor when Abraham gave the tenth to Melchizedek. And uh so that's the that's the Augustinian uh view. And and we brought up the of course the chief um weakness of the Augustinian view is it it erodes the it kind of it erodes the analogy a little bit in Romans chapter five. And so I think that is a weakness of the Augustinian view. But Uh but they're both views have been uh are uh have been um taught by good and godly men and the thing that I pointed out last time that I I want you to to notice is in column three what what it means for humanity is total depravity and sin sin and guilt are imputed. Total depravity, sin and guilt are imputed. For both of those of those views. Yes. I I've been pondering this this past week and uh a couple of thoughts turn around in my head. One was is it possible that you could hold both of those views at the same time? time. In other words, you could be an atom and you could have it imputed through um your lineage, your corruption that you did inherited. Yeah, I suppose you could. You could believe the Augustinian view while also believing that Adam was the federal head of uh the entire human race. Yes, you could believe that. Uh one thing that came to me though, and I kind of was hoping that you could sanity check this, is would either of those views impute sin to Jesus? So um of course Jesus was conceived by the Holy Spirit So i in that sense he didn't have a human father. Right. And so his conception is different from all of our conceptions, everybody's conception since Cain. Um and that makes him different. Um and so that that makes him no, instead of being conceived by The will of a man or the will of a husband is conceived by the Holy Spirit, and so therefore he is different. W well, I mean I suppose somebody could make that argument, but no, that's not that's not our understanding, that's not my understanding of what it means in the story of the incarnation. Yeah. Because that that i that in the loins is called the seminal view. That's the other word for it. Right. From from semen. Yeah. And that there's nothing like that involved in Jesus' conception. Yeah, I I I think that that's potentially now a weakness of the Sonal here. Because if sin is imputed that way to mankind it would have to be imputed to Christ. No, because there was no semen involved in Christ's Christ's conception. Okay, uh so a little so there there are some this is a this is a thing that theologians have struggled with over millennia. But I think the important thing is the two main views, Phil View and August City View, get to the same place in terms of where we stand as human beings. The biblical anthropology comes to the same point. Total depravity, sin, and guilt imputed to me Okay. Uh and then we have the the we talked a little bit about the proto evangelium uh in chapter fifteen, uh and verse fifteen. uh where we have this the the promise of a coming Messiah. So the woman of course is um he's talking to Eve. But we know from reading the rest of the story that it's not Eve who gives birth to the Messiah. It's Mary, uh, thousands of years later. So it's talking about Jesus. And there's enmity and hostility between Satan and Christ, the seed of the serpent, evil men. uh strike at the heel of the Savior. We have evil men like Judas doing the the bidding of uh of evil, the Pharisees, the crowd, the Romans. They all conspire to put Jesus to death But that's not the end of the story, because he rises on the third day, crushes the head of Satan. So that's what we talked about last time. So that wrapped up chapter three. We end up with Adam and Eve out of the garden and fallen and cursed. Now, chapter four. So before we go into chapter four, I have a a one-slide depiction of the history of the universe from the beginning to the end. So this is the history of the universe from the beginning to the end. You have a perfect creation. Sin comes into the world and brings with it death, disease, pain, and suffering. God has already on hand a plan of redemption. through Christ. And in the end, He restores all things. We have a new heaven and a new earth where there is no presence of sin or death or disease or pain or suffering. History of the universe in one slide. Now the structure of Genesis we talked about at the very beginning is these Toledots, and we've been uh in the very first Tolodot, which is the Toledot of heaven and earth, that means what came forth from the heavens and earth. And that has been the story of what happened in the Garden of Eden with Adam and Eve. But it also includes in this first Toledot the story of what happens to their children. And then we'll start a new Toledot with chapter five. So outline of our study of the children of Adam and Eve. So part one, we'll go through the first half of chapter four Verses 1 to 15. First we'll do a little bit of an overview of the whole chapter. We'll talk about Cain and Abel, how they were born, the first two children, some curious things about how they were named And in the structure of the Hebrew in the naming, we'll talk about their two different sacrifices. They had uh two two sacrifices that were different. One was accepted, one was rejected. We'll talk about the first murder. Right there within the first family, there's the first murder. We'll talk about God questioning Cain in a similar way to how he questioned Adam and Eve. And then God judging and banishing Cain. And then next week we'll do part two. We'll talk about the line of Cain. We'll talk about the line of Seth, and we'll talk about the end of the first Toledot next week. So we'll read through the whole scripture, so I'm going to go all the way through the whole chapter just to give you a real brief overview. So if you can open up a Bible or a device that you can tune into, Genesis chapter 4. And follow along. So I'm gonna read this this is N N A S B and um I'm going to show after we're done reading this some curious things that are. There's some major departures in what this English says And what the Hebrew says. We're going to talk about those things. Okay. So first we're going to read the English. Now the man had relations with his wife Eve, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain And she said, I have gotten the man child with the help of the Lord. Again she gave birth to his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of flocks, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. So it came about in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to the Lord of the fruit of the ground. Abel on his part also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel and for his offering, but for Cain and for his offering he had no regard. So Cain became very angry, and his countenance fell. Then the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will not your countenance be lifted up? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door, and its desire is for you. But you must master it Cain told Abel his brother, and it came about when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. Then the Lord said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? And he said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper? He said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. Now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand When you cultivate the ground, it will no longer yield its strength to you. You will be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth. Cain said to the Lord, My punishment is too great to bear. Behold, you have driven me this day from the face of the ground, and your face I will be from your face I will be hidden. And I will be a vagrant and a wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me. So the Lord said to him, Therefore whoever kills Cain, vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold And the Lord appointed a sign for Cain so that no one finding him would slay him. Then Cain went out from the presence of the Lord and settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden Cain had relations with his wife, and she conceived and gave birth to Enoch, and he built a city and called the name of the city Enoch after the name of his son. Now to Enoch was born Irad, and Irad became the father of Mahujael, and Mehujael became the father of Methushel, and Methushel became the father of Lamech. Lamech took to himself two wives, the name of the one was Ada, and the name of the other was Zilla. Ada gave birth to Jabel, and he was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. His brother's name was Jubal. He was the father of all those who play the lyre and pipe. As for Zilas, he also gave birth to Tubulcane. The forger of all implements of bronze and iron, and the sister of Tubulcane, was Naemah. Lamech said to his wives, Ada and Zillah, listen to my voice. You wives of Lamech, give heed to my speech For I have killed a man for wounding me, and a boy for striking me. If Cain is avenged sevenfold, then Lamech seventy sevenfold. Adam had relations with his wife again, and she gave birth to a son and named him Seth, for she said, God has appointed me another offspring in place of Abel, for Cain killed him. To Seth, to him also a son was born, and he called his name Enosh. Then men began to call upon the name of the Lord. So that's the chapter, and we're only going to go through in detail the first half. And so as an overview, Cain is the firstborn son of Adam and Eve, the older brother of Abel and Seth. Cain is a farmer, Abel is a shepherd. Abel offers the best of his flock to God, and God looks favorably on Abel's sacrifice. Cain offers some of his crops to God, and God does not look favorably on Cain's sacrifice. Cain becomes angry and murders Abel. And then when God confronts Cain, he responds, Am I my brother's keeper? God curses Cain and casts him away to the land of Nod. God gives Cain a mark which warns all people not to harm him. And then we have a little uh a genealogy at the very end of um from cane's line down to lay my seventh generation from atom And we'll talk about that a little bit more when we get to Genesis chapter 5. So Lamech is the seventh generation from Adam and an example of extreme wickedness. And when we get to Seth's genealogy, the seventh generation from Adam is Enoch, and he is an extreme example of righteousness that God whooshes up to heaven. So by the seventh generation we have these extremes. Extreme evil, a guy that writes a poem about and brags about killing people. And on the other hand we have a guy that's walks with the Lord and is taken up into heaven. Okay, uh within the first seven generations. So let's let's dig in and take a look at these uh first few verses here. So In uh verse one, now the man had relations with his wife Eve, and she conceived and gave birth to Cain, and she said, I have gotten the man child with the help of the Lord. Again, she gave birth to his brother Abel. That's what the English says. So Uh in a minute I'll we'll get into the Hebrew a little bit. So she conceived the first child to come from natural generation. So Adam had been made from dust, Eve had been made from the rib of Adam, this is the first child born in the normal in the the natural biological way. And that's Cain. She names him Cain. Uh his name in Hebrew is a word play. Um Cain. Uh sounds like Eve's expression, I have gotten. I have gotten or acquired a man. Um it sounds similar in Hebrew. Um and then she calls him ish man. And so she recognizes that this little baby is going to grow up into a man and and is common to mankind. The same word for uh man that's gonna be the the the word for uh every kind of man. She recognizes this little baby is gonna grow up into a man by using the term ish. And then they have the second son, Abel. So I want to take a little detour though into the Hebrew. So the Hebrew doesn't actually say all that stuff that we have in English. The Hebrew just says, Adam knew his wife Eve. Um it doesn't say all that stuff about having relations. That's a English euphemism. We throw in the English euphemism to uh to try to do a faithful translation of the Hebrew idiom, which just knew. He knew Eve. Um and then it then it all all it says in Hebrew after that is, I have gotten a man, Yahweh. That's all it says in Hebrew. There's nothing about child, man, child. It just says man, ish. And there's nothing about with the help of the Lord in the Hebrew either. There's uh n there's nothing about with the help of. in the Hebrew. It just says, I have gotten a man, Yahweh. That's all the Hebrew says. And then the the parallel phrase after that, and she gave birth to his brother Abel is an exact Hebrew parallel. I have I have born a brother, Abel. I have gotten a man, Yahweh. Uh that's what the Hebrew says. And it sure looks like, from the actual Hebrew, that Eve thought that she was giving birth to the Messiah. That there was a promise in chapter 3 that there was going to be a Messiah. She has a child. That must be it. This Cain must be the Messiah. I have gotten the man, Yahweh. That's what the Hebrew says. about the birth of Cain. And so there's no doubt from the Hebrew structure that brother and Abel are one of the same. And the exact same structure is man and Yahweh. Brother Abel, man, Yahweh, uh in those two Hebrew phrases. Um so if you strip away the ax extra English that we've added in there Uh that's what Eve actually said. I have gotten a man Yahweh. That was that was the word that's the words that are written down in the Hebrew text. We've added some words around there in English that I'm not convinced belong there. So for example, there's this particle called etz in Hebrew. And it's a it's normally an untranslated marker of an object. So the the the the Hebrew says um the man knew his wife Eve. That's all it says. So and that particle X right there before wife Eve up there is just a marker that the object of his knowing is Eve. So the object of knowing here is, so up here at the top you've got the man knew, and then et's wife Eve. The object of knowing was Eve. And then you've got the exact same particle et for Cain. So gave birth to Cain. So the object of her giving birth is Cain. And then you got the same particle here. And so she got a man, and the object of her getting it's Yahweh. So the object of her getting is Yahweh. The object of Adam's knowing is Eve. The object of birthing is Cain. And the object of getting is Yahweh. The exact same structure all throughout that Hebrew-dependent clause, etz, and then the object of the verb that precedes. And the same thing in the next in chapter in verse 2 as well, etz abel. The object of birthing in verse 2 is able. And so the Hebrew structure sure seems to be saying that Eve, indicating that Eve believed that she was giving birth to Yahweh. That she was that she was paying attention, and that she had some understanding of the messianic prophecy that she had heard God give. Anyway, that's what it looks like in the Hebrew. The you don't see that so much in the English when you read here's what the English says. So the English says, I have gotten the manshot with the help of the Lord. So in that sentence There is no Hebrew that says anything about child. There is also no Hebrew that says anything about with the help of. in that Hebrew phrase. So that's all been added by translation to try to give a better understanding. And I think that's not they haven't quite done it Good job of that. So I'm not the first person to notice that. Uh I didn't come up with this on my own. Martin Luther said the same thing in his commentary five hundred years ago. So Martin Luther's commentary says the same thing I just told you. That's what Martin Luther said five hundred years ago. And that's what uh Fruchtenbaum says in his commentary as well. Um that the the the attempts to make this uh sound better in English have is in some ways obscured what the Hebrew makes more clear that Eve mistakenly thought that she was giving birth to this promise Uh crusher of Satan's head. Yeah. So you would think a more proper English translation would be I have gotten a man of the Lord. Could be, yeah. Uh the uh so the King James leaves it as new. Uh does a the the King James is a kind of a more um uh direct translation of the Hebrew I think in in this case. But yeah, of the Lord could you could put of the Lord, but etz is normally a completely untranslated particle Normally there's no you when you when you have ets it's just a marker for the object. Whatever's after it, reading from right to left, is the object of the verb that's in that clause And et's then is not translated in any way. You don't put of or for or to or with or anything. There's no translation at all. Just a marker to show that what comes after is the object of the verb which comes before. So literally, I have gotten a man Yahweh. That's what it says Uh so yeah. Uh so that's something to think about. That uh there there was even at the very beginning there was this idea that God had made a promise here. And we we think he's going to fulfill it. And we see that as a theme in the Bible, that God has made a promise, and people have misunderstood the timing in certain cases. Uh Abraham and Sarah, for example. God had made a promise there was going to be a son, so there gotta be a son right now. Um God had made a promise of a seed of the woman crushing the head of s the serpent, so that's gotta be the very first one that That she has, that Eve has, right? Not somebody thousands of years in the future. Yeah, go ahead. Sorry. And it can't be and it can't be translated in terms of addressing the Lord in saying that. And like I've gotten a man for work. You know what I mean? Uh no, because that particle X is a marker of an object. So it marks off that whatever comes next is the object of the action that's been uh the action verb that's that's come before. So the and the action verb was gotten. I have gotten And so what was the object of the gotten? And it was, it's Yahweh. I have gotten this man Yahweh And it's and as the same structure as I have borne his brother Abel. I have gotten the man Yahweh. I have born his brother Abel. It's exactly parallel to the Hebrew. So uh it's uh it's it's kind of uh I think it's just an interesting thing that that's the way the Hebrew is is written. Yeah, go ahead. Uh if you take that views and at what point would have uh this understanding corrected by the local readers Yeah, so we're gonna talk about that. So Eve, um uh the Abel's name, when she gives Abel's name, she's under she understands um that she's got it wrong. Uh with Okay. Because uh A Abel's name is um I forget what the exact translation is, but it's um i it's an indication that she was arrogant in thinking that Cain was the Messiah. Uh the the naming of Abel. By the time by the time she has the second one she's realized no that's not it. And then certainly when when Cain goes out and murders his brother Yeah, they they really understand. Noah this is this is not the not the Messiah we were looking for um when he when he murders his brother for sure. Yeah, so yeah, she has this understanding when the w and you can kind of put yourself in Eve's shoes, she's been promised that a seed of the woman will crush the head of Satan, and there she has this she has this baby And that must be what God's talking about. Um and she's kind of triumphant there. She's gotten a man and that's the the the man that uh Yahweh's talking about. This is the the Yahweh's uh that's gonna strike the uh the head of the s she thinks that's it. Um and then she has another one and realizes no. So they were told To multiply and fill the earth. In uh Genesis chapter one, Adam's told you're supposed to multiply and fill the earth, but they had never gotten to that uh in their unfallen state. So Cain is warned after the fall And so, unfortunately for the rest of us, all their children were conceived after the fall, as we talked about last time, inherited their sin nature. So later on in Genesis chapter 5, we'll see that Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters. Genesis 5. 4, they had other sons. and daughters. There's a man named Titus Flavius Josephus, usually just referred to by as Josephus. Uh he lived from thirty-seven A. D. to a hundred A. D. , so he was born shortly after Jesus died. And he so he was alive during the t time of the early church. So the time of Paul, time of Peter, the probably the time of John, when the early church was spreading through the Roman Empire, this man was alive. And he wrote an a historical account called The Antiquity of the Jews, which he published in ninety-three A. D. And so the Antiquity of the Jews goes all the way back to creation. It talks about uh the events of the world from the beginning up until uh his day. And so um after introducing Cain and Abel in this book, Antiquity to the Jews, he writes, Adam and Eve had also daughters. And then he's got a footnote. And in Josephus' footnote, he says, the number of Adam's children, as says the old tradition, was 33 sons and 23 daughters. Evidently, there's an ancient tradition of the Jews that puts a number to Adam and Eve's sons and daughters, thirty-three sons and twenty-three daughters. Now that's not in the scripture. All the scripture says is they had other sons and daughters. So Sons, poor old daughters poor old, they definitely had multiple sons and daughters other than Cain and Abel and Seth But the ancient Jewish tradition written down by, so uh he uh Josephus is writing two thousand years ago In Josephus' time, it was an ancient Jewish tradition that Adam and Eve had 33 sons and 23 daughters. Okay. And so then we continue with the narrative. Abel was a keeper of flocks, Cain was a tiller of the ground. It came about in the course of time that Cain brought an offering to the Lord of the fruit of the ground. Abel on his part also brought of the first slings of his flock and of their fat portion. So this is the first passage of many where God kind of overturns the primogeniture, the importance of the firstborn son So he lists Abel first. Abel's profession is listed first, not Cain. Cain was the firstborn, but he lists Abel first in this passage. Uh and we see that come up over and over again, uh primarily with uh Jacob and Esau. Um but it it's uh it happens on a number of occasions. where there's it's not the the ancient tradition in all those old cultures was the primogeniture, the firstborn son, uh was the position of preeminence. But then we see in the biblical narrative that it's not always the firstborn son uh that God chooses. Um So yeah, so uh for example, David's line comes through Judah, who's not the firstborn son of Jacob. And so Christ's lineage is not through the firstborn son of Israel. It's through Judah. But it is through the first wife, which I think is important to note. Jacob tacks on a bunch of extra wives, but the the seed line down to Christ is through the first wife So Abel's occupation is first. He's a keeper of flocks. The Hebrew for flocks there includes both sheep and goats. So he most likely would have had sheep and goats in his flock. Uh Cain became a tiller of the ground. Now there's nothing wrong with being a tiller of the ground and nothing in the scripture says that it was bad for uh uh Cain to be till tilling the ground. Um he was following in his father Adam's footsteps. So Adam's Adam was tilling the ground. The firstborn Cain follows in the father's footsteps tilling the ground. The secondborn does something different. He keeps flocks. So the Hebrew phrase that's translated in the course of time indicates that there was a set time. That could have been a time of the day or a day of the week or a certain month or whatever But it's it's it's indicates that there was a time for sacrifices. Uh that phrase in the course of time. Already known to Adam and his family. Now we have no indication, no the Bible doesn't tell us what that was or how they knew. How did um but we do have we do have this indication that it was fairly normal for God to just walk up and talk to these people Because God walks up and talks to Adam and Eve in the garden, and they don't react in shock, they don't fall down on the ground. We'll see you here in a minute that God comes up and starts talking to Cain And he doesn't fall down on the ground, he doesn't react in shock. It seems like it's normal for God to just walk up and talk to them. And so um we we we don't get an indication of how they knew they were supposed to do sacrifices. But it's clear from the text that they did know that they were supposed to do sacrifices. And this phrase here in the course of time indicates that they knew that there was a certain time when they were supposed to do sacrifices. So Adam and his family knew they were supposed to do sacrifices. So note that animals would not have been kept from eat since Genesis 129 was still in force. So there had been no revocation of Genesis 129 that you're supposed to eat plants. We'll see that that is officially revoked in Genesis chapter 9. So when we get there, we'll talk about that. But Genesis 1. 29 is still in effect, so you're not allowed to eat. So what's he doing keeping these flocks? if not for meat. Well, goats produce milk. So they could have been milking the goats and drinking the milk. Um sheep produce wool for clothing, so they could have been making clothing and other things out of the wool from the sheep And of course, they knew they were supposed to give sacrifices, and so they had to have animals for sacrificing. So for all those reasons, we have able-keeping flocks. So uh obviously they were also used for sacrifice. Yeah, go ahead. Do you think this isn't sanitary? Do you think they can continue the idea of making schemes for clothing also. Possible. So and how would that work? So if you have to sacrifice an animal for these sacrifices and what you're really interested in is the fatty parts uh which is what it says, the fat portions, then the skin would have been left over. And so you s you could have made skins from the animals that were sacrificed. So yeah, they could have still made skin clothing without killing animals for any other reason but sacrifice. Yeah, could be. thinking this all the way through, if flies were around, they would have it they would have been eating and and and vultures would have been eating the carcasses I'm just thinking about what I know today and how that might have been different back then. Yeah, so there's there's obviously some changes in the way things um operate between what the way they were then and the way they are now. Um and so God made some big changes after the flood. So after the flood, people were told they could eat meat. And so most likely animals did too after the flood Uh but be before the flood that didn't happen and and so there have been many objections to that raised by people in the secular world. Well, what about lions? Uh you know, what about all these things? There are carnivores now. Is it possible well how could they possibly have eaten plants before? But we do have examples. Uh for example, there's a vegetarian lion in the zoo uh and the lion eats plants and is perfectly happy eating plants. Um and so most uh we have good examples of things that are now carnivores that even now can survive just fine on vegetables and plants. People, for example, can survive just fine. Vegetables and plants. I could probably do with a few more vegetables and plants myself Um so yeah, so y there are some things that you that you have to think through and how did w how was it and and how did it work? But um There have been there are good examples even today of things that are carnivores now that are just fine eating plants. Yeah. But it's a good question to think through and it's a good uh there's been a lot of research done and so if you go to creation. com or you go to answersgenesis. com they you can type in in their search window what about carnivores? And they've got a hundred articles with scientific research that's done to show that even today these carnivores can survive on plants. Good question though. And a question that you may very well get if you're if you're explaining what you believe about the Bible and they're like, oh that's nonsense, what about carnivores? So we haven't gotten here yet, but Adam knows for nine hundred years. Yep. Uh so we've got a century of time. And I would imagine between all that time before the FUD and Yeah, so it won't last more than seventeen years today. I don't know. Maybe they last one or Yes. So yes, animals are dying, uh people are dying. You know, Adam dies, his descendants all die, everybody dies So after the fall everybody dies and so yes we we assume that we can see now that animals die, just like people die. And so we assume that from the fall on, just like from the fall on people die, from the fall on animals die too. Yep. Okay. Uh yeah, we'll come back to this um we can come back to this subject in in in subsequent lessons as well. Uh so we have these two different they have two different these boys have two different occupations. Uh and and by the way, we don't uh we don't know how old they are at this point. But the Bible tells us when Seth is born, Adam is 130. When Seth is born, Adam's 130. And so it's possible that these boys are already something of the order of a hundred years old when this happens. So uh when when Eve gives b birth to Seth, she talks about him being a replacement for Abel, who Cain slew, and that sounds like that's something that just recently happened. But then we find out in Genesis chapter 5 that Adam was 130 when Seth was born. And so Um if you put all that kind of timeline together, the these kids are not like sixteen years old, most likely, based on that timeline. They're like a hundred. Um and there are lots and lots of brother brothers and sisters around. And it could have been a lot of these sacrifices Yes. A lot of sacrifice cycles happened before this, and uh which leads us to believe that um uh that Cain got tired for some reason of doing it God's way and rebelled against doing it God's way. For reasons that are not explained in the scripture. So Abel's saving faith was demonstrated outwardly by his bringing the right sort of offering: blood to cover sins. Cain did not have the proper faith or belief, which manifested itself in the improper offering. So, this is the most important part about what we're going to say today. We come to God on His terms and His terms alone. We do not have the authority to make up our own path to salvation. And so that's what's happening here. There's one and only one path to God. Abel was following God's path that God had laid out. Cain decided that he could make his own rules and follow his own path to salvation. Jesus states this emphatically in John 14:6. I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. Totally exclusive that God has set up a method of redemption, of redeeming to himself a people And nobody has the authority to set that aside or make up their own rule. And so we've talked about this issue in several classes before, but it's the most important issue. Uh this issue of authority. Who has authority to make the rules? And so we've talked about this in other uh circumstances and in other situations and for other issues, but it applies all the way across the board. So for example Uh God said that he made them male and female. And so no one has the authority to to make up new rules for what it means to be a male or a female or how many genders there are. God instituted marriage between one man and one woman for one lifetime And so nobody has the authority to make up other rules about what constitutes marriage. So it's an an issue of authority God as creator has the authority to make rules for his creation, and nobody has the authority to set those rules aside. And so we saw that, we see that with male and female, we see that with marriage, and we see that here, most importantly, in salvation. And how what are the rules for approaching a holy God? What are the rules for a fallen and unrighteous person to approach a holy and righteous God? And so here in in in the in the post fall world, um in this first generation, this first family, Adam and Eve and their children God has told them that they're supposed to bring sacrifices of blood. We don't get that we don't get the details of that, but obviously that's what's happened Abel follows the rules that God has laid down for approaching a holy God. Cain disregards those rules, makes up his own rules, and it goes badly for Cain. As it will always go badly for anyone who sets aside God's rules. And Jesus says it this way: I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me So, but Cain was angry with God that God would not permit him to make his own rules. He he wanted to bring what he wanted to bring, and and why wasn't his you know, his produce just as good as the as the blood of the lamb. Um and so th this is the same attitude that leads people to uh to say things like Um all paths lead to God and I can have my own way for coming to God. Yes. So I always thought that Um Even's offering was um pleasant to the Lord because of it being the first the best. And that came just gave in a very uh well I'm not you know, not the best. But it's the Teaching that it actually did have to do with the left to cover the sins. I think we can see that from the the rest of scripture. the it's a blood sacrifice that's required. And that other nothing else will satisfy. So yes, I think that's that's Now that could be that that Cain that Abel uh that Cain was also not giving the best of his fruits and vegetables, but the the real difference between the sacrifices is one is a blood sacrifice and one is not Um yeah. So um he he so you know it's it's we have to grope a little bit because there's no explicit scripture that tells us And God said this is the sacrifice you gotta make. Like like we get in some of the um uh some of the w when Moses lays down a a system for sacrifices, there's there's a lot of very specific things Bring a bull, bring a goat, you know, you got the the whole list of sacrifices that have to be made. Um and the sprinkling of blood on the altar. There's very specific details. Now for these sacrifices we don't get that kind of detail. We don't get to see that. But we see from the rest of Scripture that that Abel was doing what God had said and Cain was not. And I'll show you some other scriptures from the the New Testament that that uh that show this that we can be certain. Yeah, go ahead. Do you think we can inference that there was The sacrifices were for ongoing sins of children, Adam and Eve, and the fact that it was done regularly and not for the original sin Yeah, so it was more like the regular sacrifices that we see later in the Old Testament. That there was a you know there was a regular schedule of sacrifices that are laid out in the Mosaic Law. If I'm getting at them them sitting on some sort of regular base basis, it's just not recorded in script Well yeah, we don't know. So we don't know what what what were Adam and Eve doing, you know. Adam and Eve don't show up in in Genesis chapter four, so we don't know what they're doing. Um well at the very end we get that they have Seth. But We we don't the there's no discussion of Adam and Eve and their sacrifices and what was the family life like. We don't get any of that. We don't get to see any of that in Scripture Okay, yes. I think uh yes. Well of course it doesn't say so we're only speculating, but it that makes sense to me from the timeline that we get from the rest of scripture. The fact that Seth was born when Adam was a hundred and thirty. And so a and and the fact that there's a wife readily available for Cain when he gets sent to the land of Nod So we'll talk about that. We can talk about that now if you want. Who where did Cain get his wife? Alright, it had to be one of his sisters. And his sisters were the daughters of Adam and Eve, so there had to be daughters of Adam and Eve around that were already grown up to the age where they could be married by the time Cain was sent off. And so that that seems to indicate to me that there was that this you know, this murder wasn't done when Cain and Abel were like sixteen and fourteen. But it also Well y that's the Yeah, yeah. So um yeah, so if you live nine hundred and something years You don't have to rush into marriage. Yeah, yeah. So um i we'll see when we get to the genealogies that there are some varying ages with with which we uh we have the birth of a son. Now there's there's no there's no indication in Scripture about whether each of the sons that were following in the seed line is the first Uh all all those all the generations that we see it says that and they had other sons and daughters. And it doesn't say what order. The person that's named in there is the first or the tenth or the hundredth child of that person And so it that tells us the age of that father when he had that son. So that doesn't tell you when he got married. He could have got married years and decades before that son was born So yes, they could have been married for a long time. And so Adam and Eve were married when they were really young. So like days old. Think about that. Adam and Eve were like, you know, seven days, seven or eight days old, ten days old, and they were married. Right? Adam was created full grown. They if you looked at them, you would have thought they were some sort of age, but they weren't. They were only a few days old And they were married. And then when he's 130, he gives birth to Seth. And we'll see that um at the end of chapter four. Well, we'll see in chapter five the age he was when they had Seth. So yeah, and we'll take a look at uh we'll take a look at a lot of these things as we go along, especially and so I'm gonna I'm gonna uh unfortunately I won't be here uh for chapter five uh I'm gonna be in Japan on a business trip. So next week we're gonna do chapter four, um the end of chapter four, and then the week after we'll do chapter five and I won't be here. So uh Pastor Gabe has graciously agreed to take us through chapter five. Okay. So um any other questions before I go on? Yes, go ahead. There was never a fruit of the ground sacrifice of the sensible guy. So um I wouldn't say exactly that because when we get to um So we won't do it in this class, but when you read forward into Moses, there are grain offerings and drink offerings that are poured out for different purposes and different reasons. But for the Atonement for sin, for the the sacrifices that are for sin, those are always blood offerings. So no, there's not. And so we don't get that. We don't get to peek behind the curtain. But we do get some New Testament um verses which we're going to get here to in a minute. That tell us that Abel was being obedient and righteous, and Cain was being disobedient and unrighteous in their actions, their actions of bringing these particular sacrifices. And so that tells us that there were rules and that Cain didn't follow them and Abel did. And there were actions not So yeah, so the we'll see that. I'll sh I'll show you. Um I'll show you. I'll show you specifically. I I'll answer that question with some specific verses here in a minute. So let me just continue. Hold that thought. I'll get back to that. So then the Lord said to Cain, why are you angry? So this is once again Just like Adam. So Adam tries to hide from God, but God goes towards Adam. He goes and seeks him out. So and and again, God goes towards Cain. Cain's committed a sin and God goes to him God seeks out one of his sinning creatures and uses questions to try to get him to confess and repent. Why are you angry? Why is your countenance fallen? And if you do well, your countenance will be lifted up. If you don't do well, there's sin crouching. It has desire for you. And it and but you must master it. So just as the previous case with Adam, the Lord is not seeking information from Cain. He knows perfectly well why Cain's angry. This is not a s a seeking for information by God. He's seeking what is best for Cain, which is Cain's confession and repentance. And so at the end, though, he gives this warning: sin is crouching at the door. This is the first word mention of the word sin in the Bible. So this is the Hebrew word hat. That's the word for sin. It has the Hebrew, in Hebrew it has the meaning, missing the mark. Missing the mark. And the it's translated into English sin. The Hebrew word that's translated as sin appears for the first time here. The New Testament Greek word, the New Testament equivalent equivalent uh equivalent, Hamartano. uh carries the exact same meaning, missing the mark. And so it's of course in the Septuagint here it's Hamartano in the the Greek translation of the Old Testament. And then God tells Cain that it is essential to prevent sin from controlling him. You have to master it, he says. So then we see uh Cain told this very uh kind of a stilted translation in English, Cain told Abel his brother, uh it really means he spoke to Abel his brother Uh but it doesn't in uh the Masoretic text doesn't tell us what it's what he said. So he speaks to Abel's brother. Uh the Masoretic text doesn't say what what did he say? It just says he spoke to him Now other things, the Samar the Septuagint, Samaritan Pentateuch, and the Vulgate all provide words. Let us go out to the field. But excuse me. Back in verse seven where it says Satan's crouching at the door. Does that imply that he was not sinning in the things he was doing before? Um it does not imply specifically that, but it is suppli it it implies in general that sin is something that is has a desire for him. Um that that is coming after him in in general. Um and that if he doesn't master it, if he doesn't do something about it, he's he's gonna have a big problem. But it no, it doesn't speak to the fact that he may he that he's probably had all kinds of sins in his life just like we all do. Um so uh Martin Luther here in his commentary on Genesis uh on this passage says this. Had Adam and Eve suspected this, Cain's plan to murder Abel, they would not have permitted Abel to be in the field alone, but would have told his sisters, of whom beyond doubt he had by this time some to accompany him. That's just Martin Luther making a speculation. But I thought it was interesting. So then we see how terrible sin had become. Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and killed him So he kills his brother, murders his brother. This is the first murder in recorded history, and it was a fratricide, a brother killing a brother. And then You know, then God asked him where is his brother. But uh this is the point where I want to go to the New Testament, where the New Testament talks about Abel Jesus himself affirmed that Abel, first of all, he was a real person, and was slain in real history uh which fact he used as part of his judgment of the evil generation of his day. So in Matthew chapter twenty three, he's talking he's woe to the Pharisees, woe to the Sadducees, woe to the um uh the lawyers Upon you may fall the guilt of all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah the son of Barakiah whom he murdered between the temple and the altar. And so Jesus is using the um the Jewish Old Testament order there. So in the Jewish Old Testament, Genesis was the first book And 2 Chronicles was the last book. 2 Chronicles was the the last one in the Jewish Old Testament, and Zechariah is murdered in 2 Chronicles chapter 24. So Jesus uses the beginning of the Old Hebrew Old Testament, the end of the Hebrew Old Testament. uh Abel killed first, Zechariah killed last in the Hebrew Old Testament. And the guilt he's putting on the this current generation for all the righteous blood. But notice that Jesus himself declares That Abel was righteous. Righteous Abel. That's Jesus saying that. Righteous Abel Now, uh we also have in 1 John chapter 3, uh the Apostle John says that we should not be as Cain, who was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And for what reason did he slay him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brother's deeds were righteous. So action. Not just attitude. Action. Deeds. We have a very specific New Testament passage that tells us that this is talking about deeds And so that's this is how we can come to a full understanding of what's happening here in Genesis. If we read the passages in the New Testament that talk about this, then we get this fuller understanding of what's going on here. Uh it wasn't just attitude, it was actually the deeds, the things that he did were evil, and the things that and before the slaying, so it says, why did he slay him Uh because and the reason he did the slaying, the second sin, was because Cain's deeds were evil. The fact that he got the wrong sacrifice, evil And Abel's deeds were righteous, the fact that he did the right sacrifice. In other words, he had faith in God, Abel did, and and his faith was credited to Abel as righteousness just like Abraham's faith was credited to him as righteousness, and that faith was worked out in the actions or deeds that in one case Abraham did, in the other case what Abel did. Yes. So it's talking about the uh the the the um the Modifier righteous is applied to Abel. So this is righteous able. Righteous able. And the reason he's righteous is because of his righteous deeds. And so, what are his righteous deeds? Well, his righteous deeds, first of all, is his faith First and foremost is Abel has faith that God's what God has said is true that he needs to do these sacrifices and they sacrificed need to be a blood sacrifice and he does the sacrifice that God has told him and so he has demonstrated faith and he he he actually demonstrates this faith by an action By doing the right sacrifice. Abraham demonstrated his faith by God told him to leave his land of his birth. He left the land of his birth. He told him to go to a particular land. He went to the particular land. And so uh faith and action are tied together. Of faith, out of faith proceeds righteous action. And we see that example here with Abel, and later we'll see that example with Abraham. And so, yes, but the root of the righteous action is faith. And so Abel, like everybody else that has ever lived and been saved, is saved by faith. But it's the he's described here as righteous able. And he's described that way by Jesus. And then in 1 John, the Apostle John says that what was it that made Cain evil and Abel righteous? It was Cain's evil deeds and Abel's righteous deeds. But remember that those deeds are just a physical manifestation of his faith. And for Cain it's a physical manifestation of his lack of faith. Yes, go ahead. I guess I just really want to understand because right at the beginning of Malachi we weren't supposed to connect them together They're doing the I would say the type of character, right? But they're doing the right type of sacrifice. Yeah. But with parts that are far and the and what they bring is Lemonish and Ceremon. The Lord has pretty severe indictment against them. I guess I just want to know Cain, does it need to be that the sacrifice was wrong or or is there so room for interpretation that it it was that the sacrifice was um from a heart far from him and in of itself not worthy sometimes Well Yeah, so um so obviously there's a problem with his heart. Yes, he has a he the the the the lack of faith is demonstrated uh that it comes out in his in his deeds or actions. And energy breaks down too because they were specifically told uh what type of animal to bring. And it was unblemished animals. So yes. They were told what the right thing was. An unblemished animal Yeah, so there there is that additional thing in Malachi that that it goes on to explain that they were not bringing the best of their flock. They were deliberately bringing the the worthless ones uh to the Lord. This is not ignorance. This is unrighteousness, like it's the same for them. There's no remains for my right. Yes, I think so. Okay. Um so oh we're almost out of time. Let me hurry up here. Um so as a God holds court, just like he did in the Garden of Eden, he holds court, um he in inquires of uh of Cain, hey uh where's your brother Abel? Not looking for information. God knows perfectly well where Abel is and what happened. He knows everything. He's omnipresent, omniscient. He knows exactly what happened. He's giving Cain an opportunity to confess and repent He starts with a question he already knows the answer to. Where's your brother? He gives Cain this opportunity to repent. And Cain he he answers in arrogance. Um uh I I so he answers, I don't know. And it's the first outright lie recorded in the Bible. Human lie. Um I don't know. He actually knew and he just lied to God, just lied right to God's face And then he asked the first human question recorded in the Bible, Am I my brother's keeper, thereby showing arrogance, contempt, and defiance toward God. Really bad. And his confession was not forthcoming, so God passes judgment. Hands down his sentence. We have the first biblical mention of blood. This is the first time the word blood appears in the Bible. Dom Uh here in verse ten and eleven. Uh he says Cain Cain is cursed from the ground, uh he won't be able to cultivate, it won't give uh its strength. In other words, when he tries to grow stuff it won't grow. Uh remember he was a farmer by trade, so this is a devastating punishment. Uh so the final part is banish uh his punishment is banishment. You'll be a vagrant and a wanderer. But God shows mercy, uh, because what did Cain deserve? He deserved death, uh, and we'll see that later that in Genesis chapter nine, God specifically appoints the death penalty for anybody that kills a human being, an image bearer of God But God does not execute Cain. He shows mercy. And so and Cain whines. Adam didn't protest his banishment. Cain who's committed a much uh greater sin here in terms of the uh the the physical effect of it, in terms of there's a a dead person as a result of this particular sin, um, he immediately whines about his punishment Uh his arrogance and defiance turns into fear, and he complains, whines that his punishment is too great. Notice that this is not repentance. He he's whining about his punishment, not con c repenting about his sin. He's got remorse about beings having to suffer the consequences. Notice that. Notice that he's he's still not repenting. He's still not saying, I I'm a terrible I'm a sinner that's done this and and please forgive me. He's whining about the having to take the consequences of his sin. Remorse, not repentance. He shows mercy by promising to protect Cain. So an additional mercy, that Cain won't be immediately killed. Um so he makes some sort of a sign to warn them off. So today uh we've learned we've done this little bit of an overview of Genesis 4. We've seen that what happened to the first children and the first murder And God judging and banishing Cain. And we'll we'll pick up the story there next week