Let's start out with a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for this Lord's day and the privilege we have of gathering as a body of Christ to worship you. We thank you for this opportunity we're about to have to study your word. We pray that through your Holy Spirit you would open our hearts and minds so that we would truly understand what you're trying to teach us from your word today. We thank you for revealing yourself through your word from Genesis to Revelation, your great plan of redemption laid out from uh the time of the fall that we're gonna look at today. We thank you for your loving kindness. We thank you for uh the incarnation of Christ that we just celebrated at Christmas We thank you for his sinless life and his earthly ministry. We thank you for his death on the cross for our sins. And we thank you that you raised him again from the dead on the third day so that we serve a living Savior. We thank you that we have that perfect high priest in heaven advocating on our behalf. We thank you, Lord, for designing the body of Christ so that we can encourage one another, we can pray for one another, we can bear one another's burdens. What a wonderful thing all of that is, Lord. We thank you, Lord, for your glory and your majesty as the Almighty Creator of heaven and earth. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, part six. It's hard to believe we're almost halfway through the quarter. Yeah, six parts out of thirteen by the end of the day today. Uh so we're looking at the fall. We looked at the fall last time. We're gonna finish up our uh discussion of the fall in chapter three today. So today we're gonna talk about the fact that they were naked and ashamed We're going to look at the blame game. We're going to see God pronouncing judgment, and we're going to see the first prophecy of the Messiah, the first messianic prophecy in Genesis chapter 3. But first let's take a look back at what we did last time. We talked about uh Satan's fall. Not there's no specifics in there, but we have this appearance of the crafty talking serpent. At the beginning of chapter 3, obviously God did not make Satan evil. Everything God made was good. So Satan's fall happened sometime before these events that we see in Genesis chapter 3 Uh and of course since Genesis has a focus on the creation of the earth and on the relationship between man and God, it's s silent in Genesis about the fall of Satan. There's some other scriptures that refer uh most likely to the fall of Satan in Ezekiel and Isaiah. Satan's strategy as he approached Eve, uh First of all, he got Eve uh alone, uh, and then he uses this strategy of port portraying God as uh narrow and uncharitable and restrictive He slyly insinuates that he's more devoted to Eve's well-being than God is, that God's trying to withhold something good from her. That's what uh Satan approaches her with. Eve is deceived, she's unaware of who this character is, and uh she replies sort of naively, uh but she also um she didn't know her enemy, but she could have thwarted this attack because she knew God. She could have appealed to God. She could have asked Adam, she could have asked God to help, but she didn't. She she faced Satan alone. Uh in her response, she She claimed to quote God, but she left out parts of what he said, and she added some parts into what he didn't say. Um so she made it sound less God sound less charitable and more restrictive than what he actually said And then so Satan goes in for the kill. He says, you will surely not die. He directly contradicts God. And openly slanders God's motives. He said, God knows that when you eat your eyes will be open. In other words, God is trying to hide something for it from you, and that's why he put this restriction in there Um Eve saw that the fruit was good for food, lust of the flesh, delight to the eyes, lust of the eyes, desirable to make one wise, boastful pride of life, just as we see in 1 John chapter 2. Um yes. In the Book of James, which the latest was studying the Mormon Bible study It says that sin it comes from within us. So we eat sin It had to have come from within her and that when she was created she had this green danger that she wasn't for it. No, that's not right. So she was not created with a sin nature, but she was created as a free moral agent with the with the ability to choose. So in in a sense the the thing that was different about her is she was not born with a sin nature so she could choose one or the other. Everybody born with a sin nature since then cannot choose God. That's the difference between having a sin nature. She wasn't ever born, right? She was created Adam was created directly from the dust. She was created from Adam. Not born with a sin nature, but with the ability to choose, and God set up a choice for her Eat the fruit, don't eat the fruit. She chose to eat the fruit. Um and of course uh she ate first and then Adam ate, but the rest of the scripture is clear that Adam's guilt is greater Not less than Eve's, and throughout Scripture, Adam was the one who was indicted for the fall, Romans V. We're going to talk about Romans five uh today. Um and so as the head of the human race, Adam bore the ultimate responsibility So the uh and then of course we did a contrast last time between how Adam and Eve did with their temptation and with how Christ did with his temptation And so he was able to resist the lust of the flesh, the pride of life, and the lust of the eyes that Satan set up for him. He used scripture, he used God's word. Um Eve could have used God's word. God said God's what was God's word to her? Don't eat the fruit. So when Satan said eat the fruit, what should she have said? God said, Don't eat the fruit. That I mean that's all she had to say. And that's what Jesus did. He said, God said in his word, and he resisted each temptation by properly quoting uh God's word And then of course we ended with this, Hebrews chapter 4. Therefore, since we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin Therefore, let us draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. And so Adam and Eve failed in their temptation. Christ succeeded in his temptation. So who are we to look to when we're in our time of need? We're looked to the one that actually did it right, to Christ. Okay. Any questions about what we we did last time? Alright, let's look at the rest of chapter three. So As we go through these first 11 chapters, we're looking with a critical eye at how does the Bible answer these big questions about life? Who am I? Where do I come from? Who's in charge? What are the rules? And what happens when I die? Uh we're gonna learn today about this death thing. Um But the these Early chapters of Genesis lay down the foundation to answer these questions correctly. And if you don't answer these questions correctly, who am I, where do I come from? I'm created in the image of God but fallen If you don't have that right, you can't see the world correctly. Okay. Let's go back and we'll we'll read all the way through Genesis chapter 3. So if you'll open your Bibles or tune your devices to Genesis chapter 3. I'm going to read all the way through it again to lay the context for what we're going to study in the rest of Genesis chapter 3. Uh Genesis chapter 3, beginning in verse 1. Now the serpent was more crafty than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Indeed, has God said, You shall not eat from any tree of the garden. The woman said to the serpent, From the fruit of the tree of the garden we may eat, but from the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat from it or touch it, or you will die. The serpent said to the woman, You surely will not die, for God knows that in the day you eat from it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil When the woman saw that the tree was good for food and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, she took from its fruit and ate, and she gave also to her husband with her, and he ate Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loin coverings. They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? He said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked. So I hid myself. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me from the tree, and I ate Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you more than all cattle, and more than every beast of the field. On your belly you will go, and dust you will eat all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed. He shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. To the woman he said, I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth. In pain you will bring forth children. Yet your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you Then to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree about which I commanded you, saying, You shall not eat from it, cursed is the ground because of you, and toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. Both thorns and thistles it shall grow for you, and you will eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you will eat bread, till you return to the ground, because from it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Now the man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all the living. The Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and his wife and clothed them. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us, knowing good and evil. and now he might stretch out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God sent him out from the Garden of Eden to cultivate the ground from which he was taken So he drove the man out, and at the east of the Garden of Eden he stationed the cherubim and the flaming sword which turned every direction to guard the way to the tree of life. That's the word of the Lord, Genesis chapter 3, about this tragic fall, and so important a chapter to understand, to understand what we see. To understand what you see in the news headlines today, you need to understand Genesis chapter 3. Where did all this evil come from? It came from here, from Genesis chapter these events in Genesis chapter 3. Okay. So let's take a look at what what happened here. So once they've sinned, Adam and Eve feel guilt and shame for the first time There has been no guilt and shame anywhere in uh in in their lives until now. And by the way, in the new heavens and the new earth, there's no guilt or shame either There's no sins, there's no guilt and shame in the new heavens and the new earth. But now there's guilt and shame because of sin. Their eyes were opened only in a negative sense. Tragically, their relationship with God is broken, and sadly they try to hide from him And then in verses 9 through 13, God holds court. He seems to be giving them every opportunity to confess and repent. He starts with Adam, and instead of repenting, he blames everybody present. Everybody else in the whole universe is at blame except Adam. The woman and you and this and that. Um God turns to Eve and it's not her fault either. The serpent And then in 314, starting in verse 14, God turns to the serpent. He doesn't ask any more questions. He just passes judgment. So that's what we're going to see here. So let's focus down on these verses. So verse number seven, then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sowed Fig leaves together and made themselves loin coverings. So uh first their eyes uh uh uh both of them were open, just as the serpent said So there's a little grain of truth in what Satan says he he lies by putting a little grain of truth in there and then twisting it. Their eyes were open. Uh but the results were diametrically opposed to what Satan led them to believe. He said it was going to be a great thing that their eyes were open. Well now their eyes are open and all they feel is guilt and shame, which they had never had before So Adam and Eve had already known intellectually the difference between good and evil because of God's command not to eat the tree of the fruit, uh the the the the the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, they knew there was something right and there was something wrong. They knew that intellectually. Uh they knew it was right to eat of those trees and not right to eat of that tree So they knew that. However, when they chose to disobey, they knew evil experientially. Evil. They had done evil Because they themselves had sinned against God. At that point they fully understand both right and wrong, both intellectually and now experientially. to their great detriment. Uh it was enough for humans to understand and experience the good, since so much good had been given to them. God had given them of all these trees. They would freely eat from all these trees He had given them all this good these good things and they had experienced the good and now they are experiencing evil and they don't like it. So, and of course, by the way, in heaven there's only good, not evil. There's good without the presence of evil in heaven. In the new heavens and the new earth. So Adam and Eve wanted more knowledge and more experience, and it was to their own detriment. The entry of sin into the world was a curse, leading to a loss of fellowship with God and other judgments upon Adam and Eve, which we'll see here in a moment. So knowing good and evil was not a positive thing for Adam and Eve, knowing uh they had known this eat eat this tree and eat that, do what God said or don't do what God said. They had known that intellectually, but now they really know good and evil. They know they had known good. Now they know evil experientially. And it's not good for them. It served as the entry of sin into humanity. Now all people sin and fall short of the glory of God. Romans 3. 23. So this is where they've come By listening to Satan instead of listening to God, they've come to this point where they're naked, guilty, ashamed, and now they're going to be punished for it. So uh in Genesis 2. 25 we learn that the man and his wife were naked and were not ashamed. So now they're uh they were naked before, they're naked now, but now what has changed now? Now they're naked and guilty and ashamed about it. Uh now that they have sinned, they are still naked, but they are ashamed, so they immediately try to cover their nakedness. They sow these uh uh leaves together, fig leaves together to make loin coverings. In fact, there's a slightly different word for naked in the Hebrew in 225 and and uh and 37 It's Aurum in 225 and it's Arum in 37. The Bible uses a different Hebrew word for naked in those two cases. And and the difference seems to be uh a subtlety in the Hebrew language, naked without shame and naked with shame. They they actually have a different word for it. Um and so and the Bible uses those two different words in the Hebrew for one case where they're naked, another case without shame, and another case where they're naked with shame, it's actually a different word Hebrew word. We only have one word for it in English. They had two words for it in Hebrew. Okay, then it goes on in verse 8. They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. Um we assume that they had heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the cool of the day before this, but now they hear it and what's they have a different response. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. So now when God comes, they hide. Up to this time, Adam and Eve had enjoyed perfect fellowship with God, but in verse 8 we see that that has changed because of sin. Now they heard God coming and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God. Good luck with that. I mean h hiding behind some bushes Um is God God not gonna be able to find them? Is it a game of hide and seek and he can't find them? How is that a guard that he created Yeah, Garden he created and he's all he's all knowing and he's yeah. So they're not it's not gonna it's a silly thing that they do to try to hide from God But they're driven to it by what? Guilt and shame. They have this overwhelming feeling of guilt and shame that they've never experienced before, and it leads them to try to hide from the presence of God. Adam and Eve could no longer bear to be in God's presence and made a futile attempt to evade him. So they could obviously see and hear him, and so he hearing him means that he he did something. It doesn't explain what it is, such that his presence was uh detectable by their senses. So God is spirit, so ordinarily you would think, of course, he can't be detected by the hearing and seeing. But there are uh numerous cases in the Bible where God makes himself visible and hearable. So for example, Moses could hear God speaking out of the burning bush So God had to do something to make it so that Moses could audibly hear him. Moses eats with the three Men. Two of 'em are angels and one of them is the pre incarnate Christ, but but he but he Abraham, yeah. Uh so But he God had to do something so that they could sit down and eat with actually eat with him. So angels are spiritual beings, so how did they eat? Well and how did he see them and hear them and but so uh th the s the scripture has uh God does that on on occasions to make it so that God and angels and the pre-incarnate Christ appear in forms that are detectable by human senses. And so that seems like what he did here too. He did. Yep. And and at the amount of transfiguration, uh yes. Mm-hmm. Yes, Harlan. So would it be quite to say that Satan was speaking was manifested as a serpent speaking soul? Yes, yeah, yeah. So Satan did yes, so Satan is now there's the serpent victim Uh so in a sense that you can think of it that way. However we're gonna see that the serpent gets punished Not just Satan, but actually the the the being that it he inhabited gets punished too. And and I'll show you that there are other passages in the Bible where animals are punished For things that people did essentially. We'll see. We haven't got there yet, but we'll see. Yeah, we'll we'll we'll see just we haven't got to that verse yet. Yes, Bob. So later. And the kings of Europe, the great men, the commander race was prominent, slave, the free men hid themselves in the case of the rocks of the mountains. Yeah, so from Genesis to Revelation, people are trying trying to hide from God And of course it's unsuccessful in every case. You can't hide from from God. Yeah. Okay. Good. Um so verse nine. So then the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? He said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid myself. So Adam and Eve were trying to avoid God, but of course he did not avoid them. He he went to them. He reached out to them. And that's what God does. He reaches out to people. He sought them out and called Adam, where are you? Uh was God seeking information? Had he lost track of Adam? Did he not know where he was? Was Adam hiding so well that God couldn't find him? I'm looking and looking, but I just can't find you Adam. Where are you? No, he's not asking that question for information. He's reaching out to Adam So past what he getting uh it was a way of getting Adam to confess? Yeah, that's i yeah, yeah. So he g he's he's giving Adam every opportunity to acknowledge his sin and repent. That's what he's doing I mean he could have just come down and announced the punishments, right? Could have just struck him dead So he gave him hope and but he gives them an opportunity to repent first. Right? He gives them a pretty good opportunity to repent here. He says he starts out with, Where are you? Adam's answer is evasive. He had been naked in God's presence before and never had to hide. Right? And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? Since Adam did not take advantage of the first opportunity when God first called out to him God uh to to repent, God asked two more very direct questions in verse eleven. Who told you that you were naked? So is got once again is God seeking information here? Does he not know what just happened? Well obviously God knows exactly what happened. He knows that Satan was there. Um and we don't know when and we don't have details of that. Um so i and I I read a quote from John Calvin um last time about how w uh Calvin's perspective about why that might be. Um that God reveals to us in his scriptures the things that we need to know and he hides from us the things that he doesn't want us to know And one of those things is how uh and when Satan fell. So we know it's before this, but we don't know exactly when, and we don't have details of of how it happened. Okay, uh so is God's trying to give them an opportunity to repent, to confess and repent, and they don't take it. Uh verse twelve. The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me from the tree and I ate Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. So Adam stubbornly refuses to confess or repent. Instead he casts blame on everyone else. He he blames. The woman and God forgiving him the woman. Um that's who's to blame and it's definitely not Adam's fault So it's either the woman's fault or it's God's fault for giving the woman in the first place, but it's definitely not Adam's fault. Definitely not my fault when I sin. It's gotta be somebody else's fault. I was minding my business. You put me to sleep. I woke up. I was missing a rib and I got this woman here and she's and she's ruined everything. So yeah. So Yeah, so i what he's doing is is he's casting around f to blame whoever else he can he can blame. Right Rather than accepting responsibility, rather than confessing and repenting, it's everybody else's fault except mine. Now does that sound familiar Nothing's changed. Nothing has changed in the 6,000 years since then. When we sin, we can look around for whose fault it can be because it can't be mine. It's gotta be somebody else's fault. Who's who's at hand that I can blame? Yeah. So it's it's not clear what he understood, but it's clear that God's trying to give him opportunities to tell just tell God what happened. Right? God's given him a chance to tell the truth and say, I did it. But he can't do it. He just he can't say, I did it. You told me not to do it, and I did it. Adam won't say that Right? He he won't come out and say that. All he'll say is that the woman gave me ever Do you ever do what? Well so we don't we don't know from this what what happened next and what happened for the other nine hundred years of his life. Uh we d we don't know. So factor uh uh Adam not confessed it was a uh sign of the property of mankind, so he was not able to Well um it's not so I'm not clear about that. So th there are There are unbelievers who have in history confessed to sins, right? It has happened. Yeah So it's not like if you're if you're not saved at a particular point, it's impossible for you ever to say you're sorry or to repent or to confess. That's not the case. Well he said it wasn't my fault. That's right. He did. Um and and so and that's what God was trying to get at, that Adam take responsibility for his sin. That's that's what God was giving him an opportunity to do. And he wouldn't take that opportunity to say, you God, you told me not to eat of that fruit, I ate of that fruit, my fault, I repent. I confess and repent. That's what God gave him an opportunity to do, and that's what Adam stubbornly refused to do. And what and to this day we ref severally refuse to do take responsibility for our sins. Um I think I think enough trusting that because usually when you ask your kids, you want them to trust you know that okay, yeah, I've done this wrong, I've sinned against you, but Yes, I I well I think the whole thing through is a is a sign of a lack of trust of God. Um Eve had been told by God not to eat that. She should have trusted that God had her best interest in mind. But Satan came along and said, No, God's trying to withhold something from you. And so um the fact that that s Eve thought that way was a a sign of a lack of trust in God. The whole the whole way through is a indication of lack of trust of of God. Both Eve and then Adam as well. Yeah. So yes, I think that's a good way to think about. So Adam, uh everybody's fault but his. He won't take responsibility. Likewise, he blames the serpent serpent, so it's definitely not her fault either And then uh at this point God has given them as many chances to repent as he intends He's giving them some chances. Next we will see the sad consequences of Adam and Eve's sin as God gets to the sentencing phase of his court of inquiry here. So the next section of scripture that we're going to look at, verse 14 and 19, God hands out the punishments. Uh first the serpent is cursed, both Satan and the instrument of deception. Other scriptures also contain punishments for animals. We see this in other places in scripture, Genesis 9, 5 Exodus 21, Leviticus 20, we have instances where very specifically the scripture says you're to punish an animal. or something that it did and sometimes it's something that a person is more responsible than the animal, but the animal gets punished too. As is the case here. All right. 315, the seed that will crush Satan's head is the seed of the woman, which is very curious. Moses, the author, grew up in a highly patriarchal society. All the genealogies in the Bible are male genealogies. Why would the Holy Spirit cause m Moses to write it this way? The seed of the woman. Yeah, cu i the everything else in the Old Testament is is the genealogies are all male genealogies. We don't get any women in the genealogies. Uh the whole rest of the the Old Testament and the genealogy at the beginning of the New Testament and Matthew, that's also all just men. So why does the Holy Spirit have it say have have Moses write it this way? Why does God say it this way and have Moses write it this way? Well, we find out later. That Jesus is born of a virgin. He's the seed of a woman. The Holy Spirit has conceived what is in you uh the angel says to Mary. So but we get a clue that that's the way God's going to do it right here in Genesis chapter 3, by the way it is said, the seed of the woman. And it and it w Other than the fact that this is exactly how God actually does it, it would make no sense in the context of that society to write it like this. The seat of the woman. Okay Uh but it's a clue. But um uh having in mind uh Just just the men being in the line of step by holding them responsible? Oh I think so. I think absolutely uh it is. It's the same uh as Adam's the responsible one for the s for the the sin here and the responsible line of men and we'll see when you when you get to um starting in Genesis uh uh twelve Uh Abraham is the one that God makes a covenant with and who's responsible to God, uh Isaac and Jacob and so forth. Yeah, it continues all the way down the line like that. So then God turns to Eve and tells her, He will greatly multiply your pain. So first the serpent and the Satan, then God turns to Eve and tells her He will greatly multiply your pain at childbirth, a constant reminder to all mothers and every generation. The second part of the curse on Eve is a little more difficult to understand. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you Uh it's worth taking a look at the Hebrew there. Uh the second part of the curse on Eve, uh the the word translated desire. The English word is desire there. The Hebrew is tashuka Um it's very negative. Um the uh uh the the English word desire in that context seems to or can be can be thought of in English anyway as positive or romantic. But that that Hebrew word is actually very negative. that that word desire, Teshuka. And especially coupled with the the word rule. And that exact same combination, just like that in the Hebrew, is in Genesis chapter 4 When it says sin's desire is for Cain. Sin's desire is for Cain. It's that same Teshuka. So Sin desires Cain just as uh Eve will desire her husband. It's very negative. It's not positive and romantic, that desire there. It's a negative thing. Uh desires for you, but you must over uh rule over it. So in other words, sin is looking to master Cain or rule over Cain, but he needs to master and rule over it instead It's exactly the same. Eve is looking to uh desire rule over or master Adam or her husband, but he is going to master and rule over her her W what is this saying? This is this part of the curse is talking about friction in marriage That's what it's talking about. Friction about who's in charge in marriage. That's what that part of the curse is talking about. He he's saying that there's going to be friction in the marriage relationship because of this sin. And there will be this struggle over who's in charge within marriages. And so do we see that today? Is there struggle and friction in marriages? Yeah, there there are. Um therefore the woman is placed uh so the woman is in a subordinate role in 316 She will seek to gain authority over her husband just as sin desired to gain authority over Cain. However, Adam should master her. Tashuka is a word that emphasizes the desire to possess The woman chose to act independently of the man. Now she will have a desire to rule and possess him. She shall desire to control the man and to dispute the headship of the husband. Man was already in authority over the woman before the fall, but now she will have a tendency to rebel and try to rule him. That's from a commentary on uh Genesis by Fruchtenbaum. Fruchtenbaum is a fascinating character. He was a Jew who who uh uh was saved. His grandfather was a rabbi. His grandfather had the entire Tanakh, that's the entire Old Testament memorized in Hebrew. So his grandfather could recite the entire Old Testament in Hebrew from memory. And he taught his son, his grandson similarly. So This guy Fructam who wrote this commentary I just read from he didn't he wasn't able to memorize the entire Old Testament in Hebrew, but he was pretty close. And he was he was raised on biblical Hebrew as kind of a first language from the time he was a tiny little child. And then he came to Christ and he was a professor of Hebrew. He went to Dallas Theological Seminary. But I trust his take on the subtleties of Hebrew above almost everybody else because he was really uh instructed in biblical Hebrew from the time he was a tiny child, unlike most pastors. Um okay. Uh yes, yeah yeah. Bob. The serpent is current and the ground is currently. Later on it's this famous stage at the circle. Um it says that um there's it's the curse, and so the curse has all these manifestations. So if you uh let's go back. So what does God say? Um let's go all the way back What are the punishments? So first uh it this the s the serpent is cursed And th pu uh put but the but the curse says that um let me go all the way back. Oh go all the way back. Let's go all the way back. All the way back. Said the serpent, Because you have done this curse about you more than cattle, and more than every beast of the field, on your belly you will go, and dust you will eat all the days of your life. So that's talking about the actual Snake. Right? And then in 15, and I will put enmity between the woman and between your seed and her seed. Okay. That is, and and then we say he he shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. That is talking about Satan. Satan and Christ. Okay? So we've got curse of a serpent, the actual snake. We've got curse of Satan. And they uh we'll we'll call this the Proto-Evangelion. We'll talk about that in a in some slides to come. That is a curse on Satan Okay. To the woman he said I will and this is then he hands out punishments. Um to the woman he said I will so what's what's Eve's curse or punishment? Okay. Um it is common to call this the fall and to use the language of cursing and punishment interchangeably here for all of this. But if you'd like to make a distinction you can. What it's what it does is give out punishments that are kind of ongoing. Right? So uh so this happens to this not only to Eve, but to every woman ever since for childbirth, there's pain in childbirth So obviously that means that there wouldn't have been pain in childbirth if there hadn't been a sin. But eventually we redeem our comes through Eve. Yes? So that's why I would I would say that it's pretty nice we get the curse. Here it is on the surface. And then later on the ground. Yeah, but so so uh you're making a distinction between punishment and curse, I see that. Uh but I well I'm telling you that that's not a common distinction when people talk about these events. Um so uh i it's okay to do that. It's okay to do that, but just realize that this is a a punishment that is given to even all women all the way down the line and so its magnitude is awesome. The fact that not just not just Eve, but every woman who's ever given birth from that time till the end of time it does so in pain. including, we assume, Mary when she bore Jesus. So the effect of that curse or punishment includes the birth of Jesus too. Right? She she had pain the unless somebody can show me otherwise, she had pain in childbirth with Jesus just like every woman has pain in childbirth. The scripture says nothing about Eve being given special dispensation so that when Jesus was born it didn't hurt. Um so in in that sense Uh people usually refer to the punishment as as the the curse, the uh in general as as the curse of the fall or uh the punishments and so then we have uh the punishment on Adam is the curse of the ground. So the ground is cursed and he's got a s by the sweat of his face And of course the the ultimate punishment here is death. And it's death for um di y to thus you will return. Uh but of course it also extends to Eve. Eve dies too. Not just Adam, but Adam and Eve and every p male and man and woman since then has always died. Um and so Except Enoch, um and except um Elijah. Um so y yeah, so this is the effects of the fall uh in general. There's all these e f effects. Um and sometimes it's referred to as the curse. Um sometimes it's referred to as In if you go into great detail you can say there's punishments and we detail what these punishments are here. Uh but these effects of the curse, uh of the fall, if you will, are these things that were that that God dealt out these punishments at one point in history in time, uh in space-time history But the effects keep going on and on and on and on and on and on and on, all the way till the end of time. Everybody dies with these rare exceptions where God directly intervened. God always can directly intervene. Um and so um y you have the effect of the curse that uh women continually have pain in childbirth. You have the effect of the curse that uh the ground is cursed and it and it doesn't Uh we we it's it's hard for us to imagine what what did the ground do before the curse. We don't know what what it did. Um And then the uh the fact that everybody dies. Everybody dies, the ground is cursed, the um the woman has pain in childbirth and this promise of Christ triumphing over Satan. All of that is tied up here in this little section of scripture where God gives the um the effects, if you will, of the curse. Yes. So you don't want to justify people by the law because righteous or by faith. And it goes on and it says um that uh Christ redeemed us from the curse. They talk about Jesus being cursed. Yeah, yeah. There's a quote, Cursed is everyone who hangs from a tree, cursed is everybody who doesn't obey the law. So the biblical language seems to equate, seems to use the word curse kind of in a broad way. in that passage in Galatians, everybody who doesn't obey the law is cursed. And that's kind of a broad meaning of that term. Now of course that's Greek. and not Hebrew. So there could be a difference there as well. Yeah. Okay. Yes. What do you think of the order of the judgment? I mean Satan who was blamed ultimately by So um my Thought has always been that he he meted out the punishments in the order of the sin. So Satan sinned first Um i uh e even in this particular context right here, he he uh slanders God first He he he he lies and slanders and says that see he accuses God of lying and of being uncharitable to them. So he sins first, then Eve sins by eating the apple, then Adam sins by eating the fruit. Um and so My plot has always been that he punished them punished them in the order in which they sinned in this context. Yes. That would later to humanity, to people. Is this also when dedicate to animals that they have lived forever? I believe so. I believe so. Um there's not a a specific scripture that specifically says it, but I think that's the implication of the fact that death came into the world by this sin and so I think yes animals would have kept living. Um you have the first animal death here, we're about to talk about that. Um He did, yeah. So um let's talk about that. Um and so we have in of course in the New Testament we have additional uh amplification about the Um the relationship between husbands and wives, wives be subject to your husbands, uh husbands love your wives. Uh we have the specific commands about that in the um in the New Testament. Um God then, of course, speaks to Adam and says, the ground is cursed because of you. He had given Adam dominion over creation in chapter 1. So when Adam fell, the whole creation suffered. In Romans chapter 8, we get a confirmation of this. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God, for the creation was subjected to futility. not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. Interesting that the analogy uses childbirth, which is another part. of the punishment for the uh the sin. The other part of the curse is the the childbirth pains and now he's comparing in the New Testament that to um the the cursing of the ground Um and so the last part of the curse is in toil uh the next part of the curse is in toil you will eat. Uh the thorns and thistles will grow for you. So uh was it the case that there was no such thing as thorns and thistles before this, perhaps? Um or th it could be that when he planted seeds all he got was the crops before. Now he's gonna plant seeds and thorns and thistles are gonna come up. Uh and the last part is physical death. Uh for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Um and there would be no point of this part of the punishment if physical death already existed before the fall Uh if he was going to die anyway, why is this why would this be part of the punishment? Uh the scripture refers to death as the last enemy, 1 Corinthians 15, 26. So misinterpretations of Genesis, which involved death before sin, have to assert that the last enemy was part of God's very good creation. I don't think that makes sense. Uh the first animal death occurs immediately in 321 when the Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and his wife. So God kills an animal in order to make skins for them. Um and then of course at the very end of this passage God drives Adam and Eve out of the garden. Um he says, lest they take hold of the fruit and and live forever, why would that be a bad thing? To live forever as a sinner would not be a good thing. So God's looking out for their best interest by driving them out of the garden and not letting them eat that that fruit and live forever as a sinner So the bad news and the good news. So let's take a look. Oh, we're almost out of time, but let's do it anyway. Let's take a brief look at Genesis, uh Romans chapter 5 So if you'll turn in your Bibles uh or tune your devices to Romans chapter five Romans chapter 5, starting in verse 12, therefore just as through one man sin entered in the world, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men, because all sinned. For until the law sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over those who had not sinned in the likeness of the offense of Adam But the free gift is not like the transgression, for if by the transgression of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God and the gift By the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound to the many. The gift is not like that which came from through the one who sinned, for on the one hand the judgment arose from one transgression revolting resulting in condemnation, but on the other hand the free gift arose from many transgressions resulting in justification. For if by the transgression of the one death reigned through the one, much more those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness will reign in life through the one. Jesus Christ. So then, as through the one transgression there resulted condemnation to all men, even so through the one act of righteousness there resulted justification of life. to all men. For as through the one man's disobedience the many were made sinners, even so through the obedience of the one, the many will be made righteous. So this is a wonderful scripture, Romans chapter five saying that you have this one man Adam and he ruined everything. And there's this one man Christ who came along and fixed everything. Um and so there's this direct comparison between Adam the first head of the human race who fell and because of that sin spread to the whole human race, but then there's this one man who comes along, lives a sinless life, and and is the perfect sacrifice so that the sins of all who believe can be forgiven. So the imputation of sin is through Adam, but the salvation from sin is through Christ. Verse 15, of course, is known as the theological term proto-evangelium, the good news. Um the it's in its original form, its proto-form, it's uh it's kind of a veiled form. Um He he switches from contending the serpent to the to Satan. He curses Satan to be forever at war against mankind, depicted as the seed or offspring of the woman. The woman in question is in general sense Eve herself, all of whose offspring would forever be harassed by Satan and his minions. More specifically, the offspring of the woman refers to Jesus Christ, who was born of a woman But not of a man. Yeah, the seed of the woman. The enmity or hostility and hatred spoken of here is between Satan and Christ. The seed of the serpent, evil man and demonic forces struck at the heel of the Savior when Judas did what he did, the Pharisees did what they did, the rabble did what they did, the Romans did what they did. They all conspired to condemn Jesus to be crucified. But his wound was not the final act. He rose the third day, having paid the price for sin of all who would ever believe in him. So the ultimate victory was his, the seed of the woman. And he crushed the head of Satan, removing forever his rule over man. So the power of Christ would destroy Satan and all his principalities and powers, confound all his schemes, and ruin all his works. So the power of the cross crushes Satan's whole empire, strips him of his authority, particularly his power over death, his tyranny over the bodies and souls of men And all this was done by the incarnate Christ when he suffered and died for the souls of men. Because of what Jesus did on the cross, he crushed the devil's head, defeating him forever. So this original stating of the gospel, the original messianic prophecy shows that God always had the plan of salvation in mind. He informed us of his plan as soon as sin entered the world. So as soon as sin entered the world, he told Adam and Eve, this is the plan. that I'm gonna have a seed of the woman who's gonna crush the head of the serpent. Yep. Um and so we get this uh quote from first John chapter three, um where uh the Apostle John says, the Son of God appeared for this purpose to destroy the works of the devil. And that's what God said all the way back in in Genesis chapter 3 and all the way towards the end of the scriptures in 1 John chapter 3 Uh John says, the Son of God appeared for this purpose, to destroy the works of the devil. Okay Uh we're out of time. Uh let me let me pray for us and then if you have uh questions or comments you can come up. I'll stick around for a while. Uh dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for the the terrible tale of the fall. Um although, of course, even there is the good news of your great plan of redemption found right there in Genesis chapter 3, right along with the fall and all of its effects is your great plan of redemption. Uh starting there in Genesis chapter three and and then all over the pages of Scripture, all the way up to the birth of Christ and his life, death, and resurrection. We thank you, Lord, for laying that out for us. We pray, Lord, that we would live our lives in the light of these truths, the understanding that Every single person that we encounter in life is somebody who's made in your image, of infinite worth because they're made in your image. but that they're fallen and they're subject to the to the effects of the fall, uh, that they are born with a sin nature and need salvation. We pray, Lord, that you would give us opportunities to tell this good news, to shine this light of Christ in a dark world. An opportunity to tell people that there is hope. And that hope is found in Jesus Christ. Give us the words through your Holy Spirit to say that so that we will have a reason for the hope that's in us and and the fact that that hope is for all mankind, that that everybody who would believe can be saved in Christ Jesus. We thank you, Lord, for the opportunity we have right now to worship you in corporate worship. We pray that that worship would be acceptable in your sight, that it would bring glory to your name. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.