Okay, so this is actually part two. So we've already studied Genesis one through five. And I'll do a little bit of review for those who may be stuck. How many is there anybody that's here that was not in The first class. Okay. So we do have a few. Yes. Good. So we'll do some uh we'll do some review because this is as you see, this is actually part fourteen. that we're doing today. So uh I have to very quickly uh get you up to date on thirteen parts that we've already done. And uh so I did the first twelve parts and then Pastor Gabe was here last week to do Part 13. So what we're studying is the first 11 chapters of Genesis and how they are the foundation for a biblical worldview. For us to be able to look at the world Through the lens of the scriptures, chapter 1 through 11 of Genesis is really the foundation for all of that. It's a foundation for the rest of Scripture. It's a foundation for being able to see the world through the lens of Scripture. And so everybody has a worldview. And worldviews answer certain basic questions. All of them do. So all worldviews answer the question, who am I? The nature of mankind, anthropology. And so we're going to look at this through the lens of scripture, through biblical anthropology. What does God say? Who does God say that people are? Where do I come from? Origins. Who is in charge? Who's the rulemaker? Who's the sovereign? All worldviews answer that question. How should I live my life? The rules, morality. And what happens when I die? What's the future? Does this organization have a future? And the Bible, of course, answer, as a worldview, answers all of these questions. And so we've been studying primarily the first three. So the the first few chapters of Genesis really lay down the answers to those first three questions. So how does the Bible answer that first question? Who am I? So we are created in the image of God. And so we talked about in great detail what does that mean to be created in the image of God? And therefore of infinite value. Each person is of infinite value. Why is each person of value? Because we're created in the image of God. Where do I come from? How how how did we become created in the image of God? What did that look like? So we studied in Genesis chapter one the creation of the universe. by God from nothing, ex Nilo, uh the whole world created in six ordinary twenty-four-hour days, uh how he created, what order he created in, and then culminating in the creation of mankind, men and women. So that's where we come from. And then who's in charge? And so we've come back to this a number of times in the first 13 parts That God is sovereign over his creation. And so therefore he and he alone has the authority to make rules And no one has authority to set aside God's rules. Because since I am not your creator, I do not have authority to make rules for you. So God in his infinite wisdom has created, has delegated authority to enforce the rules that he has made. For example, um parents in a family. He's delegated parents in the family authority to make rules for the kids. government officials. He's delegated the authority to enforce the rules that he has made to these government officials. But This is very important. Study very carefully the passages about government in the Bible. God does not delegate his authority to make the rules. to government authorities, only to enforce the rules that he has made. And so this this tension comes out in our modern world in things like The definition of marriage, so in Genesis chapter 2, God defines marriage in chapter 2 24 between a man and a woman The the no government, society, or person has the authority to change God's rule in this respect. When God invented marriage, there were only two people in the world There were no cultures, no societies, no governments. And so no culture, society, or government has the authority to set aside God's rule for what a marriage is. They have Delegated authority to enforce rules, but not He has not delegated his authority to make up new rules Okay, uh how should I live my life? And so that is revealed uh throughout Scripture, what how people what how people are supposed to act. And so in the very beginning, God only gave one rule Don't eat of that one tree right over there. He made that one rule for Adam and Eve. And of course they weren't able to keep that one rule. And then what happens when I die? That's eschatology in the future. And we'll talk about we'll touch a little bit on that actually today. What happens when I die, eschatology. So all worldviews answer these questions in some way or other. And so what we're really interested in is, well how does the Bible answer these questions? So as a quick review also of what we did, so Genesis chapter 1 is of course the creation. We have six days of creation and seventh day God rested Genesis chapter 2 is the story of Adam and Eve in the garden. It uh gives a little bit more detail of how Adam and Eve were made. Adam was made from dust, Eve is uh fashioned from a rib from Adam. And then God cre makes a garden, He puts them in the garden, He puts them to work. And so work um is something that came before the fall. And then In Genesis chapter 3, we have the fall and the consequences of the fall. They're expelled from the garden. The entire creation is cursed. Adam and Eve are are then destined to die. They're they're doomed to die. Uh they die spiritually right away. They die physically eventually, as we saw in chapter five. So that's chapter three. And then chapter four is the story of Cain and Abel. And so right away in the very first generation, one brother kills another brother. with the consequences of the fall. And then Genesis chapter 5 that we that uh Pastor Gabe did last week We follow the genealogy from Adam to Noah and notice that everybody dies. So let me do just a little bit of a review. for uh well this is what we're gonna start study today. So today we're gonna be in chapter six and we're gonna talk about the preparation for the flood. So I have my I have my preparation for the flood tie here So preparation for the blood. So we're going to talk about the fact that the the earth had become wicked. Um the we're going to talk about the sons of God and the Nephilim at the beginning of chapter six and what who they are and what it's talking about there uh mankind's depth of depravity in the coming judgment, uh that God uh tells Noah that He's going to judge the earth We're going to talk about the fact that Noah was righteous. The Bible says he's righteous. What does that mean? Why does the Bible say Noah is righteous? Corruption on the earth and God commissioning a big boat. And and giving some details about how this big boat is supposed to be built. We're going to talk a little bit about that today. We're going to talk more about that next week. So let me just review from last week. So last week I wasn't here for the discussion, so if you have any lingering questions From last week you can ask. Um so these tolerots, now the bio the Genesis is divided up into Tolodot sections. Um And chapter five is the generations of Adam or What Came Forth from Adam. And it's a little bit unusual because it's There's a an additional phrase there with Toledot in the Hebrew, the book of. None of the other Toledots have that, the book of the generations of so-and-so, except for this this one right here with Adam And so it talks about this word book, cephar, and it would originally probably have been either a scroll or a stone tablet that that word is talking about in Hebrew. And the same pattern is repeated in the genealogy in Matthew. So in the book of Matthew, it also says the book of the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah. Just like it says the book of the generations of Adam here in Genesis chapter 5. So there's a parallel there. The book of the genealogy in Matthew 1 uh is exactly the same Greek phrase as the Septuagint. So the Septuagint is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. So in um in the the centuries before Christ, uh Hebrew was becoming a dead language. And so uh the the Jewish religious leaders were concerned about that, and so they translated the Hebrew Old Testament into Greek, because Greek was the language that everybody knew. And that uh we refer to that as the Septuagint. You'll see it uh uh abbreviated LXX, the 70. Septuagint means the 70, because it was 70 Hebrew scholars that translated it. So the Septuagint for Genesis 5 is the same Greek phrase as the Greek phrase in Matthew chapter 1 for the book of the genealogy of. And so this is a perfect parallel and it fits. The whole Bible fits together. And this really fits because it's in Genesis 5, it's the generations that proceed from the first man Adam going forward. And in Matthew chapter 1, it's the generations that precede Christ, the last Adam. And so it's very fitting that those phrases should be exactly the same for Genesis 5 and Matthew chapter 1. Then we saw last time that uh these generations are followed from Adam and Eve all the way down through Noah. And uh in these particular charts I've got uh Ancestors of Jesus in red So the Bible goes out of its way to follow one particular line throughout the whole Old Testament, one particular line, and then Matthew, it summarizes it all. And that line is leading up to Christ. And the reason for that is because the Bible is a book about Jesus. It's a book about God's redemptive plan for mankind in Jesus Christ. Yes, go ahead, Doug. Uh neither was I. But can you help me understand is just Genesis five a whole poladot by itself So um it's not exactly. So that's the Toledot that begins the Toledot of Adam goes through chapter verse eight of chapter six. So the first eight verses of chapter six are also part of this Toleda. So it starts at 5-1 and finishes at verse 8. Yes, 6-8. Very good. Uh so we follow these generations, uh Adam and Eve, Seth, so but but he they have Cain and Abel and they have other sons and daughters, and so all throughout this uh this genealogy there's others of sons and daughters, so people are proliferating throughout the earth All these sets of other sons and daughters is uh lots and lots and lots and lots of people. Now, why don't we follow those people? Does God not care about those people? No, of course God cares about those people. Uh and we'll see when we get uh further into the book of Genesis. Uh by the time of of Abraham there are people all over the world. We know from these these descendants here and from uh archaeological evidence that there were people in China, there were people in South America, there were people all over the world, but we the Bible only follows Abraham and his descendants. Why is that? Because That's the line that's leading to Jesus Christ. Not because God doesn't care about those other people. He does care about those other people. But the Bible is telling us of the story of God's plan of redemption of mankind. And that plan of redemption is through Jesus Christ. And so we follow the line of Jesus Christ. And so that's what's happening here in this genealogy. There's other sons and daughters But the Bible is focused on this particular line that's uh sometimes referred to as the seed line because when we get to Abraham, we'll hear about the fact that Abraham that through Abraham's seed, singular, as Paul points out the entire world will be blessed. Okay, and then we follow the generation Seth and Enos. And so the transliterations of these Hebrew names in different translations of the Bible are a little bit different sometimes. Just remember that they're originally in Hebrew and this these are in English they're all transliterations. So Seth, Enosh, or Enos, then Kenan or Kanan. Mahalalel or Mahalalal or Jared and then Jared. And then notice other sons and daughters. And then of course notice that they all die. And he died, and he died, and he died, and he died. So this is the consequence of the s the curse, the the the curse that's found because of the fall. It's a consequence of the fall uh right there in our face And he died and he died and he died. Uh but then there's one guy that doesn't die. Uh so the seventh generation, there's this case of Enoch. Uh he he lives to a puny, measly, three hundred and sixty five years old, um and that God takes him. So there's this seventh generation and we talked When we were in Genesis chapter 4, when we followed the descendants of Cain, that there was extreme wickedness in the seventh generation from Adam along the line of Cain with this fellow Lamech who bragged about murdering people. Um and but we have an uh in the in the same generation, the seventh generation from Adam, along the line of Seth, we have outstanding faith in Enoch. And then Methuselah and Lamech and Noah. And then at the very end we t we have the three sons of Noah, Shem Ham and Japheth. So, uh and he died is the theme. Um that that the the God when God said something was gonna happen Well that that thing happened. He said they were going to die, and lo and behold, they died. Uh he told Adam that if he ate the tree he would die. He told Adam that because he had eaten the tree, he would die. And he died But he didn't immediately drop over. So Adam didn't drop dead right away there in Genesis chapter 3. He lived 900 years after that. Um and we do have cases in the Bible where God caused people to die immediately when they sinned. In Acts chapter 5, Ananias and Sapphira, they drop over dead. When they sin. So God can do that. He can judge immediately. And we have a record of that in the Bible. But in Adam and Eve's case, he didn't do that in his mercy. And so they all die. And we we talked about last time Romans chapter 6, verse 23, which says, for the wages, and wages are something we earn. Right? Wages are something that you earn by what you do. And so the wages of sin is death, the thing that we've earned by what we do is death. But the free gift, something we don't earn, you don't earn a free gift The free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. So this phrase that he died, eight of the nine men. We have this curious case of Enoch. And then we get some details filled in in the New Testament about Enoch. In Jude, we have the fact that Enoch was a prophet. The Bible tells us that Enoch was a prophet. In the seventh generation from Adam, he prophesied saying, and so there's some quotes from Enoch that we have in the New Testament. They're not in the Old Testament. Those quotes are not in the Old Testament, but they're in the New Testament. So we have this fact that he was a prophet. And then in Hebrews chapter 11, we have a description of how he was saved. By faith, Enoch was taken up so that he was not would not see death, for he obtained the witness that before his being taken up he was pleasing to God. And without faith, it is impossible to please him. And so the Bible is consistent. We'll see that again in this lesson today. that the only way to salvation is by grace through faith. And that's been the case from Genesis to Revelation, from the beginning of creation till today and all the way to the end The only way to salvation, the only way to please God is faith. It's by grace through faith. That's how the Old Testament, the people in the Old Testament that were saved, they were saved by grace through faith, just like you and I. Okay, uh also Genesis chapter 5, I want to make sure everybody has this down, um, is a chronogenealogy. And so there's a structure there. Um Person A lived X number of years and became the father of person B. And then person A lived another Y years, and saw the days of A's life were X plus Y. Uh that's what the Bible tells us about these generations. So there's no time gaps. Even if there are if there could be people in between there, there's no time gap possible there. So we know for certain, of course, that there's no even people gaps from Jude verse 14, that in fact Enoch was the seventh generation from Adam. The New Testament tells us that. So there's there's no gaps there. There's no time gap there. Um and and the re the reason and so uh we don't know exactly why God did this, but he did it this way He he he gave us the age of one generation when the next one was born. And so uh it was a hundred and thirty years from Adam's creation to Seth's birth. And regardless of whether they're were generations between them, there were still 130 years between Adam and Seth's birth. Uh the number of years between Seth birth and Enoch's birth was 105 years, even if you were to put more generations in between there. You still only have 105 years between Seth and Enosh, no matter how many generations you put in there And so this gives us a fixed number of years from Adam's creation to the birth of Abraham because we have exact number of years from this person to the birth of this person. Even if you were to postulate that there were more people in there, there is still that many years between one person and another person. So it's a chronogeology, genealogy. And so I think that Pastor Gabe put this chart up there so you can follow. In red you've got the age of one generation uh when the next one is born. And so here's what I'm what I'm trying to sell you tell you what I was just telling you in graphical form. So even if you threw in more people between here, it doesn't have any time So we we know how much time there was from Adam's creation of Abraham. And we know from extra biblical information how long ago Abraham lived. And so therefore we know for certain when creation was. Maybe not to an exact year, but very close we know how long ago creation was. And it was about 6,000 years ago Uh that's how we know. Um then um we have um the fact that The the j this book of Genesis wasn't written down until l long, long after these events. So Moses wrote these events down. Um probably when they were wandering in the wilderness before they went into the promised land, because Moses died before they went into the promised land. But he wrote these things down a matter of thousands of years in the case of creation after they occurred. So why is that? Why would God do that? And the reason he would do that is because They were such long generations that these stories could be told firsthand, uh face to face by an eyewitness. And so, um, of the all the generations listed in Genesis chapter five, only Noah and his sons could never have known Adam. Every all the generations before that would have been able to hear from Adam face to face what it was like in the garden, what it was like to fall, what was like to be expelled from the garden, that sort of thing And then we see if we add Genesis 11, there's going to be more genealogy in Genesis 11. Noah could have known everyone from Enosh, Adam's grandson, all the way up to Tirah, Abraham's father. They all lived at the same time as Noah. And so Noah could have spoken to all those people. And same thing for Shem. He lived for a long time after the flood. And he would have been able to tell the story of what it was like before the flood, what it was like to go onto the ark, what it was like to live through that year on the ark during the flood, come off the uh ark into the post-flood world, what the Tower of Babel was like He would have been able to tell those stories face to face for ev to everybody, including Abraham, all the way down through Abraham. And so this is a graph of what that looks like. So Everybody from Noah's father back could talk directly to Adam and hear exactly what it was like to be in the garden from Adam himself. what it was like to uh for the f what the fall was like, what it was like to be expelled from the garden. Uh everybody up to No uh Lamech uh Noah's father Lamech And then Noah himself could have talked to all the generations that came after the flood, we'll see, all the way down to uh definitely Tira. uh Abraham's father. And then Shem, who was alive uh for uh before the flood, uh would be able to talk to even Abraham and Isaac. So uh though the so these stories could be passed down by oral tradition, not by just uh I heard I heard from somebody who heard from somebody who heard from somebody, but you could hear directly from the person that was an eyewitness all the way down through all these generations. And so therefore it was not necessary to have it as a written document until it was necessary. When people started dying young, it was necessary to have this written down And so God caused it to be written down when it was necessary to be written down. Okay. Uh yes. Oh th this was just a uh graph of the uh the ages. So the ages are around nine hundred years, and then something happens at the flood. Something happens at the flood so that the H is reduce along roughly a uh a G uh a um an exponential regression of ages. And we'll actually talk about why that is when we get to the post-flood world. Well why would it be? Why should it be that the ages should come down? And there's a good reason for that. We now know from population genetics that a population bottleneck will cause a severe decrease in fitness. Severe decrease in fitness, a population bottleneck. And so what do we have at the arc? We have a population bottleneck down to eight people. That should, based on all we know about genetics, cause a severe decline in fitness. And so we see ages coming down, uh as we would expect now from modern science, but God knew what he was doing all along, and so uh yeah, we get a big regression of of ages after the flood Uh there are some outliers, of course, like if a guy at the measly age of 365 gets uh whooshed up to heaven, he looks like a real outlier. Uh okay Yeah, so uh then we so I I just explained all this stuff. So uh that was what we did last time or what I think happened last time, although I wasn't here. Does anybody have any lingering questions about what happened last time Or yes, go ahead Larry. Yes. So fitness is um so um the the overall um fitness of your body, uh how how how uh ph physically physically fit you are, uh physical fitness of the body based on genetics. Um we we know that a a population bottleneck is a genetic disaster. So a population of bottleneck is when you have a big population and it gets necked down to a small population. So you're saying because of inbreeding they were next ship? Yes. So uh well it's it's the the the necessity of marrying a close relative when there's only eight people on the world. Uh yes Now, why didn't that we went over why that was not the case with Adam and Eve in their initial generations, right? Because they were created with a perfect genome Adam and Eve were with no genetic mistakes. And we now know from the study of genetics that in the human genome Each of us adds about three hundred new point mutations in each generation. Uh the the human body is uh God made us with a tremendous um system for avoiding errors, for avoiding copying errors. However, it's not perfect. Not since the fall anyway, it's not perfect. And so errors slip through. Now there are 6 billion base pairs, 3 billion base pairs in a haploid, 6 billion base pores base pairs in a diploid cell in the human body in the DNA. That's a pretty big set of letters, six billion, and three hundred is a tiny fraction compared to six billion. But it adds up every generation. Every generation, 300 new point mutations, 300 new point mutations, 300 new point mutations. And the genetic difficulties come when you have the same point mutation at the same point in your in the the the the half of a um uh a chromosome pair that you get from your mother and the what one you get from your father. When those match up, the same error in the same place in the DNA, then you have a genetic problem. And so yeah, go ahead. That's right. Yeah, he's exactly right. So yeah, I I appreciate that uh Daniel, somebody my scientist in the room that can uh can fact check. And so it it's not the case that you will automatically have a problem. And so Uh and and many genetic difficulties, in fact a majority of genetic difficulties are um are w are classified as as slightly deleterious or uh have no apparent um deleterious effect at all. But some do, and some have massive, you know, some uh are w are known genetic difficulties that cause death, for example. you know, the the babies born uh not born at all or or born with with very profound genetic difficulties, and that's uh very sad and very tragic. But most have little or no effect uh on the human body. But they accumulate. These uh point mutations accumulate from generation to generation. So in Adam and Eve there were no point mutations The genome's perfect. God said it was very good at the end of creation. Perfect genome, perfect everything. But there's these added sets of mutation for each generation, each generation. So in the first generation, no problem whatsoever to marry your sister. But as mutations, the the total genetic load is how genetics uh genetics people that study it say, genetic load These point mutations build up year after year after uh generation after generation after gener generation. And um and then it becomes necessary for God to forbid the marriage of brothers and sisters. And when that becomes necessary, he does forbid marriage of brothers and sisters. Um and now we forbid the marriage of first cousins, for example. because it's dangerous after we've accumulated this genetic load over generation after generation after generation. But within within recorded history, there are lots of cases of first cousins marrying Not just in the Bible, but in the Middle Ages, um people marrying first cousins without uh uh any apparent effect. Um But now it's become dangerous to do that, and so we don't well a lot of countries will forbid things like first cousin marriages. So, but when you get a population bottleneck, you have to marry a close relative, right? Because that's all there is. So coming off the ark, uh the sons and daughters of Shem, Ham and Japheth had to marry their first cousins. That's all there was as first cousins. That's as far away as you could get genetically as a first cousin. Coming off. And and that has consequence. So um we know that he didn't persuade more people to come from the arc. I mean yes. Um It was God's purpose not to have more people coming to the ark. Uh but yes, Noah was a preacher of righteousness, we learn from uh the New Testament. And so yes, so people could have come to the Ark, but they didn't. More people didn't. So we we find out for sure from the Old Testament that only eight people were in that ark. But even if it was a grandson, um It's still he was that age when that person was born, even if it was a grandson. So it still doesn't add any time. It could add more generations, more people, but it can add more time Because it still says that amount of time when the per that person was born, even if he was a grandson instead of a son. Good question. So now and any more questions for chapters one through five before we go to chapter six So now we're going to launch into chapter six. So we're talking about these tolodots. So Genesis divided up into these sections called tolodots. And as Doug was asking, so the tolerant of Adam actually leaks into chapter six. Originally not no chapters and verses in this thing. But the Toledo of Adam goes through chapter verse 8 of chapter 6, and then we got the Toledo of Noah that goes from verse 9 of chapter 6 through the end of chapter 9. So essentially this is the events of the flood. So the preparation for the flood, then the flood. And then we'll see the Toledad of Shem Ham and Japheth, the table of nations, we call it, um, coming off the ark. So Preparations for the flood. So we're going to do this in two parts. Let me just lay this out. I've already gone through those. But so today and next week we'll do the first half of chapter six, one through sixteen, and then we'll actually do From verse uh chapter six verse seventeen through the first five verses of chapter seven next week. And so we're gonna see this preparation, the wickedness before the flood. and the fact that Noah is commissioned to build this ark and then that there's some time lapse. There's 120 years between he's told to build the flood and then the flood comes. And so uh we it's easy to gloss over that, but uh God promised this flood was coming and it didn't come. Uh and so Noah's building a boat and there's no flood. For a long time he's building this boat and there's no flood. We'll talk more about that uh next time. So uh let's look at the scripture. So if you would open your Bible to chapter 6 So you can follow along. We're going to do verse 1 through verse 16. And so either your Bible or your device looks like this. Now it came about when men began to multiply on the face of the land, and daughters were born to them, that the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful. And they took wise for themselves whomever they chose. Then the Lord said, My spirit shall not strive with man forever, because he also is flesh. Nevertheless, his days shall be one hundred and twenty years The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of men, and they bore children to them. Those were the mighty men of uh who were of old, men of renown. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. The Lord was sorry that he had made man on the earth, and he was grieved in his heart. The Lord said, I will blot out man, whom I have created, from the face of the land. from man to animals to creeping things and to birds of the sky, for I am sorry that I have made them But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. Now these are the records of the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his time. Noah walked with God. Noah became the father of three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Now the earth was corrupt in the sight of God, and the earth was filled with violence. God looked on the earth and behold it was corrupt. For all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth Then God said to Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me, for the earth is filled with violence because of them, and behold, I am about to destroy them with the earth. Make for yourself an ark of gopher wood. You shall make the ark with runes, and shall cover it inside and out with pitch. This is how you shall make it. The length of the ark 300 cubits, its breadth, 50 cubits, and its height, 30 cubits You shall make a window for the ark and finish it to a cubit from the top, and set the door of the ark and the side of it. You shall make it with lower, second, and third decks So that's what God has to say to Noah here in chapter 6. So he tells him to build a big boat, 300 cubits long, 50 cubits wide, 30 cubits Hi. So uh people become so wicked that God decides to destroy all living things with a flood. Here in verse uh five through seven. Noah, however, finds favor in the sight of the Lord. In verse 8, God commands Noah to build an ark which will protect Noah, his family, and representative animals from the flood. He provides Noah with specific instructions on how to build the art. Not only the size, but some of the uh details of how it's supposed to be built. It's what kind of wood it's supposed to be made, the fact that it's covered with pitch, it has to have rooms in it, it has to have three decks in it. It has a window in it. It has a door in it. It has dimensions that are about 450 feet by 75 feet by 45 feet. So a cubit's about 18 inches. So he gives them a little bit, not uh not measure and cut, he gives them pretty specific details about how this thing's supposed to be built And so that's an overview of what uh is happening here in this chapter. So let's take a look, some detailed look at uh what some of these verses say and what they mean. So uh these first few verses um I want to particularly zoom in on verse one, two, and four. So one, two, and four, it's a unusual part of scripture. It came about that when men began to multiply on the face of the land, we've got these sons of God and these Nephilim. Who are these sons of God and who are these Nephilim? So we've got this Toledot of Adam and it's proceeding from the genealogy. So last time we did the genealogy all the way from Adam and Noah. And now we get an explanation of how the earth became so wicked that God would judge it with a flood. So we have a very controversial passage of scripture here Um sometimes this gets glossed over, but uh it's not easy to understand what uh God's talking about here in verse one through two and verse four, these sons of God and the Nephilim. The term sons of God um in Hebrew here. Beniha Elohim. And the term Nephilim. This term Nephilim is left untranslated. That's just the Hebrew. Nephilim is the Hebrew. It's not translated in any way. It's just a transliteration of the Hebrew. Uh because nobody knows what to make of it. There was a time when it was falsely translated as giants. And I'll show you how it came to be falsely translated. It doesn't mean giants. This word Nephilim means fallen one. That's what it means. Fallen ones. Um e uh I am is the plural, so it's nephilim, it's plural. Fallen ones. That's what it means. Fallen ones. Doesn't mean giants. And so many translators have difficulty with both of these phrases, Sons of God and Nephilim. We're going to talk about it though, because we're not afraid of controversial passages of the Bible. Um in so the Septuagint, we talked about the Septuagint, that's the ancient uh the ancient translation from Hebrew to Greek. So when the Hebrews themselves translated to Greek, what word did they use for sons of God? They used the word, the Greek word angoloi. So that's what they that's what the Hebrews understand that term to mean. Angeloi, angels. That's how the ancient Hebrews translated that phrase, sons of God, angels. And not just here, not just in Genesis 6, but also in Job. When when and it's translated in English, Sons of God in Jobs 1 and Job 2, the sons of God present themselves to God That is angels. Um, and it's very clear in Job that it's angels. That's what it's talking about. It's not talking about people coming up to God, it's talking about angels, and Satan comes with them in Job. And so it's clear from Job 1 and it's translated, it's clear in the subtuagents, it's translated on the loy It's also clear in the Septuagint in chapter six, it's translated on the Loi Singh. Same in Daniel chapter three. Daniel chapter three, of course, is in Aramaic, and so um there is the the the the kind of the parallel uh phrase in Aramaic uses um Let's see, it uses bar um uh Elohim, which is uh uh the Aramaic equivalent of the Hebrew uh Elohim. Uh but it's the same thing and it's also translated uh ongoing there in uh in Daniel chapter three. Um and that's the the uh son of God in the fiery furnace Uh something someone that looked like a son of God. Um that same phrase. Uh and it means an angel. Or Uh sometimes some commentators believe it's a preincarnate Christ. But regardless, it's a supernatural being, it's not an ordinary person, is my point. And so it's pretty consistent in the Bible. But this phrase means angels. And so what do we make of that? Right here in Genesis chapter 6. So put the word angel in there. Put the word angel in there because that's what it says Um so the angels saw that the daughters of men were beautiful and they took wives for themselves. The Nephilim were on the earth, and the Nephilim were the offspring. So that's very disturbing. All right, that's very disturbing. We often pass by it because uh w we we fail to realize that that's That's what that phrase sons of God means throughout the scripture and what it it's very explicitly translated in the ancient Hebrew version, uh the ancient Hebrew uh Greek version that was written by the ancient Hebrews Uh it's angels. And so we have angels with human women. Very disturbing. And as we shall see, that was very disturbing to God as well. I'll show you the passages in the rest of Scripture which describes this event and how infuriating this was to the Lord. Alright, so uh to continue, so this reflects the common ancient Jewish understanding of this phrase to mean angels. Um let's go forward to the New Testament to see what's going on here. So In Jude, the book of Jude, which we don't often study, but we should, the book of Jude and the Book of 2 Peter are parallel. There are many Exact Greek phrases from the book of Jude and the Book of 2 Peter. They're repeated. And I'll show you some of those. So the book of Jude here in verse 6 says this And angels who did not keep their own domain, but abandoned their proper abode, he has kept in eternal bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great day. Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities around them, since they in the same way as these indulged in gross immorality and went after strange flesh as exhibited as an example in undergoing the punishment of eternal fire. So let's let's stop a moment and and grasp what this is saying So this is saying that some angels, fallen angels, demons, did something that was the same or similar to what Sodom and Gomorrah did. So in the same way as these, this is obviously saying that the same way as Sodom and Gomorrah had this sexual immorality, these angels had sexual immorality The same way as these indulged in gross immorality and went after strange flesh. So it's saying that that's what Sodom and Gomorrah did, and that's what these angels did. It's a very clear parallel here in the book of Jude. And because of it, God locked them in eternal bonds and darkness until judgment day. Okay. This passage is drawing an obvious parallel between a particular subset of fallen angels and the sexual sin of Sodom and Gomorrah. And then we get 2 Peter, 2 Peter chapter 4. It's a parallel passage to Jude, but it gives more details. For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into, and this is what this word translated hell here is Tartarus Which is an unusual it's different from uh the uh other Greek words that are used for hell, uh Tartarus, and committed them to pits of darkness reserved for judgment And An did not spare the ancient world, but preserved Noah. So this is all one sentence. And it's what it's saying is something these angels did in the days of Noah. Something that they did in the days of Noah. Chapter 6, what we're reading here in Genesis chapter 6. Something these angels did got them locked up in darkness all the way until the judgment day. Uh Noah is a preacher of righteousness, and seven others were on the ark with him when he brought a flood upon the world and the ungodly. He condemned the cities of Sodom Gomorrah, destruction by reducing them to ashes. So we have it pinned at the time of Noah and compared to the sins of Sodom and Gomorrah. He rescued Lot from Sodom and Gomorrah. Um and we see that uh Lot is a righteous man, which is very surprising if you read just the the uh description of how Lot behaved in the Old Testament. It doesn't seem like he's a righteous man, but the New Testament tells us that he was a r righteous man. So then the Lord knows how to rescue godly from temptation and to keep the unrighteous under punishment for the day of judgment, and especially those who indulge in the flesh and its corrupt desires and despise authority. And so these passages are talking about something that happened in the days of Noah and it happened to angels. And these angels are locked into a place of darkness where they can't get out until their their their let out just intended to be judged and thrown into the lake of fire. But so yes, go ahead. Then would you say that Noah is a descendant of angels And no, we wouldn't. No, no, so this is a good question. This is a great question. But one of the purposes of the flood was to get rid of this. Get rid of the what and we're going to talk about why Satan did this and why God took extreme measures to get rid of it. to make sure that anyone that was tainted by this activity was gone. Only eight people. Only Noah. And we get to trace Noah's descendants, right? We get from Adam to Noah, so we know for sure there's no uh Nephilim in there. We we know who those people are. No Nephilim in there. And everybody that's tainted by this this Nephilim business is definitely wiped out by the flood Definitely wiped out. Yes, go ahead, Diane. So um this is a major part of the wickedness on the earth, but it's not all of it because Um there's no indication from um Genesis chapter four that there's any uh Nephilim monkey business going on in Cain's line and it becomes wicked and evil. Um and there's no indication that there's any Nephilim wicked b monkey business going on right now and everything is violent and evil and wicked now. So it's not the only way that we get violence and evil and wickedness, but it's a particular example of violence and evil and wickedness that is particularly egregious to God to the point where he takes this subset of fallen angels, not all of them, and we'll see here in a minute that obviously there's demons around during Jesus' earthly ministry and And the Apostle Paul is casting out demons a after that. There's still demons around, but there's a group of demons that God locked away all the way back here in Genesis chapter 6, and they're not getting out all the way until it's time for judgment Because they did something that was so wicked that God judged them, locked him away, threw away the key, all the way back here in Genesis chapter six. And we're going to get into a passage in Matthew where you can see the demons are afraid that Jesus is going to do that to them. They're terrified. That Jesus is gonna is gonna send them to this place here, talked about in Jude and 2 Peter. They say, Have you come to torture us before the appointed time? Don't send us don't send us there. Send us into the pigs. Send us anywhere, but not there. They're terrified, the demons, because they know. They know about this other set of demons that's been sent into Tartarus. Okay, yeah, so it's not the only thing, but it's something that God is determined to get rid of. Um and we'll talk about why that is uh here in just a minute Uh very good. Yes. So what would the nature of those children So we don't know. We don't know. Uh it says they were mighty men of renown. Uh so i it so it's unclear. Yeah, so it's unclear what these Nephilim could do or what they would like were like. But God was determined to get rid of 'em and he did get rid of 'em. Uh-huh. They're they're all gone 'cause only eight people are on that ark and everybody else everything else that lived, not just people, but everything else that lived. Who knows? Who knows what they were like, but uh they're gone. They're they're definitely gone. That that's the most important yeah, go ahead. I want to create something dial some people. It's not that the F and Nephilim were the fallen angels mating with women. It's that Uh the Nephilim or the offspring. Yeah, the Nephilim are the offspring. So uh these uh the angels and women, the Nephilim are the offspring Um because the sons of God came into the Dars and bore them children. That's the Nephilim. So, yes, but God was determined to to get rid of them. Uh yes. Yeah, so i i um all the way up until the flood, because remember there's another hundred and twenty years. From the from this passage there's another hundred and twenty years to the flood. So there's still Nephilim there. Um but after the flood there are no Nephilim. Um So the lying spies in in n numbers thirteen. We'll get to the lying spies in numbers thirteen. So the lying spies in number thirteen, uh that's a I hope we're going to get there. So the lying spies in numbers thirteen say that there's Nephilim there because they're saying what they're saying is the boogeyman's there. We can't go in there because there's Nephilim there But there's not Nephilim there. And we know that from the Book of Joshua, that when they actually got there to conquest there was no Nephilim there. Um there's no indication in the book of Joshua that there were actually Nephilim there, but the lying spies said that there were And why would the lying spice say that? Because they didn't want them to go in there. And so if you don't want to go in there, think about the stories that Jewish children would have heard. They would have heard about these Nephilim from Genesis chapter 6. That's the boogeyman And so if you if you want to dissuade people from going in there, what do you say? If you're a line spy and you're making up a a a bad report, you say there's Nephilim in there. Oh no, we can't go in there. There's Nephilim Uh but no, there's not Nephilim there. Because we know for certain that only eight people in the ark, right? Only eight people in the ark, so the Nephilim were all killed. Yes, uh so let me continue here. Um so Matthew chapter eight was what I was just talking about. So uh and so this is the um the area of the Gatherenes So Jesus has this interaction with a demon-possessed man. He came to the other side of the country, the Gaterenes, two men who were demon-possessed, met him as they were coming out of the tombs. They were so extremely violent that no one could pass that way, and they cried out saying, What business do we have with each other, Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time? So they know they know about these demons, these fallen angels that God locked away all the way back there in Genesis 6, and they don't want they don't want to go there Um so uh have you come here to torture us before the judgment day, like you did for all those demons before in Genesis chapter six? Now there was a herd of uh many swine feeding at the distance from them. The demons began to entreat him. They're begging Jesus, If you're going to cast us out, send us into those swine. Don't send us where you have sent those other fallen angels before. We don't want to go there. Send us anywhere, even into the pigs instead. They're terrified These demons are terrified. What are they most afraid of? And what is the fear based on? They're clearly afraid of being sent somewhere before the final judgment day. Why are they afraid of that? They're afraid of that because God has done that before In Genesis chapter 6, and we get the description of it in Jude and 2 Peter chapter 4. Alright, to summarize some particular subset of fallen angels or demons uh did something so egregious and offensive of God that he locked them away and committed them to pits of darkness, as it says, where they are kept in eternal bonds under darkness for the judgment of the great days. Kept in bonds, in darkness, in chains, until they're let out on judgment day to be judged and cast into the lake of fire. Whatever these angels did is linked to the time of Noah, specifically in 2 Peter chapter 4. And compared directly to the sexual sin of Sodom and Gomorrah in both Jude and Second Peter. Other demons who were obviously not locked up there when they met Jesus, they were terrified that he will send them there in Matthew chapter 8. So the scriptures fit together from Genesis to Revelation. They fit together. If you read the whole council of scripture, it makes sense. So, now we get to this question, but doesn't the Bible say that angels can't get married? Doesn't it say that? Doesn't it say something about that? Matthew chapter twenty-two, we've always been taught. Uh what does Jesus say? So this is uh the um The Jewish leaders are trying to catch Jesus in a conundrum. So they say that this woman was married to a a whole string of seven brothers, as according to Jewish custom. If you married one brother and he died, then the other brothers were required to marry the woman so she could continue the they could continue the line. And so they postulate this hypothetical circumstance. What if A woman was married to seven brothers, and then in the resurrection, because they didn't believe in a resurrection, so that's what they're trying to trap him with. Uh the the Sadducees didn't believe in a resurrection, they're trying to trap him with a s uh this hypothetical situation that made it ridiculous to think about a resurrection. And Jesus answered In the resurrection therefore whose wife will the seven will they be, for they all had married her. But Jesus answered and said to them, You are mistaken, not understanding the scriptures, nor the power of God, for in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven This is the passage upon which people say angels can't get married. Notice that this passage describes angels in heaven. So in all of our discussions about Genesis chapter 6 and Jude and 2 Peter chapter 4, are we talking about angels in heaven? No, we're not talking about angels in heaven. This is different. These are fallen angels that are doing things that they're not supposed to do. Angels in heaven do things that they're supposed to do. They're obedient. So the passage is not talking about angels in describing angels in heaven, not fallen angels or demons, which are described in Judah as angels who did not keep their own domain, but abandoned their proper abode. And so why would Satan do this? Why would Satan have his demons do this? Remember that Satan was right there in the garden Hearing God proclaim. In Genesis 3. 15, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your seed and her seed, you shall bruise he shall bruise you on the head, you shall bruise him on the heel. He was right there, he heard it And so he's trying to disrupt God's plan. He's trying to do this all along. Corrupting or destroying the seed of the woman has been one of Satan's primary goals ever since. Genesis chapter 3. And so how did how does he go about this here in Genesis chapter 6? He goes about corrupting the seed of the woman. That's what he's doing. Sends these fallen angels down to corrupt the seed of the woman. And he continues to do that. He continues to attack the seed of the woman Uh all the way up through Matthew chapter two when he has Herod, he prompts Herod to slaughter all the babies. He's trying to disrupt God's plan. Uh and and he was right there in the garden to hear that it was the seed of the woman. And so in Genesis chapter six he's trying to corrupt the seed of the woman. In Genes in Matthew chapter two, he's trying to slaughter the seed of the woman Um this is what Satan does. And so it shouldn't really surprise us that he has done this. So God resolves to blot out humanity because of extreme wickedness, including whatever these fallen angels did. So including, not just, but including whatever it is that these fallen angels did. So the result of the flood is a reboot of mankind. Only eight people survived the flood, and none of them are these Nephilim, literally fallen ones. That's what Nephilim means, fallen ones. Who are all wiped out in the flood So in Numbers 13, uh as we as we talked about here, in Numbers 13, the line spies claim this. We even saw the Nephilim there. So all these bad reasons why we can't go in And at the very end they say, and we even saw the boogeyman. The descendants of Anak that come from the Nephilim. So they say that the descendants of Anak are Nephilim So, yes, there are descendants of Enach there, but no, Anak is not descended from Ephraim, because we know for certain that all the Nephilim died in the flood. Only eight people lived through that flood. So this is certainly false. What the what the lying spies are saying is certainly false because of what we know from the rest of Scripture. But I have heard in my forty years of teaching this Christians latch on to this, what the lying spies say, and saying what the lying spies say must be true and therefore Nephilim must have s survived the flood. No, that's backwards. Totally backwards. The Nephilim definitely died in the flood. Okay. So we have to read the whole council of scripture. uh the whole council of scripture. And so when we find an unusual thing in Scripture, uh whenever you find an unusual passage of Scripture, uh Try to fit it into what the clear passages of Scripture say. Don't interpret the clear passages of Scripture in terms of some obscure passage of Scripture. Make the hard, difficult, unclear ones fit into the clear narrative of the whole Council of God. And so the clear narrative of the whole council of God is that Everything, everything that live, and we'll see the very clear language in chapter seven and chapter eight, that every living thing died except for the people and the animals on the ark. And the people on on the Ark were not Nephilim, and so all the Nephilim died in the in the flood. It's a really clear story, yes. Yes, that's right. And so yes, there could have been confusion. And so that has actually led to some confusion in translation later on uh because yes there were giants in the land and the lying spies said Nephilim and so then there's been a conflation of Nephilim means giant in some older English translations. Now modern English translations don't do that. Um because the only reason to call Nephilim giants is what the lying spies said. And there's no other reason from scripture, there's no reason from that Hebrew word Nephilim to think that they were giants. And it doesn't mean giant. Nephilim doesn't mean giant, it means fallen ones Uh yeah, go ahead. Um I I expect it you're gonna teach us why it's important that methylamol died in the flood in a future lesson. Um but how do we know I'm gonna go out on crazy land here. How do we know that Shem Ham and Shephah's wives weren't Nephilim? Okay, so yeah, so good good question. So how do we know that they weren't? So we don't know s their genealogies So we don't know where they came from. But we do have this description of of how God felt about the Nephilim. So this is how God felt about the Nephilim we get in Jude and Second Peter four. And we get the fact that that a component of the wickedness of Earth. Not the not the whole thing, but one of the components of wickedness that caused the judgment of the flood was these Nephilim. And so it would not explicitly stated, but it would certainly be a contradiction If God put the descendants of Nephilim by way of the wives onto the ark It would seem to be a contradiction, but you're correct that there's no explicit statement of who the genealogy of Mrs. Noah And Mrs. Shem, Mrs. Hamm, Mrs. Chase. Yep, we don't get we don't get the genealogy. And we do get of course get some genetic diversity from Mrs. Noah well We don't know whether Noah had any kids after the there's there's it doesn't say one or the other whether Noah had kids after the flood, but uh Shem, Ham and Japheth had the kids after the flood, and so We do have some genetic variation from the wives, Shem, Ham, and J. Yeah. Yes. Yes, one would assume that that's the case, but there's no explicit It's not written in there. We would assume, yes, that they were wicked. Now, and we don't know the mechanism, so uh some some have speculated that it was uh possession So that uh that what this is talking about is the sons of God as human possession. So not Not demons walking around in bodily form, but demons possessing oh I've come to the end of my time. Um possessing. So and it's possible that that's the case Um but we we just don't know. But yes, it seems like that would be a that wouldn't be an ideal home to to basically. So uh we'll have to stop with that. I think I was almost done. Uh well not quite. So uh I will come back to the arc and its stability uh next time Uh yeah, go ahead. Uh huh, there you go. The RPG 300 cubic are equivalent. Yep. So if you want an idea of what the R equipment. It's about the size of this building. So yeah, you can look you can see all these slides on Hope Book if you want. And so um I I'm gonna have to pick this up next time because we're out of time. Uh but we'll talk about the arc and its extreme stability, uh really extreme stability uh with those dimensions. Okay. Uh let's pray.