Okay, so here we are in part six. So uh what we're gonna learn today, so uh we're in Genesis chapter two, we're gonna see God creates Adam, God creates the Garden of Eden, and God puts Adam to work. So that's our basic outline for today. First we'll do a little bit of review of what we did last time. So last time we took a uh a large scale view of uh Genesis chapter two. Um we talked about uh we're talking about uh in the um in the the larger view of w why we're why we're looking in particular at this passage of scripture from genesis 1 to 11 is it sets the foundation for a biblical worldview So all everybody has a worldview and all worldviews answer some basic questions about life, about who am I, where do I come from, who's in charge, who's uh got the authority to make rules How should I live my life? What are those rules? And what happens when I die? The future eschatology. So uh the foundation for the answers to these questions from a biblical worldview is laid down in Genesis one to eleven. And unless you get this foundation correct, there's no way to properly see the world. You won't be able to understand the world as it really is. And so we've talked about the fact that When we're interacting with our unbelieving friends and co-workers and family members and neighbors, if they don't understand who they are as a person created in the image of God, it's almost impossible to explain to them the gospel. They can't understand it. Um and so we need to be able to understand We need to be able to explain these basic answers to these basic world review questions from a biblical perspective just to be able to properly present the gospel. So last time we talked about some of the things that are in Genesis chapter 2 and some of the difficulties that sometimes arise. Uh one of those we talked about is the significance of the seventh day. And so uh if you look at uh a seven day week Seven day week is universal, it's in all cultures. Uh we go back through time and we see everybody's always used a seven-day week. Well why is that Every other one of our time markers, days, months, and years, have some sort of an astronomical phenomenon that determines those things. A day is one rotation around the Earth's axis. A year is one trip of the Earth around rotating around the Sun. A month is tied to the lunar schedule from uh um one new moon to another new moon. The seasons are determined by the tilt of the Earth's axis, the solstices and the equinoxes that are determined by the 23. 5 degree tilt. But there is nothing in astronomy that dictates a seven-day week. So where did that come from and why is it universal? Well of course it's we we know where it comes from. It comes from Creation Week That's why there's a seven-day week in every single culture, everywhere in the world. And one of the best ways to illustrate that is to show the one time we know from history where somebody tried to change it And that was the French Revolution. In 1793, the French government uh very explicitly wanted to do away with anything that was based on the Bible or Christianity. And so they tried to implement by government fiat a ten-day workweek. They actually did. They called it the French Revolutionary Calendar And they implemented a ten day work week and it was a huge embarrassing failure. Um there were many, many problems, but uh The the primary one was the French workers were being required to work nine days and then get one day off. And it led to s severe overworking and severe depression generally among the population. And so it appears, not only appears it really is, that we're hardwired for seven-day week And so we also talked about the passage in Hebrews chapter 4 and how there is a spiritual parallel that the Bible draws a spiritual parallel between uh the Sabbath rest and uh a spiritual application of the Sabbath rest. And so we went through this quote from John MacArthur and his uh commentary on Hebrews, the rest promised to those who believe is my rest, as it says in Hebrews, that is God's rest. Uh he rested from his work of creation, and the rest that he gives us in Christ are not the rest brought on by weariness or the rest of inactivity. What are the rest of finished work? His works were finished from the foundation of the world, it says in Hebrews chapter four. God is finished his work, God has done it all, and for anyone who wants to enter into his finished work and to share in his rest, it is available by faith. When God had finished creation, he said, briefly paraphrasing Genesis 2, it's done, I've made a wonderful world for man and woman. I've given them everything earthly they need, including each other, for a complete and beautiful and satisfying life. Even more importantly, they have perfect, unbroken, unmarred fellowship with me. I can now rest, and they can rest in me. And so that's a quote from John MacArthur from his commentary on Hebrews chapter 4, which is a spiritual application of this concept of Sabbath rest. So we talked about that. And so If we start from God's Word, we can clearly see that a seven-day week was established by God on the pattern of the Creation Week. Yes, go ahead. Quite a few of them do. And the The the true answer of course is that they're all copies of the original account which is in Genesis. Uh and the same thing with flood accounts. When we get to uh Genesis chapter uh six through eight and we see the account of the flood, I'll go through the fact that there are flood accounts from civilizations all over the world. And I'll show you a a a giant chart with the different elements of those flood legends that are similar to the account in Genesis, but they're different, they're corrupted. And so it it looks like there was an original account, like the one in Genesis, and then there are corrupted accounts that have spread out along with the diaspora from the Tower of Babel. Um and it's the same thing with the creation account. Uh you you have creation accounts from the ancient Near East that are similar in some ways to the Genesis account, but they're corrupt. This is what we have in the Bible. We have this seven-day week. Of course we have God in Genesis chapter 20 when he institutes the uh the Sabbath um where he talks about the Sabbath and the Ten Commandments, uh he clearly lays out a seven-day week and says very specifically in Exodus chapter twenty that it's based on the um The Creation Week. That's that's how he uh that's what he founded about. So uh the other thing major thing we talked about was that the seventh day was twenty four hours like these si first six days, but there are those within the Christian community who will try to say, well The seventh day, because it doesn't have evening and mourning at the end of it, therefore it never ended, and we're still living in the seventh day. It goes on forever. Um that that interpretation um misunderstands the use of the phrase within the rest of Creation Week. And we talked about this last time that The first six six days have a specific structure. To each one of the six days, God said something and let there be something. There then there was something. Uh God saw that it was good and there was evening and mourning. So there's a structure to the each of those six days. And all of those things are missing in the seventh day because it's not a day of creation. Uh it's a day of rest. It's different. Uh yes, go ahead. I I wouldn't say that there is a specific denomination that uh particularly believes that And it uh usually has to do with uh trying to find some way to make the creation account uh different, not not a historical record, a simple historical record, to allegorize it. And this is one of the methods used to allegorize the creation account, to say, well That day seven there doesn't have evening and morning, therefore it goes on forever, therefore that is definitely not a day, and so therefore we can't We we won't say that the other days are a day either because we have an example now of a day that's not a day. But these are unbelievers. Well, I wouldn't say that they're unbelievers because There are I keep bringing up a man named William Lane Craig. William Lane Craig, and and the reason I bring him up is because he's so orthodox and so good in so many areas. Uh but he's not good on the area of the creation account. And he's one of those that pushes this idea, hey look, it's uh the seventh day never ended. And and I wouldn't s say that William Lane Craig is not a believer. I think that's too far to go. So I think there are believers who are confused about this. And there are, in fact, many people that I have known over the years that are staunch defenders of a six-day creation in recent uh recent six-day creation that started out as long age believers. After their conversion, they were They they believed in an ancient earth when they were unbelievers. Then they were converted to Christ. They still believed in the ancient earth. They studied, they studied, they studied, and they changed their mind after studying. Well, I I don't think that they were not believers for all that time before they came to this understanding that they that that this is a straightforward account of creation. So no, I wouldn't put it that way. I wouldn't say that somebody that it has this wrong is an unbeliever necessarily. Uh that's and that's my opinion. Uh I don't know how uh Pastor Gabefield's Okay. Uh yeah, so I think we need to be careful there about who we uh we put out of the church. Um it's not Uh it's not our church. It's Christ's church. And so it well, I'm sorry, I I and I didn't mean to accuse you of doing that. I'm just a answering the question to make sure that people understand that when we have a disagreement about the meaning of scripture it does not necessarily mean that the person we disagree with w we're we need to excommunicate them Yeah. Just have one quick thing. Uh as believers, we have an amazing capacity for inconsistency. Uh so we can affirm the gospel and the essential tenets of the gospel. while believing other things which, if they were led to their logical conclusion, would force us to deny the gospel But by God's grace, we're able to be inconsistent in both affirming essential gospel truths while also holding on to Unbivalable ideas. And you can look at all different aspects, almost all different aspects of systematic theology or biblical theology and find disagreements. I mean that's why we have so many denominations. because we have those who want to baptize infants and those who don't. And you know there's uh some differences in the view of the sovereignty of God or the nature of Man, uh free will. You know, there's so many different areas, the the role of the Holy Spirit, so on and so forth, where we would say, No, you're wrong. But we couldn't uh say you're an unbeliever. because they're still holding on to you. And they would say the same to us. Maybe there's something that we have off. But you know, as as we all So our so to just to circle back, so our goal is to study scripture and apply sound principles of biblical hermeneutics and try to understand through the uh the leading of the Holy Spirit what God's truth is being communicated in his word. And so that's what we're um we're trying to do. And and so as as Gabe pointed out, we people have have this we have a remarkable inconsistency with within the church Okay, so we talk about that. And then uh there's a tolodot heading of course at uh um Genesis 2. 4. Uh Toledot means what came forth from and There's a number of Toledots. It's a structure, the structure of the book of Genesis, as I mentioned before. Many times it's translated as these are the generations of or the descendants of, but the very first Toledot doesn't have a person attached to it. It's the Toledot of heaven and earth And so it's what came forth from the heavens and earth. And uh many of the English Bibles uh translate it as the account. These are this is the account of the heavens and the earth. But it's that word tolodot, same word tolodot that we have all throughout Genesis. It's right there in Genesis 2. 4. It's the heading of a new section of Scripture, what came forth from the heavens and earth. And the reasons why It's not another creation story. There's the particular issue that many people have is it that seems like the order is different or it's out of order in Genesis chapter 2. Genesis chapter one you have trees and then animals and then people. Genesis chapter chapter two you have the story of the creation of Adam and then you have trees and then you have animals. What's going on here? Genesis chapter two must be another creation story because it's out of order. Well, that's not the case. And we talked last time about why that's not the case. Uh 2-7, uh, as I mentioned, has Adam formed from the dust to the ground, and then God breathes into him the breath of life. We're going to expand on that today And then in two nine there's God creating trees, and then in two nineteen there's the the Lord uh bringing forth certain land animals. Um At first glance that seems to be a contradiction, but it can be resolved if you look at the translation process and what the words actually mean, what those Hebrew words mean and how they're translated into English And so we talked about the fact that the Hebrew word yatsar for formed, the Hebrew tense of that word is determined by context. It's the same word yatsar for formed. And it's the same word yatsar for head formed. And the only way you know how to translate it into English is by the context And some of our English translations translated formed, in particular NASV and King James, and some translated had formed NIV and ESV. Uh but it seems clear f to me from the context if we read Genesis chapter one that it has to be head formed And one of the interesting things about the Legacy Standard Bible is it very extensively follows the NASB with certain exceptions. And this is one of those exceptions. In the Legacy Standard Bible, they've changed it to change from the NA speed to from formed to had formed. So the animals God had formed the animals and then he brings them to uh Adam to name. And so there's no Chronology problem as long as you translate Yatsar's head form there, which is a perfectly legitimate way to translate that from Hebrew to English. And we talked about that last time And then I mentioned that William Tyndall, the very first man to translate the Bible from the original languages to English, he translated that passage in 219 as had formed. So at the very beginning, the very first English translation had it as had formed. So it's not new. It's not that this is a a new thing. We need to change it to had formed. This is how the very first English Bible had it Okay, so uh to yes, go ahead. So that means that planting of the garden is also prior to Adam and Eve. So so um we have no so the way that we have the uh the sequence in in Genesis chapter two is you have Adam created, then you have the garden planted, and then you have Adam put into the garden. And so there's some specific trees. We'll talk about that today. That's really today's lesson, uh, the fact that he makes specific trees to put in that garden. And that's what Genesis two is talking about. He he makes a garden for for Adam. Okay, so uh as an overview, we've got uh Genesis 1. 1 to 2. 3 is a uh broad overview of creation, and God says it's very good at the end. Uh we've got the fact that the Bible is not a book about the cosmos of the earth. Uh the Bible is a book about God and man and especially about God's plan of redemption of mankind. And then the primary purpose of Genesis two and three is to lay the foundation for the gospel. Uh why is it that um that this wonderful creation of a good and loving God We can look around us and we see that evil exists and man endures pain and troubles and calamity. Why is that? Well, of course, we're going to find out in Genesis chapter 3 why that is. But we've got to lay the foundation here And then we've got Genesis chapter 2, starting in verse 4, is kind of a zooming in on day six. And we're going to, that's what we're primarily going to talk about today. So that's what we talked about last time. So that's a long introduction, but I think that is important to understand that background before we go into the details of the scripture of uh what what God says about the the details of his creation of man and his initial interactions with man. So uh that's the Garden of Eden. That's what we're gonna do today. So we're gonna as I mentioned before We're doing this Genesis chapter two in three parts. Last time we did this kind of overview. This time we're gonna do, we're gonna drill down into the details of what the scripture says about the creation of Adam, the creation of the garden, and the fact that God put Adam to work right away. Next time we're going to talk about the the one place where God says it's not good during this whole creation process. and the creation of Eve and the institution of marriage. We'll talk about next week. So there's three sections of scripture that we're going to talk about today. The first one is the details of the creation of Adam. And so Genesis 4, this is the account. That word account there in English is the translation of the word Toledot. the account of the heavens and the earth, the toll it out of the heavens and the earth, what came forth from the heavens and the earth when they were created. And the day the Lord made earth and heaven. So there's the day, Yom, that's a Hebrew word, Yom And in this case it does not mean 24 hours, right? So we talked about that. It's an expanded semantic field. Yom can mean many things. And the context tells us what Yom means in that particular sentence. And in this sentence, in the day that the Lord made it, is some indefinite amount of time in the past Uh in the day the Lord made ear and so s you'll you'll sometimes hear people that want to allegorize the Bible say, hey, ha ha, there's a Yom, and it doesn't mean 24 hours. Yes, of course it doesn't because there's a specific context there. Notice that there's no number there, there's no evening and morning, none of that th those things. It's a sent it's a use use of Yom as in uh in indefinite amount of time in the past. Uh now no shrub of the field was yet in the earth, and no plant of the field yet sprouted, for the Lord God had not sent rain upon the earth, and there was no man to cultivate the ground. So this is kind of a set up for what God did on day six to create a garden and put uh Adam into the garden. But a mist used to rise from the earth and the water, the whole surface of the ground. Then the Lord God formed man of dust from the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being. So that's the details of God's creation of Adam. So he had talked about creating man and women in his image in Genesis chapter one. Now we get some more details about how he did that. And then he makes a garden. Out of the ground the Lord God caused to grow every tree that is pleasing to the sight and good for food, the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, so he plants a garden Now a river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it divided and became four rivers. The name of the first is Pishon. It flows around the whole land of Habilah where there is gold The gold of that land is good, the Delum and the Onyx stone are there. The name of the second river is Gihon, and it flows around the whole land of Cush. The name of the third river is Tigris, it flows east of Assyria, and the fourth river is the Euphrates. And so we'll talk about that structure and whether we can identify that in modern Mesopotamia today. And the third part of scripture that we're going to study is Then the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to cultivate it. So he makes man, he plants a garden, he puts him in the garden. That's the sequence of events here in Genesis two. Uh and it's all day six. Uh then the the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to cultivate it and keep it. The Lord God commanded the man, saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For in the day that you eat from it you will surely die. And of course we'll circle back to that in Genesis chapter 3. That will be very important. Out of the ground the Lord God formed or had formed, that's Yatsar, every beast of the field and every bird of the sky, and brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called the living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to all the cattle, and to the birds of the sky, and to every beast of the field. And so I skipped something there. I skipped Genesis 2. 18 because we're going to circle back to that next week. Why it's not good for the man to be alone and uh what God did about that. That's going to be the focus of Next week. So Genesis chapter 2, a more detailed description of day six Um I mentioned this before, but uh please feel free to ask questions as we go. Don't don't save them to the end because we'll run out of time and I'll forget and you'll forget and So stop me if you have a question. So an overview of what's going on here. The scripture clearly has Adam as the first man, created from the dust of the ground, not from some pre-ademic ape, but from inanimate dust. Uh two eight and nine are not a repeat of one twelve, but a description of God planting specific trees on day six to make a dwelling for Adam. Yes, go ahead. significance to actually naming and describing these rivers other than the fact that from uh maybe uh like uh humanistic archaeological standpoint now we can tie back to actually So it's a good question and uh I d I don't have a really good answer. I don't know why those particular descriptions are in there because We're going to talk about it in more detail in a few minutes, but the scripture clearly tells us that the world that then was was destroyed. So the world from before the flood is gone. And so the fact that they happen to reuse two names, Tigris and Euphrates, those two are reused. after you know after Noah and his sons come off the the ark, they start naming things in the area around where they are, and they happen to reuse two of those names Um but those are not the same rivers. Uh because that world's gone. Uh it can't be those same rivers. Um somewhere around there because those rippers are going to be a very good thing. Right, that's right. And so that causes some confusion Although it it shouldn't. If we if we take the whole counsel of scripture of God's word, he has told us in another place in his word that the world that then was was destroyed by the flood, and so it's not there. That world is completely gone. Um and so, you know, and w when we get to the flood, I'll I'll we'll talk about some geology. We'll get into some geology. And there there are thousands of feet of sedimentary rock that were laid down by the flood all over the entire world. And so the the topography of the surface of the world it was then it is completely gone There there's nothing there that that could be recognizable. Now where where would a description of something like that come from? Well, these I I talked about at the very beginning, the fact that these tolerots are They they look suspiciously like um sets of documents or information that that has been transmitted over history. And so Uh we'll talk about this a little bit more when we get to Genesis 4 and 5, that it it it sure looks like these are family documents. And that there was at least an oral tradition that was handed down from Adam to his descendants about how things were in the garden. Now Genesis, there's absolutely no doubt, was written by Moses. The scripture testifies to the fact that it was written by Moses And it was written by Moses after Mount Sinai, in the in the before they went into the uh Promised Land. So it was written Many, many, many, many centuries, more than a millennium, after the events, and the Holy Spirit moved Moses to write what he wrote. But that doesn't preclude the possibility that there were oral traditions that had been passed down from Adam that formed the basis of this structure of Toledots. in the Bible. And so therefore, there were eyewitnesses like Adam to what the world looked like before the flood. Adam and all the generations up to Moses, uh up to Noah. And Noah lived for several hundred years after the flood, and so he could have Uh I mean there were people there and Shem lived for several hundred years after the flood. So there were people that knew what the world looked like before the flood, that were around after the flood for several hundred years And that could be a reason why we're they reused some names of physical structures. They remember the Tigris River and the Euphrates River that used to flow wherever the Garden of Eden was. Um and so they use those names for the new rivers. But it's not the same rivers. Yeah. Yeah, so uh the reason that I we come um I come to that conclusion and and many others as well is the way the scripture talks about the fact that the world that was before the flood was destroyed. It was wiped out. Um and also from a scientific evaluation of what the world looks like now And especially when we get there, I'll I'll show you the geology. Uh you can do analysis and figure out how it was laid down. And it was laid down by water, those sedimentary rocks. There there's there's difference in what uh a sedimentary layer of rock looks like if it's laid down by water or not laid down by water. In other words, it's laid down because it uh settled out of the air. But settled out of water has there's distinct characteristics. And those geological layers are sedimentary rock laid down by water. And they're in all over the world a mile deep. And so it it takes uh it takes an enormous amount of geological work to do that. And if if you if you uh If you have layers like that laid down, then where did all that uh where did all the stuff come from to make that sediment? Well, it came from the flood, from the flood scouring the earth that was, in order to make mud, make all the sedimentary particles that could f settle out of the the the water. So When we uh when we observe the physical world that we see today, it is consistent with a world that was destroyed down to the fine grains of sand and then precipitated out of water. And so that's why I come to that to that conclusion. One, because that's what the scripture says, that the world was destroyed. And so that still leaves some latitude. What does destroyed mean? There's a little bit of latitude there uh what destroyed me. But uh when we get to the description of the flood, uh the the description of the flood says the water covered the high mountains Um and so that means that the water was around the entire earth. And if you if you do a hydrologic analysis of what would happen and you can do s a computer simulation of that. What would happen if you had the entire earth covered with water? What would happen to tides, for example We can model that with a computer. And what you get when you have the globe completely covered by water and no continents to break uh the ties and currents is you get extreme tides and currents. You get lots of hydrologic action. Uh in other words, it would not be tranquil. The floodwater would be raging because of the moon, because of the uh the tides from the moon, and because there would be no continents to break up. uh for the for the tide to break against, uh you get very enormous hydrologic work. And so the the floodwaters would have Applying normal physical principles of water and gravity would have scoured the Earth So that's why I come to that conclusion. And so we'll we'll go into a lot of details of that when we get to six, seven, and eight. Um but that in a nutshell is is why I come to that conclusion. So a little bit early for that lesson. No problem. Yeah. Yeah. And so there's a couple other places in Genesis where they do that. Things that were like one thing and they're not like that in a uh in in in the present when Moses is writing it For example, there's a place in the scripture where uh it talks about Sodom and Gomorrah as if they're still there. And when Moses is writing Genesis, Sodom and Gomorrah are not still there. But there's a description in Genesis later on where Moses says, as you go towards Sodom and Gomorrah Well Saddam and Gomorrah are not there uh when he's writing. Um and so that's a that's a that comes up more than once uh in in the scriptures is that There are there are obviously accounts in Genesis of the way things were before things were destroyed. In particular the pre-flood world. We get this description here in Genesis two of these rivers and all the the gold and going around the land of Cush and all these things. And the obviously that's not the way anymore and and I'll uh when I'll I'll get to it in a few slides. Particularly that that one river Gihan that's that's Starts at the Gar Garden of Eden and goes around the Land of Cush. The Land of Cush, that that Hebrew word is used over and over and over again in the New Testament and it's Ethiopia. In fact it's inter used interchangeably with scripture. Ethiopia. Sometimes it's actually translated to Ethiopia And there's no way for a river to get from Mesopotamia to Ethiopia in the way the world is right now. And so it's obviously a description of some world that no longer exists. So uh continuing along, um so notice he puts him to work, uh he puts Adam to work right away to cultivate, which is means kind of to tend, the Hebrew word abad. And to keep, which means care for or and shamar the garden. So to to abode and shamar the garden, to keep and to attend, to cultivate and keep, or to tend and care for the garden, these Adams put to work. Uh he's he's allowed to eat of any of the trees. He's given this big wide latitude to eat of all the trees, but he can't eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. He previously created the animals, now he brings them to Adam. Note that Adam does not have to track them down. God brings them to him, to name. So I just I put this quote in there from Spurgeon. Man was not originally made to mourn, he was made to rejoice. The Garden of Eden was his place of happy abode. And as long as he continued in obedience to God, nothing grew in that garden that could cause him sorrow. So that's Charles Spurgeon talking about the garden. uh even. So let's uh we've got uh not very much time. So uh let's uh let's drill down into the scriptures. So Verse 7, then the Lord God formed man of dust from the ground, breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living being. So some details about God creating man. In chapter 1, verses 26 to 28, we saw God say, let us make Assa, man in our image, according to our likeness. God created Barah man in his own image. In the image of God he created him, male and female he created them. That's what we get in Genesis one. Now in Genesis two we get some description about Specifically, how did God make this man? From the dust of the ground and then breathe life. So in Genesis 2, we see more of the special care God took with these two unique creatures. First with Adam, then with Eve. We'll get to Eve next week. So the dust of the ground here. So Uh dust is in Hebrew is afar. It comes from the ground, which in Hebrew is a dhamma. Um and so that sounds like Adam and uh which is made from this ground. Uh and so this is one of many Hebrew wordplays. So there's a Hebrew wordplay there between the word for ground and the word and the name that Adam is given here in the text. And there's there's others, and I'll I'll point out some others as we get to them. But there's definitely Hebrew word plays there. There's meaning to this name, Adam. uh and the the word play with the Hebrew word for ground. And the and it specifically says that the dust that he's made for is the dust of the ground. Adama. Okay. So then God breathes into his nostrils the breath of life. This is another feature of creation of man that distinguishes him from the animals. We don't get any of this about God breathing the breath of life into the nostrils of the animals, just people. The initial forming of the DOS, the material elements, did not form the life of the man, notice Uh presumably neither did forming him into the biological structure. So he made him into a you know something that looked like a person, at all the form of a person, but He wasn't really, he didn't have, he didn't become a living being until this additional step of God breathing uh into his nostrils the breath of life Uh not till he specifically breathe into him does Adam become a living being. And that's something we don't see with the creation of animals And this is also another huge problem for any attempt to reconcile molecules to man evolution with Scripture, because evolution teaches that man evolved from living creatures. And the scripture teaches that man was made from non-living matter. Uh that's a difference. And and and if if you we if we read this scriptures as um as imparting propositional truth and we apply apply the uh standard methods of hermeneutics we have men created from inanimate matter by God and breathing into him and he's not He's not coming from a living creature, but from non-living matter, and that's a big difference. Then we get to verse 8, the Lord God planted a garden toward the east in Eden, and there he placed the man whom he had formed. Out of the ground the Lord God caused to grow every tree that is pleasing to the sight and good for food. the tree of life also in the midst of the garden and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And so Genesis 2 here is further expanding on Genesis 1 by elaborating on the personal care that God took for his creatures that he made in his image. He made them a garden, a special place for him to live. So he plants this garden in Eden. And so the Hebrew word for garden is gone. The Septuagint. The Septuagint, of course, is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. And so if you recall, the reason for that was Hebrew was becoming a dead language. Um after the uh captivity in this in in Babylon and the return, uh Hebrew the scriptures were in Hebrew Uh but most of the people um were increasingly didn't understand Hebrew and and the common language by the time of Jesus was Aramaic, the spoken language. And so Hebrew uh was because the there was a fear that The Hebrew is becoming a dead language. In order for people to be able to understand the scriptures, we need to put it into a more common language. And so the scriptures, the Hebrew scriptures, the Old Testament, was translated into Greek And we call this the Septuagint because 70 scholars did it. This is before the time of Christ. And the Septuagint renders this word Paradisius, Paradisos, Paradesos. And that's where we get the w the English word paradise from. So that's the Garden of Eden, Paradise. Um uh the word Eden means delight. The Hebrew word Eden means delight. Um Verse 9 then expands on verse 8, explaining what God did to plant the garden. So it says he planted a garden, and then verse 9 tells us exactly what he did to plant that garden. He caused all these trees to grow. He made trees with delicious fruits. The variety, based on the way the Hebrew is written here, would be tremendous because the phrase translated into English is every tree The Holy Spirit uses the emphatic kol etz. So etz is trees, meaning the whole of trees. So all the trees in that garden. Then we have a valve disjunctive. And so I mentioned valve disjunctives in uh Genesis 1. So Genesis 1 2 is a valve disjunctive. Remember that? We had the Uh in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth and the earth was formless and void. That's a vow disjunctive. Vav and then tohua bohu, uh uh formless and void. And uh vav disjunctive is a pause in the timeline. to describe things as they were at the time, not as a an another time step, but to describe things. And that's what this is here And to describe these two mysterious trees. So there's a pause in the narrative to to focus and emphasize on these two trees. Uh the tree of life and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And of course that'll become very important when we study Genesis chapter 3. And then there's this description of rivers, which we have already discussed quite a bit Uh the rivers flew and so a river flowed out of the Garden of Eden. A river, single river, and from there it divided and became four. So a single river which is not named flows out of the Garden of Eden and then divides into four. And we get the names of the four rivers that it divides into after it flows out of The Garden of Eden, the first is Pishon, the second is Gihong, the third is Tigris, and the fourth is Euphrates. And so um this is um different than rivers today. We do not see this happening. We don't see one big river splitting into four rivers. We don't see that, yeah. One place where we do see that is in deltas. So we see one river kind of peter out at the ocean into a delta. Uh but this is saying that one river became four rivers and then those rivers wandered around. Because we get a description of where this Gihon River goes all around to this land of Kush And so w we don't see this. We don't see this one river splits into four and then those rivers are big rivers in and of themselves going to all different places. We see the opposite. Yeah. You see tributaries of smaller river going into a bigger river. We do not see a big river uh forking out into four big rivers that then go uh over uh hill and dale. Um this is not what we see i in our world today So this this case we have one river split into four. Many people are confused by this use of the Tigris and the Euphrates, which in Hebrew don't sound anything like Tigris and Euphrates. Kidekel and Parat are the Hebrew for those two rivers. I don't know how we got to English Tigris and Euphrase out of that. Anyway, uh they're definitely not the modern rivers. We talked about this. Mesopotamia does not have one river splitting into four. We don't see that. We don't see in archaeological digs or geological digs anything that looks like One river splitting into four. Also, the river mentioned in 213 cannot possibly flow from modern Mesopotamia and flow around Ethiopia Uh there's no way to get there from here. Yeah. Yeah, it could be. And uh there's a lot of speculation about that uh because Uh in Genesis two we see that there was no rain on the earth and um in Genesis seven eight when we talk about the flood we'll see that there's rain and so I have seen many people write that that rain for the flood was the first time it ever rained. That before that you had r rain from springs, you had rain coming up out of the ground, you never had rain fall out of the sky. And that's why a rainbow was such a Spectacular thing. It's because there never had been rain, so there never had been a rainbow, and that was the first rainbow. I don't know about that. Uh I don't know about that. Uh but th this description of it of the river coming out of the Garden of Eden does lend itself to the the fact this may have been spring water that came up out of the ground rather than water rain ro rain rudder running out of the mountain. So it could be. It could be. Okay. So then we proceed with the narrative. We continue with the narrative. And God puts the man into the garden. So the Lord God took the man. Takes Adam and puts him in the garden. So this is an action of God. And he puts them there for a purpose. So notice there there's a purpose and there's work to be done before the fall. So the fact that you have to go to work is not because of the fall, unfortunately. So uh yeah, so work it was invented before the fall. Um it got significantly nastier after the fall, as we'll see. But he was put into the garden by God to cultivate and keep it, to tend and and care for it. The Lord God commanded the man, so he now he gives him a command, saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely. So a very positive command. You can eat of all these trees, I've made all these trees Uh tremendous variety of trees. You can eat of all the trees. But but there's one negative command. But from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat from it you will surely die. So notice it's the Lord Gods, it's Yahweh Elohim, and so it's his covenant name and his name as the creator of the universe. Yahweh Elohim, the Lord God, places the man in the garden he had so carefully prepared for him. Uh so we notice of course that before the fall man was not to be idle. He was not just supposed to lie around in this garden. Uh he was supposed to work. Uh but so far the work would have been pleasurable. Uh it wouldn't have been uh uh uh the kind of burden that it became, which we'll see uh in Genesis chapter three. So and then of course he's given this one negative command which is embedded in the permission to eat freely. So he's given permission to eat freely, but And so there's this one negative command. But from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat on pain of death Okay. And then we get the last action of day six. So and this has become controversial, and we'll talk about this too So out of the ground, the Lord God formed or had formed. Yattsar can be translated in English either as formed or had formed. I think it's correct to say head-formed. Had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the sky and brought them. Notice brought them. God brought them. Adam didn't have to go track them down brought them to the man to see what he would call them, and whatever the man called a living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to the all the cattle. And to the birds of the sky and to every beast of the field. So what are the what for what purpose did God bring all these animals to end? Why does he parade this you know, this line of animals past Adam to see what he'll name 'em. Well, we can uh m we can we can discern uh what the purposes m most likely were. It doesn't say specifically, but One of the purposes is probably to reinforce Adam's delegated authority of the rest of creation. So Genesis 1. 28 we see that he's given dominion over the rest of creation. And specifically dominion over all the creatures. Uh God specifically says that in Genesis one twenty-eight. And i f in in all these cultures, um going back as far as we know, to name something is a statement of authority over that thing. And so this is kind of uh an act of showing Adam his authority or or um Showing to Adam that he has authority over these animals, to bring them, for God to bring them to him so he can name them. So another purpose. Is, and we'll see this more specifically when we get to next week's lesson, is to show Adam the fact that he was different in kind from the rest of creation. And so we'll see when we when we study next week that none of these animals were a suitable companion to him. uh to show him that that none of these animals could ever serve as a physical, emotional, intellectual, or spiritual companion. It will take God creating Eve in his image, so somebody else, the only possible suitable helper, is someone else made in God's image. And we'll see that next week when we get to Genesis 2, 21 to 23. So God was showing Adam that. Hey, here's all the rest of the creatures. And you can see, Adam, that these are not suitable helpers for you. And then he makes a suitable helper. We'll see next week. Okay. So was the sixth day Is six twenty is a twenty-four hour day enough time to do all that? How could he possibly have named, you know, how many species of animals do we have today? Like uh 10 million or something like that? How could he have named 10 million animals uh in one twenty-four hour day. Not possible. Um so there are some things to notice from the narrative that make it so that this was uh feasible thing to do. First of all, as I mentioned God brought the animals. Adam didn't have to go look for them. They they paraded past Adam. So there was no need to expend time finding and capturing them. Second, the number of created kinds was much smaller than the number of today's species. Uh I'll I may get into a discussion in a in a succeeding week about where we get the English word species from Uh we we actually get the English word species from the Latin Vulgate translation of the Bible. That's where that word comes from. Because when uh Jerome wrote the Vulgate And he wrote uh he was translating Genesis chapter one. Um he he treat he he uh translated the um the the Hebrew word min, which which is kind, used in Genesis chapter one, he translated that in two ways, two different ways in Latin. One was he translated using the word species. And the other was the Latin word genus. Both of them are in the Vulgate. But that Latin word species Jerome used for the biblical word men, Hebrew word that we we use as kind today. And so there is a conflation there, going back to the Vulgate. However, the modern scientific definition of a species is not what the biblical kind is talking about. The biblical kinds, and we'll talk about this quite extensively when we talk about the Ark and how the animals fit on the Ark. Um there was a dog kind, there was a cat kind, there was uh there was not on the ark, for example, a chihuahua and a great dane and every single kind of dog that you see, dog breed. Uh all all that is is genetic variation that was in the original dog kind. Um and the same thing when God first created animals that would be parading past uh past Adam. There were kinds of animals like dogs and cats, but there weren't you know, he didn't get he didn't have to name every single different breed of dog that we have today, for example. Then uh the list of add of of animals that Adam had to name was far from exhaustive. It wasn't all the animals. So uh scripture tells us that he named the cattle or livestock behema in Hebrew and the birds of the air, Uf Hashameh Hash Hashamayim. And the beast of the field, Hasada. And so there were specific animals that he named. But that's not all of 'em. That's that leaves out a whole bunch of animals. There's no indication that Adam named any of the fish, for example, or any other sea creature. So the the God didn't have a whale flop up on land and it flopped by Adam. So that's a lot of different kinds of things that he didn't name. Nothing in the sea It also doesn't include creeping things like insects or arachnids or reptiles. Those are classified in the Bible as creeping things, and there's no indication here that Adam named any of those. Uh you know, a majority of the species that we have today on earth are insects. Um and so none of those are are things that Adam had to name on uh day six So combining these facts that created kinds are broader than species and that only a small subset of all created kinds were named by Adam On day six, there were probably only a few thousand animals involved in most. And we'll get to a more detailed talk through this when we get to the ark and how they could fit on the ark. So even if we assume Adam had to name as many as, say, 2,500 kinds of animals, if he took five seconds per kind and took a five-minute break every hour, he could have completed the task in less than four hours. So um not doesn't sound like fun, but he could have done it in four hours, uh as the animals went past. That one and that one and that one and that one Parading by over the period of four hours, five-minute break every hour, he gets it done in less than four hours. Um and so this hardly seems like an impossible task, uh, even for people today. And remember Adam's stamina, stamina and memory, unlike ours, has not been affected, had not been affected by generations of accumulated genetic defects since the fall. So we'll talk about this also when when we get to uh Genesis 10 and 11, I'll get into genetics and I'll get into population genetics and I'll give you some I won't try to give you a master's degree class in genetics, but I'll I will talk about genetics and what we know of human genetics and population genetics and uh absolute facts that uh every generation adds three hundred new point gen point mutations to the human genome, for example. Every generation three hundred new point mutations. Uh the human genome is falling apart. It's getting worse. It's going down. It's not going up. We're getting more genetic diseases. Not less. And so Adam and Eve had no genetic defects. Especially before the fall. They had no genetic defects. Um and so They we we need to we need to stop thinking of of peop of people in the past as less than us. It's it's actu it's it's the the opposite. What what we know from human genetics is that we are much worse off than our ancient ancestors were in terms of genetics. Yeah. Yeah. We'll talk about uh some more in genetics when we talk about life spans, uh life spans being nine hundred years and now they're not, um and the the effects that are known today of what a population bottleneck does to a genome. So when you take a population and bottleneck it down from probably millions down to eight people at the time of the arc, uh that's a genetic catastrophe Uh-huh. And so um i that that's almost certain to cause things like decreasing lifespans uh from nine hundred years down to a hundred and twenty years. So, yes, so there there are lots of things that we know from modern genetics that were not known previously that are very consistent with what we see in the Bible. And so that that shouldn't surprise us as followers of Christ that as science catches up, learns new things, um, that those new things that we learn are consistent with what God has always revealed in Scripture. And we'll talk about some of those things as we go through the rest of Genesis 1 to 11 that modern science really confirms what we read in Scripture. I I mean scripture uh is self attesting and so Um we we don't say that modern science proves that the scripture is true. The scripture is true because the scripture is the word of God and therefore it's true. Uh but what we see is modern science um is confirming and attesting what we already know from scripture. Um these the uh some things that w had been a mystery for a long time. Uh we don't understand why it is. Why did s you know why did lifespans fall from nine hundred years before the flood and now they're 120 years and There is a really good genetic explanation for why that should be now that we know about population genetics. Okay, so and we'll get into that eventually. So, um what we learned today. Uh we've got a few minutes left for questions. So we learned about God creating Adam. We learned about God creating a garden, a special place for him to live, and taking great care to do so, and we learned about God putting him to work. We also learned that he gave him uh uh uh all the trees to eat, but one tree that he was not supposed to eat from, which will become very important. Okay, we have a few minutes left for questions. So uh this is a consistent theme of federal headship in the Bible, and so it's the same um reason why uh Paul explains in Romans that in one man all died and in one man all come alive. And so we're all in Adam, we're all fallen in Adam. When Adam sins, when we get to Genesis chapter three uh then every single person that's born from Adam's line then is born with a sin nature. Um and so the same concept says that um Abraham so this is the story of uh Melchizedek who is the priest of uh Salem, the king of Salem, um which is Jerusalem becomes Jerusalem. And Abraham gives him a tenth of the plunder. So the the whole story is the there there's uh there's a battle, uh there's four kings and Abraham takes his uh army and he beats the four kings and he gets some plunder and he gives a tenth of the plunder to Melchizedek and so the the point in Hebrews is that uh this priesthood of Melchizedek was greater than the priesthood of Aaron. Uh and the priesthood of Melchizedek is is what uh uh Jesus is said to have. And the priesthood of of Aaron is the Levitical priesthood, and Levi is a descendant of Abraham. And so Abraham gives the tenth to Melchizedek, and these all the Levitical priests are the descendants of Abraham, and so therefore In a certain sense, Abraham as the federal head of those who were descended from Abraham gave the tenth, and so they all gave the tenth. And this is the idea of of kind of this uh federal headship that is applied to Adam and is also in this case applied to Abraham. Good question. We we don't know uh there's no description of what he did but Um he he certainly would have been clever enough to make tools. Um and so he could have made uh tools to cultivate the the ground. Um he he could have done weeding and pruning and those sort of things. Um But there's no we don't have any any specific description of what he did, but he was obviously doing some work to tend and keep this garden We don't know the exact nature of that work. But it wasn't a it wasn't the kind of burden that work became after the fall. Because we'll see Uh God curses uh Satan and he curses Adam and Eve and he curses the ground. We'll see, as he'll he'll curse the ground. And it brings up thorns and thistles, and by the sweat of your brow you'll eat from um That all happens at the fall. Before that, you don't have that, you don't have the curse of the ground, but there was some sense in which he was keeping and tending this garden. Um so yeah. Clearing away brush and things like that. I I don't want to go ahead. So yeah, so and Paul makes this point later uh in the New Testament that Uh Adam is is taken from or Eve is taken from Adam. So so sh uh the God takes a rib from Adam and forms Eve out of that rib. And so he's already breathed the breath of life into Adam. Then he makes Eve from Adam, right? And then Adam and Eve have Cain and Abel and Seth. So where where do Cain and Abel and Seth get a soul from? It it's it's part of the reproductive process after that. Um that that that's part of being a human being and being descended from Adam and Eve. is we have a soul. And so there's no description in in the Bible about God um you know, going through some process of popping a soul into each each baby uh or anything like that. Um you know there there are uh theological discussions about how that happens. Uh yeah, go ahead go ahead. There there is still a kind of a mysterious part of this that we don't exactly understand. But we we went through the things uh gave us went through the things that make us that distinguish us as being in the image of God, how we are different from the animals, for example Um and that n those things don't um don't necessarily mean just the soul. Um All right, and that will have to be the last word because we run out of time. So let me uh let me close this with a with a word of prayer.