Alright, so we've got a timeline of Joseph's life. So he's born in Haran So he's the eleventh of twelve sons. The twelfth one is Benjamin. He's actually born in Canaan, after they get back to Canaan. But Joseph is born in Haran, Paden Paden-Aram. Uh he's about six years old when they travel back down because he's the last one that's born in the the twenty year period, well the uh the fourteen year period. Uh when he's he he works for his w wife seven years and then he's uh seven years um uh working for uh the second wife, but he's married to both of them and he has this during this period where he's living in Padera Pad Aram and Haran he has these el the first eleven uh sons, the last of which is uh Joseph. And Joseph is then about six years old when they travel back to Canaan. Uh we're going to pick up the story of his life when he's seventeen. So the events today of his youth. So when we say youth, we're talking about the time around when he's seventeen years old. Um when he's in prison and he has the uh he interprets the dreams of the the baker and the cupbearer, he's twenty eight years old. two years and he's still in prison for two more years after that and when he's thirty years old he interprets Pharaoh's dreams uh and then that's the beginning of the seven years of uh plenty so when he's thirty-seven is the end of the years of plenty Two years into the famine years is when his brothers come down, so that means Joseph is thirty-nine. And he's fifty-six when Jacob dies. Jacob comes down, they're all down there, and Jacob dies when Joseph is fifty-six, and Joseph then lives another fifty-four years after that, uh down in Egypt, and he dies when he's a hundred and ten. So uh we're going to talk about a couple of uh incidents from his life today, about uh receiving the special code and about the rivalry between the brothers and then the fact that he has this dream that he's so eager to uh share with his brothers and his father, and then he's sold into slavery, and then he's thrown into prison and then he interprets dreams. uh in prison, then he interprets Pharaoh's dream, and then he's emplo appointed as the prime minister of Egypt, and then finally he's reunited with his family. Um now there are a lot of events in um Joseph's life that um form a foreshadowing to the life of Jesus. And so for example And and so this is something that uh that especially Jewish believers, um uh messianic Jews, uh will um Focus on when they study Old Testament scriptures, things like this, things like the fact that so many things in Joseph's life seem to be a parallel to things in Jesus' life. Both were loved by their father, both were hated by their brothers, both sent to their brothers, both went into the earth and came back out. Jesus went into the tomb, Joseph went into the pit and came back out. Both were stripped of their tunics. Uh both taken to Egypt, both were sold for silver, uh both were servants, both overcame temptation, both were falsely accused, both were punished with two others, one was saved and the other died. And so Uh Joseph was in the prison with the the baker and the cupbearer. The one was killed and the other was saved. Uh Jesus was hung between two thieves. One was saved and one was You know, so one went to heaven and one went to hell. Um both exalted to sit at the right hand. Joseph to the right hand of Pharaoh, Jesus to the right hand of God Both had important transitions at the age of 30. It was at the age of 30 when Jesus started his public ministry. It was at the age of 30 when Joseph became Prime Minister of Egypt. Both were providers of life-saving bread, both were unrecognized, both provided salvation. And so this is a common thing that uh that you if you go to a uh a group of of Messianic Jews, they'll look at stuff like this all through the Old Testament and say, um Wow, we could have we could have seen all these things about j Jesus from from our Old Testament. Okay Uh so let me go through one particular instant we're not going to focus on it too much. I just want to put it uh I just want to use it as background before we really start into the section of scripture we're gonna do today. And that's Right before this section about Joseph, we get this final section about Joseph's mother, Rachel. So while journeying from Bethel to Ephraim, which is Bethlehem, became Bethlehem, Rachel dies during childbirth. So Rachel has her second son, Benjamin And she dies in childbirth. Before she dies, she names her newborn son Ben Onai, which Ben is son and Oni is sorrow, son of sorrow, she calls him. Uh Jacob uh doesn't He decides to rename him Ben Jamin. Ben is son. Jamin is right hand, son of my right hand, son of the right hand. Uh Jacob buries Rachel between Bethel and Ephraith or Bethlehem and sets up a pillar. And so all these events uh that we're about to talk about are happening um after Rachel has died. And so keep that in mind when you think about how Jacob thinks about Joseph. So Joseph is the son of the beloved wife. Another beloved wife is dead. And so um he really pours out his affection on the two boys. We'll see later with Benjamin too. But Joseph and Benjamin, because now Rachel's gone. And this is the last piece of Rachel that's still left is Joseph and and Benjamin. Okay. And so uh if you'll remember uh he came they came down from the hill country of Gilead. They had these the incident with Esau around uh Penuel and then went to Succath and then across the Jordan River to Shechem. And now he's working his way south from Bethel and then down towards Hebron. But on the way near Bethlehem, Rachel gives birth to the the final son, uh Benjamin, and she dies. So now we're going to pick up in chapter 37 the story of Joseph. So if you'll open your Bible to chapter 37. Uh we're really going to go all the way through chapter thirty-seven and uh just stick in chapter thirty-seven for there. So um Chapter 37, beginning verse 1. Now Jacob lived in the land where his father had sojourned in the land of Canaan. These are the records of the generations of Jacob. So that's Toledot, records of the generation of Jacob, Tolodot. These are this is what came forth from Jacob. Joseph, when seventeen years of age, was pasturing the flock with his brothers while he was still a youth. along with the sons of Bilha and the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph brought back a bad report about them to his father, to their father. Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his sons, because he was the son of his old age, and he made him a very colored tunic. His brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers. And so they hated him and could not speak to him on friendly terms. Then Joseph had a dream, and when he told it to his brothers, they hated him even more. He said to them, Please listen to this dream which I have had. For behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo, my sheaf rose up and also stood erect, and behold Your sheaves gathered around and bowed down to my sheaf. Then his brother said to him, Are you actually going to reign over us? Or are you really going to rule over us? So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. Now he had still another dream, and related to his brothers, and said, Lo, I have had still another dream And behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars were bowing down to me. He related it to his father and to his brothers, and his father rebuked him. And said to him, What is this dream that you have had? Shall I and your mother and your brothers actually come to bow ourselves down before you to the ground? His brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept the saying in mind. So this incident starts with Joseph out in the field with Four of his brothers, the sons of Zilpah and Bilhah, who are not identified by name here, but they are Gadash, Dan, and Aftali. Those are the four sons of Zilpah and Bilhah. So the first incident, he's out in the field with uh those four of his brothers, um, and he brings a bad report. So He's 17 years old here. He brings back this bad report of his brothers. We're told straight out that Joseph loved his Joseph more than his uh his other brothers and gives him a special coat which is always in all the English translations a mini-colored or colorful or variated coat, and all the other sons of Jacob hate him Um they hate him for being the favorite of his of his father. And then they hate him for having dreams too. So Joseph has two dreams, and the first dream is brothers' sheaves of grain, bow down to his sheaf of grain And the second the sun, moon, and eleven stars bow down to him, obviously his family bowing down to him. His father rebukes him and his brothers hate him because of his dreams. And of course there's a painting. The great painting Raphael, painter Raphael in the 1500s, painted the dreams of Joseph. Just like every scene from the Old Testament has uh a great painting from the Middle Ages. So let's take a look at the uh some details from the scripture here about these incidents, these early incidents of Jacob as a youth. So he's a 17-year-old young man, and we're starting to see a little bit of his character. So This present section relates to the dissension and division that arise between Joseph and his brothers. And particularly at the beginning, here we see between the sons of Bil and Zopa. That's Dan, Napdalai, Gad, and Asher. And so they're all older than him. He was the last one born except for uh of the first the eleven that are born in Haran, he's the youngest. Uh Benjamin has just been born. There's a growing animosity and hatred by the brothers toward Joseph, fueled in part by Jacob's favoritism. So Jacob clearly favors Joseph and and everybody sees it. Joseph knows it and the brothers know it. We get a transition in the first couple of verses of chapter 37 from the story of Jacob to the story of Joseph. It's marked by the Hebrew word toladat. Which means what came forth from. So it's a section of the descendants essentially of uh Jacob. Um and it begins with him 17 years old and he's out in the fields tending the flock. And he's tending the flock in in the first instance with four of his brothers. And when they return home, Joseph tells their father Jacob about something that the others have done wrong, most likely something they have done to him Joseph done or said to him that he doesn't like. And then in verses three and four we see uh that Jacob this pronouncement that Jacob loved Joseph more than his brothers. And show per si uh partiality towards it. So um this is something that's part of the family dynamic. Um it goes all the way back to um Jacob favoring Rachel, wanting to marry Rachel. Uh he's fooled into marrying Leah. Doesn't love her and it just continues from there. There's tension in the family. There was tension in what we saw before between the wives. Now there's tension between the among the kids We get a specific example of Jacob's favoritism. He presents Joseph with a special coat, which serves as a symbol of his favoritism for everybody to see. The Hebrew word that's used here, there's a two-word phrase, kataneth, which means tunic, coat, or robe, and passium. uh which is a little more tenuous to translate, uh but it essentially m probably means something like long and flowing. So really this phrase means long and flowing tunic, coat, or robe. And neither of those Hebrew words in that phrase actually has anything to do with color. Although it's always translated in every English translation as a multicolored robe. Not sure exactly why, but that's always been the tradition. But the actual Hebrew words mean a long and flowing robe. But the bottom line is it's something special. This very special robe went to Joseph and only Joseph. So here's eleven brothers. So if you have a bunch of kids and you and you you ha you're gonna give a present and you give only one kid the present and none of the other kids ever get a present uh what are the other kids gonna think about this one kid who gets presents and I don't get presents? They're gonna hate him. Uh and so this is what happens in this family. Um and Jacob stokes it. And um it's not it's not really clear from the scriptures whether Jacob really understands um the depth of the animosity. I don't think he does, because I I don't think he would have done the things he did, like send Joseph Joseph off to them alone, if he really understood how much the brothers hated him And and if you think about it, that's probably he probably can't conceive of somebody hating Joseph. He loves Joseph so much he can't even conceive of somebody uh hating him and wanting to kill him. But Jacob has actually added to the problem. uh by showing such overt favoritism uh to joseph. So the favoritism of Jok Joseph is quite overt, not hidden, and Jacob's other children it says hated him and could not speak to him on friendly terms. So they couldn't even talk to him, uh, in in any kind of nice way. So the Bible's painting a picture here, because it's important for the rest of the story to understand the depth of the the hatred that these brothers had for Joseph and where it came from. So the attitude of the brothers to Joseph is one of great animosity and discord. They really despise him. And I don't think Jacob really sees it. So then there's the we come to these dreams. And so he has two dreams, and uh the Bible says that these dreams cause the brothers to hate him even more. So even more than they already hated him because his father favored him, even more than they hated him because his father gives him presents and doesn't give them anything. Now now along comes these dreams to stoke their hatred even more So the Hebrew phrase there translated even more, it's a substantive, it uses, it expresses continuance, persistence, repetition, and the heightening of their hatred for Joseph. So it's kind of a drumbeat. It's get worse and worse and worse and worse. It's going on and it's persisting and it's repeating and it's heightening and it's getting worse and wor worse and worse hating, hating, hating, hating more and more And then Joseph, he he seems to be a little bit naive, he's seventeen, and he is quite earnest and insistent about sharing. this dream with his brothers and then his the second one with his father too. Um now so what does this tell us about Joseph? So He he had to have known that his brothers didn't like him. Because when they're out of earside of Jacob, they they abuse him clearly. They say bad things about him, they do bad things to him. He knows they don't like him. And so when he runs to tell him these dreams, and he knows what these dreams say and this what they say is really obvious He he has to know that these are going to make him angry. And so Jake he's it seems to me from reading the story, Joe Joseph is deliberately provoking his brothers here Um it's not wise. But it's he he he knows his father has his back ultimately that he can run to his father just like he did did and give a bad report like he just did a few minutes ago Um and so he he kind of seems to uh relish in in poking his brothers in the eye here Um so when you're laying the content of the two dreams, Joseph uses the word hinna, the Hebrew word hinnah, five times in these two dreams. And it's a It's a w it's a demonstrative word. It's translated uh two different ways. The f the it's the same word five times. Three times in there it's it's uh translated, behold And the twice it's translated low, but it's a attention-grabbing, demonstrative word to make the narrative graphic and vivid. So that's what that word is in there for and it's uh five times in the description of two uh behold three times and load twice So in the first dream, we have the brothers' sheaves bowing down to Joseph's sheaf. So they're out in the dream is they're out in the field, they put together these bundles of grain. A called a sheep and uh the brother his his sheep stands up and all the other sheep start bowing down to his sheep And in the second dream, it's the same meaning, but you had the sun, moon, and eleven stars bowing down directly to Joseph. So that's the whole family, including Jacob, bowing down to Joseph. So uh the dreams do not get us interpretation because they don't really need one. Uh the meaning is quite obvious. So uh no no interpretation necessary. Everybody knows what the dreams are, and the reactions are predictable. So the brothers respond vehemently to Joseph's dreams. uh essentially saying that they would never bow down to him because he could never rule or reign over them And however, we we will find out that these dreams are from the Lord, um and we'll see that by the end of the story These these dreams come true, just like the the subsequent dreams will come true. Um Joseph later on interprets dreams, not dreams that he had, but dreams that others had in Genesis chapter forty and Genesis chapter forty one for the baker and the cupbearer and the pharaoh. Yes. Um what I don't quite get is why um Jacob would have rebuked him, especially given that he himself had a dream. And I'm sure I would think that he would have passed that dream and the kid would have known about the dream. So he had to know that dream was from God and he also had to know chances are it's coming true. So why would he have rebuked him for the sake of the So I think pride he he didn't want to see himself as bowing down to his own son. Uh that would have been humiliating, especially in the ancient Near Eastern culture. You know, fathers didn't bow down to their sons. That's just not done. Um well you see at the very end of this of that passage in chapter in verse eleven that uh Jacob kinda has second thoughts. It says he keep he kept those things in mind. So he he Joseph's kind Jacob's kind of thinking, I think, along the lines that you're just talking about. But his initial reaction is, no way, I'm bound down to my own son. Yeah, I mean he does e after his initial reaction he kind of starts to think about um what what Joseph was said. But his initial reaction is, no way, I'm bowing down to my own son, a little s little squirt, seventeen year old. Nothing. Maybe. Could be. Yeah, could be. Why don't you just keep that to yourself? Could be. Yeah. Yes, go ahead, Sarah. Yeah, that's that's an excellent point. And that that's exactly what I thought of when I read that verse is Uh later on when when Mary is told all these uh outrageous things by the angel that she's gonna have a baby even though she's a virgin Um the the scripture says that Mary pondered these things in her heart. And it's actually very similar, I think, to this little phrase in uh Genesis 37-11 where Jacob says he kept those things in mind. uh kind of pondered them in his heart. That's a very good observation I think. And uh I think that's true. I think there is a parallel parallel there. Anybody else? Any any other questions? So uh Jacob is as we just talked about this, Jacob is also offended when he hears the dream. Obviously involves Jacob bowing down to his son Joseph, but at the end of verse eleven we see a difference in Jacob's attitude in that his father kept the saying in mind, kind of pondered these things in his heart uh if you will, in verse eleven. So um and then the story continues. So uh that's all happened and so that's really all background to this incident that starts um in verse twelve. So continue on in verse twelve in chapter thirty-seven. Then his brothers, and this is all his brothers, went to pasture their father's flock in Shechem. Israel said to Joseph, Are not your brothers pasturing the flock in Shechem? Come, and I will send you to them. And he said to him, I will go. Then he said to him, Go now and see about the welfare of your brothers and the welfare of the flock, and bring word back to me. So he sent him from the valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. A man found him, and behold, he was wandering in the field, and the man asked him, What are you looking for? He said, I am looking for my brothers. Please tell me where they are, pasturing the flock. Then the man said, They have moved from here, for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. So Joseph went after his brothers and found them at Dotha. Continuing along in verse 18, when they saw him from a distance, Before he came close to them, they plotted against him to put him to death. They said to one another, here comes this dreamer. Now then come and let us kill him and throw him into one of the pits. And we will say a wild beast devoured him. Then let us see what will become of his dreams. But Reuben heard this and rescued him out of their hands and said, Let us not take his life. Reuben further said to them, Shed no blood. Throw him into this pit that is in the wilderness, but do not lay hands on him, that he might rescue him out of their hands to restore him to his father. So it came about when Joseph reached his brothers that they stripped Joseph of his tunic, the very colored tunic that was on him, and they took him and threw him into the pit. Now the pit was empty without any water in it. Then they sat down to eat a meal, as if nothing had happened And as they raised their eyes and looked, behold a caravan of Ishmaelites was coming from Gilead, with their camels bearing aromatic gum and balm and myrrh on their way to bring them down to Egypt. Judah said to his brothers, What profit is it for us to kill our brother and cover up his blood? Come and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites and not lay our hands on him, for he is our brother, our own flesh. And his brothers listened to him. Then some Midianite traders passed by, so they pulled him up and lifted Joseph out of the pit, and sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver. Thus they brought Joseph into Egypt. And then at the very end of the chapter it says, Meanwhile, the Midianites sold him in Egypt to Potiphar, Pharaoh's officer, the captain So that's the story of Joseph being sold into um Slavery. And of course, the real point of the whole story is uh God needs Joseph in Egypt, and so God gets Joseph to Egypt. And so here's the geography. Joseph's in Hebron, and the brothers are in Shechem, or he thinks they're in Shechem, and he goes up to Shechem. And he sees a man in Shechem who tells him, No, they've gone on to Dothan and so he goes on to Dothan further to the north. Um Midian. So we get two terms. We get their Ishmaelites. And so who are Ishmaelites? So Ishmael is Isaac's brother. And so these sons of Jacob, Isaac is their grandfather, right? Jacob is the son of Isaac, and all these brothers are the grandsons of Isaac. And so Ishmael is their grandfather's brother. And so these people that are coming are the descendants of their grandfather's brother. And so these are their cousins. Not first cousins, but more like second cousins and third cousins. So this is these are actually family members, uh distant family members, but cousins of theirs, uh Ishmaelites. Now the Ismailites had divided into several different groups, one of whom lived in an area called Midian, which is down here. So i orig originally Ishmael went to the east, and he also went to the east and the southeast. And so some of Ishmael's descendants, one group of them, were living in the land of Midian, and then were called Midianites. So that's why you get the two terms here, Ishmaelites and Midianites. They're all descendants of Ishmael, so they're Ishmaelites, but one group of them now lives in Midian, and so their one group is identified as Midianites. Probably no one knows any way, shape, or form. Possible, but not likely because um that's a pretty big distance between Midian and where they are Um it it's possible they m they may have went across each other, but they're definitely relatives. Wasn't everybody relative back then? Well, so of course everybody uh in the broadest sense uh every one of us in this room are relatives all. I mean in particular back then. So but but they're all from the same little family group, descendants of uh Abraham. They're these are all Abraham's descendants The brothers who are tending the flock are Abraham's descendants through his son Isaac, and these traders that are coming through to trade with Egypt are descendants of Abraham through his son Ishmael. I mean we tell the carto driving fifty miles. How far are they going Yeah, so it's uh it's a matter of uh a journey of probably a thousand miles that the traders are going. Um Jacob's little uh this little journey here, this is this is fifty miles from Hevron to Shekham. It's about 13 and a half miles from Shechem to Dotham, so a half marathon. So that's a half marathon. This is two marathons. Um so fifty miles is a long way to walk. So probably not in a day, probably a couple of days at least for Joseph to get up to Shechem. Uh but he could have got from Shechem to Dotham in one day. Uh Um but from from Gilead all the way down to Egypt, uh actually they probably came from Mesopotamia to get the the the items that they're trading with Egypt are really from um Mesopotamia. So they had to make the trap trip all the way from Mesopotamia down to Egypt is more like a thousand miles. Um yeah, long way to go on their camels and but but that's what it um You know, that's what it was was necessary to make a living if you're going to be trading goods from one place to another. You need to go far enough away that the dri the the goods you're trading are valuable because they're um they're unique and they're unattainable in Egypt. So you go f far enough away to get stuff that they can't get, otherwise can't get in Egypt and then you can sell 'em for a profit and yeah. So that's what they're doing. That's what the Ishmaelites are doing. Uh but they're originally from Midian and that's where they their their home base is Midian, so they traveled a long way to get up to Mesopotamia and then a long way over to Egypt to trade their goods and then they'll go back to Midian and do it again probably. Okay, so this is the story of how God gets Jacob, Joseph to Egypt. The brothers go to the town of Shechem to find pasture for the flocks. Jacob sends Joseph from Hebron so he can check on his brothers and bring back word. And at Shechem, he doesn't find the brothers, but he finds a guy who knows where they are and directs him on to Dot. Uh they plot to kill him, throw him in a pit. Uh Reuben, the oldest, uh convinces him not to kill Joseph, and it's clear from the text he plans to actually rescue him and send him back to his father. Uh the brothers first thing they do is strip that coat off him. That coat is the symbol of everything they hate. The fact that uh their father likes Jo loves Joseph and doesn't care as much about them, the s the symbol of that is that coat. First thing they do is strip that off him. throw him in a pit. Um Ruben for some reason Ruben's not there and probably because he went out to tend flocks and so The flocks were huge, spread out over a huge area, and so it would be easy for someone who had to perform some particular duty with the flocks to not be able to see and hear what's going on in another place in this huge encampment. It would have taken a huge amount of area to 'cause the Jacob sent five hundred and fifty animals and that was a s tiny sliver of his flocks. And so we're talking about thousands of animals. in this in these flocks, thousands and thousands. And so huge area. So if Reuben had to go ten flocks somewhere, it's easy to imagine he wasn't right there to see what the brothers were doing. They see a caravan of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead on their way to Egypt. Judah Judah, another brother, suggests that they sell Joseph. So if we just kill him we're not going to get any profit out of it. We're not going to get any coin in our pocket out of just killing him. It'd be great to kill 'em, but it would be better to get some coin and so let's sell 'em t to the Ishmaelites. Um They agree to sell for 20 pieces of silver, um, and the Ishmaelites take Joseph to Egypt. So 20 pieces of silver was the price. We have that from uh extra biblical sources. The code of Hammurabi sets the price for a slave at twenty shekels of silk. Um and so that was the standard price. Ancient uh nearies for one slave was twenty shekels of slave. Reuben returns to rescue Joseph, but he's gone. Tears his clothes in grief. They slaughter a goat, so we're not going to really get into this much, but it's um it's part of the story. As we saw in the in the text, this is their plan all along was to uh tell Jacob that he was slain by a wild animal. And so they they s they slay an animal, put blood on the coat, the special coat that Jacob Jacob will definitely recognize. They take it back and they show Jacob and say, hey, a wild animal killed him. And they were going to do that when they were planning to kill him. And they do the same thing after they've sold him in slavery. So Jacob thinks he's dead. And we'll see how that comes back into the story later on. Jacob recognizes the code, assumes that wild animals have killed Joseph. And so, of course, there's a painting of that too, Joseph's bloody coat being brought to Jacob from 1630. And meanwhile, the Ishmaelites take Joseph down and they sell him to a man named Potiphar, and we'll pick up the story next time with him down there as a as a slave to Potiphar. Uh so this is what the the whole geography looks like. So um the Ishmaelites they're they're coming down from Gilead, but as I said, to get the the items that they have They didn't get those things in Gilead. They actually probably got them in Mesopotamia, across the Euphrates River. So they've come from farther away, but now they've passed through Gilead. And across the Jordan River and they've come through Dot Dotham 'cause there was a big road, uh north south road that went through Dotham And so the brothers and the flocks are in Dothan. Joseph comes to Dothan, and the Ishmaelites are crossing through Dothan on their way to Egypt. So, uh so why is this in the in the Bible? So the Holy Spirit through Moses now narrates the details of how the other sons of Jacob comp conspired to destroy Joseph. Their original intention is to kill him. But the Lord will not allow that. So they're in fields with flocks far away from their father's oversight. So that's important. So it's fifty miles to Shechem, another thirteen miles to Dothan They're too far away for Jacob, uh for Jacob to have any oversight, any direct uh control uh over them. Um and Joseph is sent to check on them. And so this is why I say I don't think Jacob really understood the depth of their hatred. And he wouldn't have sent Joseph by himself up to these brothers if he had any inkling that they might kill him when he did so. Uh and he learns his lesson from that. He he won't let Benjamin out of his sight, we'll see, later on in the story. Uh even if it means everybody starves to death, he's not letting Benjamin go down to down to Egypt. Uh yes. journey of that length by themselves? So uh evidently not. Evidently um i it was You know, Jacob he didn't so um that's one of the things I thought I wondered the story. Well what about robbers and you know, he could have been set upon on the road. Um evidently Jacob's not really worried about that. Um Evidently that wasn't a thing at this time, uh, you know, highwaymen and robbers, you know, waylaying uh travelers. Evidently that's I I can only imagine that that was not the case, otherwise you never would have done this. So he's only 17, kind of a young guy to be traveling 50 miles from home on his own, but evidently Jacob's not really concerned about that. He really should have been concerned about the reception on the other end, but he evidently wasn't worried about that either. Yes sir. Yeah, so that could be too and so that was part of Jacob's charge to Joseph was go up, see what's going on, and come back and report to me. So yeah, so there could definitely be this idea that that Jacob didn't really trust those brothers and he wanted to send Joseph up to see what they were doing. Yeah. Uh as semi-nomads, Jacob and his family would continually move their flocks from one grazing area to another, so the huge flocks, thousands of animals, would strip all the grass and they'd need to go somewhere else. Nobody minded that herding Evidently not. So um e evidently the the remember that we started with eight people just a few generations ago. And so there's not this gigantic overpopulating going on. There's lots of empty land everywhere. Um and so no, nobody minded them moving their flocks around because they were just No, we do see incidents where uh there's certain areas of land that are good pasture land that and has wells, for example, and they argued over wells, Isaac and his Um uh Abraham and his uh sh uh household argued with the people of Gerar about wells. Uh so there was some of that that went on in certain areas And it seems like especially the coastal area. So that was Gars on the coastal plain. Jacob is more inland in the hill country, and evidently there weren't a lot of people there. Well then you can see why he had to send them fifty, sixty, seventy miles away at least. To find the good land. To find good land. Yep. And why they were gone for and they had open Right, that's probably so. That they they moved the flocks around and they moved it over this wide area of fifty, sixty miles, and for some time. So they would go on to the field for quite some time. It wouldn't be just a day or two. Um secum where they had gone to pasture the flocks was located in the central hill country of Canaan. uh with rich soil and abundant water in that area. That's why they went there. Uh Sekem is an important site in the history of the patriarchs. It was the first city in Canaan visited by Abraham in Genesis chapter 12 Jacob purchased a plot of land there and erected an altar to the Lord in Genesis chapter 33. And it also ends up being the final resting place of Joseph. Uh Joshua chapter 24 says when they when they left Egypt they brought Joseph's bones with him. Well Shechem is where they end up burying him in Joshua chapter 24. So Shechem is a key city in uh the history of the uh the patriarchs. Uh Joseph starts out from Hebrew and travels to Shechem is just some fifty miles, as I said, uh to look for his brother. So yes, this is Um i it strikes me when I re read this as a fifty mile journey for the seventeen year old boy all by himself. Um You you know, uh nobody would do that these days. You you wouldn't send your seventeen-year-old son out on a journey into the wilderness of fifty miles all by himself, probably not. Uh but different times He's out to look for his brothers, maybe to spy on his brothers. Verse fifteen to seventeen, we see that Joseph displays great persistence and determination to obey his father's command He's a man of his word. He's diligent in trying to find his brothers in the flocks by asking a man in Shechem if he has seen them. He doesn't just turn around and go back. He doesn't just get to Shechem Uh well uh you know, dad told me to look and check them, they're not in Sekum, I'm going home. He doesn't do that. He he he goes out, he he persists and uh tries to find them. And he goes another thirteen and a half miles from Shechem up to Dotham to find them. In verse 18, we find out that as soon as they see Joseph coming the brothers plotted against him to put him to death. So they're plenty to kill him. They can see him from far enough away that they have time to plan. So this is the hill country, so they're probably up on a hillside. They can see the road for quite some distance uh most likely they would have um kept watch in some form or fashion on the road, both north and south, and so they can see them coming from uh quite some way away The brothers refer to Joseph's dreams explicitly twice in this passage. So his dreams are that they're all going to bow down to him. Well if they if they kill him and throw his body into a pit, they're not going to have to bow down to him. So the dreams will definitely not come true. So the dreams are sticking in their craw, obviously. The coat and the dreams both. And so um in verse twenty their evil and uh e determined ten is clearly evident. Uh they use uh what's called a cohortative uh Translated here, let us kill, it derives from a Hebrew word called harak. It's a verb that implies ruthless violence. That's the meaning of that word. Ruthless violence. Uh it's not used, for example, never used in judicial killing, in other words a death penalty. You wouldn't use that word harag about killing somebody after He's been through a trial and and given the death penalty. This is ruthless violence. Uh it's used most often to describe a private vendetta. So that's what they're saying. We have a private vendetta against him and we're gonna slaughter him with extreme prejudice. Uh that's what this phrase really means. So they intend to slaughter Joseph and dump his body in a pit. That's that's the plan. As he's As he's walking up on the road. They hate him enough that they're they're going to slaughter him and dump him in dump him in a pit. And then we get an intervention from Reuben. So in verse 21, Reuben, Reuben is Jacob's firstborn. He's the firstborn son. And he intervenes to save Joseph's life. Uh his authority as the oldest is unquestioned here. None of the others raise any objection to Rubin's demand. Let us not take his life. Once Rubin speaks, that's it. He's the oldest. They defer to him. He has an alternate plan to put Joseph alive into a pit. And the wording in verse 22 makes it clear that he plans to get him back out of the pit and send him back to his father to rescue him out of their hands. to restore him to his father. The only way he can be restored to his father is if he's taken alive out of that pit and sent back home. And so that's clearly Reuben's plan. He's going to rescue him out of the pit, send him back to his father And so he plans to come back and rescue him from the pit. The first thing the brothers do when he actually gets there, so Joseph, this has all happened, they they've all talked among themselves about what they're gonna do. And then Joseph actually arrives. And when he arrives, the first thing they do is take that special coat off him. The coat that is the symbol of Jacob's preferential treatment, his favoritism for this Little brat, we're gonna take that coat right off him and then they throw him in the pit. So Uh and it's revealed in verse 24 that it's an empty cistern. So it's a it's something that's made to store water, and right now there's no water in it. So it's an empty cistern. No no, uh it doesn't indicate, but definitely deep enough that he can't climb out. So he can't he can't get out on his own Uh then as the brothers they just sit down to eat as if nothing happened. They've just thrown their brother into a pit and they sit down for a nice happy meal. And as they're eating, they see this caravan of Ishmaelites coming down the road from the north. So Joseph has come up from the south. They see from the north, the road from the north, here comes these Ishmaelites on their camels with all their their goods for trade. They're on their way from Gilead, so the road, that road comes down from Gilead. That's why they say it could come from Gilead. Most likely, as I said, the stuff that they have had to come from further away than that. They're on their way from Gilead to Egypt to trade goods. And then we get a second intervention from Judah, which is the fourth son. So Reuben's the first son, Judah's the fourth son, both Sons of Leah. So in that that very first batch of four kids that Leah had, uh, the first was Reuben and the fourth was Judah. And so Judah says, Hey, let's make some money from this this despised brother Joseph. We can make some money if we sell them to these passing Ishmaelites. And the rest of the brothers really liked that idea. So they pulled Joseph up out of the cistern and sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver. As I said, that was the standard price. And we have good indications from ancient documents that the standard price for a slave was twenty seckles of silver. And there's some additional evidence that there that the price varied a little bit with age And the 20 shekels was for the prime age from between the ages of uh five years old and twenty years old. That was the prime ages. And Joseph was seventeen, so he was right there in the prime ages, and so that was the twenty shekel slave. So they can get the the maximum price because he's nice and young Uh and so whoever they then sell them to will get lots of use out of him. Twenty shekels of silver Um and so what do we see in this whole event? So uh this is a terrible thing. Uh the there's a terri terrible um family dynamic here, which has been going on for years and years and years. Um So the family has a history of deception. So Abraham and Sarah deceived the Egyptians, said that Sarah was the sister. Isaac and Rebekah also did the same thing in Gerar. And then Rebekah and Jacob deceived Isaac with the blessing. And then Um Laban and Rachel and Leah deceived Jacob with this whole idea of sending Leah in when he's worked for uh uh Rachel. And then uh w this family just has this kind of dysfunctional um uh there's this dysfunctional nature of the family. And then we've also got the dynamics of favoritism that In especially in the in the family of um uh Isaac and Rebecca, you had Isaac favoring I Esau and you had Rebecca favoring Jacob and and this was a uh caused family tension. And now you've got uh Jacob favoring Joseph and it caused so multi-generations of this kind of deception and favoritism And it and it comes to a head here in in this case with uh with brothers that hate each other enough to want to murder uh one another But in spite of all that, um God's plans um are Absolutely inevitable that God's sovereignty rules over everything, including the evil actions of people. So um if we look through this section, it appears to be purely secular, centering on the human drama of brother against brother. Um But the whole thing is really an example of divinely ordained course of human history. God can take even the hatred of brothers uh leading to the selling of Joseph into slavery. And and it gets worse and worse for Joseph. We'll see in the next lesson. He goes from being a slave to being thrown into prison Um but God uses every bit of it for his purposes, for his good purposes. His slavery eventually leads to all Israel dwelling in Egypt and ultimately the deliverance of the Hebrews during the period of the Exodus. And all of that is according to the promise that God made to Abraham in chapter 15, Genesis chapter 15. He tells Abraham that his descendants are going to be in captivity in uh in Egypt. And so God has had this plan marching forward all along, and it it just You know, the the the evil and awful intents of men's hearts are defenseless against the sovereignty of God. Um his purposes will always win out. So God uses man's sinful ways and deceitfulness to bring about his own good purposes. And we see this all the way through throughout history, but especially This section of scripture that goes from Genesis 37 to Genesis 50 is the scriptural passage about the sovereignty of God. And Joseph's statement in Genesis 50 that we'll get to when the the brothers are groveling in front of him um in um in verification in fulfillment of the dreams that we just saw um he he tells them Joseph tells the brothers, you meant it for evil, God meant it for good. That's in Genesis chapter 50. So that's where we're getting. That'll be the end of the story. This is the beginning of the story. But this whole Passage of Scripture, Genesis 37 to Genesis 15. The real theme is the sovereignty of God, in spite of the wicked behavior of men. The name of God does not appear in this entire chapter. God's name is not in chapter 37. However, his absence is not a way to secularize the chapter. The writer's purpose is to encourage the reader to ask the question, why is God's name not found yet? And we know that in spite of the fact that God's name is not given in this chapter, God is behind the picture. He's working all things out for the good of his people. Uh and in fact his provenance is a central theme of the story, in spite of the fact that God's name doesn't appear in this chapter. That's true. So uh in spite of chapters and so leave aside chapters and verses This whole story that we're just talking about here that's contained in what we now call chapter thirty-seven, the story doesn't have the name of God in it. Um but it is really God's story. And so the real point of the whole story is that God is working these events, in spite of wicked behavior, towards good. And so, and the ultimate expression of that, of course, is the cross. So evil, wicked men put the Lord of glory to to death on a cross. And God uses that for good, for my good and your good and everyone's good. Acts four twenty-eight says, For truly in this city that were gathered together against your holy shepherd Jesus. Whom you appointed, both Herod of Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles, the people of Israel, peoples of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place. Yep. That's right. Yeah. So they're very parallel, you know. Yep. Exactly right. And so yeah, this is a the great lesson of this pat this section of scripture we're going to study from today for the next uh three weeks after is the sovereignty of God in human events. Alright, any uh we have two minutes left. Any uh any other questions or comments before we wrap up? Yes. You talking about the fifty miles that he traveled. Mm-hmm. When JFA was president, he made a statement that any good soldier ought to be to march fifty miles in a day And couple of thirteen guys in that area of Western Maryland, we export area, and uh set up a fifty mile trail that they when they hit And walk through that house. After that, they started doing it every year. And uh I went uh along the Appalachian Trail down the C Nova for now, Topath. Right, right. Ended up going fifty miles. Uh I did that a few times So how how long did it be? It's taking about ten hours. Ten hours, okay. However, the folks who put win that ended up doing it about six hours. They would so they were running less than that now have followed us last year. That's that's Ten miles an hour. Yeah, that's a sprint because uh on their right. Yeah, obviously. It's about two marathons. And so you see fifty miles could be done So i it is possible to do it in a day if you go really fast and you don't stop. Yeah, so yeah, so it would have taken the brothers some time to herd the sheep up there. Joseph I I assume he's a I actually could have walked it all in one day if he was really determined that if he was walking really fast and if he didn't make any stops Um, I suppose you could have. That's two three hour marathons. Three hour marathon is really fast. That's really running fast. Three hour marathon. And stringing two of them together, that's like elite uh you know, elite marathon runner to do a a double marathon in six hours. Uh Um yeah. Okay. So yes, it's physically possible to run to do to do fifty miles in in a day. Any other questions or comments? All right, let's close in prayer.