Welcome to the last Sunday of this quarter. Hopefully you all take the class again to finish out 1 to 11. So it won't really feel like a transition for next quarter for you. But uh today is officially the last day of the quarter and then next next week starts new new quarters Uh un unfortunately I won't be able to stay in this class, which is a bummer because the the flood is one of my my favorite passages, so I'll have to listen to the recordings, but uh um Here we are. So we're going to discuss chapter five today, as you know. And uh as you recall, Rob is in Japan, so he uh He called me in to subform, but he prepared all the notes. So we're going to go with that. I've added in just a couple things of my own and then anything else that you want to talk about. So what we will learn today, what we'll cover from Genesis chapter five, is the progression of the seed line. Scripture is very focused after Genesis 3. 15 on who is this seed that's going to crush the serpent's head? And Genesis 5 goes a long way in moving us forward in history to see who is this one that the Lord will send. So we're going to see that. The curious case of Enoch Uh one of the two men who never died but uh was taken to heaven. Who was the other one? Elijah. That's right. Elijah. So we'll talk about uh Enoch just a little bit, uh and then talk about the long life spans and the generational gaps. really the the chapter that helps us consider how old is the earth from a biblical perspective. And so uh the the numbers and the lifespans uh give us a clear picture of that. So we'll talk about that aspect as well. But first, as we always do, a review of where where we've been the last couple weeks. We've talked about Cain from Genesis chapter four. Uh how Cain went out from the presence of the Lord. That was part of his judgment from the Lord for not giving a sacrifice that pleased the Lord. And that banishment from the presence of the Lord uh seems to be somewhat something along the lines of uh leaving the active uh presence. Obviously God is omnipresent so he can't actually be away from the Lord But there was something special about where God was, his engagement relationally with Cain, that that ended, and uh and then he went off to the land of Nod. The land of Nod means wandering And so is the land of wandering where, as scripture says, he uh start he I'm saying he planted, he built a city. And uh you know one of the questions that we come up with is well where uh where was this city or or where were the people who who populated this city And just one thing to note is that the word city is a a broad term in in Hebrew. So it could refer to a big city, it could refer to a a little town. In fact in Genesis 19, which we'll read in The scripture reading today refers to Zoar, that little town, and it's translated town, that Lot asked if he could flee to that town instead of going up to the mountains. And it emphasizes it's a little town. Can I please go there? And so just because uh it says that uh Cain started a city or he create a city, it's doesn't mean you create this big metropolis filled with thousands and thousands of people. Uh but uh the idea is that it's a a a local place. Uh but he himself, scripture would indicate, did not live there for at least not for a long time, because he is a wanderer uh on the earth. Also the question comes up of where did Cain's wife come from? And we talked about how um skeptics uh like to point out that scripture only talks about Cain and Abel, so where where did his wife come from and that's a h a uh hole in the plot as some would say. Uh but clearly the solution is that Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters besides Cain and Abel. We saw a quote from an ancient Hebrew or Jewish tradition that Adam and Eve had 130 Sons and daughters, I don't know how accurate that is, uh, but they live certainly long enough to have that many kids, and so there would have been plenty of opportunity for him to have a wife and uh and as well for others to populate that city that he established. Canaan and his wife had a son named Enoch, not to be confused with the Enoch, who is the great great great grandson of Seth, and that's the first record of a grandchild that Adam and Eve had. Of of course scripture doesn't tell us everything. It doesn't tell us all the children that they had, all the grandchildren, so it's possible they would have had other grandchildren uh by then. Um but that's the first one. that is recorded. The section on the descendants of Cain is quite brief, but it establishes a pattern for the rest of the book. of Genesis. There's as Scripture is moving forward in the plan of redemption, there's these different vignettes that give us an indication that there's other things going on in the world. Oh, sorry, Matthew just went sideways. There's other things going on in the world other than what God is doing through the plan of redemption. And so we see that here in the line. uh of Cain and we we get seven generations in with uh with Lamech uh where we are told about his evil, his rebellion against the Lord, his murderous heart, his polygamous heart. And that is contrasted with Enoch, as we'll see today, the seventh generation from Adam, who walked with the Lord. And uh we we see time and time again, even throughout the book of Genesis, we see Esau's line, we see uh the lines of other uh sons who were not in the line of the Messiah. And that just tells us again that God is doing something else. Also, one of the things those those side branches tell us is the the character, it explains the character of those who are far from God. So we have the line of the Messiah which usually refers to those who are faithful, those who worship the Lord. We see at the end of Genesis 4 that it was at the time uh of of Lamake that people started to call on the name of the Lord, instituting public worship and that contrasts with Cain's Or Lamex descendants who uh you know who were the the workers of metal and workers of bronze and and other things, uh instruments. Um and so uh those Times when we learn about the descendants of those who are not in the line of the Messiah tells us about the character of those who are far from God. And gives us an indication, especially in Genesis 5 as to the wickedness of men that is on the earth. So the line of Cain leads to Lamech, and Lamech told this song to his wives Ada and Zillah, listen to my voice, you wives of Lamech, give heed to my speech, for I've killed a man for wounding me, and a boy for striking me. If Cain is avenged sevenfold, then Lamech seventy sevenfold. This again highlights the the wicked nature of Lamech and the depravity of man that has uh had an impact on society. And if that was true of Lamick, uh it's it no doubt spread to many others in that generation So after dispensing with uh the Caanites, the narrative returns to the time not long after Abel's murder by Cain. And we know from Genesis five three as we'll see today that uh a hundred and thirty years had transpired between God's creation of Adam and Eve and the birth of Seth, who Eve describes as a replacement for Abel since Cain killed him. That doesn't necessarily mean that he's the third child that they've had and, you know, lost one Abel and and replaced by Seth, it can simply mean that for one that was lost, one was gained, even though they may have had other sons and daughters. In fact, likely did have other sons and daughters And then Seth and his wife produce a grandson who is named Enosh. And again, at that time men began to call upon the name of the Lord. And so we saw this quote from Jonathan Sarfati, uh the Toledote of the Heavens and the Earth Starts with a high point of the creation of man and woman and the ordination of marriage. But not too long after that the first couple, Adam and Eve, sinned and brought death into the world Their firstborn, Cain, compounded the sin by taking a human life made in the image of God. His lineage produced the vengeful lame who threatened fearful vengeance in his own power and showed the result of living apart from God. However, the Toledo ends on a high note. Adam and Eve have another son whose line would be would produce the Redeemer, whom God promised in Genesis 3. 15 This is Seth, and he and his son Enosh are righteous men who institute public worship of the true God Yahweh. And what results from them must await the second Toledo. So Genesis chapter five. If you have your Bible, you can turn there. This is one of those chapters which on the surface seems um questionable as to why was this instituted or why was this inspired, I should say, from by the Holy Spirit, why is this in Scripture? But it actually provides for us A number of important truths. So let's just take the time to read through, and then we'll uh highlight a number of points here. So Genesis chapter 5, this is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day when God created man, he made him in the likeness of God. He created them male and female, and he blessed them and named them man in the day when they were created. When Adam had lived 130 years, he became the father of a son in his own likeness, according to his image, and named him Seth. Then the days of Adam, after he became the father of Seth, were eight hundred years, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days that Adam lived were 930 years, and he died Seth lived 105 years and became the father of Enosh. Then Seth lived 807 years after he became the father of Enosh, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Seth were 912 years, and he died. Enosh lived 90 years and became the father of Canaan Then Enosh lived 815 years after he became the father of Canaan and had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Enosh were 905 years and he died. Kenan lived seventy years and became the father of Mahalalel. Then Kenan lived 840 years after he became the father of Mahalalel, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Kenan were 910 years. And he died. Mahalalah lived sixty-five years and became the father of Jared. Then Mahalala lived eight hundred and thirty years after he became the father of Jared, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Mahaloel were eight hundred and ninety-five years and he died. Jared lived one hundred and sixty-two years and became the father of Enoch. Excuse me, Enoch. Then Jared lived 800 years after he became the father of Enoch, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Jared were 962 years, and he died. Enoch lived 65 years and became the father of Methuselah. Then Enoch walked with God 300 years after he became the father of Methuselah, and he had other sons. and daughters. So all the days of Enoch were 365 years. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. Then Methuselah lived seven hundred and eighty-two years after he became the father of Lamech, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died Lamech lived 182 years and became the father of a son. Now he called his name Noah. saying this one will give us rest from our work and from the toil of our hands arising from the ground which the Lord has cursed Then Lamech lived five hundred and ninety-five years after he became the father of Noah, and he had other sons and daughters. So all the days of Lamech were 777 years, and he died Noah was five hundred years old, and Noah became the father of Shem, Ham and Jacob. All right. A lot going on there So starting back from the beginning, we have a new Toledot, remember that's translated generations, and that tells us that this is what followed from Adam. Everything that we've read, of course, are all the descendants of Adam. But this Toledo in particular is unique in that it says, this is the book of the generations of Adam. In Hebrew that's safer uh which uh is translated book. Obviously could have been a scroll or even a clay tablet. And this actually corresponds to Matthew chapter one. If you look And Matthew chapter one, it refers to the genealogy of Christ in this same way with this unique word. And these are the only two gener uh genealogies that refer to the genealogy in this way. In Matthew chapter 1, it says, the record of the genealogy of Jesus, the Messiah, the Son of David. the son of Abraham. The word record there is uh Biblos, which also means book. And so it reflects the same concept as the Hebrew safer in Hebrew. So again, just emphasizing the correspondence between these two genealogies. One says this is the the genealogy of Adam and by using the term book it may imply that this was actually written down at some point uh that uh that it it came from a book not just uh as a general accounting of history, and then the same is true uh for the genealogy of Christ Again, what we see in this genealogy is the recounting of the line of the Messiah, and so the ancestors of Christ. are in red as we work through this. So we started out with Adam and Eve who had a son named Seth along with Cain and Abel and other sons and daughters. Then we moved to Enosh, and then Kenan, Mahalal, and Jared. And by looking at, I don't know how well you can see that, but by looking at the dates or I should say the ages uh at which those uh men were born, uh it seems again unlikely that they were all the firstborn of uh each family The the line of the Messiah does not always go through the firstborn. We know that with Jacob and Esau, right? Isaac and Ishmael. And so it's unlikely that these are the firstborn because they were born so many years into the lives of their fathers But these are the ones who were descended specifically in God's purpose to be in the line of the Messiah. So what as we move through, got uh up to the seventh generation, of course Enoch being uh the one who was marked out for his faith. We'll come back to him in in a moment. Uh and as we said, Elijah was the only other human being other than Enoch to never die. Um Then you have Methuselah, his son, who is well known for having lived the longest of any person recorded in Scripture. I remember uh many years ago uh in in our church where I was growing up, uh the the pastor preached a sermon on Methuselah. Of course this is the only verse where he shows up. So it's like what in the world is he gonna say for for, you know, thirty, forty minutes, whatever it was And the whole the whole point of the message was don't be like Methuselah where the only thing you're known for is your age. It's like okay. That was interesting. Um you know, uh it only includes Noah's uh certain number of his children in the R but okay, it says he had other sons and daughters. Does that mean that they would say or they didn't know. He would have had other sons and daughters after the flood. Okay, okay. That's what I always wondered because they seem to be adults. Right. They have so I wondered if he had other children that just do Right, right. Because it's not here in Genesis five that says that he had other sons and daughters, but it's later on uh in the after the flood that he said that that it says he had other sons and daughters. So those would have been kids after the flood. Which is interesting that, you know, he only had three in the first five hundred years. But uh that seems to be what scripture is is indicating You know, there's and there's consistency with the New Testament where it says that eight in all went into the ark. So um that's obviously Noah and his wife, his three sons and their wives. Uh and so Uh whatever the reason. In fact, uh I'll mention here in a little bit, uh how many sons did Shem, Ham, and Japheth have? It seems as though if it's true that Adam and Eve had 130 uh sons and daughters But then you would kind of assume that somewhere in that number was pretty normal for people who lived six, seven, eight hundred years that they would have 50 plus kids. But by the time you get to the time of Noah, that doesn't seem to be the case. Certainly it's not the case with Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And so we'll we'll uh spend a little bit of time just talking about why that would be um and and the impact that that would have on population growth. And uh and really the need that that would exist to slow down the having the children So one of the things that is important to point out when you're reading this is when you get to verse 28. Actually, let me skip forward a little bit Um do this. Skipping forward a couple of slides. You see as we walk through the uh the chapter that there's a clear pattern uh in uh how it describes you know the the uh the the progress of genealogy. The pattern is when A had lived X years, he became the father of B. A lived another Y years, so all the days of A were X was X plus Y, and he died. And that pattern is consistent with every single person. There's a slight variation when it comes to Enoch, but still it's more or less the same until you get to verse 28. And in verse 28, it says, Lamech lived 182 years, so that follows the pattern, and he became the father of, and that follows the pattern, but then the pattern was broken unexpectedly, and it says, a son. And as soon as you have that break in the pattern, you realize, oh, there's something going on here. There's there's something important that's about to be said And so the information about Noah and his life uh uh is marked out as particularly important. And again that just highlights the fact that the purpose of this genealogy, among other things, is to move us forward in the narrative to get us to the next major truth and or events that the Lord wants us to know about, namely the flood. But that pattern exists all the way up until Noah, where it's broken for the point of emphasizing uh the the birth and the life of Noah. Go back here a little bit. We're not going to talk about every individual person. Obviously most of these uh nothing is said in scripture about any of them other than what's written here. But you notice that part of that pattern is the emphasis on the death of each individual. This I think reflects the uh importance of the reality of death. When Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, we all know they didn't topple over uh and die Uh and scripture up until this point doesn't really talk about death in those first few chapters other than Cain murdering Abel But here, uh, in emphasizing death, the implication is not that these men died of unnatural causes like murder, but rather that they all died of natural causes. And so there's just a r an emphatic repetition of he died, he died, he died, he died, which I think is just a declaration that God's promise or God's faithfulness to his promise is represented in physical death, not just spiritual death. None of the other uh genealogies in Scripture, which of course there's many of them, have that at all. This is the only one that emphasizes the death of each individual. So of course, uh not only uh these men, but also those who were uh alive, Cain's line uh and all the other sons and daughters would have experienced up all the way down to today the consequence of sin, Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death, but the free gift Of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Everyone dies because everyone sins. Again, with the only exceptions being Enoch and Elijah. So the phrase and he died is applied to eight of the nine men preceding Noah. So what do we make of the curious case of Enoch? In verse 24, we learn that at a relatively young age of 365 Enoch walked with God and he was not, for God took him. You see that there in verse In the New Testament, we find that Enoch was a prophet, and it is said in Jude that it was also about these, that is, false teachers. that um these men that Enoch in the seventh generation from Adam prophesied saying, Behold, the Lord came with many thousands of his holy ones to execute judgment upon all and to convict all of the ungodly all of the ungodly of all their ungodly deeds which they have done in an ungodly way and of all the harsh things which ungodly sinners have spoken against him So in his day, Enoch was a prophet. And again, that points to the wickedness that existed on the earth at that time that he was emphasizing the ungodliness, the character of ungodliness and the deeds of ungodliness practiced me by the sinners of his day. Hebrews 11 excuse me Also tells us by faith Enoch was taken up so that he would not see death, for he obtained the witness that before his being taken up he was pleasing to God And without faith it is impossible to please him. So Enoch in his lifetime exhibited such a remarkable faith, thanks, that he was taken up by God. So here's the question. How much faith do you need to have to be taken up by God? Anyone know? I would love to know. No, we don't know. Obviously, this is a very unique situation. Yeah, you know, I I wish scripture gave us more detail on that, but it it doesn't, and you know I think the best we can surmise is that in the context of his wicked generation um that he proved his faithfulness to God and and God in his mercy uh rescued him not only from death itself but even from continued life in a cursed world 'Cause again he didn't let's see, he lived a total of three hundred and sixty five years, um, which is about half or less the length of most of the men of his time. So it's a God gave him a full life. Then hey, I don't want you to experience death, so I'll just bring you up to myself. Uh he actually rescued him out of the wicked generation uh at at a relatively short uh period of time. So Uh why did God do that? You know, again scripture doesn't say. Uh what are the explanations for who did it Two witnesses in Revelation that died are Enoch and Elijah. They are actually killed there. They die there. And therefore the the first thing is Yeah. Which is one of those. And Moses, because of how they interacted with Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration, but yeah, yeah. Maybe that will be. Maybe that will be. So we have that pattern which we've talked about. Now what's interesting is because of the way that this is presented, the pattern that's here. There are no time gaps in the genealogy. So this you could call this a chronogenealogy, meaning it's a chronological And it it follows uh uh the the passing of time. And this is very different from other genealogies where we can mark out missing names. We can identify people are missing from a uh a genealogy Maybe it refers to someone being a father, but in reality we know because of other passages of scripture that they are the grandfather of the next generation that is listed in a genealogy. But here with the times that are given, the years that are given, it gives us a very clear, marked passing of time. Now, what that does is it helps us to basically count back to see when uh how how far back was the creation of the world Uh those who would deny what we would consider to be young earth creationism, that the earth is you know thousands of years old, not millions or billions of years old uh try to uh look at this genealogy and say, well there's there's gaps, there's missing people, uh and so there you know we can add more time into the the timeline of the history of the world. But the problem is, again, it just it it doesn't work with the pattern, with the way this is written out, even if It's talking about grandsons or grandchildren or great-grandchildren, which the language of becoming a father of uh allows. It can mean to become the grandfather of. uh as it does in other places. But with a the listing of of years there's no gaps that can be permitted. And so that brings us to a very clear understanding of the history of the world. So the number of years from Adam's creation to Seth's birth is 130 years regardless of whether there are any generations between them. And the number of years between Seth's birth and Enosh's birth is 105 years, regardless of whether there are any generations between them. So if anyone were to ever say You know, we can't use the chronology of Genesis 5 because there's missing generations. We can just point to the text and say, no, no, no. Even if there are missing generations, the years are fixed. And so that gives us this timeline where uh it's probably hard to read there, but there's uh uh James Usher is an uh older um of course long since with a Lord uh scholar who did the the seminal work of uh of uh counting back the years and that's where uh he he was the first one to come up with the date of four thousand four BC for the creation of the world. Uh now there's a lot of things that factor into that after the time of Abraham that you have to get to Abraham to start counting, but that is that has been the most recognized uh number of when God created the world. Now what's interesting is Even if, again, someone wanted to say, well, there's some missing generations there, so we need to add more time, and they're doing that in an effort to expand the the age of the earth to try and accommodate uh secular or scientific theories of uh how long the earth has existed or how long humans have been on the earth, it just doesn't work because you'd have to add in so many generations that would ultimately make this genealogy meaningless. In fact, if just to get a visual picture on it Uh let's just say for the sake of argument, round it off. I'm sorry that I know that it's not very dark. Let's just say that the world is 6,000 years old, uh 4004 BC tw 2022, we're rounding to 6,000. Uh if you want to try and get to uh what is the currently uh generally understood length of time that human beings have been on the earth, you would have to get somehow from 6,000 all the way to 190,000. And again, that's many times, many multiple times over what this biblical text gives us in terms of generations. And of course, if you want to go all the way back to the age of the earth, You're talking about uh let's see what is it four four point one million I think it is the current guess in the age of the Earth. So just suffice it to say there's no way you can get from six thousand to one hundred and ninety thousand or to four So the modern theories of how old is the age of the earth, how long have humans been on the world, those just don't work in any way with the biblical text. There's no way to massage uh or to stretch out the genealogies to fit modern modern theories. Either the scripture is accurate and it's true and it's accounting of history which would lead us to something closer to 6,000. You know, someone would say, well maybe it's up to 20,000. Okay, let's just let's just give you 20,000. Still, you don't come even close to secular theories Um so however you want to stretch it, there's no way to stretch all the way to secular theories. Any uh questions or thoughts on that? That's uh based on just a quick uh search what is currently understood to be how long Homo sapiens have been on the planet. Another people are missing from this genealogy. Mm-hmm. The mothers who gave birth to That's right. From reading this you wouldn't even know that women exit you think these people just sprang into existence. I don't know how to pretend that it seems like an awfully egregious Oversight. Well, if one was wanting to keep track of uh humanity uh as a whole, it would certainly would be an oversight But because the intention and the purpose is just to give a line of the Messiah, it's just giving uh you know the line uh of of men through the ages. Obviously when you get to Noah and his sons, there's an a uh an acknowledgement of their wives, uh but For the purpose for which this is written, it would uh it's just unnecessary to state the obvious, which is that they all had wives, you know, who gave birth to the sons. Uh Yeah, so the line does come through the father and uh so that's why the emphasis is there. So I'm yeah it's interesting because um recent uh Jewish culture has switched that where the lineage is actually coming from from women. Um and so I'm just as it just clicked on me. I'm like, why did they do that and why do we consider that? that that's legit versus in you know Genesis one through six you have uh the lineage of men. Um so just interesting that that we hold Yeah. Yeah. I think in the secular culture there would be a sense of equal recognition that you know the only way to to treat people equally is to recognize both equally And um uh I think just that that's an unnecessary conclusion. Right? We don't have to Uh if if we're just trying to draw a line between uh through generations from one generation to fourteen generations later uh and that line generally comes through the Father, uh again as as the way that uh God has revealed it to be, uh then we don't necessarily need to account uh for every person uh involved. In the same way that we don't account for every child that's there, we're just pointing at scripture is just pointing at uh those who are part of the line. And in fact, you know, when you look at the genealogy of Jesus in in Matthew one, there it does actually bring in women like Rahab and others. Obviously Mary is is uh highly emphasized uh because of the significance of those women's roles in the line of the Messiah. Uh Ruth is the other one. I was trying to think of who the third one was. Um That's right. That's right. In fact, let me so now we're going to talk about the overlap of uh the generation so almost all Adam's descendants in this line could have known him because he died in Lamech's fifty sixth year. So if you just go back to the line here. If he's ever to be red That's right. That's when they had the the the child that's next on the list. And the gray is the life. The next generation. And the the gray is is their life after that child And then the course red plus gray together is the total number of years. So if you can imagine a line, I know it's hard to see because of the this is the scale of it, but Adam goes all the way down to the 56th year of Lamick So Lamech all the way down would have had access theoretically to Adam. And then if you look at Noah, same thing all the way down to, I believe it's Terah that would have had access to NOAA. Again, theoretically, we'll talk about that in a second. Which is pretty remarkable if you think about it. Um the the overlap of these generations, how they may well have known each other, uh or at least had the opportunity to know each other. So only knowing his sons of those listening, Genesis 5 could never have known Adam. Thus, for the history of Genesis 1 to 426. Adam was either an eyewitness or in the case of creation could have it could have been revealed to him by God. And Adam could have recited that history face to face with everyone down through Noah's father Lamech. what it was like in the Garden of Eden, the fall, and so on. And when we use that language of he could have done this with everyone Uh again the the proliferation of the human race is happening at an all at a remarkable rate, and there were most of them who were uh rebelling against God, who were pursuing uh sin and not being worshipers. of Yahweh. Uh in fact, uh see, I have a little bit later, uh, in a few more slides, that uh the increase of the human population would have meant that by the Uh the days of Paleg, let me go back. The days of Paleg here Um even though he was, you know, after uh Noah, that the generations could have been in the millions and millions of people Which would have obviously just by virtue of of uh uh how spread out people are, that's when he that's when the world was divided, the days of Peleg. Uh that's that's when it would have been difficult for people to interact with one another because it'd be so spread out. But the larger point here, and this is incr uh this is helpful, is that According to the genealogies, Genesis 5 and 11, Noah could have known everyone from Enosh all the way up to Terah And so Noah's son Shem could have known everyone down through Abraham and Isaac, and Shen Shen would have been able to recite the history of Genesis 5-11, face to face, as eyewitnesses of what the pre-flood world was like, what it was like on the ark. And uh the even the Tower of Babel. So again, this is just putting it in picture form. Everyone up to this line would have been able to uh talk to Adam face to face Everyone up at this line would have been able to talk to Noah face to face, so Shem, Arpekchad, Shela, Abra, Fele, Gru, Sereg, Nehor, Terra, and then all the patriarchs behind this line. uh were alive and able to talk to Shem face to face. Doesn't show up there, but they were able to talk to Shem. So that that reduction in generational gaps means that a very few intermediaries for transmission were required to pass information down from Abraham to Adam or from Adam to Abraham, the only generational gaps you have are Lamech and Shem. So Adam, Abraham, Shem, Shem Excuse me. Adam, Lamech, Shem, Abraham. That's four generations, if you will, if you if you can call those generations. That would have been needed to pass information on by those who who didn't know it face to face. It's a possible reason why the book of Genesis did not need to be written down until the time of Moses. By the time of Moses and the Exodus lifespans were reduced to the point where the events in Genesis had to be written down in order in order to preserve them. for God's people. And Jacob said to Pharaoh, the years of my sojourning are 130. Few and unpleasant have been the years of my life, nor have they obtained the years that my fathers lived during the days of their sojourning. So Jacob recognizes that his lifespan, which to us would be a very long lifespan, was short compared to his ancestors, and he would have known about Shem's lifespan. So he eventually lived to be hundred and forty-seven, and that was short. At the end of Genesis 5, we're left with Noah and three sons, Shemhem and Japheth, and so we'll pick up their story next quarter, which starts next week. Now, before we are done. We're probably going to be done early today. This is pure speculation, alright? Understand that. Speculative but helpful. This is from me. This is not from Rob But I was just thinking, okay, what would the population growth what what could I have it look like, you know, if people were living for hundreds and hundreds of years. So you go from Adam and Eve uh the two of them to Seth generation, their kids. And I just for the sake of ease, I rounded it to 100 because we don't know if that ancient Jewish tradition is accurate. But they certainly had the capacity for a hundred kids living up to 900 years. Then Enoch's generation, I reduced just for the sake of Speculation. I reduced it to uh everybody in that generation having fifty kids and of course divided by two uh with couples. So I was factoring that in for sure. So Seth's generation would produce 2,500 kids, or Seth's Eonge's generation would produce 2,500 people. Cain's generation reduced further 40 kids per couple. 50,000, and then you can just see the progression of the population up until Methuselah, uh the eighth generation from Adam, all of a sudden you're into the billions of people, two billion uh people on the planet. Again, reduced it down to about fifteen children per couple per LAMEX, that would move up to almost nineteen billion people on the planet, which right now we have what, eight billion just under eight And then Noah uh uh just because he had three sons, I gave everybody three sons. And if that population growth were to happen there'd be twenty eight billion people on the planet. I don't think this is accurate. This is just to show how quickly when you live hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years and you have dozens of kids, how quickly the population could increase Now interestingly, 1 Chronicles, chapter 1, uh recounts the same uh chronology, the same genealogy, doesn't give us the years, but it tells us the same uh order of of birth. of uh Noah and his sons and and those before Noah. And there it tells us the kids of Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And so 1 Chronicles 1 tells us that Japheth had seven sons, and it emphasizes sons, so other daughters as well. Ham had four sons, and Shem, who is the line of the Messiah, had nine sons, of course, and other daughters. So the even though those men lived into several hundred years, they still had a small number, relatively speaking, of sons and daughters. So again, the population would have increased dramatically. Now why w what what would alter this picture? What would change or reduce the population, you know, if this is inaccurate, and I think it is, what what factors would make it inaccurate? Just disease disease, absolutely. The flood eventually, yeah. War. War, murder, yeah, wickedness, sin, depravity. What else? Yeah, natural disasters. Barrenness, absolutely. So not everybody could have children, not every woman could have children, and men too. There's another one that that hasn't been mentioned that I thought of. Uh God. Yeah, all kind that's a natural disaster. Polygamy, where you have you know one husband, multiple wives. Again we saw Lamak was the first polygamist, at least listed in scripture And so that changes the picture a little bit. So there's all you know, all the things that we experienced in our world reduced the uh the number of kids that people would have. And so very likely uh the number would not be anywhere near uh what what is represented here. But that doesn't mean that it wouldn't still increase dramatically over the course of centuries uh century long lifespan. Yeah. So if there were twenty-eight billion people, are you assuming they would all be in the Middle East Africa, that part of the world? Right. Where are we to put twenty-eight billion people without including um North America and South America? Just in Texas. No. No, again, I don't think that's accurate, but uh again this is all pre-flood. And so we don't know what the uh geography was like pre-flood. You know, whether there's the Pangea theory of everything was just one big continent. You know, uh Rob would have better ideas, I think, of of all of that. But Um yeah, again, I don't I don't think it it reached that that number of people. Um but at the same time it's likely that they were relatively localized. They certainly were localized after the flood. Rob will talk about that in Genesis chapter 10 with the Tower of Babel, that they refused to spread out. Um but they would have had to spread out to some degree, you know, once you get into the uh hundreds of thousands of people, uh and again a lot of farmers uh a lot of people who work in the field so these aren't big cities with uh high rise buildings uh that are where you have a population of seven million people in a city. Uh they had to be spread out uh all over the place. So help me understand that again. So in a reverse you're trying to get back to two, is that what you're saying? Yeah, so how long it would take for you to get to potentially but if you take into account the most conservative possible means to get to that coup, then it's very hard for you to get two and thousand. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And of course after the flood you have short lifespans, a whole lot of war. You know, it's remarkable when you read in uh in the Old Testament that in battle, you know, hundreds of thousands of people would die in one day Um and there were there were a lot of people on the planet. It's it's really interesting too, if you think of the approach and go backwards to calculate the percentage of people living today as compared to all the people who have ever lived, it's very hot. It's amazing the number of people who have ever lived. And it's a little light thing. Uh it's remarkable. This is the thing that the recognition is being complete. Right. Yeah. Are you are you guys doing a match from today to no one? Is that what we were what do you mean? Uh no it's just from on the bo on the board on that? Oh you mean on the board there? No, that's for something else. Oh I think it's interesting too to just consider possibility in big numbers, how many people were actually drown in the flood. And how few how deprived human nature can be when only eight people if we're righteous go into the ark. Oh there were you know Yeah, I I again total speculation, but I would guess there were definitely millions and millions of people, if not billions uh on the on their world on on the planet at the time of of the flood. And Bill. I am one of thirty-three grandchildren of my grandfather Or you should see it. That kind of thing. Yeah. It doesn't take long to get off large company. How many kids did your grandparents have? How many kids did your grandparents have? grandparents house they had seven. Seven. Yeah. My grandparents had my grandparents Biger seven children. Yeah And thirty-three grandchildren. Yeah. Yeah, my dad's the oldest of nine, and I have about thirty cousins. So On the flip side I have a friend in California who says he can fit his whole family from his I think his grandparents are But it's from his mom and his kids all in one minivan. So some of us make up for others Alright, just a couple of final thoughts here. What we learned today, the progression of the seed line, the curious case of Enoch, and the lifespan's generation generational overlap. Now just Because we have time and it's in this chapter. I'm guessing, I haven't seen the notes, but I'm guessing Rob's going to talk about uh Noah in the next uh quarter. But since it is in this chapter, I'm gonna I'm gonna take it And uh if you look in your Bible there at the end of Genesis 5, this is actually a r a really interesting uh passage here because Lamech serves as a kind of prophet. He names Noah on the basis of what he thinks Noah will do. Now he as far as we know perhaps Lamech was in the line of worshipers of Yahweh, but um He again acted in the role of a prophet and he named in Noah, saying, verse 29, This one will give us rest from our work and from the toil of our hands arising from the ground which the Lord has cursed. So it seems as though Lamech l looks at his baby boy, name Noah, the who he names Noah And he says, I think this is the Messiah. I think this is the one that's going to release us from the curse. Of course, the curse included Not work in general, but the toilsome work, the hard labor that it took to get uh food from the ground. And so that's what he emphasizes. They're the toil of our hands. And so this one, Noah, is going to give us rest. The name Noah means rest. It's the same word as rest. And and so he he anticipates that. What he doesn't anticipate is how Noah will do that. And of course it's not Noah at all that's doing anything, but how God will in Noah's time uh in a manner of speaking, give humanity rest from the toil of their hands by bringing judgment and condemnation and death to the human race except for the eight Now, some have speculated, again, just r really trying to read into Lamak's prophecy and trying to fulfill it in other ways. that maybe uh the way that uh Noah gave rest to mankind from the curse of the ground was by the fact that after the flood Noah became a uh a you know worker of the field, but specifically uh he grew vines. And it doesn't say it explicitly in terms of what he grew, but by virtue of the fact that he g he got drunk uh out of the the uh the drink that he made from the the grapes that he grew, uh you know, y whether he stumbled upon the uh you know of dynamics that produce alcohol or whether they already knew about it. Uh some would say that his creation or his his discovery of alcohol was our relief from the work of our hands. I I don't really think that's the case. I don't see Scripture you know promoting that as a beneficial uh form of rest Uh but there's all kinds of ways in which scholars try and look at what what did Noah do to give us rest from the toil of our hands. And uh I think what this really reflects here is simply just a And exhaustion on the part of Lamech and his generation, exhaustion over the work of their hands, exhaustion over the wickedness and the curse that has overtaken the world. And a desire to see God bring rest from that. And in the way that he planned, God did, obviously, through uh the flood. So just a comment about that. Alright, well we have uh fifteen minutes. I certainly don't need to take it, but yeah. When you look at the lineage of list uh is this list it says in in the Bible that Enoch walked with God, right? And he was not for God And when you look at the other um list here, it doesn't specifically say that any of them walk with some Right? So is it possible or do we not know? Because I I fully expected to see Adam in heaven until I took this question realize he may not be there. I was shocked. I'm still shocked at that. Right? I mean I don't know that. But is it possible that these men too Well I I think it's just one of those things that we can't say for sure. Scripture is is just not clear. Right. Yeah So uh the the fact that it says that he walked with God, I don't think uh rules out the possibility of the likelihood that the others didn't uh or rules out that they did, um it just it seems to mark him out as walking with God in such a unique way that God removed him from the earth. That would be my understanding of the emphasis there. And as far as Adam, uh again we don't know. I I speculating I I think he'll be there. Um I I think that after their sin, uh, God would have rescued them and saved them. Uh you know. uh and they would have come to understand God in in a new way as a savior. But that's that's speculation. Yeah, th that that's an interesting point. Uh we don't know where Job fits into all this. We know he lived in the age of the patriarchs, which is around the time of Abraham. But he's not in the line of the Messiah, and he's not listed anywhere else in Scripture in terms of you know, where does he fit contextually? Uh and so we really don't know. But like you like you noted, he was a righteous man, and in fact the most righteous man of his time. And so uh again, just because it doesn't say it in here doesn't mean that others weren't righteous as well. No, they died right before the flood And and to me, again, this is speculation, but to me that would be a mark that God was preventing them, and especially Lamech, who died at seven hundred something years old that, you know, he could have lived into the time of the flood, but it seems as though God took him right before the flood. Um I th I believe we do know that But uh Rob didn't prepare a slide for that. Yeah, I mean that's you know four hundred years from the time of of uh Jacob and his family entering Egypt uh to the time of Moses. And so uh if a lifespan, you know, at that time was eighty to a hundred and twenty years Uh there's you know pretty small number of of of gaps. Maybe on a the order of tent. Yeah, potentially. Potentially. Which is pretty remarkable Which is, by the way, one of the reasons I think, and it's 100% speculation here, don't misunderstand, uh that uh got Jesus is coming sooner rather than later Uh just my speculation of because time has has you know, it's almost like there's a a balance between before Christ and after Christ, which you could say is wouldn't that mean we'd have two thousand years after this? I don't know, but Um I think the ages of of humanity before obviously kind of changed the dynamics there, but um and then one one last comment. quickly the population can grow. I think it um as related to the people from the flood could have got to this population level that that we are now within you know a short period of time. Um like a hundred to two hundred years or something. So it's not immediate um And then vice versa, when if you're going over a billion years or a million years, the population today should be much bigger than they chose right now. If indeed mankind has been around or longer than Yeah. Which is not. Right. And then Corrine, did you have to do that? Is that announcing have not studied does be root. But I think in other things in literature. And it's usually very poetic. And there are patterns to it that we don't have in English today necessarily. So maybe I mean I just thought it was I know this is history versus poetry um books in the Bible. But, you know, to I wouldn't necessarily apply um that meaning that others didn't want with God Because it said that, just because it's a poetic device, probably. Sure. Possible. All right. Any other thoughts or questions about Genesis 5 Uh maybe a geneticist would have a sense of what a perfect DNA I don't do you know, Margaret? I think the Huguenot word for red is a Okay. Well, uh Adam uh means ground, uh earth. So maybe there's a correlation there in terms of the the color of clay or the color of the ground. You know, we would think brown uh as it relates to the earth, but that's not necessarily the case depending on where on the earth you are. Um but yeah, uh you know, uh as uh Rob pointed out, I think it was a couple weeks ago That Adam would have had a perfect DNA, Adam and Eve. They would have had the perfect DNA which would have deviated and mutated and altered with children. And so w what would a what skin color would a perfect DNA look like? You know, I don't know. I would speculate darker rather than lighter, but I don't know how all that works. Okay, well let me pray and let you go.